Domino at my side might be Jones' wife, or Brown's, or Smith's, or even
Green's; but so long as I was not certain, it mattered not in what
direction my whimsical fancy took me.  (It is true that ordinarily
Jones and Brown and Smith and Green do not receive invitations to
attend masquerades at fashionable hunt clubs; but somehow they seem to
worry along without these equivocal honors, and prosper.  Still, there
are persons in the swim named Johnes and Smythe and Browne and Greene.
Pardon this parenthesis!)

As I recollected the manner in which I had self-invited the pleasure of
my company to this carnival at the Blankshire Hunt Club, I smiled
behind my mask.  Nerves!  I ought to have been a professor of clinics
instead of an automobile agent.  But the whole affair appealed to me so
strongly I could not resist it.  I was drawn into the tangle by the
very fascination of the scheme.  I was an interloper, but nobody knew
it.  The ten of hearts in my pocket did not match the backs of those
cards regularly issued.  But what of that?  Every one was ignorant of
the fact.  I was safe inside; and all that was romantic in my system
was aroused.  There are always some guests who can not avail themselves
of their invitations; and upon this vague chance I had staked my play.
Besides, I was determined to disappear before the hour of unmasking.  I
wasn't going to take any unnecessary risks.  I was, then, fairly secure
under my Capuchin's robe.

Out of my mind slipped the previous adventures of the evening.  I
forgot, temporarily, the beautiful unknown at Mouquin's.  I forgot the
sardonic-lipped stranger I had met in Friard's.  I forgot everything
save the little ticket that had accidentally slipped into my package,
and which announced that some one had rented a blue domino.

And here was a Blue Domino at my side.  Just simply dying to have me
talk to her!

"I am madly in love with you," I began.  "I have followed you often; I
have seen you in your box at the opera; I have seen you whirl up Fifth
Avenue in your fine barouche; and here at last I meet you!"  I clasped
my hands passionately.

"My beautiful barouche!  My box at the opera!" the girl mimicked.
"What a cheerful Ananias you are!"

"Thou art the most enchanting creature in all the universe.  Thou art
even as a turquoise, a patch of radiant summer sky, eyes of sapphire,
lips--"

"Archaic, very archaic," she interrupted.

"Disillusioned in ten seconds!" I cried dismally.  "How could you?"

She laughed.

"Have you no romance?  Can you not see the fitness of things?  If you
have not a box at the opera, you ought at least to make believe you
have.  History walks about us, and you call the old style archaic!
That hurts!"

"Methinks, Sir Monk--"

"There!  That's more like it.  By my halidom, that's the style!"

"Odds bodkins, you don't tell me!"  There was a second ripple of
laughter from behind the mask.  It was rare music.

"I could fall in love with you!"

"There once was a Frenchman who said that as nothing is impossible, let
us believe in the absurd.  I might be old enough to be your
grandmother,"--lightly.

"Perish the thought!"

"Perish it, indeed!"

"The mask is the thing!" I cried enthusiastically.  "You can make love
to another man's wife--"

"Or to your own, and nobody is the wiser,"--cynically.

"We are getting on."

"Yes, we are getting on, both in years and in folly.  What are you
doing in a monk's robe?  Where is your motley, gay fool?"

"I have laid it aside for the night.  On such occasions as this, fools
dress as wise men, and wise men as fools; everybody goes about in
disguise."

"How would you go about to pick out the fools?"--curiously.

"Beginning with myself--"

"Thy name is also Candor!"

"Look at yonder Cavalier.  He wabbles like a ship in distress, in the
wild effort to keep his feet untangled from his rapier.  I'll wager
he's a wealthy plumber on week-days.  Observe Anne of Austria!  What
arms!  I'll lay odds that her great-grandmother took in washing.
There's Romeo, now, with a pair of legs like an old apple tree.  The
freedom of criticism is mine to-night!  Did you ever see such
ridiculous ideas of costume?  For my part, the robe and the domino for
me.  All lines are destroyed; nothing is recognizable.  My, my!
There's Harlequin, too, walking on parentheses."

The Blue Domino laughed again.

"You talk as if you had no friends here,"--shrewdly.

"But which is my friend and which is the man to whom I owe money?"

"What!  Is your tailor here then?"

"Heaven forbid!  Strange, isn't it, when a fellow starts in to pay up
his bills, that the tailor and the undertaker have to wait till the
last."

"The subject is outside my understanding."

"But you have dressmakers."

"I seldom pay dressmakers."

"Ah!  Then you belong to the most exclusive set!"

"Or perhaps I make my own dresses--"

"Sh!  Not so loud.  Supposing some one should overhear you?"

"It was a slip of the tongue.  And yet, you should be lenient to all."

"Kind heart!  Ah, I wonder what all those interrogation points
mean--the black domino there?"

"Possibly she represents Scandal."

"Scandal, then, is symbolized by the interrogation point?"

"Yes.  Whoever heard of scandal coming to a full stop, that is to say,
a period."

"I learn something every minute.  A hundred years ago you would have
been a cousin to Mademoiselle de Necker."

"Or Madame de StaÃ«l."

"Oh, if you are married--"

"I shall have ceased to interest you?"

"On the contrary.  Only, marriage would account for the bitterness of
your tone.  What does the Blue Domino represent?"

"The needle of the compass."  She stretched a sleeve out toward me and
I observed for the first time the miniature compasses woven in the
cloth.  Surely, one does not rent a costume like this.

"I understand now why you attracted me.  Whither will you guide
me?'"--sentimentally.

"Through dark channels and stormy seas, over tropic waters, 'into the
haven under the hill.'"

"Oh, if you go to quoting Tennyson, it's all up with me.  Are you
married?"

"One can easily see that at any rate you are not."

"Explain."

"Your voice lacks the proper and requisite anxiety.  It is always the
married woman who enjoys the mask with thoroughness.  She knows her
husband will be watching her; and jealousy is a good sign."

"You are a philosopher.  Certainly you must be married."

"Well, one does become philosophical--after marriage."

"But are you married?"

"I do not say so."

