
"Will you come with me?" Aurora asked, for she was in a good humour with
Folco.

He rose at once.

"I'll go with you for a stroll," he said, "but I don't think it is of
any use to look for Marcello near the house."

"It can do no harm."

"And it will do us good to walk a bit."

They went down the path and through the trees towards the break in the
bank.

"The sand was very wet this morning, even inside the bank," Aurora
said. "I daresay we shall find his footsteps and be able to guess which
way he went."

"Very likely," Folco answered.

He pushed back his tweed cap a little and passed his handkerchief across
his smooth brow. Aurora noticed the action, because he did not usually
get warm so easily.

"Are you hot?" she asked carelessly.

"A little," he answered. "The air is so heavy this morning."

"Perhaps you are not quite well," said Aurora. "You are a little pale."

Apparently something in her youthfully patronising tone came as near
irritating him as anything ever could.

"What does it matter, whether I am hot or not?" he asked, almost
impatiently, and again he passed his handkerchief over his forehead.

"I did not mean to annoy you," Aurora answered with uncommon meekness.

They came near the break in the bank, and she looked at the sand on each
side of her. She thought it seemed smoother than usual, and that there
were not so many little depressions in it, where there had been
footsteps on previous days, half obliterated by wind and rain.

"I cannot see where you and I passed an hour ago," she said, in some
surprise.

"The wind draws through the gap with tremendous strength," Folco
explained. "Just before the gale moderated there was a heavy squall with
rain."

"Was there? I did not notice that--but I was on the lee side of the
house. The wind must have smoothed the sand, just like a flat-iron!"

"Yes." Corbario answered indifferently and gazed out to sea.

Aurora left his side and looked about, going to a little distance from
the gap, first on one side and then on the other.

"It is as if the wind had done it on purpose!" she cried impatiently.
"It is as smooth as if it had all been swept with a gardener's broom."

Corbario turned, lighted his extinguished cigar, and watched her, as she
moved about, stooping now and then to examine the sand.

"I don't believe it is of any use to look here," he said. "Besides, he
will be back in time for luncheon."

"I suppose so," answered Aurora. "Why do you look at me in that way?"
she asked, standing upright and meeting his eyes suddenly.

He laughed softly and took his cigar from his mouth.

"I was watching you. You are very graceful when you move."

She did not like his expression.

"I wish you would think less about me and more about finding Marcello,"
she said rather sharply.

"You talk as if he were lost. I tell you he will surely come back before
long."

"I hope so."

But Marcello did not come back, and after Aurora had returned to the
cottage and was seated in her chair again, with her book, she grew
restless, and went over in her memory what had passed in the morning. It
was not possible that Marcello should really mean to carry out his
threat, to go away without a word, to leave her, to leave his mother;
and yet, he was gone. A settled conviction came over her that he was
really gone, just as he was, most probably back to Rome. She had teased
him, and he had been very angry, absurdly angry; and yet she was perhaps
responsible, in a way, for his disappearance. Presently his mother would
grow anxious and would ask questions, and then it would all come out. It
would be better to be brave and to say at once that he had been angry
with her; she could confess the truth to her mother, to the Signora, if
necessary, or even to both together, for they were women and would
understand. But she could not tell the story before Corbario. That would
be out of the question; and yet, anything would be better than to let
them all think that something dreadful had happened to Marcello. He had
gone to Rome, of course; or perhaps only to Porto d'Anzio, in which case
he would meet Ercole coming back.

The hours wore on to midday, and Signora Corbario's uneasiness grew into
real anxiety. The Contessa did her best to soothe her, but was anxious
herself, and still Aurora said nothing. Folco was grave, but assured
every one that the boy would soon return, though the Signora would not
believe it.

"He will never come back! Something dreadful has happened to him!" And
therewith she broke down completely and burst into tears.

"You must go and look for him," said Maddalena quietly to Corbario.

"I think you are right," he answered. "I am going to find him," he said
softly, bending down to his wife as she lay in her chair, trying to
control her sobs. "I will send some of the men towards Porto d'Anzio and
will go towards Nettuno myself."

She loved him and believed in him, and she was comforted when she saw
him go away and heard him calling the men from their hut.

Aurora was left alone with the two women.

"I am afraid Marcello is gone to Rome," she said, with an effort.

The Signora raised herself in her long chair and stared hard at the
girl. The Contessa looked at her in surprise.

"What do you know about it?" cried the Signora. "Why have you not
spoken, if you know anything? Don't you see that I am half mad with
anxiety?"

Aurora had never seen the good lady in such a state, and was almost
frightened; but there was nothing to be done now, except to go on. She
told her little story timidly, but truthfully, looking from her mother
to the Signora while she spoke, and wondering what would happen when she
had finished.

"He said, 'You shall wish me back, but I will not come.' I think those
were his last words."

"You have broken my boy's heart!" cried the Signora Corbario, turning
her face away.

Maddalena, whose heart had really been broken long ago, could not help
smiling.

"I am sure I did not mean to," cried Aurora, contritely. "And after all,
though I daresay it was my fault, he called me a miserable little flirt,
and I only called him a baby."

Maddalena would have laughed if her friend had not been in such real
distress. As for Aurora, she did not know whether she would have laughed
or cried if she had not felt that her girl's dignity was at stake. As it
was, she grew preternaturally calm.

"You have driven him away," moaned the Signora piteously. "You have
driven away my boy! Was he not good enough for you?"

She asked the question suddenly and vehemently, turning upon poor Aurora
with something like fury. She was quite beside herself, and the Contessa
motioned the girl away. Aurora rose and disappeared round the corner of
the house.

Alone with her friend, Maddalena did her best to comfort her. There were
arguments enough: it was barely noon, and Marcello had not been gone
four hours; he was used to taking long walks, he had probably gone as
far as the tower, and had rested there before coming back; or he had
gone to meet Ercole on the road to Porto d'Anzio; or he had gone off
towards the Nettuno woods to get over his anger in solitude; it was
natural enough; and after all, if he had gone to Rome as Aurora
thought, no harm could come to him, for he would go home, and would
surely send a telegram before evening. It was unlike him, yes; but just
at his age boys often did foolish things.

"Marcello is not foolish!" objected the Signora indignantly.

