She entered on the right-hand side, by force of habit. There is a
very heavy wadded leathern curtain there, and she had to pull it
aside for herself, which was not easy. Just as she was doing this,
and using all her strength, some one pushed the curtain up easily
from within, and she found herself face to face with Baldassare del
Castiglione, and very near him. She started violently, for she was
even more nervous than usual. He himself was so much surprised that
he drew his head back quickly; then he bent it silently and stood
aside, holding up the curtain for her to pass, as if not expecting
that she would stop to speak to him.

‘Thank you,’ she said, going in.

She tried to smile a little, just as much as one might with a word
of thanks; but the effort was so great, and her face was so pale
and disturbed, that it made a painful impression on him, and he
watched her anxiously till she had gone a few steps forward into
the church, for he was really afraid that she might faint and fall,
and perhaps hurt herself, and there was no one near the door just
then to help her.

But she walked straight enough, and he had just begun to lower the
heavy curtain, turning his head as he passed under it, when he
heard her call him sharply.

‘Balduccio!’

It was very long since she had called him familiarly by his first
name, and his heart stood still at the sound of her voice. A moment
later he was within the church, and met her as she was coming back
to the door.

‘You called me?’

‘Yes.’

They turned to the right into the north aisle, and walked slowly
forwards, side by side. There were not many people in the Basilica
at that hour, for it was a week-day, and the season of the
tourists was almost over. At some distance before them, two or
three people were kneeling before the closed gate of the Julian
Chapel. Maria and Castiglione were as much alone as if they had
been in the country, and as free to talk, for no conversation,
even in an ordinary tone, can be heard far in the great cathedral.
Nevertheless Maria did not speak.

‘You are ill,’ Castiglione said, breaking the silence at last. ‘Let
me take you to your carriage.’

‘No. I came here for a good purpose, and I cannot go home without
doing what I mean to do.’

‘I wish with all my heart that I had not come back to Rome to
disturb your peace! It is my fault that you are suffering.’

‘No. It is not your fault.’ She spoke gently. ‘It is a
consequence, that’s all. You had a right to ask me that question,
and you have a right to an answer. But I cannot find one. That is
what is troubling me.’

‘You are kind to me,’ said Castiglione. ‘Too kind,’ he added, and
she knew by his tone how much he was moved.

She turned in her walk before she answered, for they were already
near the Julian Chapel.

‘No,’ she said after a minute, and she bent her head. ‘Not too
kind--if you knew all.’

He looked quickly at her face, but she did not turn to him. His
heart beat hard and his throat felt suddenly dry.

‘Don’t misunderstand me,’ she said, still looking steadily down at
the pavement. ‘I meant, if you knew how much I wish to be just--to
myself as well as to you, Balduccio.’

‘I do not want justice,’ he answered sadly. ‘I ask for forgiveness.’

‘Yes. I know.’

She said no more, and they walked slowly on. At the little gate of
Leo the Twelfth’s Chapel she stopped, and she took hold of the bars
with both hands and looked in, leaving room for him to stand beside
her.

‘Justice,’ she cried in a low voice, ‘justice, justice! To you, to
me, to my husband! God help us all three!’

He did not understand, but he felt that a change had come over her
since he had seen her a week earlier, and that it was in his favour
rather than against him.

‘Justice!’ he repeated after her, but in a very different tone.
‘It would have been justice if I had put a bullet through my head
when I went home that night!’

Maria’s hands left the bars of the gate and grasped Castiglione’s
arm above the elbow and shook it a little.

‘Never say that again!’ she cried in a stifled voice. ‘Promise me
that you will never think it again! Promise!’

He was amazed at her energy and earnestness, and he understood less
and less what was passing in her heart.

‘I can only promise you that I will never do it,’ he answered
gravely.

‘Yes,’ she cried in the same tone, ‘promise me that! It is what I
mean. Give me your sacred word of honour! Take oath to me before
the Cross--there--do you see?’ she pointed with one hand through
the bars to the Crucifix in the stained window, still holding him
with the other. ‘Swear solemnly that you will never kill yourself,
whatever happens!’

He could well have asked if she loved him still, and she could not
have denied it then; but he would not, for he was in earnest too.
He had not meant to trouble her life so deeply when he had come to
ask her forgiveness; far less had he dreamt that the old love had
survived all. A great wave of pure devotion to the woman he had
wronged swept him to her feet.

It was long since he had knelt in any church; but now he was
kneeling beside her as she stood, and he was looking up to the
sacred figure, and his hands were joined together.

‘You have my word and promise,’ he said in deep emotion. ‘Let the
God you trust be witness between you and me.’

He heard a soft sound, and she was kneeling beside him, close to
the bars. Then her ungloved hand, cold and trembling, went out and
rested lightly on his own for a moment.

‘Is it forgiveness?’ he asked, very low.

‘It is forgiveness,’ she said.

He pressed his forehead against his folded hands that rested upon
the bars. Then he understood that she was praying, and he rose very
quietly and drew back a step, as from something he held in great
reverence, but in which he had no part.

She did not heed him and remained kneeling a little while, a slight
and rarely graceful figure in dark grey against the rich shadows
within the chapel. If any one passed near, neither he nor she was
aware of it, and there was nothing in the attitude of either to
excite surprise in such a place, except that it is unusual to see
any one praying just there.

Maria rose at last, stood a few seconds longer before the gate, and
then turned to Baldassare. Her face had changed since he had last
seen it clearly; it was still pale and full of suffering, but there
was light in it now. She stood beside him and looked at him quietly
when she spoke.

‘I have not given you all my answer yet,’ she said. ‘I will tell
you why I came here, because I wish to be quite frank in all there
is to be between us. I told you the other day that I would not go
to my confessor for advice. At least, that is what I meant to say.
Did I?’

‘Yes. That was what you said.’

‘I shall keep my word. But I am going for help to a friend who is a
priest, because I have broken down. I thought I could trust my own
conscience and my own sense of honour; I thought I could fancy my
boy a man, and in imagination ask him what his mother should do.
But I cannot. I am very tired, and my thoughts are all confused and
blurred. Do you understand?’

‘Yes,’ said Castiglione; but in spite of himself his face betrayed
his displeasure at the thought that an ecclesiastic should come
between them.

‘I am going to see a priest whom I trust as a man,’ she went on. ‘I
am going to Monsignor Saracinesca.’

‘Don Ippolito?’ Castiglione’s brow cleared, and he almost smiled.

‘Yes. Do you know him?’
