
"You are sure?"

"Yes."




CHAPTER XII

A STEAMBOAT MAN


Having saved the lady from her uncomfortable if not dangerous position,
Jack lost no time in rowing for the shore. Soon he was at the river
bank and the lady leaped out of the rowboat and ran to where Randy had
placed his dripping burden on the grass.

"My Helen! Is she safe?" asked the lady, anxiously.

"I think so," answered our hero. "But I guess she swallowed some river
water."

"Oh, how thankful I am that you went after her."

"It was the only thing to do. I saw she couldn't swim."

The little girl was still gasping for breath. The mother threw herself
on the grass and did what she could for her. Soon the little girl gave
a cry:

"Mamma!"

"Yes, darling, I am here!"

"Oh, dear! I am all wet!"

"Be thankful that your life has been spared."

"That boy brought me out of the water."

"Yes, dear--and he was brave to do it," answered the mother and beamed
on Randy to such an extent that he had to blush.

By this time the two men had also come ashore. The steam was still
blowing off on the tug but the danger appeared to be over. Later the
engineer announced that a valve and a connection had broken, and the
craft would have to remain where she was until towed off.

"I am glad to see you are all safe," said the man who ran the tug.
"There wasn't very much danger on board."

"It looked bad enough," said one of the men who had leaped overboard.
"I didn't want to get scalded."

"And neither did I," added the other.

It appeared that neither of the men knew the lady excepting by name.
She was, however, fairly well known to the tug captain, and had gone up
the river on the craft to please her little girl.

"I am sorry for this, Mrs. Shalley," said the tug owner. "I must say, I
don't know what to do."

"I must get dry clothing on Helen pretty soon."

"The tug is wet from end to end from the escaped steam."

"If I was down at Riverport I could go to the hotel," went on Mrs.
Shalley.

"We can take you down in our rowboat," said Jack. "It won't take very
long."

"Can I trust myself in the boat?"

"Certainly, if you'll only sit still."

The matter was talked over, and it was decided that the lady and her
little girl should be taken down to Riverport by Randy and Jack. The
party was soon on the way.

"My name is Mrs. Andrew Shalley," said the lady. "My husband is a
steamboat owner. May I ask your names?"

"Mine is Jack Bartlett. I live in Riverport, but I am going to move to
Albany."

"And my name is Randy Thompson," added our hero. "I live over there--in
the little cottage by that clump of trees."

"I am pleased to know you," said the lady. "It was more than kind of
both of you to come to the assistance of myself and my daughter."

"It wasn't so much to do," answered Randy. "We were close by."

"You are soaking wet."

"It's an old working suit and I don't mind the water," laughed our
hero.

"What a nice lot of fish," said little Helen, who had now completely
recovered.

"I feel I should reward you both," went on Mrs. Shalley.

"I don't want anything," said Jack, promptly.

"And neither do I," added our hero.

The hotel at which the lady was stopping was built close to the river
bank. Mother and child landed at the dock and Randy and Jack bade them
good-by.

"I shall try to see you again," said Mrs. Shalley, as she started for
the hotel.

"Evidently a very nice lady," remarked Jack, as he and Randy rowed
away.

"Yes."

"I think she wanted to reward us, Randy."

"I think so myself, but I don't want any reward."

"Neither do I, although I shouldn't mind, say ten thousand dollars,"
went on Jack, by way of a joke.

"Or the Presidency of the United States," added Randy, in an equally
light tone.

The boys had caught so many fish Randy decided to sell some from his
share. He found a purchaser on the dock where they landed and started
home richer by fifty cents.

"If I can't get anything else to do, I can do some fishing later on,"
he mused. "I can get at least two or three dollars' worth of fish a
week, and that would be better than nothing--and I could keep right on
with the farm, too."

When Randy returned home he had quite a story to tell, to which both
his father and his mother listened with interest.

"Randy, you must be careful in the water," said Mrs. Thompson, with an
anxious look in her eyes. "Supposing that girl had dragged you down?"

"I was on my guard, mother."

"Randy is a good swimmer," said his father. "I was a good swimmer
myself, in my younger days."

The fish proved acceptable, and Randy readily got Jerry Borden to trade
him some bacon for a mess, and also give him some fresh vegetables.

"Gosh! Wish I'd gone fishing," said Sammy. "I like to catch big fish."

"Well, I am not going to stop you," said our hero.

"Sammy never has no luck," put in Mrs. Borden. "Once he went fishing
all day and all he got was three little fish."

"Didn't nuther!" cried Sammy. "I got twelve big bites, but they got
away."

"It's the big fish that always get away," said Randy, with a smile.
"Never mind, Sammy, maybe we can go together some day."

"I'd like that," answered the overgrown country boy.

"Did that Bartlett boy get any fish?" asked Mrs. Borden.

"Just as many as I did."

"I understand they are going to move away."

"Yes, to Albany."

"They say down to the iron works that Mr. Bangs is glad to have Mr.
Bartlett out of the place."
