There was a pause again; and the presiding officer rose and said that,
owing to the presence of a distinguished guest, they would forego one
of their rules, and invite Judge Ellis to say a few words. The Judge
came forward, and bowed his acknowledgment of their welcome. Then,
perhaps feeling a need of relief after the sombre recital, the Judge
took occasion to apologize for his own temerity in addressing a roomful
of warriors; and somehow he managed to make that remind him of a story
of an army mule, a very amusing story; and that reminded him of another
story, until, when he stopped and sat down, every one in the room broke
into delighted applause.

They went in to dinner. Montague sat by General Prentice, and he, in
turn, by the Judge; the latter was reminded of more stories during the
dinner, and kept every one near him laughing. Finally Montague was
moved to tell a story himself--about an old negro down home, who passed
himself off for an Indian. The Judge was so good as to consider this an
immensely funny story, and asked permission to tell it himself. Several
times after that he leaned over and spoke to Montague, who felt a
slight twinge of guilt as he recalled his brother's cynical advice,
"Cultivate him!" The Judge was so willing to be cultivated, however,
that it gave one's conscience little chance.

They went back to the meeting-room again; chairs were shifted, and
little groups formed, and cigars and pipes brought out. They moved the
precious battle-flags forward, and some one produced a bugle and a
couple of drums; then the walls of the place shook, as the whole
company burst forth:--

"Bring the good old bugle, boys! we'll sing another song--Sing it with
a spirit that will start the world along--Sing it as we used to sing
it, fifty thousand strong,--While we were marching through Georgia!"

It was wonderful to witness the fervour with which they went through
this rollicking chant--whose spirit we miss because we hear it too
often. They were not skilled musicians--they could only sing loud; but
the fire leaped into their eyes, and they swayed with the rhythm, and
sang! Montague found himself watching the old blind soldier, who sat
beating his foot in time, upon his face the look of one who sees
visions.

And then he noticed another man, a little, red-faced Irishman, one of
the drummers. The very spirit of the drum seemed to have entered into
him--into his hands and his feet, his eyes and his head, and his round
little body. He played a long roll between the verses, and it seemed as
if he must surely be swept away upon the wings of it. Catching
Montague's eye, he nodded and smiled; and after that, every once in a
while their eyes would meet and exchange a greeting. They sang "The
Loyal Legioner" and "The Army Bean" and "John Brown's Body" and "Tramp,
tramp, tramp, the boys are marching"; all the while the drum rattled
and thundered, and the little drummer laughed and sang, the very
incarnation of the care-free spirit of the soldier!

They stopped for a while, and the little man came over and was
introduced. Lieutenant O'Day was his name; and after he had left,
General Prentice leaned over to Montague and told him a story. "That
little man," he said, "began as a drummer-boy in my regiment, and went
all through the war in my brigade; and two years ago I met him on the
street one cold winter night, as thin as I am, and shivering in a
summer overcoat. I took him to dinner with me and watched him eat, and
I made up my mind there was something wrong. I made him take me home,
and do you know, the man was starving! He had a little tobacco shop,
and he'd got into trouble--the trust had taken away his trade. And he
had a sick wife, and a daughter clerking at six dollars a week!"

The General went on to tell of his struggle to induce the little man to
accept his aid--to accept a loan of a few hundreds of dollars from
Prentice, the banker! "I never had anything hurt me so in all my life,"
he said. "Finally I took him into the bank--and now you can see he has
enough to eat!"

They began to sing again, and Montague sat and thought over the story.
It seemed to him typical of the thing that made this meeting beautiful
to him--of the spirit of brotherhood and service that reigned
here.--They sang "We are tenting to-night on the old camp ground"; they
sang "Benny Havens, Oh!" and "A Soldier No More"; they sang other songs
of tenderness and sorrow, and men felt a trembling in their voices and
a mist stealing over their eyes. Upon Montague a spell was falling.

Over these men and their story there hung a mystery--a presence of
wonder, that discloses itself but rarely to mortals, and only to those
who have dreamed and dared. They had not found it easy to do their
duty; they had had their wives and children, their homes and friends
and familiar places; and all these they had left to serve the Republic.
They had taught themselves a new way of life--they had forged
themselves into an iron sword of war. They had marched and fought in
dust and heat, in pouring rains and driving, icy blasts; they had
become men grim and terrible in spirit-men with limbs of steel, who
could march or ride for days and nights, who could lie down and sleep
upon the ground in rain-storms and winter snows, who were ready to leap
at a word and seize their muskets and rush into the cannon's mouth.
They had learned to stare into the face of death, to meet its fiery
eyes; to march and eat and sleep, to laugh and play and sing, in its
presence--to carry their life in their hands, and toss it about as a
juggler tosses a ball. And this for Freedom: for the star-crowned
goddess with the flaming eyes, who trod upon the mountain-tops and
called to them in the shock and fury of the battle; whose trailing
robes they followed through the dust and cannon-smoke; for a glimpse of
whose shining face they had kept the long night vigils and charged upon
the guns in the morning; for a touch of whose shimmering robe they had
wasted in prison pens, where famine and loathsome pestilence and raving
madness stalked about in the broad daylight.

And now this army of deliverance, with its waving banners and its
prancing horses and its rumbling cannon, had marched into the
shadow-world. The very ground that it had trod was sacred; and one who
fingered the dusty volumes which held the record of its deeds would
feel a strange awe come upon him, and thrill with a sudden fear of
life--that was so fleeting and so little to be understood. There were
boyhood memories in Montague's mind, of hours of consecration, when the
vision had descended upon him, and he had sat with face hidden in his
hands.

It was for the Republic that these men had suffered; for him and his
children--that a government of the people, by the people, for the
people, might not perish from the earth. And with the organ-music of
the Gettysburg Address echoing within him, the boy laid his soul upon
the altar of his country. They had done so much for him--and now, was
there anything that he could do? A dozen years had passed since then,
and still he knew that deep within him--deeper than all other purposes,
than all thoughts of wealth and fame and power--was the purpose that
the men who had died for the Republic should find him worthy of their
trust.

The singing had stopped, and Judge Ellis was standing before him. The
Judge was about to go, and in his caressing voice he said that he would
hope to see Montague again. Then, seeing that General Prentice was also
standing up, Montague threw off the spell that had gripped him, and
shook hands with the little drummer, and with Selden and Anderson and
all the others of his dream people. A few minutes later he found
himself outside the hotel, drinking deep draughts of the cold November
air.

Major Thorne had come out with them; and learning that the General's
route lay uptown, he offered to walk with Montague to his hotel.

They set out, and then Montague told the Major about the figure in the
grape-vine, and the Major laughed and told how it had felt. There had
been more adventures, it seemed; while he was hunting a horse he had
come upon two mules loaded with ammunition and entangled with their
harness about a tree; he had rushed up to seize them--when a solid shot
had struck the tree and exploded the ammunition and blown the mules to
fragments. And then there was the story of the charge late in the
night, which had recovered the lost ground, and kept Stonewall Jackson
busy up to the very hour of his tragic death. And there was the story
of Andersonville, and the escape from prison. Montague could have
walked the streets all night, exchanging these war-time reminiscences
with the Major.

Absorbed in their talk, they came to an avenue given up to the poorer
class of people; with elevated trains rattling by overhead, and rows of
little shops along it. Montague noticed a dense crowd on one of the
corners, and asked what it meant.

"Some sort of a meeting," said the Major.

They came nearer, and saw a torch, with a man standing near it, above
the heads of the crowd.

"It looks like a political meeting," said Montague, "but it can't be,
now--just after election."

"Probably it's a Socialist," said the Major. "They're at it all the
time."

They crossed the avenue, and then they could see plainly. The man was
lean and hungry-looking, and he had long arms, which he waved with
prodigious violence. He was in a frenzy of excitement, pacing this way
and that, and leaning over the throng packed about him. Because of a
passing train the two could not hear a sound.

"A Socialist!" exclaimed Montague, wonderingly. "What do they want?"

"I'm not sure," said the other. "They want to overthrow the government."

The train passed, and then the man's words came to them: "They force
you to build palaces, and then they put you into tenements! They force
you to spin fine raiment, and then they dress you in rags! They force
you to build jails, and then they lock you up in them! They force you
to make guns, and then they shoot you with them! They own the political
parties, and they name the candidates, and trick you into voting for
