man who was unconscious of the by-play. In the forty-five years of
his active pastorate, my husband but twice violated pulpit and pew
proprieties so far as to exchange meaning and amused glances with me.
That was one of the times. As for Wirt Henry, nothing but an agonized
ray from his wife’s eye kept him from disgracing himself.

Having testified to the nature and sincerity of his sentiments with
respect to the obnoxious interloper, as he considered him, our local
wit turned a cold shoulder toward the pulpit and buried himself in
the pages of a small, much-worn volume he drew from his pocket, never
vouchsafing another glance at desk or occupant during the service.

The little book was a collection of devotional readings he carried with
him everywhere. His mother had given it to him when he went abroad.
From her, too, he had learned to kneel by his bed each night and pray,
as he had done at her knee in infancy. He never remitted the habit. I
used to wonder, with a hard heartache, if he kept it up during that
dark, dreadful age in the asylum.

Less than three years after my first sight of him, the deaf, dumb and
lunatic heir of the vast Randolph estate joined the mother he had not
forgotten, nor ceased to love and venerate in the long night that had
no star of hope, and which was to know no dawning this side of heaven.




XXXIII

PLANTATION PREACHING—COLORED COMMUNICANTS—A “MIGHTY MAN IN PRAYER”


IN the group of midland counties that embraced Charlotte, Prince Edward
and Halifax—names that fell into line, as by natural gravitation, in
the thought and speech of the “Old Virginian”—the Presbyterian was the
leading denomination. Rice, Lacy, Hoge, Alexander, and Speece had left
their mark upon preceding generations, and a fragrant memory—as of
mountains of myrrh and hills of frankincense—through all the Southern
Church.

Five out of seven of the leading planters in the region were
Presbyterians. The others were, almost without exception,
Episcopalians, and the two denominations affiliated more cordially than
with Baptists, Methodists, and the sparse sprinkling of Campbellites,
or “Christians,” as they preferred to call their sect.

Slavery existed in Virginia in its mildest possible form, and
nowhere was the master’s rule more paternal than in the group of
counties I have named. The negroes were permitted to hold their
own prayer-meetings in their cabins whenever it pleased them; they
attended religious services as regularly as their owners, and, in a
majority of the old families, were called in to family worship with the
children of the household. No more convincing proof of their religious
freedom could be desired than the fact that the bulk of the colored
population belonged to the Baptist Church. Why, I could never make out.
The Methodists would seem likely to attract them with equal force,
their methods appealing to the emotional, excitable natures of the
semi-tropical race as strongly as those of the denomination that found
favor in their sight. Yet, when one of our servants “got through” the
spiritual conflicts that ushered in a state of grace, we expected him,
or her, to join the Baptist Church as confidently as we looked for the
child of the Covenant, “ordered in all things and sure,” to confirm,
when it arrived at “the age of discretion,” the vows taken by parents
and sponsors in baptism.

It was not singular, therefore, that the new pastor of the Village
Church at Charlotte Court-House should find, at his installation in
his cure of souls, the name of but one colored person upon the roll of
communicants. We never spoke of them as “negroes” in that benighted age.

“Uncle Cæsar,” the trusted “headman” upon the plantation of Colonel
Marshall—Mrs. Henry’s father—had once partaken of the Lord’s Supper in
the church in which his master was an elder. Which violation of the
laws of his denomination, being duly reported, was the occasion of a
case of discipline long talked of throughout the colored community.
The recusant was sharply reprimanded, and notified that a second
offence would be punished by ex-communication. The doughty old servitor
thereupon declared that, as he hoped to sit down to the supper of the
Lamb in heaven with his master, so he would continue to do on earth,
when the Lord’s table was spread in the Village Church. An example
was made of him for the edification of others, and Cæsar became a
Presbyterian, taking his seat among the communicants gathered in the
main body of the church, whenever a Communion season came around.

With a broad catholicity of spirit that appears, in perspective,
incompatible with the narrowness of creeds and ordinances prevalent,
even among the educated Christians of that time, the “plantation
preachings” held regularly during the summer at various homesteads
in those parts of the county near the churches, were attended by the
colored population in large numbers, irrespective of the sect to which
the officiating minister might belong. It was an established custom
in the Village Church that the second Sunday service should be, in
summer, at the house of some neighboring planter, and held for the
colored people, in particular. That the whites, within a radius of five
or six miles, drove over for the afternoon service, did not alter the
expressed purpose of the meeting, or the manner of conducting it.

Autumn was tardy in approach that year, and so it fell out that notice
was given on the second Sunday morning after my arrival at my new
abode, of “a plantation preaching to be held, at three o’clock, at the
residence of Mr. Richard I. Gaines, to which all are cordially invited.”

We had an early dinner in consequence of the service. Over the
dessert—the servants having been excused, that they might get ready
for the “preaching”—we talked more freely of their ideas and mode of
worship, than would have been kind in their presence. Among other
anecdotes I related one I had had from Ned Rhodes last summer, when he
had, as he reported, been “blackburying” on Sunday afternoon.

The cemetery of the colored people was then, as now, situated upon
high, rising ground, overlooking the ravine separating Shockoe Hill
from the adjacent country. Mr. Rhodes and a friend, in the course of a
Sunday afternoon walk, were drawn to the spot by the sight of a great
crowd of negroes and a string of mourning coaches.

When the two young men were near enough to the concourse to hear what
was going on, they were espied by the orator of the day, who instantly
soared into what his ilk admired as “dictionary English.” Upon the
heap of red clay beside the grave was a tiny coffin. The new-comers
agreed, in telling the story, that they had never beheld a smaller, and
that the size of the pitiful little casket, wrapped with flowers, by
contrast with the number of attendants upon the pompous service, set
the stamp of absurdity upon the whole performance before they caught
what the man was saying.

That this was in keeping with the rest, they speedily perceived. In
hortatory tones that thundered to the remotest auditor, he dilated upon
the uncertainty of life:

“... Even de distinguished lives of de two ‘lustr’ous strangers what
has honored us by comin’ among us dis blessed arternoon, to jine in our
mo’nin’. What is they? And what is we? And what is any man, bo’n o’
woman, my brethren? Up ter-day wid de hoppergrass, and down ter-morrow
wid de sparrergrass! Like de flower ob de corn-fiel’, so he spreads
hisself, like a tree planted by de horse-branch. Den de win’ rises and
de tempes’ blows, an’ beats upon dat man—and whar is he? An’ he shan’
know dat place o’ his’n, no mo’.”

Pausing in mid-career, he touched the pathetically ridiculous box with
a disdainful foot.

“As fur dis t’ing!” rising on his toes in the energy of his
contempt—“as fur dis ’ere itum—put de t’ing in de groun’! It’s too
small fer to be argyin’ over!”

Mr. Henry followed with a story of a darky, who prayed that “we might
grow up befo’ de Lord, like calves and beeves of de stall, and be made
meat for de kingdom o’ heaven.”

Mrs. Henry had a tale of a man who prayed at a plantation-meeting
at Woodfork—Dr. Joel Watkins’s homestead—that Rev. John Rice, Mr.
Terhune’s immediate predecessor and a nephew of “Aunt Rice’s”
husband—“might soon cease from his labors, and his works, may dey
foller him!”

“After which performance,” she continued, “my uncle—his master—had a
private interview with him, and forbade him ever to pray in public
again.”

Then I heard that, within the two years’ incumbency of the present
pastor, ten colored members had been added to the Village Church, much
to the satisfaction of their owners. Among them, one Dabney and his
brother Chesley, or Chelsea (I am not sure which), were prominent in
all good words and works. Both could read and write, and both were
skilled carpenters, who had hired their time from their master, and
were working at their trade for themselves—respectable citizens in all
but the right of franchise. The pastor spoke seriously and gratefully
of their influence for good among their fellows, and of his hopes for
the class they represented.

“Dabney is especially gifted in prayer,” commented Mr. Henry, gravely.

I did not then comprehend why his eyes twinkled, and why the others
laughed. I was to know before the day was done.

The Gaines homestead was a fine old brick building, fronted by a broad
veranda (we said “porch” then, in true English fashion). A spacious
lawn stretched between the house and the gate. Under the trees shading
the turf were ranged long rows of benches, occupied, that Sunday
afternoon, by men and women from the Gaines plantation and from other
