
The girl nodded, turned and kissed her. They were following a path made
by game; Scott was out of sight ahead somewhere; they could hear his
boots crashing through the underbrush. After a while the sound died away
in the forest.

"The main thing," said Geraldine, "is to keep up my interest in the
world. I want to do things. To sit idle is pure destruction to me. I
write to Duane every morning, I read, I do a dozen things that require
my attention--little duties that everybody has. But I can't continue to
write to Duane all day. I can't read all day; duties are soon ended.
And, Kathleen, it's the idle intervals I dread so--the brooding, the
memories, the waiting for events scheduled in domestic routine--like
dinner--the--the terrible waiting for sleep! That is the worst. I tell
you, physical fatigue must help to save me--must help my love for Duane,
my love for you and Scott, my self-respect--what is left of it. This
rifle"--she held it out--"would turn into a nuisance if I let it. But I
won't; I can't; I've got to use everything to help me."

"You ride every day, don't you?" ventured the other woman timidly.

"Before breakfast. That helps. I wish I had a vicious horse to break. I
wish there was rough water where canoes ought not to go!" she exclaimed
fiercely. "I need something of that sort."

"You drove Scott's Blue Racer yesterday so fast that Felix came to me
about it," said Kathleen gently.

Geraldine laughed. "It couldn't go fast enough, dear; that was the only
trouble." Then, serious and wistful: "If I could only have Duane....
Don't be alarmed; I can't--yet. But if I only could have him now! You
see, his life is already very full; his work is absorbing him. It would
absorb me. I don't know anything about it technically, but it interests
me. If I could only have him now; think about him every second of the
day--to keep me from myself----"

She checked herself; suddenly her eyes filled, her lip quivered:

"I want him now!" she said desperately. "He could save me; I know it! I
want him now--his love, his arms to keep me safe at night! I want him to
love me--love me! Oh, Kathleen! if I could only have him!"

A delicate colour tinted Kathleen's face; her ears shrank from the
girl's low-voiced cry, with its glimmer of a passion scarcely
understood.

Long, long, the memory of his embrace had tormented her--the feeling of
happy safety she had in his arms--the contact that thrilled almost past
endurance, yet filled her with a glorious and splendid strength--that
set wild pulses beating, wild blood leaping in her veins--that aroused
her very soul to meet his lips and heed his words and be what his behest
would have her.

And the memory of it now possessed her so that she stood straight and
slim and tall, trembling in the forest path, and her dark eyes looked
into Kathleen's with a strange, fiery glimmer of pride:

"I need him, but I love him too well to take him. Can I do more for him
than that?"

"Oh, my darling, my darling," said Kathleen brokenly, "if you believe
that he can save you--if you really feel that he can----"

"I am trying to save myself--I am trying." She turned and looked off
through the forest, a straight, slender shape in the moving shadows of
the leaves.

"But if he could really help you--if you truly believe it, dear, I--I
don't know whether you might not venture--now----"

"No, dear." She slowly closed her eyes, remained motionless for a
moment, drew a deep, long breath, and looked up through the sunlit
branches overhead.

"I've got to be fair to him," she said aloud to herself; "I must give
myself to him as I ought to be, or not at all.... That is settled."

She turned to Kathleen and took her hand:

"Come on, fellow-pilgrim," she said with an effort to smile. "My
cowardice is over for the present."

A few steps forward they sighted Scott coming back. He was unusually red
in the face and rather excited, and he flourished a stick.

"Of all the infernal impudence!" he said. "What do you think has
happened to me? I saw a wild boar back there--not a very big one--and he
came out into the trail ahead, and I kept straight on, thinking he'd
hear me and run. And I'm blessed if the brute didn't whirl around and
roughen up, and clatter his tusks until I actually had to come to a
halt!"

"I don't want to walk in these woods any more," said Kathleen with
sudden conviction. "Please come home, all of us."

"Nonsense," he said. "I won't stand for being hustled out of my own
woods. Give me that rifle, Geraldine."

"I certainly will not," she said, smiling.

"What! Why not?"

"Because it rather looks as though I'm about to win my bet with you,"
observed Geraldine. "Please show me your boar, Scott." And she threw a
cartridge into the magazine and started forward.

"Don't let her!" pleaded Kathleen. "Scott, it's ridiculous to let that
child do such silly things----"

"Then stop her if you can," said Scott gloomily, following his sister.
"I don't know anything about wild boar, but I suppose straight shooting
will take care of them, and Sis can do that if she keeps her nerve."

Geraldine, hastening ahead, rifle poised, scanned the woods with the
palpitating curiosity of an amateur. Eyes and ears alert, she kept
mechanically reassuring herself that the thing to do was to shoot
straight and keep cool, and to keep on shooting whichever way the boar
might take it into his porcine head to run.

Scott hastened forward to her side:

"Here's the place," he said, looking about him. "He's concluded to make
off, you see. They usually go off; they only stand when wounded or when
they think they can't get away. He's harmless, I suppose--only it made
me very tired to have him act that way. I hate to be backed out of my
own property."

Geraldine, rather relieved, yet ashamed not to do all she could, began
to walk toward a clump of low hemlocks. She had heard that wild boar
take that sort of cover. She did not really expect to find anything
there, so when a big black streak crashed out ahead of her she stood
stock still in frozen astonishment, rifle clutched to her breast.

"Shoot!" shouted her brother.

"Oh, dear, oh, dear," she said helplessly, "he's gone out of sight! And
I had such a splendid shot!" She stamped with vexation. "What a goose!"
she repeated. "I had a perfectly splendid shot. And all I did was to
jump like a scared cat and stare!"

"Anyway, you didn't run, and that's a point gained," observed her
brother. "I had to. And that's one on me."

A moment later he said: "I believe those impudent boar do need a little
thinning out. When is Duane coming?"

"In November," said Geraldine, still looking vaguely about for the
departed pig.

"Early?"

"I think so, if his father is all right again. I've asked Na√Øda, too.
Rosalie wants to come----"

"Oh, for Heaven's sake, don't," he protested. "All I wanted was a
shooting party to do a little scientific thinning out of these boar.
I'll do some myself, too."

Geraldine laughed. "Rosalie is a dead shot at a target, dear. She wrote
asking us to invite her to shoot. I don't see how I can very well refuse
her. Do you?"

"That means her husband, too," grumbled Scott, "and that entire bunch."

"No; if it's a shooting party, I don't have to ask him."

Her brother said ungraciously: "Well, I don't care who you ask if
they'll thin out these cheeky brutes. Fancy that two-year-old pig
clattering his tusks at me, planted there in the path with his mane on
end!--You know it mortifies me, Kathleen--it certainly does. One of
these fine days some facetious pig will send me shinning up a tree!" He
grew madder at the speculative indignity. "By ginger! I'm going to have
a shooting party before the snow flies," he muttered, walking forward
between Kathleen and his sister. "Keep your eyes out ahead; we may jump
another at any time, as the wind is all right. And if we do, let him
have it, Geraldine!"

It was a beautiful woodland through which they moved.

The late autumn foliage was unusually magnificent, lacking, this year,
