
Aurelia, who, with her delicious face and delicate garments, looked
like a wayward angel, lifted a finger.

“So it was! So it was! I remember now I wanted to ask her how she likes
matrimony.”

“Cæsar!” the youth exclaimed. “You are not collecting data on the
subject, are you?”

Meekly, with a treacherously innocent air, the girl surveyed him. “You
wouldn’t wish me to take leaps in the dark, would you?”

“Certainly I would. Certainly I do--since you are to take them with me.”

With the same wicked look, Aurelia moistened her lips. “What a
beautiful nature you have!”

Pleased at this, the little lord nodded.

“I’ll tell you what matrimony is, two souls with but a single
thought----”

“Yes,” Aurelia interrupted. “Two souls with half a thought apiece.”
Rapturously she sighed. “There is real bliss!”

Buttercups snarled. “Oh come, now! If you turn everything into
ridicule----”

Dreamily Aurelia continued. “I asked the duchess, and she said----”

“The old harridan!”

“You know her manner”--a manner which Aurelia instantly made her own.
“My dear, matrimony is three months of adoration, three months of
introspection, thirty years of toleration--with the children to begin
it all over.”

Buttercups frowned. “A rather voluminous definition.”

“Rather luminous, I should call it.”

Frowning still, Buttercups threw out.

“While you were at it, it’s a pity you did not ask her what love is.”

But the sarcasm, if sarcasm it were, convulsed Aurelia. “Parsnips!” she
delightedly exclaimed. “You’ll never believe it! She asked me!”

“Mistook you for an expert,” Buttercups, glowering at the beautiful,
laughing girl snapped back. “What did you say?”

Aurelia, her eyes sparkling, her little white teeth visible, her little
pink tongue also, looked about her, turned, went to the bench, got up
on it and there, solemnly now as though on a platform, coughed.

“I said, that while from studies and statistics I was inclined to
believe that, theoretically, love is a fermentation of the molecules of
the imagination, actually it is the affection of somebody else.”

Blankly Buttercups stared. “I don’t understand that.”

Aurelia coughed again. “I added that from the same studies and
statistics I was also inclined to believe that love is the tragedy of
those who lack it, the boredom of those who don’t.”

“Eh?” Buttercups whined. “I don’t understand that either.”

“I further stated that love is a specific emotion, more or less
exclusive in selection, more--or less--permanent in duration and due
to a mental disturbance, in itself caused by a law of attraction which
somebody or other said was the myth of happiness, invented by the devil
for man’s despair.”

Helplessly Buttercups groaned. “I don’t understand that at all.”

With birdlike ease Aurelia hopped from the bench and with consoling
delicacy nodded:

“Violet said she didn’t either.”

Buttercups brightened. “Now there’s a woman of sense.”

Very sweetly Aurelia nodded again. “Leilah Barouffska said she did
understand, so I may suppose that she is stupid.”

At the shot--which missed him--Buttercups tormented the tip of his nose.

“No doubt, she does seem to have made a mess of things. Why now did she
leave her first husband?”

Aurelia looked down and away.

“It is not a thing I could mention.”

Buttercups gave a little jump. “What?”

Perversely, her lovely eyes still lowered, Aurelia added:

“She caught him in the act.”

Buttercups jumped again.

Aurelia blushed or rather appeared to do so. “With her own eyes she saw
him eating fish with his knife.”

But Buttercups had rallied. “Now, Aurelia,” he protested, “I have heard
too many lies about myself, too many confounded lies, to believe any
such story.”

Superciliously, her delicate nose in the air, Aurelia looked him over.
“Ah, indeed! But then you see sensible people never object to the lies
that are told about them. What we do object to is the truth. Now when
we are married--if we ever are----”

“Aurelia,” the poor devil pathetically interrupted, “you never say when
we are married without adding if we ever are!”

“That’s to teach you not to take things for granted. I have been
engaged before--and may be again.”

“B-before!” the flustered Buttercups stuttered. “A-again!”

Frostily this ingénue considered the youth. “Parsnips, don’t look at me
in that fashion, you inflame me.”

She cocked an ear. “What’s that?”

At the gate the bell was ringing and unperceived by either Emmanuel had
reappeared. The footman was descending the garden. Midway he stopped.

“I have the honour to inform mademoiselle that madame la comtesse is
momentarily awaited.”

He bowed, moved on, opened the gate through which then a brief
procession passed:--Silverstairs, a green bag under his arm; de
Fresnoy, a stick under his; an old man with a small valise; finally
Verplank.

Verplank, raising his hat, approached Aurelia. De Fresnoy, after
saluting the young woman, addressed the old man.

But Silverstairs, sidling up to Buttercups and indicating Aurelia,
whispered:

“Get her away, there’s to be a fight.”

“The deuce there is!” Buttercups exclaimed.

For a moment he looked helplessly about and made a little futile
gesture. “If I ask her to go she’ll stay.”

Silverstairs pulled at his moustache. “Then tell her to stay and she’ll
go.”

But such strategy was needless. Aurelia had no intention of loitering
among these men, not one of whom interested her remotely. With a
glimpse of her pretty teeth to Verplank and a nod at the others, she
passed, followed by Buttercups, through the gate which the footman held
open.

Meanwhile the dogs were barking and, from the house beyond, Barouffski
appeared. With him were friends of his, Palencia, Tyszkiewicz; also a
young man with a serious face who, like the old man, had with him a
case which gingerly he put on the ground.

Verplank glanced at them, went to the bench and began removing his
coat.

The night before he had dreamed pleasurably, as the great beasts of the
jungles dream, of blood and the joy of killing. He had dreamed also
and less agreeably that Leilah’s story was true. However he had denied
it, he did not know but that it might be. Nonetheless he doubted. He
doubted it for the most human of reasons, because he wanted to. He
doubted it for another and a better reason, because his intuitions so
prompted. He had yet another reason, one less valid perhaps but cogent,
the dissimilarity between Leilah and himself. The contrast was so
marked that they might have come of alien races, from different zones.

On leaving her house other differences had occurred to him, differences
