he was going to say this very thing."  She turned to her old-time
friend.  "Go on; lecture me."

"In the first place, you are too kind-hearted."

"That will be news to my friends.  They say I have a heart of ice."

"And what you think is independence of spirit is sometimes
indiscretion."

"Oh," said Elsa, becoming serious.

"A man came into my office to-day.  He is a rich copra-grower from
Penang.  He spoke of you.  You passed him on going out.  If I had been
twenty years younger I'd have punched his ugly head.  His name is
Mallow, and he's not a savory chap."

Elsa's cheeks burned.  She never would forget the look in that man's
eyes.  The look might have been in other men's eyes, but
conventionality had always veiled it; she had never seen it before.

"Go on;" but her voice was unsteady.

"Somewhere along the Irrawaddy you made the acquaintance of a young man
who calls himself Warrington, familiarly known as Parrot & Co.  I'll be
generous.  Not one woman in a thousand would have declined to accept
the attentions of such a man.  He is cultivated, undeniably
good-looking, a strong man, mentally and physically."

Elsa's expression was now enigmatical.

"There's not much veneer to him.  He fooled me unintentionally.  He was
quite evidently born a gentleman, of a race of gentlemen.  His is not
an isolated case.  One misstep, and the road to the devil."

The consul-general's wife sent a startled glance at Elsa, who spun her
sunshade to lighten the tension of her nerves.

"He confessed frankly to me this morning that he is a fugitive from
justice.  He wishes to return to America.  He recounted the
circumstances of your meeting.  To me the story appeared truthful
enough.  He said that you sought the introduction because of his
amazing likeness to the man you are going home to marry."

"That is true," replied Elsa.  "Uncle Jim, I have traveled pretty much
over this world, and I never met a gentleman if Warrington is not one."
There was unconscious belligerency in her tone.

"Ah, there's the difficulty which women will never be made to
understand.  Every man can, at one time or another, put himself upon
his good behavior.  Underneath he may be a fine rascal."

"Not this one," smiling.  "He warned me against himself a dozen times,
but that served to make me stubborn.  The fault of my conduct," acidly,
"was not in making this pariah's acquaintance.  It lies in the fact
that I had nothing to do with the other passengers, from choice.  That
is where I was indiscreet.  But why should I put myself out to gain the
good wishes of people for whom I have no liking; people I shall
probably never see again when I leave this port?"

"You forget that some of them will be your fellow passengers all the
way to San Francisco.  My child, you know as well as I do that there
are some laws which the Archangel Michael would have to obey, did he
wish to inhabit this earth for a while."

"Poor Michael!  And if you do not obey these laws, people talk."

"Exactly.  There are two sets of man-made laws.  One governs the
conduct of men and the other the conduct of women."

"And a man may break any one of these laws, twist it, rearrange it to
suit his immediate needs.  On the other hand, the woman is always
manacled."

"Precisely."

"I consider it horribly unfair."

"So it is.  But if you wish to live in peace, you must submit."

"Peace at that price I have no wish for.  This man Mallow lives within
the pale of law; the other man is outside of it.  Yet, of the two,
which would you be quickest to trust?"

The consul-general laughed.  "Now you are appealing not to my knowledge
of the world but to my instinct."

"Thanks."

"Is there any reason why you should defend Mr. Warrington, as he calls
himself?"

The consul-general's wife desperately tried to catch her husband's eye.
But either he did not see the glance or he purposely ignored it.

"In defending Mr. Warrington I am defending myself."

"A good point."

"My dear friend," Elsa went on, letting warmth come into her voice once
more, "my sympathy went out to that man.  He looked so lonely.  Did you
notice his eyes?  Can a man look at you the way he does and be bad?"

"I have seen Mallow dozens of times.  I know him to be a scoundrel of
sorts; but I doubt if bald sunlight could make him blink.  Liars have
first to overcome the flickering and wavering of the eyes."

"He said that."

"Who, Warrington?" puzzled.

"He said almost the same thing.  Would he say that if he were a liar?"

"I haven't accused him of being that.  Indeed, he struck me as a
truthful young man.  But he confessed to me that ten years ago he
robbed his employer of eight thousand dollars.  By the way, what is the
name of the firm your father founded?"

"The Andes Construction Company.  Do you think we could find him
something to do there?" eagerly.  "He builds bridges."

"I shouldn't advise that.  But we have gone astray.  You ought not to
see him again."

"I have made up my mind not to."

"Then pardon me for all this pother.  I know what is in your heart,
Elsa.  You want to help the poor devil back to what he was; but he'll
have to do that by himself."

"It is a hateful world!"  Elsa appealed to the wife.

"It is, Elsa, dear.  But James is right."

"You'll get your balance," said the guardian, "when you reach home.
When's the wedding?"

"I'm not sure that I'm going to be married."  Elsa twirled the sunshade
again.  "I really wish I had stayed at home.  I seem all topsy-turvy.
I could have screamed when I saw the man standing on the ledge above
the boat that night.  No; I do not believe I shall marry.  Fancy
marrying a man and knowing that his ghost was at the same time
wandering about the earth!"  She rose and the sunshade described a
half-circle as she spoke.  "Oh, bother with it all!  Dinner at eight,
in the big dining-room."

"Yes.  But the introductions will be made on the cafe-veranda.  These
people out here have gone mad over cock-tails.  And look your best,
Elsa.  I want them to see a real American girl to-night.  I'll have
some roses sent up to you."

Elsa had not the heart to tell him that all interest in his dinner had
suddenly gone from her mind; that even the confusion of the colonel no
longer appealed to her bitter malice.  She knew that she was going to
be bored and miserable.  Well, she had promised.  She would put on her
best gown; she would talk and laugh and jest because she had done these
things many times when her heart was not in the play of it.

When she was gone, the consul-general's wife said: "Poor girl!"

Her husband looked across the room interestedly.  "Why do you say that?"

"I am a woman."

"That phrase is the City of Refuge.  All women fly to it when
confronted by something they do not understand."

"Oh, but I do understand.  And that's the pity of it."




XIV

ACCORDING TO THE RULES

Elsa sought the hotel rickshaw-stand, selected a sturdy coolie, and
asked to be run to the botanical gardens and back.  She wanted to be
alone, wanted breathing-space, wanted the breeze to cool her hot
cheeks.  For she was angry at the world, angry at the gentle
