her hands; the dry raspy trunk curled out toward them.  Rajah was
evidently willing to meet her half-way.  She ordered him to kneel.
Without even pausing to think it over Rajah bent his calloused knees,
and gratefully Kathlyn crawled back into the howdah.  Food and water:
these appeared at hand as if by magic.  So she ate and drank.  If she
could hold Rajah to a walk the howdah would last at least till she came
to some village.

Later, in the moonshine, she espied the ruined portico of a temple.




CHAPTER VI

THE TEMPLE

In the blue of night the temple looked as though it had been sculptured
out of mist.  Here and there the heavy dews, touched by the moon
lances, flung back flames of sapphire, cold and sharp.  To Kathlyn the
temple was of marvelous beauty.  She urged Rajah toward the crumbling
portico.

It was a temple in ruins, like many in Hind.  Broken pillars,
exquisitely carved, lay about, and some of the tall windows of marble
lace were punctured, as if the fist of some angry god had beaten
through.  Under the decayed portico stood an iron brazier.  Near this
reposed a cracked stone sarcophagus: an unusual sight in this part of
the world.  It was without its lid.  But one god now brooded
hereabouts--Silence.  Not a sound anywhere, not even from the near-by
trees.  She saw a noiseless lizard slide jerkily across a patch of
moonshine and dissolve into the purple shadow beyond.

What was this temple?  What gods had been worshiped here?  And why was
it deserted?  She had heard her father tell of the ruined city of
Chitor.  Plague? . . .  Kathlyn shuddered.  Sometimes villages, to the
last soul in them, were brushed from existence and known no more to
man.  And this might be one of them.  Yet indications of a village were
nowhere to be seen.  It was merely a temple, perhaps miles from the
nearest village, deserted save by prowling wild beasts, the winds, the
sunshine and the moonshine.  She looked far and wide for any signs of
human habitation.

She commanded Rajah to kneel.  So held by the enchanting picture was
Kathlyn that the elephant's renewed restlessness (and he had reason, as
will be seen) passed unobserved by her.  He came to his knees, however,
and she got out of the howdah.  Her legs trembled for a space, for her
nerves were in a pitiable condition.  Suddenly Rajah's ears went
forward, he rose, and his trunk curled angrily.  With a whuff he
wheeled and shuffled off toward the jungle out of which he had so
recently emerged.

"Halt!" cried Kathlyn.  What had he heard?  What had he seen?  "Halt!"
But even as she called the tall grass closed in behind the elephant.
What water and food she had disappeared with him.

She paused by the brazier, catching hold of it for support.  She
laughed hysterically: it was so funny; it was all so out of joint with
real things, with every-day life as she had known it.  Weird laughter
returned to mock her astonished ears, a sinister echo.  And then she
laughed at the echo, being in the grip of a species of madness.  In the
purple caverns of the temple she suddenly became conscious of another
presence.  A flash as of moonlight striking two chrysoberyls took the
madness out of her mind.  This forsaken temple was the haunt of a
leopard or a tiger.

She was lost.  That magnetism which ordinarily was hers was at its
nadir.  She hesitated for a second, then climbed into the empty
sarcophagus, crouching low.  Strangely enough, as she did so a calm
fell upon her; all the terrors of her position dropped away from her as
mists from the mountain peaks.  She had, however, got into the
hiding-place none too soon.

She heard the familiar pad-pad, the whiff-whiff of a big cat.
Immediately into the moonlight came an African lion, as out of place
here as Kathlyn herself; his tail slashed, there was a long black
streak from his mane to his tail where the hair had risen.  Kathlyn
crouched even lower.  The lion trotted round the sarcophagus, sniffing.
Presently he lifted his head and roared.  The echoes played battledore
and shuttlecock with the sound.  The lion roared again, this time at
the insulting echoes.  For a few minutes the noise was deafening.  A
rumble as of distant thunder, and the storm died away.

By and by she peered out cautiously.  She saw the lion crossing the
open space between the temple and the jungle.  She saw him pause, bend
his head, then lope away in the direction taken by Rajah.

To Kathlyn it seemed that she had no longer anything to do with the
body of Kathlyn Hare.  The soul of another had stepped into this
wearied flesh of hers and now directed its physical manifestations,
while her own spirit stood gratefully and passively aloof.  Nothing
could happen now; the world had grown still and calm.  The spirit drew
the sleeves of the robe snugly about her arms and laid Kathlyn's head
upon them and drew her down into a profound slumber.

Half a mile to the north of the ruined temple there lay, all
unsuspected by Kathlyn, a village--a village belonging solely to the
poor, mostly ryots or tillers of the soil.  The poor in Asia know but
two periods of time--for rarely do they possess such a thing as a watch
or a clock--sunset and sunrise.  Perhaps the man of the family may sit
a while at dusk on his mud door-sill, with his bubbling water pipe (if
he has one), and watch the stars slowly swing across the arch.  A pinch
of very bad tobacco is slowly consumed; then he enters the hunt
[Transcriber's note: hut?], flings himself upon his matting (perhaps a
cotton rug, more likely a bundle of woven water reeds) and sleeps.  No
one wakes him; habit rouses him at dawn.  He scrubs his teeth with a
fibrous stick.  It is a part of his religious belief to keep his teeth
clean.  The East Indian (Hindu or Mohammedan) has the whitest, soundest
teeth in the world if the betel-nut is but temperately used.

Beyond this village lay a ruined city, now inhabited by cobras and
slinking jackals.

Dawn.  A few dung fires smoldered.  From the doorway of one of the mud
huts came a lean man, his naked torso streaked with wet ashes, his
matted hair hanging in knots and tangles on his emaciated shoulders.
His aspect was exceedingly filthy; he was a holy man, which in this mad
country signifies physical debasement, patience and fortitude such as
would have adorned any other use.  A human lamprey, sticking himself
always at the thin and meager board of the poor, a vile parasite, but
holy!

The holy man directed his steps to the narrow beaten pathway which led
to the temple, where, every morning, he performed certain rites which
the poor benighted ryots believed would some day restore the ruined
city and the prosperity which attends fat harvests.  The holy man had
solemnly declared that it would take no less than ten years to bring
about this miracle.  And the villagers fell down with their foreheads
in the dust.  He was a Brahmin; the caste string hung about his neck;
he was indeed holy, he who could have dwelt on the fat of the land, in
maharajahs' courts.  The least that can be said is that he performed
his duties scrupulously.

So, then, the red rim of the March sun shouldered up above the rolling
jungle as he came into the beaten clay court which fronted the temple.
The lion stalked only at night, rarely appearing in the daytime.  Once
a month he was given a bullock, for he kept tiger and leopard away, and
the villagers dwelt in peace.  The lion had escaped from Allaha, where
the species were kept as an additional sport.  Since he had taken up
his abode in the temple there had been fewer thefts from the cattle
sheds.

The holy man was about to assume his squatting posture in the center of
the court, as usual, when from out of the sarcophagus rose languidly a
form, shrouded in white.  The form stretched its lovely arms, white as
alabaster, and presently the hands rubbed a pair of sleepy eyes.  Then
the form sat down within the sarcophagus, laid its arms on the rim, and
wearily hid its face in them.

The watcher was the most dumfounded holy man in all India.  For the
first time in his hypocritical life he found faith in himself, in his
puerile rites.  He had conjured up yonder spirit, unaided, alone.  He
rose, turned, and never a holy man ran faster.  When he arrived,
panting and voiceless, at the village well, where natives were coming
and going with water in goatskins and jars and copper vessels, he fell
upon his face, rose to his knees, and poured hands full of dust upon
his head.

"Ai, ai!" he called.  "It is almost done, my children.  The first sign
has come from the gods.  I have brought you in human form the ancient
priestess!"  And he really believed he had.  "O my children, my little
ones, my kids!  I have brought her who will now attend to the sacred
fires; for these alone will restore the city as of old, the fat corn,
the plentitude of fruit.  Since the coming of the lion two rains ago
the leopard and the striped one have forsaken their lairs.  One bullock
a month is better than fire, together with the kids and the children.
Ai!"  More dust.

Naturally the villagers set down their water skins and jars and copper
vessels and flocked about this exceptional holy man.  They wanted to
believe him, but for years nothing had happened but the advent of the
lion, whence no one exactly knew, though the holy man had not been
backward in claiming it was due to his nearness to the god Vishnu.

They followed him eagerly to the temple.  What they beheld transfixed
them.  A woman with skin like the petals of the lotus and hair like
corn sat in the sacred sarcophagus and braided her hair, gazing the
while toward the bright sun.

The intake of many breaths produced a sound.  Kathlyn turned instantly
