left to desire or attain.

Kitty began to talk about the romance immediately.  She had found the
beginning very exciting; it was out of the usual run of stories; and if
it was all as good as the first part, there would be some editors glad
to get hold of it.  So much for the confidence of youth.  The Black
Veil, as I have reason to know, lies at the bottom of Thomas' ancient
trunk.

Long as he lived he would never forget the enjoyment of that night.
The electric signs along Broadway interested him intensely; he babbled
about them boyishly.  Theater outside and theater within; a great drama
of light and shadow, of comedy and tragedy; for he gazed upon the scene
with all his poet's eyes.  He enjoyed the opera, the color and music,
the propinquity of Kitty.  Sometimes their shoulders touched; the
indefinable perfume of her hair thrilled him.

Kitty had seen all these things so many times that she no longer
experienced enthusiasm; but his was so genuine, so un-English, that she
found it impossible to escape the contagion.  She did not bubble over,
however; on the contrary, she sat through the performance strangely
subdued, dimly alarmed over what she had done.

As they were leaving the lobby of the theater, a man bumped against
Thomas, quite accidentally.

"I beg your pardon!" said the stranger, politely raising his hat and
passing on.



Thomas' hand went clumsily to his own hat, which he fumbled and dropped
and ran after frantically across the mosaic flooring.

A ghost; yes, sir, Thomas had seen a ghost.




CHAPTER XII

I left Thomas scrambling about the mosaic lobby of the theater for his
opera-hat.  When he recovered it, it resembled one of those accordions
upon which vaudeville artists play Mendelssohn's Wedding March and the
latest ragtime (by request).  Some one had stepped on it.  Among the
unanswerable questions stands prominently: Why do we laugh when a man
loses his hat?  Thomas burned with a mixture of rage and shame; shame
that Kitty should witness his discomfiture and rage that, by the time
he had retrieved the hat, the ghost had disappeared.

However, Thomas acted as a polished man of the world, as if
eight-dollar opera-hats were mere nothings.  He held it out for Kitty
to inspect, smiling.  Then he crushed it under his arm (where the
broken spring behaved like an unlatched jack-in-the-box) and led the
way to the Killigrew limousine.

"I am sorry, Mr. Webb," said Kitty, biting her lips.

"Now, now!  Honestly, don't you know, I hated the thing.  I knew
something would happen.  I never realized till this moment that it is
an art all by itself to wear a high hat without feeling and looking
like a silly ass."

He laughed, honestly and heartily; and Kitty laughed, and so did her
mother.  Subtle barriers were swept away, and all three of them became
what they had not yet been, friends.  It was worth many opera-hats.

"Kitty, I'm beginning to like Thomas," said her mother, later.  "He was
very nice about the hat.  Most men would have been in a frightful
temper over it."

"I'm beginning to like him, too, mother.  It was cruel, but I wanted to
shout with laughter as he dodged in and out of the throng.  Did you
notice how he smiled when he showed it to me?  A woman stepped on it.
When she screamed I thought there was going to be a riot."

"He's the most guileless young man I ever saw."

"He really and truly is," assented Kitty.

"I like him because he isn't afraid to climb up five flights of
tenement stairs, or to shake hands with the tenants themselves.  I was
afraid at first."

"Afraid of what?"

"That you might have made a mistake in selecting him so casually for
our secretary."

"Perhaps I have," murmured Kitty, under her breath.

Alone in her bedroom the smile left Kitty's face.  A brooding frown
wrinkled the smooth forehead.  It was there when Celeste came in; it
remained there after Celeste departed; and it vanished only under the
soft, dispelling fingers of sleep.

There was a frown on Thomas' forehead, too; bitten deep.  He tried to
read, he tried to smoke, he tried to sleep; futilely.  In the middle of
the banquet, as it were, like a certain Assyrian king in Babylon,
Thomas saw the Chaldaic characters on the wall: wherever he looked,
written in fire--Thou fool!




CHAPTER XIII

Two mornings later the newspapers announced the important facts that
Miss Kitty Killigrew had gone to Bar Harbor for the week, and that the
famous uncut emeralds of the Maharajah of Something-or-other-apur had
been stolen; nothing co-relative in the departure of Kitty and the
green stones, coincidence only.

The Indian prince was known the world over as gem-mad.  He had
thousands in unset gems which he neither sold, wore, nor gave away.
His various hosts and hostesses lived in mortal terror during a sojourn
of his; for he carried his jewels with him always; and often, whenever
the fancy seized him, he would go abruptly to his room, spread a square
of cobalt-blue velvet on the floor, squat in his native fashion beside
it, and empty his bags of diamonds and rubies and pearls and sapphires
and emeralds and turquoises.  To him they were beautiful toys.
Whenever he was angry, they soothed him; whenever he was happy, they
rounded out this happiness; they were his variant moods.

He played a magnificent game.  Round the diamonds he would make a
circle of the palest turquoises.  Upon this pyramid of brilliants he
would place some great ruby, sapphire, or emerald.  Then his servants
were commanded to raise and lower the window-curtains alternately.
These shifting contra-lights put a strange life into the gems; they not
only scintillated, they breathed.  Or, perhaps the pyramid would be of
emeralds; and he would peer into their cool green depths as he might
have peered into the sea.

He kept these treasures in an ornamented iron-chest, old, battered, of
simple mechanism.  It had been his father's and his father's father's;
it had been in the family since the days of the Peacock Throne, and
most of the jewels besides.  Night and day the chest was guarded.  It
lay upon an ancient Ispahan rug, in the center of the bedroom, which no
hotel servant was permitted to enter.  His five servants saw to it that
all his wants were properly attended to, that no indignity to his high
caste might be offered: as having his food prepared by pariah hands in
the hotel kitchens, foul hands to make his bed.  He was thoroughly
religious; the gods of his fathers were his in all their ramifications;
he wore the Brahmin thread about his neck.

He was unique among Indian princes.  An Oxford graduate, he
persistently and consistently clung to the elaborate costumes of his
native state.  And when he condescended to visit any one, it was
invariably stipulated that he should be permitted to bring along his
habits, his costumes and his retinue.  In his suite or apartments he
was the barbarian; in the drawing-room, in the ballroom, in the
dining-room (where he ate nothing), he was the suave, the courteous,
the educated Oriental.  He drank no wines, made his own cigarettes, and
never offered his hand to any one, not even to the handsome women who
admired his beautiful skin and his magnificent ropes of pearls.

Some one had entered the bedroom, overpowered the guard, and looted the
bag containing the emeralds.  The prince, the lightest of sleepers, had
slept through it all.  He had awakened with a violent headache, as had
four of his servants.  The big Rajput who had stood watch was in the
hospital, still unconscious.

All the way from San Francisco the police had been waiting for such a
catastrophe.  The newspapers had taken up and published broadcast the
story of the prince's pastime.  Naturally enough, there was not a crook
in all America who was not waiting for a possible chance.  Ten
emeralds, weighing from six to ten carats each; a fortune, even if
broken up.

Haggerty laid aside the newspaper and gravely finished his ham and eggs.

"I'll take a peek int' this, Milly," he said to his wife.  "We've been
waiting for this t' happen.  A million dollars in jools in a chest y'
could open with a can-opener.  Queer ginks, these Hindus.  We see lots
o' fakers, but this one is the real article.  Mebbe a reward.  All
right; little ol' Haggerty can use th' money.  I may not be home t'
supper."

"Anything more about Mr. Crawford's valet?"

