
"She has never seen a scrap of it.  Miss Farlow never showed her the
registered letters.  The original note left on the doorstep with
Florence has been lost.  Trust me to make all these inquiries."

"To-morrow night, then, immediately after dinner, a taxicab will await
her just around the corner.  Grange is the best man I can think of.
He's an artist when it comes to playing the old-man parts."

"Not too old, remember.  Hargreave isn't over forty-five."

"Another good point.  I'm going to stretch out here on the divan and
snooze for a while.  Had a devil of a time last night."

"When shall I wake you?"

"At six.  We'll have an early dinner sent in.  I want to keep out of
everybody's way.  By-by!"

In less than three minutes he was sound asleep.  The woman gazed down
at him in wonder and envy.  If only she could drop to sleep like that.
Very softly she pressed her lips to his hair.

At eleven o'clock the following night the hall light in the Hargreave
house was turned off and the whole interior became dark.  A shadow
crept through the lilac bushes without any more sound than a cat would
have made.  Florence's window was open as the arch-conspirator had
expected it would be.  With a small string and stone as a sling he sent
the letter whirling skilfully through the air.  It sailed into the
girl's room.  The man below heard no sound of the stone hitting
anything and concluded that it had struck the bed.

He waited patiently.  Presently a wavering light could be distinguished
over the sill of the window.  The girl was awake and had lit the
candle.  This knowledge was sufficient for his need.  The tragic letter
would do the rest, that is, if the girl came from the same pattern as
her father and mother--strong-willed and adventurous.

He tiptoed back to the lilacs, when a noise sent him close to the
ground.  Half a dozen feet away he saw a shadow creeping along toward
the front door.  Presently the shadow stood up as if listening.  He
stooped again and ran lightly to the steps, up these to the door, which
he hugged.

Who was this? wondered Braine.  Patiently he waited, arranging his
posture so that he could keep a lookout at the door.  By and by the
door opened cautiously.  A man holding a candle appeared.  Braine
vaguely recognized Olga's description of the butler.  The man on the
veranda suddenly blew out the light.

Braine could hear the low murmur of voices, but nothing more.  The
conversation lasted scarcely a minute.  The door closed and the man,
ran down the steps, across the lawn, with Braine close at his heels.

"Just a moment, Mr. Hargreave," he called ironically; "just a moment!"

The man he addressed as Hargreave turned with lightning rapidity and
struck.  The blow caught Braine above the ear, knocking him flat.  When
he regained his feet the rumble of a motor told him the rest of the
story.


By the dim light of her bedroom candle Florence read the note which had
found entrance so strangely and mysteriously into her room.  Her
father!  He lived, he needed her!  Alive, but in dread peril, and only
she could save him!  She longed to fly to him at once, then and there.
How could she wait till to-morrow night at eight?  Immediately she
began to plan how to circumvent the watchful Jones and the careful
Susan.  Her father!  She slept no more that night.


"My Darling Daughter: I must see you.  Come at eight o'clock to-morrow
night to 78 Grove Street, third floor.  Confide in no one, or you seal
my death warrant.

"Your unhappy
    "FATHER."


What child would refuse to obey a summons like this?

A light tap on the door startled her.

"Is anything the matter?" asked the mild voice of Jones.

"No.  I got up to get a drink of water."

She heard his footsteps die away down the corridor.  She thrust the
letter into the pocket of her dress, which lay neatly folded on the
chair at the foot of the bed, then climbed back into the bed itself.
She must not tell even Mr. Norton.

Was the child spinning a romance over the first young man she had ever
met?  In her heart of hearts the girl did not know.

Her father!

It was all so terribly and tragically simple, to match a woman's mind
against that of a child.  Both Norton and the sober Jones had
explicitly warned her never to go anywhere, receive telephone calls or
letters, without first consulting one or the other of them.  And now
she had planned to deceive them, with all the cunning of her sex.

The next morning at breakfast there was nothing unusual either in her
appearance or manners.  Under the shrewd scrutiny of Jones she was just
her every-day self, a fine bit of acting for one who had yet to see the
stage.  But it is born in woman to act, as it is born in man to fight,
and Florence was no exception to the rule.

She was going to save her father.

She read with Susan, played the piano, sewed a little, laughed, hummed
and did a thousand and one things young girls do when they have the
deception of their elders in view.



All day long Jones went about like an old hound with his nose to the
wind.  There was something in the air, but he could not tell what it
was.  Somehow or other, no matter which room Florence went into, there
was Jones within earshot.  And she dared not show the least impatience
or restiveness.  It was a large order for so young a girl, but she
filled it.

She rather expected that the reporter would appear some time during the
afternoon; and sure enough he did.  He could no more resist the desire
to see and talk to her than he could resist breathing.  There was no
use denying it; the world had suddenly turned at a new angle,
presenting a new face, a roseate vision.  It rather subdued his easy
banter.

"What news?" she asked.

"None," rather despondingly.  "I'm sorry.  I had hoped by this time to
get somewhere.  But it happens that I can't get any farther than this
house."

She did not ask him what he meant by that.

"Shall I play something for you?" she said.

"Please."

He drew a chair beside the piano and watched her fingers, white as the
ivory keys, flutter up and down the board.  She played Chopin for him,
Mendelssohn, Grieg and Chaminade; and she played them in a surprisingly
scholarly fashion.  He had expected the usual schoolgirl choice and
execution; Titania, the Moonlight Sonata (which not half a dozen
great pianists have ever played correctly), Monastery Bells, and the
like.  He had prepared to make a martyr of himself; instead, he was
distinctly and delightfully entertained.

"You don't," he said whimsically, when she finally stopped, "you don't,
by any chance, know The Maiden's Prayer?"

She laughed.  This piece was a standing joke at school.

"I have never played it.  It may, however, be in the cabinet.  Would
you like to hear it?" mischievously.

"Heaven forfend!" he murmured, raising his hands.

All the while the letter burned against her heart, and the smile on her
face and the gaiety on her tongue were forced.  "Confide in no one,"
she repeated mentally, "or you seal my death warrant."

"Why do you shake your head like that?" he asked.

"Did I shake my head?"  Her heart fluttered wildly.  "I was not
conscious of it."

"Are you going to keep your promise?"

"What promise?"

"Never to leave this house without Jones or myself being with you."

"I couldn't if I wanted to.  I'll wager Jones is out there in the hall
this minute.  I know; it is all for my sake.  But it bothers me."

