
"No, of course not.  I didn’t mean that sort of thing. But you might not
like what I have to say."

"If I merit what you say about me, it doesn’t matter whether I like it
or not, does it?  Tell me."

He laughed:

"Well, then, if I were going to paint you, I’d first ask you to wash
your cheeks."

She sat silent, humiliated, the painful color deepening and waning under
the rouge.

"And," he continued pleasantly, "after your face had been well scrubbed,
I’d paint you in your black gown, cuffs and apron of a caissière, just
as I first saw you there behind the desk, one foot swinging, and your
cheek resting on your hand.

"But behind your eyes, which looked out so tranquilly across the tumult
of the cabaret, I’d paint a soul as clean as a flame....  I’m wondering
whether I’d make any mistake in painting you that way, Philippa?"

The girl Philippa had fixed her grey eyes on him with fascinated but
troubled intensity.  They remained so for a while after he had finished
speaking.

Presently, and partly to herself, she said:

"Pour ça—no.  So far.  But it has never before occurred to me that I
look like a cocotte."

She turned, and, resting one arm on the gunwale, gazed down into the
limpid green water.

"Have you a fresh handkerchief?" she asked, not turning toward him.

"Yes—but——"

"Please!  I must wash my face."

She bent swiftly, dipped both hands into the water, and scrubbed her
lips and cheeks.  Then, extending her arm behind her for the
handkerchief, she dried her skin, sat up again, and faced him with
childish resignation. A few freckles had become visible; her lips were
no longer vivid, and there now remained only the faintest tint of color
under her clear, cool skin.

"You see," she said, "I’m not attractive unless I help nature.  One
naturally desires to be thought attractive."

"On the contrary, you are exceedingly attractive!"

"Are you sincere?"

"Perfectly."

"But I have several freckles near my nose.  And I am pale."

"You are entirely attractive," he repeated, laughing.

"With my freckles!  You are joking.  Also, I have no pink in my cheeks
now."  She shrugged.  "However—if you like me this way——"  She shrugged
again, as though that settled everything.

Another punt passed them; she looked after it absently.  Presently she
said, still watching the receding boat:

"Do you think you’ll ever come again to the Café Biribi?"

"I’ll come expressly to see you, Philippa," he replied.

To his surprise the girl blushed vividly and looked away from him; and
he hastily took a different tone, somewhat astonished that such a girl
should not have learned long ago how to take the irresponsible badinage
of men.  Certainly she must have had plenty of opportunity for such
schooling.

"When I’m in Ausone again," he said seriously, "I’ll bring with me a
canvas and brushes.  And if Monsieur Wildresse doesn’t mind I’ll make a
little study of you. Shall I, Philippa?"

"Would you care to?"

"Very much.  Do you think Monsieur Wildresse would permit it?"

"I do what I choose."

"Oh!"

She misunderstood his amused exclamation, and she flushed up.

"My conduct has been good—so far," she explained. "Everybody knows it.
The prix de la rosière is not yet beyond me.  If a girl determines to
behave otherwise, who can stop her, and what?  Not her parents—if she
has any; not bolts and keys.  No; it is understood between Monsieur
Wildresse and me that I do what I choose.  And, Monsieur, so far I have
not chosen—indiscreetly——"  She looked up calmly.  "——In spite of my
painted cheeks which annoyed you——"

"I didn’t mean——"

"I understand.  You think that it is more comme il faut to exhibit
one’s freckles to the world than to paint them out."

"It’s a thousand times better!  If you only knew how pretty you are—just
as you are now—with your soft, girlish skin and your chestnut hair and
your enchanting grey eyes——"

"Monsieur——"

The girl’s rising color and her low-voiced exclamation warned him again
that detached and quite impersonal praises from him were not understood.

"Philippa," he explained with bored but smiling reassurance, "I’m merely
telling you what a really pretty girl you are; I’m not paying court to
you.  Didn’t you understand?"

The grey eyes were lifted frankly to his; questioned him in silence.

"In America a man may say as much to a girl and mean nothing
more—important," he explained.  "I’m not trying to make love to you,
Philippa.  Were you afraid I was?"

She said slowly:

"I was not exactly—afraid."

"I don’t do that sort of thing," he continued pleasantly.  "I don’t make
love to anybody.  I’m too busy a man.  Also, I would not offend you by
talking to you about love."

She looked down at her folded hands.  Since she had been with him
nothing had seemed very real to her, nothing very clear, except that for
the first time in her brief life she was interested in a man on whom she
was supposed to be spying.

The Gallic and partly morbid traditions she had picked up in such a
girlhood as had been hers were now making for her an important personal
episode out of their encounter, and were lending a fictitious and
perhaps a touching value to every word he uttered.

But more important and most significant of anything to her was her own
natural inclination for him.  For her he already possessed immortal
distinction; he was her first man.

She was remembering that she had gone to him after exchanging a glance
with Wildresse, when he had first asked her to dance.  But she had
needed no further persuasion to sit with him at his table; she had even
forgotten her miserable rôle when she asked him to go out to the river
with her.  The significance of all this, according to her Gallic
tradition, was now confronting her, emphasizing the fact that she was
still with him.

As she sat there, her hands clasped in her lap, the sunlit reality of it
all seemed brightly confused as in a dream—a vivid dream which casts a
deeper enchantment over slumber, holding the sleeper fascinated under
the tense concentration of the happy spell. Subconsciously she seemed to
be aware that, according to tradition, this conduct of hers must be
merely preliminary to something further; that, in sequence, other
episodes were preparing—were becoming inevitable. And she thought of
what he had said about making love.

Folding and unfolding her hands, and looking down at them rather
fixedly, she said:

"Apropos of love—I have never been angry because men told me they were
in love with me....  Men love; it is natural; they cannot help it.  So,
if you had said so, I should not have been angry.  No, not at all,
Monsieur."

"Philippa," he said smilingly, "when a girl and a man happen to be alone
together, love isn’t the only entertaining subject for conversation, is
it?"

"It’s the subject I’ve always had to listen to from men.  Perhaps that
is why I thought—when you spoke so amiably of my—my——"

"Beauty," added Warner frankly, "—because it is beauty, Philippa.  But
