remains with me yet, as if I had acted his part in it. I dare say it was
not an uncommon experience by which when I used to see some dreadful
thing, or something disgracefully foolish, I became the chief actor in
the spectacle; at least I am certain that I suffered with that hapless
wretch as cruelly as if I had been in his place. Perhaps we are always
meant to put ourselves in the place of those who are put, or who put
themselves, to shame.

Municipal hygiene was then in its infantile, if not in its embryonic
stage, and if there was any system of drainage in Columbus it must have
been surface drainage, such as I saw in Baltimore twenty-five years
later. After the rain the sun would begin again its daily round from
east to west in a cloudless sky where by night the moon seemed to
reflect its heat as well as its light. They must still have such summers
in Columbus, and no doubt the greatest part of the people fight or faint
through them as they do in our cities everywhere, but in those summers
even the good people, people good in the social sense, remained, and not
merely the bad people who justly endured hardship because of their
poverty. I had become accustomed to the more temperate climate of the
Lake Shore, and I felt the heat as something like a personal grievance,
but not the less I kept at work and kept at play like the rest. Once
only I was offered the chance of escape for a few days (it was in the
John Brown year of 1859) when I was commissioned to celebrate the
attractions of a summer resort which had been opened a few hours away
from the capital. I had heard much talk of the coolness of White
Sulphur, as it was called, and I expected much more than I had heard,
but I now got much more than I had expected.

There must have been a break in the heat when at some unearthly hour of
the July morning I had taken the train which would leave me at White
Sulphur, but in the sleep which youth can almost always fall into I was
not sensible of it. I say fell into, but I slept upright as one did on
the trains in those times, and when my train stopped at the station
which as yet made no sign of being a station I stumbled down the car
steps to a world white with frost in the July morning. My foot slid over
the new planking of the platform as on ice, and on the way up to the new
hotel the fences bristled with the glacial particles which bearded the
limbs of the wayside trees, and the stubble of the wheat and fields, and
the blades of the corn, and sparkled in the red of the early sun which
was rising to complete the devastation. I was in those thinnest summer
linens, with no provision of change against such an incredible caprice
of the weather, and when I reached the hotel there was no fire I could
go to from the fresh, clean, thrillingly cold chamber, with its white
walls and green lattice door, which I was shown into. No detail of the
time remains with me except what now seems to have been my day-long
effort to keep warm by playing nine-pins with a Cincinnati journalist,
much my senior, but as helpless as myself against the cold. There must
have been breakfast and dinner and supper, with their momentary heat,
but when I went to bed I found only the lightest summer provision of
sheet and coverlet, and I was too meek to ask for blankets.


VI

What account I gave of the experience in print I cannot say after the
lapse of fifty-seven years, but no doubt I tried to make merry over it,
with endeavor for the picturesque and dramatic. Through the whole of a
life which I do not complain of for lasting so long, though I do not
like being old, I have found that in my experiences, where everything
was novel, some of the worst things were the things I would not have
missed. It had not been strictly in the line of my duty as news editor
to make that excursion, but I dare say I did it gladly, for the reasons
suggested. There were other reasons which were to make themselves
apparent during the year: on my salary of ten dollars a week I could not
afford to be very punctilious; and if I was suffered to stray into the
leading columns of the editorial page I could not stand upon the dignity
of the news editor if I was now and then invited to do a reporter's
work. Besides, there were tremors of insecurity in my position, such as
came from the bookkeeper's difficulty in sometimes finding the money for
my weekly wage, which might well have alarmed me for the continued
working of the economic machine. Like every man who depends upon the
will or power of another man to give him work, I served a master, and
though I served the kindest master in the world, I could not help
sharing his risks. It appeared that our newspaper had not been
re-established upon a foundation so firm but that it needed new capital
to prop it, after something over a year, and then a business change took
place which left me out. I was not altogether sorry, for about the same
time my senior resigned and went to Cincinnati to cast in his fortunes
as joint owner and editor with another paper. Without him, though I
should have fearlessly undertaken the entire conduct of our journal, I
should not have felt so much at home in it, for I did not know then, as
I have learned and said long since, that a strong writer, when he leaves
a newspaper, leaves a subtle force behind him which keeps him
indefinitely present in it. But there was no question of my staying, and
though my chief's wish to have me stay almost made it seem as if I were
staying, I had to go, and I had to leave him my debtor in two hundred
dollars. I hasten to say that the debt was fully paid in no very long
time, but it seems to me that the world was managed much less on a cash
basis in those days than in these; people did not expect to be paid
their money as soon as they had earned it; the economic machine creaked
and wabbled oftener, and had to be sprinkled with cool patience when the
joints worked dry of oil. This may be my fancy, partly built from the
fact that my father in his life of hard work was nearly lifelong in
debt, while others lived and died as many dollars in debt to him.

It must have been before this humiliating event, which I cannot exactly
date, that I was asked to deliver the poem before the Ohio Editorial
Convention which used annually to grace its meeting with some expression
in verse. There must have been an opening prayer and an address, but I
remember neither of these, and I should not be able to remember my poem,
or any part of it, if it had not afterward been printed in our
newspaper, from which the kindness of a friend has rescued it for me. I
have just read it over, not wholly with contempt, but not without
compassion for those other editors who listened to it and could have
followed its proud vaticinations but darkly. It appears that I then
trusted the promises of a journalistic future which have not all been
kept as yet, and that I cast my prophecies in a form and mood which I
might have accused Tennyson of imitating if he had not been first with
his "In Memoriam."

    The Men that make the vanished past
      So brave, the present time so base,
      And people, with their glorious race,
    The golden future, far and vast!--

    All ages have been dark to these,
      The true Knights Errant! who have done
      Their high achievements not alone
    In the remoter centuries;

    But ever to their dawn's dim eye,
      Blinded with night-long sorcery,
      Warring with Shadows seemed to be,--
    In victory, seemed to fall and die!

    Noons glowed. The poet held each name
      In hushless music to the ear--
      Low for the thinking few to hear,
    Loud for the noisy world's acclaim;

    And pondering, one that turns the page
      Whereon their story hath been writ,
      Gathers a purer lore from it,
    Than all the wisdom of the sage;--

    A simple lore of trust and faith
      For Life's fierce days of dust and heat,--
      To keep the heart of boyhood sweet
    Through every passion, unto death--

    To love and reverence his time,
      Not for its surface-growth of weeds,
      But for its goodly buried seeds,--
    To hope, and weave a hopeful rhyme!

The vision does not seem very clear even to me, now, and I suppose not
many of those kind, hard-working country printers and busy city
journalists recognized themselves in my forecast of the coming newspaper
man. Yet I think there is something in the glowing fancy which is here
reflected only in part, and I believe some graduate of our university
courses of journalism may possibly do worse than keep my fond dream in
mind. In this case, the yawning counting-room may not so soon engulf his
high intentions, and, keeping clear of that shining sepulcher of noble
ideals for a while, he may thank me for my over-generous faith in him.

No one that I can recall specifically thanked me at the time of that
editorial convention, though no doubt the usual resolutions thanking the
orator and poet were passed. I should be glad to believe that at the
ball which crowned our festival some kind woman-soul may have tried to
feign a pleasure in my verse which no man-soul attempted; but I have
only the memory of my fearful joy in the dance which I seem to have led.
I went back to Columbus with such heart as I could, but in the dense
foreshortening of the time's events I cannot find that of my own
unhorsing from the shining procession of journalists figured in my poem.
I can only be sure that I was unhorsed, and then suddenly, to my great
joy and even greater surprise, was caught up and given a new mount, with
even larger pay. That is, I was now invited to become professional
reader for the young publisher who had issued the Poems of Two
Friends, and who, apparently inspired by the signal failure of that
book, imagined establishing a general publishing business in our
capital. He followed it with several very creditable books, and he seems
to have had the offer of many more manuscripts than he could handle. I
have no doubt I dealt faithfully with these, and I know that he confided
entirely in my judgment, for I was now twenty-three, without a doubt of
my own as to my competence. There was one manuscript, offered by a lady
who had lived some years in Chile, which I thought so interesting,
though so formless, that I wrote it quite over, and my friend published
it in a book which I should like to read again; but I have no hope of
ever seeing it. He also published a very good Ohio version of Gautier's
Romance of a Mummy, but our bravest venture was a book which the
