the garden blooming. Addington had a tremendous grip on him. It was not
that he had never seen other customs, other manners. He had travelled a
reasonable amount for an Addington man, but always he had been able to
believe that Eden is what it was when there was but one man in it and
one woman. There was, of course, too, the serpent. But Alston was
fastidious, and he kept his mind as far away from the serpent as
possible. He thought of his mother and sister, and instantly ceased
thinking of them, because to them Esther was probably a sweet person,
and he knew they would not have recognised the Esther he saw to-night.
Perhaps, though he did not know this, his mother might.

Mrs. Choate was a large, almost masculine looking woman, very plain
indeed, Addington owned, but with beautiful manners. She was not like
Alston, not like his sister, who had a highbred charm, something in the
way of Alston's own. Mother was different. She was of the Griswolds who
had land in Cuba and other islands, and were said to have kept slaves
there while the Choates were pouring blood into the abolitionist cause.
There was a something about mother quite different from anybody in
Addington. She conformed beautifully, but you would have felt she
understood your not conforming. She never came to grief over the
neutralities of the place, and you realised it was because she expressed
so few opinions. You might have said she had taken Addington for what it
was and exhausted it long ago. Her gaze was an absent, yet, of late
years, a placid one. She might have been dwelling upon far-off islands
which excited in her no desire to be there. She was too cognisant of
the infinite riches of time that may be supposed to make up eternity. If
she was becalmed here in Addington, some far-off day a wind would fill
her sails and she might seek the farther seas. And, like her son, she
read novels.

Alston, going home at midnight, saw the pale glimmer in her room and
knew she was at it there. He went directly upstairs and stopped at her
door, open into the hall. He was not conscious of having anything to
say. Only he did feel a curious hesitation for the moment. Here in
Addington was an Esther whom he had just met for the first time. Here
was another woman who had not one of Esther's graces, but whom he adored
because she was the most beautiful of mothers. Would she be horrified at
the little strange animal that had looked at him out of Esther's eyes?
He had never seen his mother shocked at anything. But that, he told
himself, was because she was so calm. The Woman's Club of Addington
could have told him it was because she had poise. She looked up, as he
stood in the doorway, and laid her book face downward on the bed.
Usually when he came in like this she moved the reading candle round, so
that the hood should shield his eyes. But to-night she gently turned it
toward him, and Alston did not realise that was because his fagged face
and disordered hair had made her anxious to understand the quicker what
had happened to him.

I "Sit down," she said.

And then, having fairly seen him, she did turn the hood. Alston dropped
into the chair by the bedside and looked at her. She was a plain woman,
it is true, but of heroic lines. Her iron-grey hair was brushed smoothly
back into its two braids, and her nightgown, with its tiny edge, was of
the most pronouncedly sensible cut, of high neck and long sleeves. Yet
there was nothing uncouth about her in her elderly ease of dress and
manner. She was a wholesome woman, and the heart of her son turned
pathetically to her.

"Mary gone to bed?" he asked.

"Yes," said Mrs. Choate. "She was tired. She's been rehearsing a dance
with those French girls and their class."

Alston lay back in his chair, regarding her with hot, tired eyes. He
wanted to know what she thought of a great many things: chiefly whether
a woman who had married Jeff Blake need be afraid of him. But there was
a well-defined code between his mother and himself. He was not willing
to trap her into honest answers where he couldn't put honest questions.

"Mother," said he, and didn't know why he began or indeed that he was
going to say just that at all, "do you ever wish you could run away?"

She gave the corner of the book a pat with one beautiful hand.

"I do run away," she said. "I was a good many miles from here when you
came in. And I shall be again when you are gone. Among the rogues, such
as we don't see."

"What is it?"

"Mysteries of Paris."

"That's our vice, isn't it," said Alston, "yours and mine, novel
reading?"

"You're marked with it," said she.

There was something in the quiet tone that arrested him and made him
look at her more sharply. The tone seemed to say she had not only read
novels for a long time, but she had had to read them from a grave
design. "It does very well for me," she said, "but it easily mightn't
for you. Alston, why don't you run away?"

Alston stared at her.

"Would you like to go abroad?" he asked her then, "with Mary? Would you
like me to take you?"

"Oh, no," said Mrs. Choate. "Mary wouldn't want to. She's bewitched with
those French girls. And I don't want to. I couldn't go the only way I'd
like."

"You could go any way you chose," said Alston, touched. He knew there
was a war chest, and it irked him to think his mother wouldn't have it
tapped for her.

"Oh, no," said she. "I should need to be slim and light, and put on
short petticoats and ride horses and get away from tigers. I don't want
to shoot them, but I'd rather like to get away from them."

"Mother," said Alston, "what's come over you? Is it this book?"

She laughed, in an easy good-humour.

"Books don't come over me," said she. "I believe it's that old Madame
Beattie."

"What's Madame Beattie done that any--" he paused; Esther's wrongs at
Madame Beattie's hands were too red before him--"that any lady would be
willing to do?"

"I really don't know, Alston," said his mother frankly. "It's only that
when I think of that old party going out every night--"

"Not every night."

"Well, when she likes, and getting up on a platform and telling goodness
knows what to the descendants of the oldest civilisations, and their
bringing her home on their shoulders--"

"No, no, mother, they don't do that."

"I tell you what it makes me feel, Alston: it makes me feel fat."

"Madame Beattie weighs twenty pounds more than you do, and she's not so
tall by three inches."

"And then I realise that when women say they want to vote, it isn't
because they're all piously set on saving the country. It's because
they've peeped over the fence and got an idea of the game, and they're
crazy to be in it."

"But, mother, there's no game, except a dirty one of graft and politics.
There's nothing in it."

"No," said Mrs. Choate. "There isn't in most games. But people play
them."

"You don't think Amabel is in it for the game?"

"Oh, no! Amabel's a saint. It wouldn't take more than a basket of wood
and a bunch of matches to make her a martyr."

"But, mother," said Alston, "you belong to the antis."

"Do I?" asked his mother. "Yes, I believe I do."

"Do you mean to say you're not sincere?"

"Why, yes, of course I'm sincere. So are they. Only, doesn't it occur to
you they're having just as much fun organising and stirring the pot as
if it was the other pot they were stirring? Besides they attitudinise
while they stir, and say they're womanly. And they like that, too."

"Do you think they're in it for the game?"

"No, no, Alston, not consciously. Nobody's in it for the game except
your Weedon Moores. Any more than a nice girl puts on a ribbon to trap
her lover. Only nature's behind the girl, and nature's behind the game.
She's behind all games. But as to the antis--" said Mrs. Choate
impatiently, "they've gone on putting down cards since the rules were
changed."

Alston rose and stood looking down at her. She glanced up brightly, met
his eyes and laughed.

"All is," said she, in a current phrase even cultured Addington had
caught from its "help" from the rural radius outside, "I just happened
to feel like telling you if you want to run away, you go. And if I
