"Oh, Jim!" she said under her breath, "—I adore you——"  And melted into
his embrace.

As he held her in his arms, for a moment the instinct to repel her and
disengage himself came over him swiftly.  A troubled idea that her lips
were very soft—that he scarcely knew this girl whose supple figure he
held embraced, left him mute, confused.

"Dear Jim," she whimpered, "I love you dearly.  I shall miss you
dreadfully.  I’ll always be your own little sister Steve, and you can
come back and bully me and I’ll tag after you and adore you.  Oh,
Jim—Jim—my own brother—my own—my own——!"

It was a bright, sunny, windy May day.  He could still distinguish her
in her black gown on the crowded pier which was all a-flutter with
brilliant gowns and white handkerchiefs.

After the distant pier had become only a square of colour like a
flower-bed, he still stood on the hurricane deck of the huge liner
looking back at where he had last seen her.  The fragrance of her still
clung to him—seemed to have been inhaled somehow and to have subtly
permeated him—something of the warm, fresh, pliant youth of
her—unspoiled, utterly unawakened to anything more delicate or complex
than the frank, vigorous passion of her affection.

Yet, as her breathless, tearful lips had clung to his, so the perfume of
the embrace clung to him still, leaving him perplexed, vaguely
disturbed, yet intensely conscious of new emotion, unfamiliar in his
experience with this girl who yesterday had been what she always had
been to him—a growing child to be affectionately looked after and
chivalrously cherished and endured.

"I couldn’t be in love with Steve," he said to himself incredulously.
The thought amazed and exasperated him.  "I’m a fine sort of man," he
thought bitterly, "if I can’t kiss Steve as innocently as she kisses me.
There’s something wrong with me.  I must be a sort of dog—or crazy——"

He went below.

Stephanie went back in the car, alone.  She staunched her tears with her
black-edged handkerchief until they ceased to fill the wonderful grey
eyes.

Later, detaching the limousine hand-mirror, she inspected her
countenance, patted her chestnut-tinted hair, smoothed out her mourning
veil, and then, in order, lay back in the corner of the car and gave
herself up to passionate memory of this boy whom she had adored from the
first moment she ever laid eyes on him.

Two years’ absence?  She tried to figure to herself what that meant, but
could not compass it.  It seemed like a century of penance to be
endured, to be lived through somehow.

She wanted him dreadfully already.  She had no pride left, no purpose,
no threats.  She just wanted to tag after him—knowing perfectly well
that there could be no real equality of comradeship where youth and
inexperience fettered her.  She didn’t care; she wanted him.

No deeper sentiment, nothing less healthy and frank than her youthful
adoration for him, disturbed her sorrow.  The consanguinity might have
been actual as far as her affections had ever been concerned with him.

That she had, at various intervals, made of him a romantic figure,
altered nothing.  Stainlessly her heart enshrined him; he was her ideal,
hers; her brother, her idol, her paladin—the incarnation of all that was
desirable and admirable in a boy, a youth, a young man. Never in all her
life had any youth interested her otherwise—save, perhaps, once—that
time she had met Oswald Grismer after many years, and had danced with
him—and was conscious of his admiration.  That was the only time in her
life when her attitude toward any man had been not quite clear—not
entirety definable. She wrote many pages to Cleland that night.  And
cried herself to sleep.

The next day her aunt came up from Bayport.  And, a week later, she went
away to Bayport with Miss Quest to begin what seemed to her an endless
penance of two years’ hospital training.

The uniform was pink with white cuffs, apron, and cap.  She never forgot
the first blood that soiled it—from a double mastoid operation on a
little waif of twelve who had never been able to count more than six.
She held sponges, horrified, crushing back the terror that widened her
grey eyes, steeling herself to look, summoning every atom of strength
and resolution and nerve to see her through.

They found her lying across the corridor in a dead faint.




                              *CHAPTER XV*


The usual happened to James Cleland; for the first two months in Paris
he was intensely lonely.  Life in an English-speaking pension near the
Place de l’Etoile turned out to be very drab and eventless after he
returned to his rooms, fatigued from sight-seeing and exploration.  The
vast silver-grey city seemed to him cold, monotonously impressive and
oppressive; he was not in sympathy with it, being totally unaccustomed
to the splendour of a municipal ensemble with all its beauty of
reticence and good taste. The vast vistas, the subdued loveliness of
detail, the stately tranquillity of this capital, he did not understand
after the sham, the ignorance, the noisy vulgarity of his native
municipality.

Here were new standards; the grey immensity of the splendid capital gave
him, at first, an impression of something flat and almost featureless
under the horizon-wide sweep of sky.  There were no sky-scrapers.  With
exquisite discretion, Notre Dame dominated the east, the silvery majesty
of the Pantheon the south; in the west the golden bubble of the
Invalides burned; the frail tracery of the Eiffel Tower soared from the
city’s centre.

And for the first two months he was an alien here, depressed, silenced,
not comprehending, oblivious of the subtle atmosphere of civil
friendliness possessing the throngs which flowed by him on either hand,
unaware that he stood upon the kindly hearthstone of the world itself,
where the hospitable warmth never grew colder, where the generous glow
was for all.

He went to lectures at the Sorbonne; he attended a class in philology in
the Rue des Ecoles; he studied in the quiet alcoves of the great Library
of Ste. Genevieve; he paced the sonorous marble pavements of the Louvre.
And the austere statues seemed to chill him to the soul.

All was alien to him, all foreign; the English-speaking landlady of his
pension, with her eternal cold in the head and her little shoulder
shawl; the dreary American families from the Middle West who gathered
thrice a day at the pension table; passing wayfarers he saw from the
windows; red-legged soldiers in badly fitting uniforms, priests in
shovel hats and black soutanes, policemen slouching by under cowled
cloaks, their bayonets dangling; hatless, chattering shop girls, and the
uninteresting types of civilian citizens; men in impossible hats and
oddly awful clothes; women who all looked smart from the rear and
dubious from the front.

He found an annoying monotony in the trees of the Bois, a tiresome
sameness in square and circle and park and boulevard.  He found the
language difficult to understand, more difficult to speak.  Food,
accommodations, the domestic régime, were not to his liking. French
economies bored him.

At lectures his comrades seemed merely superficially polite and not very
desirable as acquaintances.  He felt himself out of place, astray from
familiar things, out of touch with this civilization, out of sympathy
with place and people.  He was intensely lonely.

In the beginning he wrote to Stephanie every other day.  That burst of
activity lasted about two months.

Also, in his rather dingy and cheerless suite of rooms, he began a
tragedy in five acts and a pessimistic novel called "Out of the Depths."
Also, he was guilty of a book of poems called "Day Dreams."

He missed his father terribly; he missed his home; he missed the noisy,
grotesque, half-civilized and monstrous city of his nativity.  And he
missed Stephanie violently.

He told her so in every letter.  The more letters he wrote the warmer
grew this abrupt affection for her. And, his being a creative talent,
with all its temperamental impulses, exaggerations and drawbacks, he
began to evolve, unconsciously, out of Stephanie Quest a girl based on
the real girl he knew, only transcendentally endowed with every
desirable and ornamental quality abstractly favoured by himself.

He began to create an ideal Stephanie to comfort him in his loneliness;
he created, too, a mutual situation and a sentimental atmosphere for
them both, neither of which had existed when he left America.

But now, in his letters, more and more this romantic and airy fabric
took shape.  Being young, and for the first time in his life thrown upon
his own resources—and, moreover, feeling for the first time the
pleasures of wielding an eloquent, delicate and capricious pen to voice
indefinable aspirations, he began to lose himself in romantic
subtleties, evoking drama out of nothing, developing it by implication
and constructing it with pensive and capricious humour hinting of dreamy
melancholy.

Until the Stephanie Quest of his imagination had become to him the fair,
and exquisitely indifferent little renaissance figure of his fancy; and
he, somehow or other, her victim.  And the more exquisite and
