up at the tiled roof just above them, where a chimney rose in
silhouette against the pale radiance of the sky.

Behind the chimney, flat on their stomachs, lay two men who had been
watching, through an upper ventilating pane of glass, the scene in
the brilliantly lighted studio below them.

The men were Soane and his crony, the one-eyed pedlar. But neither
Thessalie nor Barres could see them up there behind the chimney.

Yet the girl, as though some unquiet instinct warned her, glanced up
at the eaves above her head once more, and Barres looked up, too.

"What do you see up there?" he inquired.

"Nothing.... There could be nobody up there to listen, could there?"

He laughed:

"Who would want to climb up on the roof to spy on you or me----"

"Don't speak so loud, Garry----"

"What on earth is the trouble?"

"The same trouble that drove me out of France," she said in a low
voice. "Don't ask me what it was. All I can tell you is this: I am
followed everywhere I go. I cannot make a living. Whenever I secure an
engagement and return at the appointed time to fill it, something
happens."

"What happens?" he asked bluntly.

"They repudiate the agreement," she said in a quiet voice. "They give
no reasons; they simply tell me that they don't want me. Do you
remember that evening when I left the Palace of Mirrors?"

"Indeed, I do----"

"That was only one example. I left with an excellent contract, signed.
The next day, when I returned, the management took my contract out of
my hands and tore it up."

"What! Why, that's outrageous----"

"Hush! That is only one instance. Everywhere it is the same. I am
accepted after a try-out; then, without apparent reason, I am told
not to return."

"You mean there is some conspiracy----" he began incredulously, but
she interrupted him with a white hand over his, nervously committing
him to silence:

"Listen, Garry! Men have followed me here from Europe. I am constantly
watched in New York. I cannot shake off this surveillance for very
long at a time. Sooner or later I become conscious again of curious
eyes regarding me; of features that all at once become unpleasantly
familiar in the throng. After several encounters in street or car or
restaurant, I recognise these. Often and often instinct alone warns me
that I am followed; sometimes I am so certain of it that I take pains
to prove it."

"Do you prove it?"

"Usually."

"Well, what the devil----"

"Hush! I seem to be getting into deeper trouble than that, Garry. I
have changed my residence so many, many times!--but every time
people get into my room when I am away and ransack my effects.... And
now I never enter my room unless the landlady is with me, or the
janitor--especially after dark."

"Good Lord!----"

"Listen! I am not really frightened. It isn't fear, Garry. That word
isn't in my creed, you know. But it bewilders me."

"In the name of common sense," he demanded, "what reason has anybody
to annoy you----"

Her hand tightened on his:

"If I only knew who these people are--whether they are agents of the
Count d'Eblis or of the--the French Government! But I can't determine.
They steal letters directed to me; they steal letters which I write
and mail with my own hands. I wrote to you yesterday, because I--I
felt I couldn't stand this persecution--any--longer----"

Her voice became unsteady; she waited, gripping his hand, until
self-control returned. When she was mistress of herself again, she
forced a smile and her tense hand relaxed.

"You know," she said, "it is most annoying to have my little
love-letter to you intercepted."

But his features remained very serious:

"When did you mail that letter to me?"

"Yesterday evening."

"From where?"

"From a hotel."

He considered.

"I ought to have had it this morning, Thessa. But the mails, lately,
have been very irregular. There have been other delays. This is
probably an example."

"At latest," she said, "you should have my letter this evening."

"Y-yes. But the evening is young yet."

After a moment she drew a light sigh of relief, or perhaps of
apprehension, he was not quite sure which.

"But about this other matter--men following and annoying you," he
began.

"Not now, Garry. I can't talk about it now. Wait until we are sure
about my letter----"

"But, Thessa----"

"Please! If you don't receive it before I leave, I shall come to you
again and ask your aid and advice----"

"Will you come here?"

"Yes. Now take me in.... Because I am not quite certain about your
maid--and perhaps one other person----"

His expression of astonishment checked her for a moment, then the old
irresistible laughter rang out sweetly in the moonlight.

"Oh, Garry! It is funny, isn't it!--to be dogged and hunted day and
night by a pack of shadows? If I only knew who casts them!"

She took his arm gaily, with that little, courageous lifting of the
head:

"Allons! We shall dance again and defy the devil! And you may send
your servant down to see whether my letter has arrived--not that maid
with slanting eyes!--I have no confidence in her--but your marvellous
major-domo, Garry----"

Her smile was bright and untroubled as she stepped back into the
studio, leaning on his arm.

"You dear boy," she whispered, with the irresponsible undertone of
laughter ringing in her voice, "thank you for bothering with my woes.
I'll be rid of them soon, I hope, and then--perhaps--I'll lead you
another dance along the moonlit way!"

       

On the roof, close to the chimney, the one-eyed man and Soane peered
down into the studio through the smeared ventilator.

In the studio Dulcie's first party was drawing to an early but jolly
end.

She had danced a dozen times with Barres, and her heart was full of
sheerest happiness--the unreasoning bliss which asks no questions, is
endowed with neither reason nor vision--the matchless delight which
fills the candid, unquestioning heart of Youth.

Nothing had marred her party for her, not even the importunity of Esm√©
Trenor, which she had calmly disregarded as of no interest to her.

True, for a few moments, while Barres and Thessalie were on the
balcony outside, Dulcie had become a trifle subdued. But the wistful
glances she kept casting toward the long window were free from meaner
taint; neither jealousy nor envy had ever found lodging in the girl's
mind or heart. There was no room to let them in now.

