dark eyes.  "Are you fond of stillness and solitude?"

"Not very," said I.  "Are you, Countess?"

She said, dreamily, that she was, but her side glance belied her.  Never
did the goddess of mischief look at me out of two human eyes as
audaciously as she was doing now.  And it was so transparent a
challenge, so utterly without disguise, that we both laughed.

I don’t know why I laughed unless the soreness in mind and heart had
provoked their natural reaction. A listless endurance of suffering is
the first symptom of indifference—that blessed anodyne with which
instinct inoculates unhappy hearts when the bitterness which was sorrow
wears away and leaves only dull resignation.

"At dinner," she said, "I made up my mind that you are an interesting
man.  I am wondering."

"I came to a similar conclusion concerning you," said I.  "But I’m no
longer wondering how near right I am."

"Such a pretty compliment!  Also it dissipates any doubts regarding
you."

"Did you have any, Countess?"

"Well, you know what I asked you at dinner. You understood?  You read
lips, don’t you?"

"I read yours."

"I wasn’t sure.  You gave me no answer."

We laughed lightly.  "What answer can a mortal make when Aphrodite
commands?" said I.

"Then you are willing to play Adonis?"

"Quite as willing—as was that young gentleman."

"That isn’t kind of you, Mr. O’Ryan.  He wasn’t very willing, was he?"

"Not very.  But possibly he had a premonition of the tragic
consequences," said I, laughing.  "One doesn’t frivol with a goddess
with impunity."

"Are you afraid?"

She turned in the narrow seat.  She was altogether too near, but I
couldn’t help it.  And I was much disturbed to find our fingers had
become very lightly intertwined.

She was smiling when I kissed her.  But after I had done it her smile
faded, and the gay confidence in her expression altered.

I had never expected to see in her eyes any hint of confusion, but it
was there, and a sort of shamed surprise, too—odd emotions for a
hardened coquette with the reputation she enjoyed.

"You proceed too rapidly," she said, the bright but subtly changed smile
still stamped on her lips. "There seems to be no finesse about
Americans—no leisurely technique that masters the intricacies of the
ante-climax.  Did you not know that hesitation is an art; that the only
perfect happiness is in suspense?"

"Didn’t you want to be kissed?" I asked bluntly. "I had perhaps surmised
that it might not be a disagreeable sensation.  Was it?"

She seemed to have recovered her careless audacity, and now she laughed.

"At all events," she said, "I shall not repeat the experiment ... this
evening."  She laid one soft hand in mine with a gay little smile: "Let
us enjoy our new friendship serenely and without undue emotion," she
said.  "And let me tell you how you have made me laugh at what you said
to those absurd Prussians!"

We both laughed, but I was now on my guard with this girl who had come
here in such company.

"No Prussian ever born ever knew how to make a friend," she said.
"To-day they have the whole world against them—even your country——"

"I am Chilean," said I pleasantly.

"Are you really?"

"I think you and your friends are quite sure of that," said I drily.

"Suppose," she said in a lower voice, "I tell you that they are not my
friends?"

I smiled.

"You wouldn’t believe me?" she asked.

"What I believe and do not believe, dear Countess, should not disturb
you in the slightest."

"I thought we were friends."

"Do you really think so?"

"I hope so.  I wish it—if you do.  And friendship does not fear
confidences."

"Neutrals have no confidences to make.  My country is not at war."

"Is not your heart enlisted?" she asked, smilingly.

"Is yours?"

"Yes, it is!  See how my friendship refuses no confidence when you ask?
I do not hesitate."

"On which side," said I, warily, "is your heart enlisted?"

"Shall I tell you?"

"If you care to."

She sat looking at me intently, her soft hand in mine.  Then, with a
pretty gesture, she placed the other hand over it, and her shoulder came
into contact with mine.

"I am Russian," she said.  "Is that not an answer?"

"So is Puppsky," I remarked.

For a second an odd expression came over her face and it turned quite
white.  Then she laughed.

"I’ll tell you something," she said.  "I have a girl friend.  I love her
dearly.  I have a country.  I love it still more dearly.  The girl I
love is Adelaide, Grand Duchess of Luxemburg.  Prussia has practically
annexed it.  The country I love is Russia.  Prussia holds it....  Do you
still doubt me?"

"Good Lord," thought I, "how this girl can lie!"  But I said: "Tell me
about Luxemburg, Countess. Is it true that Prince Ruprecht of Bavaria
means to marry the seventeen-year-old sister of the Grand Duchess
Adelaide?"

"Yes," she said.  And I distinctly heard her teeth snap.

"What sort of man is Ruprecht?" I inquired, to steer the conversation
toward easier ground.

"Ruprecht!  Did you ever see him?"

"No."

"Well, he has the manners of the barn-yard and the distinction of a
scullion!  Picture to yourself a man of fifty-seven with a head as
square as a battered bullet and the bodily grace of a new-born camel.
He is the stupidest, coarsest, commonest vulgarian in Europe.

"Why, the man is ridiculous!  He once set all Munich laughing by
appearing in the English Garden on skates wearing his spurs and saber.
And all his military suite had to do likewise.  Picture the result—and
Ruprecht scarcely knew how to stand on the ice!  Why their swords got
between their legs and their spurs did the rest, and the entire lake
resounded with the incessant crash of falling warriors."

She threw back her head and laughed; and I laughed too.

"Such a brute," she said.  "His first wife, daughter of that kindly and
philanthropic oculist, Karl Theodore of Tegernsee, died of his neglect
and ill treatment.  And now, at fifty-seven, he rolls his hog’s eyes in
his freckled face and smirks at a seventeen-year-old child—God help
her!"

I gazed in amazement at the Countess Manntrapp. This was acting with a
vengeance.  Such perfection, such flawless interpretation of the rôle
she was playing for my benefit, I had never dreamed possible. No emotion
could appear more genuine, no sincerity more perfectly mimicked.  Here
was an actress without equal in my entire experience.

Suddenly I caught her eye, and turned very red.

"You don’t believe me," she said calmly, and dropped her head.
