make you a promise--and if there is anybody in that room to see us and
hear us--then we shall be destroyed, both of us, soul and body----"

He took her hands, held them until their trembling ceased.

"I'll answer for our bodies. Let God look after the rest. Will you trust
Him?"

She nodded.

"And me?"

"Yes."

But her face blanched as he turned the latch-key, switched on the
electric light, and preceded her into the room beyond.

The place was one of those accentless, typical bachelor apartments made
comfortable for anything masculine, but quite unlivable otherwise.

Live coals still glowed in the hob grate; he placed a lump of cannel
coal on the embers, used a bellows vigorously and the flame caught with
a greasy crackle.

The girl stood motionless until he pulled up an easy chair for her, then
he found another for himself. She let slip her furs, folded her hands
around the bunch of violets and waited.

"Now," he said, "I'll come to the point. In 1916 I was at Plattsburg,
expecting a commission. The Department of Justice sent for me. I went to
Washington where I was made to understand that I had been selected to
serve my country in what is vaguely known as the Secret Service--and
which includes government agents attached to several departments.

"The great war is over; but I am still retained in the service. Because
something more sinister than a hun victory over civilisation threatens
this Republic. And threatens the civilised world."

"Anarchy," she said.

"Bolshevism."

She did not stir in her chair.

She had become very white. She said nothing. He looked at her with his
quiet, reassuring smile.

"That's what I want of you," he repeated.

"I want your help," he went on, "I want your valuable knowledge of the
Orient. I want whatever secret information you possess. I want your
rather amazing gifts, your unprecedented experience among almost unknown
people, your familiarity with occult things, your astounding
powers--whatever they are--hypnotic, psychic, material.

"Because, to-day, civilisation is engaged in a secret battle for
existence against gathering powers of violence, the force and limit of
which are still unguessed.

"It is a battle between righteousness and evil, between sanity and
insanity, light and darkness, God and Satan! And if civilisation does
not win, then the world perishes."

She raised her still eyes to his, but made no other movement.

"Miss Norne," he said, "we in the International Service know enough
about you to desire to know more.

"We already knew the story you have told to me. Agents in the
International Secret Service kept in touch with you from the time that
the Japanese escorted you out of China.

"From the day you landed, and all across the Continent to New York, you
have been kept in view by agents of this government.

"Here, in New York, my men have kept in touch with you. And now,
to-night, the moment has come for a personal understanding between you
and me."

The girl's pale lips moved--became stiffly articulate: "I--I wish to
live," she stammered, "I fear death."

"I know it. I know what I ask when I ask your help."

She said in the ghost of a voice: "If I turn against them--they will
kill me."

"They'll try," he said quietly.

"They will not fail, Mr. Cleves."

"That is in God's hands."

She became deathly white at that.

"No," she burst out in an agonised voice, "it is not in God's hands! If
it were, I should not be afraid! It is in the hands of those who stole
my soul!"

She covered her face with both arms, fairly writhing on her chair.

"If the Yezidees have actually made you believe any such nonsense"--he
began; but she dropped her arms and stared at him out of terrible blue
eyes:

"I don't want to die, I tell you! I am afraid!--afraid! If I reveal to
you what I know they'll kill me. If I turn against them and aid you,
they'll slay my body, and send it after my soul!"

She was trembling so violently that he sprang up and went to her. After
a moment he passed one arm around her shoulders and held her firmly,
close to him.

"Come," he said, "do your duty. Those who enlist under the banner of
Christ have nothing to dread in this world or the next."

"If--if I could believe I were safe there."

"I tell you that you are. So is every human soul! What mad nonsense have
the Yezidees made you believe? Is there any surer salvation for the soul
than to die in Christ's service?"

He slipped his arm from her quivering shoulders and grasped both her
hands, crushing them as though to steady every fibre in her tortured
body.

"I want you to live. I want to live, too. But I tell you it's in God's
hands, and we soldiers of civilisation have nothing to fear except
failure to do our duty. Now, then, are we comrades under the United
States Government?"

"O God--I--dare not!"

"Are we?"

Perhaps she felt the physical pain of his crushing grip for she turned
and looked him in the eyes.

"I don't want to die," she whispered. "Don't make me!"

"Will you help your country?"

The terrible directness of her child's gaze became almost unendurable to
him.

"Will you offer your country your soul and body?" he insisted in a low,
tense voice.

Her stiff lips formed a word.

"Yes!" he exclaimed.

"Yes."

For a moment she rested against his shoulder, deathly white, then in a
flash she had straightened, was on her feet in one bound and so swiftly
that he scarcely followed her movement--was unaware that she had risen
until he saw her standing there with a pistol glittering in her hand,
her eyes fixed on the porti√®res that hung across the corridor leading to
his bedroom.

"What on earth," he began, but she interrupted him, keeping her gaze
focused on the curtains, and the pistol resting level on her hip.

"I'll answer you if I die for it!" she cried. "I'll tell you everything
I know! You wish to learn what is this monstrous evil that threatens the
world with destruction--what you call anarchy and Bolshevism? It is an
Evil that was born before Christ came! It is an Evil which not only
destroys cities and empires and men but which is more terrible still for
it obtains control of the human mind, and uses it at will; and it
obtains sovereignty over the soul, and makes it prisoner. Its aim is to
dominate first, then to destroy. It was conceived in the beginning by
Erlik and by Sorcerers and devils.... Always, from the first, there have
been sorcerers and living devils.

"And when human history began to be remembered and chronicled, devils
were living who worshiped Erlik and practised sorcery.

"They have been called by many names. A thousand years before Christ
Hassan Sabbah founded his sect called Hassanis or Assassins. The
