Captain Nellis got up from his seat and replied that he knew how many
people occupied Summer House, and that, desiring to prevent the useless
effusion of blood, he demanded our surrender under promise of kind
treatment.

I laughed at him. "No," said I, "my hair suits my head and I like it
there rather than swinging all red and wet at the girdle of your
blue-eyed Indians."

As I spoke I saw Newberry and Beacraft bring the butts of their rifles
to their shoulders, and I shrank aside as their pieces cracked out
sharply across the water.

Splinters flew from the painted column on the corner of the house; the
green-coats all fell flat in their skiff and lay snug there, hidden by
their packs.

Presently, as I watched, I saw an oar poked out.

Very cautiously somebody was sculling the skiff down stream and across
in the direction of the reeds.

As the craft turned to enter the marsh, I had a fleeting view of the
sculler--only his head and arm--and saw it was Eli Beacraft.

I was perfectly cool when I fired on him. He let go his oar and fell
flat on the bottom of the boat. The echo of my shot died away in
wavering cadences among the shoreward woods; an intense stillness
possessed the place.

Then, of a sudden, Beacraft fell to kicking his legs and screeching, and
so flopped about in the bottom of the boat, like a stranded fish all
over blood.

The boat nosed in between the marsh-grasses and tall sedge, and I could
not see it clearly any more.

But the green-coats in it were no sooner hid than they began firing at
Summer House, and the storm of lead ripped and splintered the gallery
and eaves, tore off shingles, shattered chimney bricks, and rang out
loud on the iron hinges of door and shutter.

I fired a few shots into their rifle-smoke, then lay watching and
waiting, and listening ever for the loud explosion of my Indian's piece,
which would mean that the painted Tories and the Mohawks were stealing
upon us from the mainland.

Every twenty minutes or so the men in the batteau-skiff let off a rifle
shot at Summer House, and the powder-cloud rising among the dead weeds,
pinxters, and button-ball bushes, discovered the location of their
craft.

Sometimes, as I say, I took a shot at the smoke; but time was the
essence of my contract, and God knows it contented me to stand siege
whilst Penelope and Nick, with waggon and cattle, were plodding westward
toward Mayfield.

       

About four o'clock in the afternoon I was hungry and went to get me a
piece in the pantry.

Then I took Yellow Leaf's place whilst he descended to appease his
hunger.

We ate our bread and meat together on the roof, our rifles lying cocked
across our knees.

"Brother," said I, munching away, "if, indeed, you be, as they say, a
tree-eater, and live on bark and buds when there is no game to kill,
then I think your stomach suffers nothing by such diet, for I want no
better comrade in a pinch, and shall always be ready to bear witness to
your bravery and fidelity."

He continued to eat in silence, scraping away at his hot soupaan with a
pewter spoon. After he had licked both spoon and pannikin as clean as a
cat licks a saucer, he pulled a piece of jerked deer meat in two and
gravely chewed the morsel, his small, brilliant eyes ever roving from
the water to the mainland.

Presently, without looking at me, he said quietly:

"When I was only a poor hunter of the Montagnais, I said to myself, 'I
am a man, yet hardly one.'[23] I learned that a Saguenay was a real man
when my brother told me.

[Footnote 23: Kon-kwe-ha. Literally, "I am a little of a real man."]

"My brother cleared my eyes and wiped away the ancient mist of tears. I
looked; and lo! I found that I was a real man. I was made like other men
and not like a beast to be kicked at and stoned and driven with sticks
flung at me in the forest."

"The Yellow Leaf is a warrior," I said. "The Oneida Anowara[24] bear
witness to scalps taken in battle by the Yellow Leaf. Tahioni, the Wolf,
took no more."

[Footnote 24: "Tortoise," or Noble Clan.]

"Ni-ha-ron-ta-kowa,"[25] said the Saguenay proudly, "onkwe honwe![26]
Yet it was my white brother who cleared my eyes of mist. Therefore,
let him give me a new name--a warrior's name--meaning that my vision is
now clear."

[Footnote 25: He is an Oneida.]

[Footnote 26: "A real man," in Canienga dialect. The Saguenay's Iroquois
is mixed and imperfect.]

"Very well," said I, "your war name shall be Sak-yen-haton!"[27]--which
was as good Iroquois as I could pronounce, and good enough for the
Montagnais to comprehend, it seemed, for a gleam shot from his eyes, and
I heard him say to himself in a low voice: "Haiah-ya! I am a real
warrior now!... Onenh! at last!"

[Footnote 27: "Disappearing Mist"--Sakayen-gwaration.]

A shot came from the water; he looked around contemptuously and smiled.

"My elder brother," said he, "shall we two strip and set our knives
between our teeth, and swim out to scalp those muskrats yonder?"

"And if they fire at us in the water?" said I, amused at his mad
courage, who had once been "hardly a man."

"Then we dive like Tchurako, the mink, and swim beneath the water, as
swims old 'long face' the great wolf-pike![28] Shall we rush upon them
thus, O my elder brother?"

[Footnote 28: Che-go-sis--pickerel. In the Oneida dialect, Ska-ka-lux or
Bad-eye.]

Absurd as it was, the wild idea began to inflame me, and I was seriously
considering our chances at twilight to accomplish such a business, when,
of a sudden, I saw on the mainland an officer of the Indian Department,
who bore a white rag on the point of his hanger and waved it toward the
house.

He came across the Johnstown Road to our gate, but made no motion to
open it, and stood there slowly waving his white flag and waiting to be
noticed and hailed.

"Keep your rifle on that man," I whispered to my Indian, "for I shall go
down to the orchard and learn what are the true intentions of these
green-coats and blue-eyed Indians. Find a rest for your piece, hold
steadily, and kill that flag if I am fired on."

I saw him stretch out flat on his belly and rest his rifle on the
veranda rail. Then I crawled into the garret, descended through the
darkened house, and, unbolting the door, went out and down across the
grass to the orchard.

"What is your errand?" I called out, "you flag there outside our gate?"

"Is that you, John Drogue?" came a familiar voice.

I took a long look at him from behind my apple tree, and saw it was Jock
Campbell, one of Sir John's Highland brood and late a subaltern in the
Royal Provincials.

And that he should come here in a green coat with these murderous
vagabonds incensed me.

"What do you want, Jock Campbell!" I demanded, controlling my temper.

"I want a word with you under a flag!"

"Say what you have to say, but keep outside that gate!" I retorted.

"John Drogue," says he, "we came here to burn Summer House, and mean to
do it. We know how many you have to defend the place----"

"Oh, do you know that? Then tell me, Jock, if you truly possess the
information."

"Very well," said he calmly. "You are two white men, a Montagnais dog,
and a girl. And pray tell me, sir, how long do you think you can hold us
off?"

"Well," said I, "if you are as thrifty with your skins as you have been
