he took a step toward her. And the girl watched him, fascinated.

One pace, two, a third, a fourth--the girl's involuntary cry echoed the
stumbling crash of the man thrashing, clawing, scrambling in the
clenched jaws of the bear-trap amid a whirl of flying pine needles.

He screamed once, tried to rise, turned blindly to seize the jaws that
clutched him; and suddenly crouched, loose-jointed, cringing like a
trapped wolf--the true fatalist among our lesser brothers.

Eve picked up her rifle. She was trembling violently. Then, mastering
her emotion, she walked over to the pack, placed Quintana's rifle and
mackinaw in it, coolly hoisted it to her shoulders and buckled it there.

Over her shoulder she kept an eye on Quintana who crouched where he had
fallen, unstirring, his deadly eyes watching her.

She placed the muzzle of her rifle against his stomach, rested it so,
holding it with one hand, and her finger at the trigger.

At her brief order he turned out both breeches pockets. She herself
stooped and drew the Spanish clasp-knife from its sheath at his belt,
took a pistol from the holster, another out of his hip pocket. Reaching
up and behind her, she dropped these into the pack.

"Maybe," she said slowly, "your ankle is broken. I'll send somebody from
Ghost Lake to find you. But whether you've a broken bone or not you'll
not go very far, Quintana.... After I'm gone you'll be able to free
yourself. But you can't get away. You'll be followed and caught.... So
if you can walk at all you'd better go in to Ghost Lake and give
yourself up.... It's that or starvation.... You've got a watch....
Don't stir or touch that trap for half an hour.... And that's all."

As she moved away toward the Drowned Valley trail she looked back at
him. His face was bloodless but his black eyes blazed.

"If ever you come into this forest again," she said, "my father will
surely kill you."

To her horror Quintana slowly grinned at her. Then, still grinning, he
placed the forefinger of his left hand between his teeth and bit it.

Whatever he meant by the gesture it seemed unclean, horrible; and the
girl hurried on, seized with an overwhelming loathing through which a
sort of terror pulsated like evil premonition in a heavy and tortured
heart.

Straight into the fire of dawn she sped. A pale primrose light glimmered
through the woods; trees, bushes, undergrowth turned a dusky purple.
Already the few small clouds overhead were edged with fiery rose.

Then, of a sudden, a shaft of flame played over the forest. The sun had
risen.

Hastening, she searched the soft path for any imprint of her father's
foot. And even in the vain search she hoped to find him at home--hurried
on burdened with two rifles and a pack, still all nervous and aquiver
from her encounter with Quintana.

Surely, surely, she thought, if he had missed Quintana in Drowned Valley
he would not linger in that ghastly place; he'd come home, call in his
men, take counsel perhaps----

       

Mist over Star Pond was dissolving to a golden powder in the blinding
glory of the sun. The eastern window-panes in Clinch's Dump glittered as
though the rooms inside were all on fire.

Down through withered weeds and scrub she hurried, ran across the grass
to the kitchen door which swung ajar under its porch.

"Dad!" she called, "Dad!"

Only her own frightened voice echoed in the empty house. She climbed
the stairs to his room. The bed lay undisturbed as she had made it. He
was not in any of the rooms; there were no signs of him.

Slowly she descended to the kitchen. He was not there. The food she had
prepared for him had become cold on a chilled range.

For a long while she stood staring through the window at the sunlight
outside. Probably, since Quintana had eluded him, he'd come home for
something to eat.... Surely, now that Quintana had escaped, Clinch
would come back for some breakfast.

Eve slipped the pack from her back and laid it on the kitchen table.
There was kindling in the wood-box. She shook down the cinders, laid a
fire, soaked it with kerosene, lighted it, filled the kettle with fresh
water.

In the pantry she cut some ham, and found eggs, condensed milk, butter,
bread, and an apple pie. After she had ground the coffee she placed all
these on a tray and carried them into the kitchen.

Now there was nothing more to do until her father came, and she sat down
by the kitchen table to wait.

Outside the sunlight was becoming warm and vivid. There had been no
frost after all--or, at most, merely a white trace in the shadow--on a
fallen plank here and there--but not enough to freeze the ground. And,
in the sunshine, it all quickly turned to dew, and glittered and
sparkled in a million hues and tints like gems--like that handful of
jewels she had poured into her father's joined palms--yesterday--there
at the ghostly edge of Drowned Valley.

At the memory, and quite mechanically, she turned in her chair and drew
Quintana's basket pack toward her.

First she lifted out his rifle, examined it, set it against the window
sill. Then, one by one, she drew out two pistols, loaded; the murderous
Spanish clasp-knife; an axe; a fry-pan and a tin pail, and the rolled-up
mackinaw.

Under these the pack seemed to contain nothing except food and
ammunition; staples in sacks and a few cans--lard, salt, tea--such
things.

The cartridge boxes she piled up on the table; the food she tossed into
a tin swill bucket.

About the effects of this man it seemed to her as though something
unclean lingered. She could scarcely bear to handle them,--threw them
from her with disgust.

The garment, also--the heavy brown and green mackinaw--she disliked to
touch. To throw it out doors was her intention; but, as she lifted the
coat, it unrolled and some things fell from the pockets to the kitchen
table,--money, keys, a watch, a flat leather case----

She looked stupidly at the case. It had a coat of arms emblazoned on it.

Still, stupidly and as though dazed, she laid one hand on it, drew it to
her, opened it.

The Flaming Jewel blazed in her face amid a heap of glittering gems.

Still she seemed slow to comprehend--as though understanding were
paralysed.

It was when her eyes fell upon the watch that her heart seemed to stop.
Suddenly her stunned senses were lighted as by an infernal flare....
Under the awful blow she swayed upright to her feet, sick with fright,
her eyes fixed on her father's watch.

It was still ticking.

She did not know whether she cried out in anguish or was dumb under it.
The house seemed to reel around her; under foot too.

When she came to her senses she found herself outside the house, running
with her rifle, already entering the woods. But, inside the barrier of
trees, something blocked her way, stopped her,--a man--her man!

"Eve! In God's name!----" he said as she struggled in his arms; but she
fought him and strove to tear her body from his embrace:

"They've killed Dad!" she panted,--"Quintana killed him. I didn't
know--oh, I didn't know!--and I let Quintana go! Oh, Jack, Jack, he's at
the Place of Pines! I'm going there to shoot him! Let me go!--he's
killed Dad, I tell you! He had Dad's watch--and the case of jewels--they
were in his pack on the kitchen table----"

"Eve!"

"Let me go!----"

"Eve!" He held her rigid a moment in his powerful grip, compelled her
dazed, half-crazed eyes to meet his own:

"You must come to your senses," he said. "Listen to what I say: they are
bringing in your father."

Her dilated blue eyes never moved from his.

"We found him in Drowned Valley at sunrise," said Stormont quietly. "The
men are only a few rods behind me. They are carrying him out."

Her lips made a word without sound.

