resident of S--, who satisfied him, after two or three interviews,
that, instead of making a fortune, he would stand a fair chance of
losing his whole investment.

Barnaby was about as well satisfied as he wished to be on this head,
when young Jordan arrived in S--. His business there was soon known,
and Barnaby saw a chance of getting out of his unpromising speculation.
To Jordan he became at once very attentive and polite; and gradually
drew from him a full statement of the business that brought him to S--.
It did not take a very long time for Barnaby to satisfy him, that, by
purchasing his mill and sawing up the heavy timber with which his land
was covered, he would make a great deal of money, and double the price
of his land at the same time. Figures showed the whole result as plain
as daylight, and Jordan saw it written out before him as distinctly as
he ever saw in his multiplication table that two and two are four. The
fairness of Barnaby he did not think of doubting for an instant. His
age, address, intelligence, and asseveration of strict honour in every
transaction in life, were enough to win his entire confidence.

Five thousand dollars was the price of the mill. The terms upon which
it was offered to Jordan were, three thousand dollars in cash, a
thousand in six months, and the balance in twelve months.

Shortly after Jordan arrived in the village, he became acquainted with
Mr. Page into whose family, a very pleasant one, he had been introduced
by a friend. For the old gentleman he felt a good deal of respect; and
although it did not occur to him to consult him in regard to his
business, thinking that he understood what he was about very well, yet,
if Mr. Page had volunteered a suggestion, he would have listened to it
and made it the subject of reflection. In fact, a single seriously
expressed doubt as to the safety of the investment he was about making,
coming from a man like Mr. Page, would have effectually prevented its
being made, for Jordan would not have rested until he understood the
very nature and groundwork of the objection. He would then have seen a
new statement of figures, heard a new relation of facts and
probabilities, and learned that Barnaby was selling at the suggestion
of Mr. Page, after being fully convinced of the folly of proceeding
another step.

But no warning came. The self-esteem of old Matthew Page, who felt
himself to be something of an oracle in S--, was touched, because the
young man had not consulted him; and now he might go to the dogs, for
all he cared.

The preliminaries of sale were soon arranged. Jordan was as eager to
enter upon his money-making as Barnaby was to get rid of his
money-losing scheme. Three thousand dollars cash were paid, and notes
given for the balance. An overseer, or manager of the whole business to
be entered upon, was engaged at five hundred dollars a year; some
twenty hands to cut timber, haul it to the mill, and saw it up when
there, were hired; and twenty yokes of oxen bought for the purpose of
hauling the logs from the woods, a distance of two miles. The price of
a dollar a log, which Barnaby expected to pay for timber floated down
the river, had been considered so dear a rate as to preclude all hope
of profit in the business. The great advantages which Jordan felt that
he possessed was in himself owning the timber, which had only to be cut
and taken to the mill. He had, strangely enough, forgotten to make a
calculation of what each log would cost him to cut and haul two miles.
There were the wood-choppers at a dollar a day, the teamsters at
seventy-five cents a day, and four pairs of oxen to each log to feed.
Eight logs a day he was told that each team would haul, and he believed
it. But two or three logs were the utmost that could be accomplished,
for in the whole distance there was not a quarter of a mile of good
solid road.

Six months in time, and a thousand dollars in money, over and above
wages to his men, were spent in getting the mill into running order.
Jordan had bought under the representation that it was all ready for
starting. After he had got in possession, he learned that Barnaby had
tried, but in vain, to get the mill to work.

In the mean time, the young man was extending his circle of
acquaintance among the families of the place in most of which he was
well received and well liked. Old Matthew Page had an only daughter, a
beautiful young girl, who was the pride of the village. The first time
she and Jordan met, they took a fancy to each other. But as Jordan was
rather a modest young man, he did not make very bold advances toward
the maiden, although he felt as if he should like to do so, were there
any hope of his advances being met in a right spirit.

At the end of a year, all the young man's money was gone, and his last
note to Barnaby was due. There was a small pile of lumber by his
mill--a couple of hundred dollars worth, perhaps--for which he had
found no sale, as the place was fully supplied, and had been for years,
by a small mill that was worked by the owner with great economy. The
sending of his lumber down the river was rather a serious operation for
him, and required a good deal more lumber than he had yet been able to
procure from his mill, which had never yet run for twenty-four hours
without something getting wrong. These two or three hundred dollars'
worth of lumber had cost him about fifteen hundred dollars in wages,
&c. Still he was sanguine, and saw his way clear through the whole of
it, if it were not for the fact that his capital were exhausted.

Matthew Page was looking on very coolly, and saying to himself, "If he
had consulted me," but not offering the young man a word of voluntary
counsel.

To continue his operations and bring out the ultimate prosperous
result, Jordan threw one-half of his land into market and forced the
sale at five dollars an acre. The proceeds of this sale did not last
him over six months. Then he got a raft afloat, containing about a
thousand dollars' worth of lumber, and sent it off under charge of his
overseer, who sold it at Cincinnati, and absconded with the money.

In the mean time, Barnaby was pressing for the payment of the last
note, which had been protested, and after threatening to sue, time
after time, finally put his claim into the hands of an attorney, who
had a writ served upon Jordan.

By this time, old Mr. Page began to think it best, even though not
consulted, to volunteer a little advice to the young man. The reason of
this may be inferred. Jordan was beginning to be rather particular in
attention to Edith, his daughter; and apart from the fact that he had
wasted his money in an unprofitable scheme, and had not been prudent
enough to consult him, old Matthew Page had no particular objection to
him as a son-in-law. His family stood high in the State, and his
father, previous to his death, had been for many years in the State
senate. The idea that Jordan would take a fancy to his daughter had not
once crossed the mind of Mr. Page, or he would not have stood so firmly
upon his dignity in the matter of being consulted.

Rather doubting as to the reception he should meet from the young man,
he called upon him, one day, when the following conversation took place:

"I'm afraid, Mr. Jordan," said Page, after some commonplace chitchat,
"that your saw-mill business is not going to turn out as well as you
expected."

"It has not, so far, certainly," replied Jordan, frankly. "But this is
owing to the fact of my having been deceived in the mill, and in the
integrity of my manager; not to the nature of the business itself. I am
still sanguine of success."

"Will you allow me to make a suggestion or two? I think I can show you
that you are in error in regard to the business itself."

"Most gladly will I receive any suggestion," returned Jordan. "Though I
am not apt to seek advice--a fault of character, perhaps--I am ever
ready to listen to it and weigh it dispassionately, when given. A doubt
as to the result of the business, if properly carried out, has never
