
                                                       WILLIAM GAMBEL.

  Nov. 6, 1845.—6m.

The following is copied, verbatim et literatim, and with the pictorial
embellishments, from The Dadeville (Ala.) Banner, of November 10th,
1852. The Dadeville Banner is “devoted to politics, literature,
education, agriculture, &c.”

                                NOTICE.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

  The undersigned having an excellent pack of HOUNDS, for trailing and
  catching runaway slaves, informs the public that his prices in
  future will be as follows for such services:

          For each day employed in hunting or trailing, $2.50
          For catching each slave,                      10.00
          For going over ten miles and catching slaves, 20.00

  If sent for, the above prices will be exacted in cash. The
  subscriber resides one mile and a half south of Dadeville, Ala.

                                                             B. BLACK.

  Dadeville, Sept. 1, 1852.      1tf

  XII. The runaway, when taken, was severely punished by authority of
  the master, or by the judge, at his desire; sometimes with
  crucifixion, amputation of a foot, or by being sent to fight as a
  gladiator with wild beasts; but most frequently by being branded on
  the brow with letters indicative of his crime.

That severe punishment would be the lot of the recaptured runaway, every
one would suppose, from the “absolute power” of the master to inflict
it. That it is inflicted in many cases, it is equally easy and
needless to prove. The peculiar forms of punishment mentioned above are
now very much out of vogue, but the following advertisement by Mr.
Micajah Ricks, in the Raleigh (N. C.) Standard of July 18th, 1838,
shows that something of classic taste in torture still lingers in our
degenerate days.

  Ran away, a negro woman and two children; a few days before she went
  off, I burnt her with a hot iron, on the left side of her face. I
  tried to make the letter M.

It is charming to notice the naïf betrayal of literary pride on the
part of Mr. Ricks. He did not wish that letter M to be taken as a
specimen of what he could do in the way of writing. The creature would
not hold still, and he fears the M may be illegible.

The above is only one of a long list of advertisements of maimed,
cropped and branded negroes, in the book of Mr. Weld, entitled American
Slavery as It Is, p. 77.

  XIII. Cruel masters sometimes hired torturers by profession, or had
  such persons in their establishments, to assist them in punishing
  their slaves. The noses and ears and teeth of slaves were often in
  danger from an enraged owner; and sometimes the eyes of a great
  offender were put out. Crucifixion was very frequently made the fate
  of a wretched slave for a trifling misconduct, or from mere
  caprice.

For justification of such practices as these, we refer again to that
horrible list of maimed and mutilated men, advertised by slaveholders
themselves, in Weld’s American Slavery as It Is, p. 77. We recall the
reader’s attention to the evidence of the monster Kephart, given in Part
I. As to crucifixion, we presume that there are wretches whose religious
scruples would deter them from this particular form of torture, who
would not hesitate to inflict equal cruelties by other means; as the
Greek pirate, during a massacre in the season of Lent, was
conscience-stricken at having tasted a drop of blood. We presume?—Let
any one but read again, if he can, the sickening details of that twelve
hours’ torture of Souther’s slave, and say how much more merciful is
American slavery than Roman.

The last item in Blair’s description of Roman slavery is the following:

  By a decree passed by the Senate, if a master was murdered when his
  slaves might possibly have aided him, all his household within reach
  were held as implicated, and deserving of death; and Tacitus relates
  an instance in which a family of four hundred were all executed.

To this alone, of all the atrocities of the slavery of old heathen Rome,
do we fail to find a parallel in the slavery of the United States of
America.

There are other respects, in which American legislation has reached a
refinement in tyranny of which the despots of those early days never
conceived. The following is the language of Gibbon:

  Hope, the best comfort of our imperfect condition, was not denied to
  the Roman slave; and if he had any opportunity of rendering himself
  either useful or agreeable, he might very naturally expect that the
  diligence and fidelity of a few years would be rewarded with the
  inestimable gift of freedom. * * * Without destroying the
  distinction of ranks, a distant prospect of freedom and honors was
  presented even to those whom pride and prejudice almost disdained to
  number among the human species.[14]

  The youths of promising genius were instructed in the arts and
  sciences, and their price was ascertained by the degree of their
  skill and talents. Almost every profession, either liberal or
  mechanical, might be found in the household of an opulent
  senator.[15]

The following chapter will show how “the best comfort” which Gibbon knew
for human adversity is taken away from the American slave; how he is
denied the commonest privileges of education and mental improvement, and
how the whole tendency of the unhappy system, under which he is in
bondage, is to take from him the consolations of religion itself, and to
degrade him from our common humanity, and common brotherhood with the
Son of God.

-----

Footnote 13:

  See also the case of State v. Abram, 10 Ala. 928. 7 U. S. Dig. p.
  449. “The master or overseer, and not the slave, is the proper judge
  whether the slave is too sick to be able to labor. The latter cannot,
  therefore, resist the order of the former to go to work.”

Footnote 14:

  Gibbon’s “Decline and Fall,” Chap. II.

Footnote 15:

  Ibid.




                             CHAPTER XIII.
                    THE MEN BETTER THAN THEIR LAWS.
