
Again that sinister smile! but he said nothing more.

He called again, with a friend, an habitue of the house. It was
evening, and Mrs. Read saw them. The length of his stay in Richmond was
indefinite;--they were not sure but each visit was his last; and he,
keeping up the uncertainty, came frequently, at the hours which suited
him best. Josephine, succumbing seemingly, to the power of his wizard
wand, freely declared her dread of his departure; Ida felt as much when
with him, and revoked it, secretly, as soon as her eyes recovered from
their dazzlement. Mrs. Read treated him, as she did her other visitors,
and bore no part in the chorus of laudations chaunted in his absence.
When Mr. Read was well enough to see company, he fell an easy conquest
to the arts of the inimitable stranger. "He was"--he protested, "a
better doctor than Ballard. An hour of his society was more beneficial
to him, than the apothecary's entire stock of drugs."

His birth-day was near at hand, and he determined to invite his friends
to rejoice with him, at his partial restoration to health. It was to be
an unostentatious affair--a dinner, and no ladies but those belonging
to the family. Mr. Read was as impatient as a child at its first
tea-party.

"They are late, Helen! they are not coming!" he said every few minutes,
while they were awaiting the guests. He was working himself into a
passion, when the welcome ring appeased him.

"Mr. Copeland!" called the stentorian lungs of the footman; and Mrs.
Read was as white, as if the hand of Death had smitten her.

"How are you all?" said Richard, in his joyous, rattling style. "Miss
Ross, I am delighted to meet you--Miss Josephine, I will not disparage
your blooming cheeks by asking after your health,--and you, Mr. Read,
have been practicing upon our fears, by stories of illness--hasn't he,
Helen--you are ill!" he said, brought to a full stop by her pallor.

"Ill! you are well--are you not?" said Mr. Read, in alarm.

"Well! yes! what notions you have, Richard!" and the color flowed back.
"When did you come in?--down, I mean, and how are they at home?"

"'Home' is too bridish for a demure matron; but they are well, and sent
love. I arrived this morning, and should have been in before, but for
business."

"Don't leave the room, Helen. Somebody will come while you are out.
Send John for what you want;" said Mr. Read.--She was slipping out
through the back parlor.

"I will be gone but a second," she answered; and Mr. Read was still
telling Richard how opportune his visit was when she returned. She was
the collected, urbane hostess, only an eager glance at each arrival,
betrayed nervousness or expectation. Mr. Read watched the door, also;
and his displeasure at the tardiness of his favorite was audibly vented.

"Helen! why don't Mr. Ashlin come?" he said, in Ida's hearing. Ears
less acute would not have distinguished his wife's reply.

"Hush! these people are jealous of your preference already. He will be
here before long."

Ida had mislaid her handkerchief, or not brought it into the room; and
Richard offered to favor her retreat by a journey into the next room,
to look at some green-house plants. Leaving him bending over them, she
ran up-stairs, found the missing article, and was hurrying down, when a
ring arrested her upon the lower landing. Thinking to let the visitor
enter before her, she stepped back out of sight.

"Mr. Ashlin, I beg your pardon, sir," said John, "my mistress told me
to give you this before you went into the drawing-room, sir."

Mr. Ashlin paused--she judged, to read a note.

"All right!" said he. "Tell your mistress, I regret exceedingly that I
am called into the country, on account of a friend's danger, and cannot
comply with my engagement to Mr. Read this evening. Deliver the message
as I have given it. This is for yourself, John. Good day."

"Thank you, sir. Good afternoon."

Ida's limbs shook beneath her. She had not time to unravel the
mystery--for mystery she knew it to be;--Mrs. Read's fright at her
brother's entrance; her incoherence and exit; the strangely worded
message; the bribe to the servant--swam in a chaotic medley through her
mind. She was sick with terror, until warned to conceal her emotions
by Richard's saying that "Helen's queer symptoms had become epidemic."
Partaker of the alarms of guilt, by her knowledge of the sin,--averse
as she was to participation in its concealment, she was possessed with
the idea, that to her was committed the work of blinding Richard. While
her ears were alert to every sentence uttered around her, and she
was quaking at the least approach to a mention of the absentee, she
aimed to monopolize Mr. Copeland's sense and thoughts. She anticipated
their quitting the table as a blessed change; then a cold agony
came over her, at the remembrance that the gentlemen would remain.
Discovery, in this case, was inevitable. His wife's caution would not
restrain Mr. Read from pledging Mr. Ashlin's health. She thought of
bantering Richard into withdrawing with the ladies;--it would be too
bold--too forward. He would obey, but his respect for her would be
diminished;--as a final alternative, she must venture it--but was there
no other?

"Our patient does us credit, Miss Ida." Her next neighbor was Dr.
Ballard.

"Does you credit, Doctor. I am only your custodian--a daring one,
however, for I have a petition to submit. Will it not be imprudent
for Mr. Read to remain long at table, after the cloth is removed? His
system is still inflammatory." Her conscience reproved her for the
deception, although she spoke the truth, but the case was desperate.
The doctor's professional cap was on instantly.

"Unquestionably, my child!--unquestionably! well thought of, Miss Ida!
We must guard against a relapse. How shall we get him into the parlor?"

Ida consulted Richard, who referred the case to Charley and returned
her the reply, that if the ladies would delay their departure, a little
longer than was customary,--not to startle those who loved to tarry at
the wine, he would concert with most of the company to rise at the same
time. Charley was at the helm, and Ida could safely have slept upon
her watch. Mr. Read demurred at an infringement upon banquetting laws,
but the seceders gallantly insisted upon attending their fair leaders;
and the most disaffected had not courage to stand their ground. It was
a weary, weary evening to Ida; she looked and felt wretchedly ill,
after the guests dispersed. Richard looked in again, after saying "good
night."

"I have purchased a buggy to-day," said he, to Ida; "and my pet horse
is in town. Shall I have the pleasure of driving you out in the
morning?"

She assented.

"At what hour?" he asked.

"I wonder what has happened, that Ashlin stayed away!" said Mr. Read.

Richard started violently. "Ashlin!" he echoed with a fiery look at his
sister. "Ashlin--Ashlin;" he repeated, sensible of his imprudence. "I
have heard the name--who is he?"

