cause for the most disastrous effects."

"If this be really so," observed the gentleman, over whose face a
shadow of concern darkened, "then Willy Hammond may not be his only
victim."

"And is not, you may rest assured. If rumor be true, other of our
promising young men are being drawn into the whirling circles that
narrow toward a vortex of ruin."

In corroboration of this, I mentioned the conversation I had held with
one of the frequenters of Slade's bar room, on this very subject; and
also what I had myself observed on the previous evening.

The man, who had until now been sitting quietly in a chair, started up,
exclaiming as he did so--

"Merciful heaven! I never dreamed of this! Whose sons are safe?"

"No man's," was the answer of the gentleman in whose office we were
sitting--"No man's--while there are such open doors to ruin as you may
find at the 'Sickle and Sheaf.' Did not you vote the anti-temperance
ticket at the last election?"

"I did," was the answer; "and from principle."

"On what were your principles based?" was inquired.

"On the broad foundations of civil liberty."

"The liberty to do good or evil, just as the individual may choose?"

"I would not like to say that. There are certain evils against which
there can be no legislation that would not do harm. No civil power in
this country has the right to say what a citizen shall eat or drink."

"But may not the people, in any community, pass laws, through their
delegated law-makers, restraining evil-minded persons from injuring the
common good?"

"Oh, certainly--certainly."

"And are you prepared to affirm, that a drinking-shop, where young men
are corrupted, aye, destroyed, body and soul--does not work an injury
to the common good?"

"Ah! but there must be houses of public entertainment."

"No one denies this. But can that be a really Christian community which
provides for the moral debasement of strangers, at the same time that
it entertains them? Is it necessary that, in giving rest and
entertainment to the traveler, we also lead him into temptation?"

"Yes--but--but--it is going too far to legislate on what we are to eat
and drink. It is opening too wide a door for fanatical oppression. We
must inculcate temperance as a right principle. We must teach our
children the evils of intemperance, and send them out into the world as
practical teachers of order, virtue and sobriety. If we do this, the
reform becomes radical, and in a few years there will be no bar-rooms,
for none will crave the fiery poison."

"Of little value, my friend, will be, in far too many cases, your
precepts, if temptation invites our sons at almost every step of their
way through life. Thousands have fallen, and thousands are now
tottering, soon to fall. Your sons are not safe; nor are mine. We
cannot tell the day nor the hour when they may weakly yield to the
solicitation of some companion, and enter the wide open door of ruin.
And are we wise and good citizens to commission men to do the evil work
of enticement--to encourage them to get gain in corrupting and
destroying our children? To hesitate over some vague ideal of human
liberty when the sword is among us, slaying our best and dearest? Sir!
while you hold back from the work of staying the flood that is
desolating our fairest homes, the black waters are approaching your own
doors."

There was a startling emphasis in the tones with which this last
sentence was uttered; and I do not wonder at the look of anxious alarm
that it called to the face of him whose fears it was meant to excite.

"What do you mean, sir?" was inquired.

"Simply, that your sons are in equal danger with others."

"And is that all?"

"They have been seen, of late, in the bar-room of the 'Sickle and
Sheaf.'"

"Who says so?"

"Twice within a week I have seen them going there," was answered.

"Good heavens! No!"

"It is true, my friend. But who is safe? If we dig pits, and conceal
them from view, what marvel if our own children fall therein?"

"My sons going to a tavern?" The man seemed utterly confounded. "How
CAN I believe it? You must be in error, sir."

"No. What I tell you is the simple truth. And if they go there--"

The man paused not to hear the conclusion of the sentence, but went
hastily from the office.

"We are beginning to reap as we have sown," remarked the gentleman,
turning to me as his agitated friend left the office. "As I told them
in the commencement it would be, so it is happening. The want of a good
tavern in Cedarville was over and over again alleged as one of the
chief causes of our want of thrift, and when Slade opened the 'Sickle
and Sheaf,' the man was almost glorified. The gentleman who has just
left us failed not in laudation of the enterprising landlord; the more
particularly, as the building of the new tavern advanced the price of
ground on the street, and made him a few hundred dollars richer.
Really, for a time, one might have thought, from the way people went
on, that Simon Slade was going to make every man's fortune in
Cedarville. But all that has been gained by a small advance in
property, is as a grain of sand to a mountain, compared with the
fearful demoralization that has followed."

I readily assented to this, for I had myself seen enough to justify the
conclusion.

As I sat in the bar-room of the "Sickle and Sheaf" that evening, I
noticed, soon after the lamps were lighted, the gentleman referred to
in the above conversation, whose sons were represented as visitors to
the bar, come in quietly, and look anxiously about the room. He spoke
to no one, and, after satisfying himself that those he sought were not
there, went out.

"What sent him here, I wonder?" muttered Slade, speaking partly to
himself, and partly aside to Matthew, the bar-keeper.

"After the boys, I suppose," was answered.

"I guess the boys are old enough to take care of themselves."

"They ought to be," returned Matthew.

"And are," said Slade. "Have they been here this evening?"
