"Five boats in the fleet! That would be a glorious squadron!"

The boys could hardly repress the delight which these air castles
excited, and several of them kept jumping up and down, they were so
nervous and so elated.

"Come, Tony, let us settle the business, and order the boats at once,"
said Dick Chester.

"We had better think a while of it. Something else may turn up which
will suit us even better than the fleet. Of course we must consult
Captain Sedley and George before we do anything," replied Tony.

"They will be willing."

"Perhaps they will, and perhaps they won't."

"I know they will," said Dick.

"We will consult them, at any rate. It is necessary to take a vote
concerning the division of the money."

Of course the club voted not to divide; and it was decided that the
money should remain in the hands of George Weston until the fleet
question should be settled.

"Now, boys," said Tony, "next Monday is town meeting day, and school
don't keep. We will meet at nine o'clock and practise for the race,
which comes off on Wednesday afternoon, at three o'clock. Let every
fellow be on hand in season."

The club adjourned, and the boys went off in little parties, discussing
the exciting topic of a fleet of five boats, under the command of
Commodore Frank Sedley.




CHAPTER VIII.

THE RACE.


The day appointed for the race between the Zephyr and the Butterfly had
arrived, and the large number of people congregated on the shores of
Wood Lake testified to the interest which was felt in the event.
Probably the exciting incident at the bridge, which had been published
in the newspaper, imparted a greater degree of interest to the race than
it would otherwise have possessed. It was a beautiful afternoon, mild
and pleasant for the season, which favored the attendance of the ladies,
and the lake was lined with a row of cheerful faces.

"All aboard!" said Frank, as he dissolved a meeting of the Zephyrs,
which he had called in order to impart whatever hints he had been able
to obtain from his father and others in regard to their conduct.

Above all, he had counseled them, in case they were beaten, to cherish
no hard feelings towards their rivals. Not a shadow of envy or ill-will
was to obscure the harmony of the occasion. And if they were so
fortunate as to win the race they were to wear their honors with
humility; and most especially, they were not to utter a word which could
create a hard feeling in the minds of their competitors. Whatever the
result, there was to be the same kindness in the heart, and the same
gentlemanly deportment in the manners, which had thus far characterized
the intercourse of the two clubs.

"All aboard!"

The Zephyrs were more quiet and dignified in their deportment than
usual. There was no loud talk, no jesting; even Fred Harper looked
thoughtful and serious. Each member seemed to feel the responsibility of
winning the race resting like a heavy burden upon his shoulders.

The boat was hauled out into the lake, and once more Frank cautioned
them to keep cool and obey orders.

"Don't look at the Butterfly after we get started," said he. "You must
permit me to keep watch of her. Keep both eyes on me, and think only of
having your stroke perfectly accurate, perfectly in time with the
others. Now, remember, don't look at the Butterfly; if you do, we shall
lose the race. It would distract your attention and add to your
excitement. If she gets two or three lengths ahead of us, as I think she
will on the first mile, don't mind it. Pull your best, and leave the
rest with me."

"Ay, ay!" replied several, quietly.

"Do you think we shall win, Frank?" asked Charles, who had put the same
question a dozen times before.

"We must think that we shall," replied Frank, with a smile. "Here
comes the Butterfly. Now, give her three cheers. One!"

"Hurrah!"

"Two!"

"Hurrah!"

"Three!"

"Hurrah!"

This compliment was promptly returned by the Butterfly, as she came
alongside the Zephyr.

"Quarter of three, Frank," said Tony.

"Time we were moving then," replied Frank, as he ordered the oars out,
and the boats started for the spot where the Sylph, the judges' boat,
had taken position.

They pulled with a very slow stroke, and not only did the respective
crews keep the most exact time, but each timed its stroke with the
other. It was exhibition day with them, and they were not only to run
the race, but to show off their skill to the best advantage. Hundreds of
people, their fathers and their mothers, their sisters and their
brothers, were observing them from the shore, and this fact inspired
them to work with unusual care.

It was a very beautiful sight, those richly ornamented boats, their gay
colors flashing in the bright sunshine, with their neatly uniformed
crews, their silken flags floating to the breeze, and their light,
graceful oars dipping with mechanical precision in the limpid waters. As
they glided gently over the rippling waves, like phantoms, to the middle
of the lake, a long and deafening shout from the shore saluted their
ears. The white handkerchiefs of the ladies waved them a cheerful
greeting, and the Rippleton Brass Band, which had volunteered for the
occasion, struck up Hail Columbia.

"Cease--rowing!" said Frank, as he rose in his seat.

Tony followed his example, though this movement had not been laid down
in the program.

Frank then took the American flag which floated at the stern, and Tony
did the same.

"All up!" said he. "Let us give them three cheers."

