how much of bliss she has gained; a home with the sinless; the
companionship of angels for ETERNITY. Blessed one!

Alone, yet fearlessly, didst thou pass through the "dark valley" and
enter into the home prepared for thee. As fearlessly, trustingly may
we meet the conqueror, Death, and when the conflict is ended, meet
thee in thy new home to dwell for evermore!




WATER.


GOD is the author of all our blessings. There is no truth, perhaps,
to which we are more ready to give our assent than this; and yet, a
great many people seem to act as if they did not believe it, or, at
least, as if they were prone to forget it.

A traveller stopped at a fountain, and, letting the rein he held in
his hand fall upon the neck of his horse, permitted the thirsty
animal to drink of the cooling water that came pouring down from a
rocky hill, and spread itself out in a basin below. While the weary
beast refreshed himself, the traveller looked at the bright stream
that sparkled in the sunlight, and said thus to himself:--

"What a blessing is water! How it refreshes, strengthens, and
purifies! And how bountifully it is given! Everywhere flows this
good gift of our Heavenly Father, and it is as free as the air to
man and beast."

While he thus mused, a child came to the fountain. She had a vessel
in her hand, and she stooped to fill it with water.

"Give me a drink, my good little girl," said the traveller.

And, with a smiling face, the child reached her pitcher to the man
who still sat on his horse.

"Who made this water?" said the traveller, as he handed the vessel
back to the child.

"God made it," was her quick reply.

"And do you know anything that water is like?" asked the traveller.

"Oh, yes! Father says that water is like truth."

"Does he?"

"Yes, sir. He says that water is like truth, because truth purifies
the mind as water does the body."

"That is wisely said," returned the traveller. "And truth quenches
our thirst for knowledge, as water quenches the thirst of our lips."

The little girl smiled as this was said, and, taking up her pitcher,
went back to her home.

"Yes, water represents truth," said the traveller, as he rode
thoughtfully away. "The child was right. It purifies and refreshes
us, and is spread out, like truth, on every hand, free for those who
will take it. Whenever I look upon water again, I will think of it
as representing truth; and then I will remember that it is as
important to the mind's health and purity to have truth as it is for
the body to have water."

Thus, from a simple fountain, as it leaped out from the side of a
hill, the traveller gained a lesson of wisdom. And so, as we pass
through the world, we may find in almost every natural object that
exists something that will turn our minds to higher and better
thoughts. Every tree and flower, every green thing that grows, and
every beast of the field and bird of the air, have in them a
signification, if we could but learn it. They speak to us in a
spiritual language, and figure forth to our natural senses the
higher, more beautiful, and more enduring things of the mind.




BEAUTIFUL, HAPPY, AND BELOVED.


      WOULDST thou be beautiful?
  Ah, then, be pure! be pure! An angel's face
    Is the transparent mirror of her soul.
  If ghastly guilt on fairest brows you trace,
    Then do you hear the knell of beauty toll.
  Let Purity her seal on thee impress,
    And thine shall be angelic loveliness.
      The pure are beautiful.

      Wouldst thou be dearly loved?
  Then love, love truly all that God has made;
    For by His name of love is He best known.
  No damp distrust be on thy spirit laid;
    And let affection's words and deeds be one.
  Thy soul's warm fountain shall not gush in vain;
    From Love's deep source it shall be filled again;
      For they who love, are loved.

      And wouldst thou happy be?
  Then make the truth thy talisman, thy guide.
    Be truth the stone in all thy jewels set.
  Into thy heart its opal-light shall glide,
    And guide thee where are happier spirits yet.
  For these three rays are in the shining crown:
    The seraph by the Throne of Light lays down,
      Truth, Love, and Purity.




"EVERY CLOUD HAS A SILVER LINING."


WHAT! can this be true in this dark world of ours, where the thick
clouds of sorrow, disappointed hopes, and bereavements are
continually hanging over us, obscuring even the bright star of hope;
where upon every passing breeze is borne deep wailings of woe,
bitter sighs ascending from bruised and broken hearts mourning over
lost hopes, crushed affections, wasted love; struggling vainly for
victory in the fierce battle of life; groping about in darkness to
catch, if possible, one gleam of sunlight from the heavy clouds--but
in vain?

"Ashes to ashes, dust to dust." Another shrine robbed of its idol;
another hearth left desolate. See, how the black clouds settle down
and press more closely around that lonely widowed one. Grim Death
mocks at his grief from the open grave, so soon to receive his
heart's idol. Ay, remove the coffin lid; gaze with all the agonizing
bitterness of a last look upon that cold marble face; was aught on
earth so lovely? Kiss for the last time the pure forehead. Ah! those
pale white lips give back no answering pressure of love; sealed for
ever by that last chilling blast from the cold river.

And now the damp earth presses heavily over that cherished form; far
down in the darkness and silence of the grave must the loved one
remain, never more to cheer by her gentle words of love and
kindness, the heart of him who so needed her sympathy and love.
