"I wish frost would come along quickly, then," was my response. "But
how long is Mr. Gray going to be absent from home?"

"He didn't say."

"And we're to have his whole family, I suppose, during his absence."

"Doubtless."

"Well, I call that taxing hospitality and good feeling a little too
far. I don't want them here! I've no room for them without
inconvenience to ourselves. Besides, my help is poor."

But, all my feelings of repugnance were of no avail. As I was
sitting, on the next day, by a window, that overlooked the road, I
saw the stage draw up, and issue therefrom Mr. Jones, Mrs. Jones,
servant and five children--two of the latter twin-babies. They had
boxes, carpet bags, bundles, &c., indicating a prolonged sojourn,
and one little boy dragged after him a pet dog, that came also to
honor us with a visit.

Down to meet them at the door, with as good a grace as possible, I
hurried. Words of welcome and pleasure were on my tongue, though I
am not sure that my face did not belie my utterance. But, they were
all too pleased to get into our snug country quarters, to perceive
any drawback in their reception.

I will not describe my experience during the next three weeks--for,
Mr. Gray took the tour of the Lakes before returning, and was gone
full three weeks, leaving his family to our care for the whole time.

"Heaven be praised, that is over!" was my exclamation, when I saw
the stage move off that bore them from our door.

Frost at length came, and with it expired the visiting season. We
were still at a convenient distance from the city; but, our friends,
all at once, seemed to have forgotten us.

"You are not going to move back, now," said a friend in surprise, to
whom I mentioned in the following March our intention to return to
the city.

"Yes," I replied.

"Just as spring is about opening? Why, surely, after passing the
dreary winter in the country, you will not come to the hot and dusty
town to spend the summer? You are at such a convenient distance too;
and your friends can visit you so easily."

Yes, the distance was convenient; and we had learned to appreciate
that advantage. But back to the city we removed; and, when next we
venture to the country, will take good care to get beyond a
convenient distance.




CHAPTER VII.

THE PICKED-UP DINNER.


IT was "washing day;" that day of all days in the week most dreaded
by housekeepers. We had a poor breakfast, of course. Cook had to
help with the washing, and, as washing was the important thing for
the day, every thing else was doomed to suffer. The wash kettle was
to her of greater moment than the tea kettle or coffee pot; and the
boiling of wash water first in consideration, compared with broiling
the steak.

The breakfast bell rung nearly half an hour later than usual. As I
entered the dining room, I saw that nearly every thing was in
disorder, and that the table was little over half set. Scarcely had
I taken my seat, ere the bell was in my hand.

"There's no sugar on the table, Kitty."

These were my words, as the girl entered, in obedience to my
summons.

"Oh, I forgot!" she ejaculated, and hurriedly supplied the
deficiency.

Ting-a-ling-a-ling, went my bell, ere she had reached the kitchen.

"There's no knife and fork for the steak," said I, as Kitty
re-appeared.

The knife and fork were furnished, but not with a very amiable
grace.

"What's the matter with this coffee?" asked Mr. Smith, after sipping
a spoonful or two. "It's got a queer taste."

"I'm sure I don't know."

It was plain that I was going to have another trying day; and I
began to feel a little worried. My reply was not, therefore, made in
a very composed voice.

Mr. Smith continued to sip his coffee with a spoon, and to taste the
liquid doubtingly. At length he pushed his cup from him, saying:

"It's no use; I can't drink that! I wish you would just taste it. I
do believe Kitty has dropped a piece of soap into the coffee pot."

By this time I had turned out a cup of the fluid for myself, and
proceeded to try its quality. It certainly had a queer taste; but,
as to the substance to which it was indebted for its peculiar
flavor, I was in total ignorance. My husband insisted that it was
soap. I thought differently; but we made no argument on the subject.

The steak was found, on trial, to be burned so badly that it was not
fit to be eaten. And my husband had to make his meal of bread and
butter and cold water. As for myself, this spoiling of our breakfast
for no good reason, completely destroyed both my appetite and my
temper.

"You'd better get your dinner at an eating house, Mr. Smith," said
I, as he arose from the table. "It's washing day, and we shall have
nothing comfortable."

"Things will be no more comfortable for you than for me," was kindly
replied by my husband.

"We shall only have a picked-up dinner," said I.

"I like a good picked-up dinner," answered Mr. Smith. "There is
something so out of the ordinary routine of ribs, loins, and
sirloins--something so comfortable and independent about it. No, you
cannot eat your picked-up dinner alone."

"Drop the word good from your description, and the picked-up
dinner will be altogether another affair," said I. "No, don't come
home to-day, if you please; for every thing promises to be most
uncomfortable. Get yourself a good dinner at an eating house, and
leave me to go through the day as well as I can."

"And you are really in earnest?" said my husband, seriously.

