perfect stillness. Then the door of her room opened, and Mrs. Derrick
came in bearing a large basket. A heavy one too, but Mrs. Derrick would
have spent her last atom of strength before she would have let any one
else bring it up. Her face looked quite radiant.

"Pretty child!" she said, "here's something for you!"

It was needless to ask questions,--Mrs. Derrick's face could have but
one meaning. Faith neither asked nor answered, except by the sudden
start of the blood into cheeks which were pale enough before. Slipping
from the couch she was on her knees by the basket, pulling out the ends
of the knots by which it was tied, with just a tiny beautiful smile at
work on her changed lips. Her mother went softly away (she thought the
first sight of anything in that line belonged to Faith alone) and the
April sunbeams took a new view of things.

The knots gave way, and the basket cover swung round, and the white
wrapping paper came off; and within lay something for her truly!--most
appropriate! A great stem of bananas and another of plantains, thick
set with fruit, displayed their smooth green and red coats in very
excellent contrast, and below and around and doing duty as mere
packing, were sunny Havana oranges, of extra size, and of extra
flavour--to judge by the perfume. But better than all, to Faith's eye,
was a little slip of blackmarked white paper, tucked under a red
banana--it had only these words--

   'Sweets to the sweet.'


"Faith, I should put in more, but the basket refuses. It is the measure
of only one part of the proverb--do you understand?"


Faith knew oranges, she had never seen bananas or plantains before. It
was all one; for the time being they were not bananas or oranges but
hieroglyphics; and the one fruit looked as much like Mr. Linden's
handwriting as the other. She sat with her arm resting on the couch
supporting her head, and looking at them. Not the finest picture that
Goethe ever viewed, or bade his friends view as part of their "duty,"
was so beautiful as that basket of red and yellow fruit to Faith's eye.
And all the more for that foreign look they were like Mr. Linden; for
the common things which they said, it was like him to say uncommonly.
How very sweet was the smell of those oranges! and how delicious the
soft feeling of peace which settled down on all Faith's senses. Very
different from the sort of quiet she was in a quarter of an hour ago.
She did not trouble herself now about the missing letters. This told
that Mr. Linden was well, or he could hardly have been out to buy fruit
and pack it and pack it off to her. So Mrs. Derrick found her--reading
not words, but oranges and bananas; with a face it was a pity Mr.
Linden could not see.

It may be remarked in passing that the face was not lost upon the one
who did see it. Mrs. Derrick came and stooped down by Faith and her
basket in great admiration and joy and silence for a moment--the sight
almost put everything else out of her head; but then she exclaimed,
"Child, the doctor's coming!--I saw him driving up to the door."

Faith put the cover on the basket, and while Mrs. Derrick set it out of
sight, she received the doctor as yesterday, standing. But with a nice
little colour in her cheeks to-day, in place of yesterday's sad want of
it. Dr. Harrison came up with one hand full of a most rare and elegant
bunch of hothouse flowers.

"My amends-making--" he said as he presented it.

It was not in Faith's nature not to look pleasure and admiration at
such bits of kindred nature. They were very exquisite, they were some
of them new to her, they were all most lovely, and Faith's eyes looked
love at them. Dr. Harrison was satisfied, for in those eyes there was
to-day no shadow at all. Their gravity he was accustomed to, and
thought he liked.

"How do you do?" he said.

"I am--a great deal better. O mother--may I have a glass of water for
these?"

"You said yesterday you were well, Miss Faith."

"You saw I wasn't," said Faith as she put her flowers in the glass.

"That is very true. And I see also that your statement to-day is not of
much juster correctness. How came you to say that?"

"I said, it without knowing--what I said," Faith answered simply. "What
is this, Dr. Harrison?"

The doctor puzzled over her answer and could make nothing of it.

"That is a Fuchsia--and that is another."

"How beautiful!--how beautiful. They are not sweet?"

"You cannot always have sweetness in connexion with everything else,"
he said with a slight emphasis. Faith's mind was too far away from the
subject to catch his innuendo; unless other lips had spoken it.

"Mrs. Derrick," said the doctor, "I should like as a professional man,
to know what portion of the wing of a robin this lady can manage for
her breakfast?"

"Some days more and some days less," said Mrs. Derrick. "She was not
very hungry this morning." (A mild statement of the case.)

"Some days less than the wing of a robin!" said the doctor. "The robin
himself is a better feeder. Mrs. Derrick, what fancies does this bird
live upon?"

The allusion drew a smile to Faith's face, which Mrs Derrick did not
understand.

"She don't tell all her fancies,--she has seemed to live on tea and
toast, for eatables."

The doctor smiled, and went back to Faith who was busy with the
flowers; or as Mrs. Derrick said, seemed to be busy with them.

"Are those better than cowslips?" he asked lightly.

"They are more wonderfully beautiful--they are not better in their
place."

"How is that?"

"I told you cowslips were bits of spring," said Faith smiling. "These
are not that. I think everything in the world--I mean, the natural
world--has its place, that it fills."

"Better than any other would?"

"I suppose so. Yes."

"That is admirable philosophy," said the doctor. "Excellent to keep one
contented. Three feet of snow is then as good as May zephyrs! Daisies
and dandelions are fair substitutes for geraniums and cacti! And these
barren granite fields, where the skeleton rock has hardly covered
itself skin deep with soil, are better than flowery prairies of rolling
land, and fertile wildernesses of roses!"

"Well," said Faith; "you needn't laugh. I think they are."
