the Institute; and then they began to come over in squads.

"You are the meanest set of cowards I ever saw in my life," exclaimed
Nevers, bitterly, when the enterprise appeared to be fully nipped in
the bud.

"Grant is right," several of the boys replied.

"Grant!" sneered Nevers, angrily. "He wasn't always so nice as he is
now."

"That's so," said Redman, as he placed himself by the side of the
bully. "We know a thing or two about Grant, before he became pious."

"What do you mean by pious?" demanded Richard, stepping up to the
speaker; and as he did so, his fists were involuntarily clinched.

"Watermelons!" replied Redman, vindictively.

"Watermelons!" added Nevers.

"Watermelons!" responded a dozen or more of the large boys, who had
gathered around Redman.

"Do you walk in your sleep any now, Grant?" said Redman, with a mocking
laugh. "You wasn't pious then."

Richard was so mortified and confused by these taunts that he wished
the earth might open and hide him from the exulting gaze of his
assailants. His blood boiled with shame and indignation, and more than
ever before he realized that "the way of the transgressor is hard." His
first impulse was to rush upon his dastardly foes, and crush them
beneath the weight of his strong arm.

Most of the boys looked at each other with astonishment, wondering what
could be meant by "watermelons," and walking in his sleep. It was
evident to Richard that only a few of his companions understood the
reflections cast upon him. There he stood, trembling, as it were, in
the balance, and ready to be carried up or down by this new and most
terrible trial--up into a higher sphere of virtue, or down into a
deeper degradation than any he had yet fathomed.

"I will be true to myself!" said he to himself, after he had stood
silent for a moment, blushing with shame, and assailed by the foe
without and the foe within.

His clinched fist unclosed, the muscles relaxed, and though his face
was still red, a smile of triumph played upon his lips.

"Will you go, Watermelons?" sneered Redman.

"I will not," replied Richard.

"Shut up, Redman," interposed Nevers, who entirely mistook the singular
change which had come over Richard's countenance. "Come, Grant, you and
I will talk it over alone;" and he took his arm, and led him away from
the crowd.

"You see we know all about these things," continued Nevers, "but we
don't want to be hard upon you. Only about a dozen of us know any thing
about those scrapes."

"Who told you about them?" asked Richard.

"That's nothing to the purpose. You are a good fellow, Grant, and I
advise you to join us; if you do, not a fellow shall ever say a word
about watermelons or sleep-walking."

"I will not join you, whatever you say and whatever you do."

"Then you won't hear any thing but watermelons while you stay here. I
called you out as a friend, and I think you had better go with us."

"I will not."

"Then we will tell all the fellows."

"I will save you the trouble by telling them myself."

"Come, Grant."

"I will not."

"Go it, then, Watermelons!" said Nevers, as he ran back to the others,
and told them of the result of the interview.

Richard wondered who could have informed them of his scrapes, but he
could form no idea. Lest our readers should be equally in the dark, we
will tell them, confidentially, that Sandy Brimblecom had done the
mischief. A cousin of his, on his way to Tunbrook, had stopped a day in
Whitestone. This relative was, unfortunately, one of the Nevers'
faction, and the information he brought was carefully preserved for an
emergency.

"All who join, come under the big tree!" shouted Redman. "If you walk
in your sleep, Grant, perhaps you will pay us a visit."

"Asleep or awake," replied Richard, calmly, but forcibly, "I shall know
enough to keep out of bad company."

"Do you mean me by that?" demanded Redman, rushing up to Richard, and
shaking his fist in his face.

"I do."

"Then take that;" and Redman struck Richard in the face.

The latter did take that, but the next instant his assailant lay upon
the ground, where Richard with a single blow had thrown him.

"None of that, Redman," interposed Nevers. "The colonel will be down
upon us."

"Let's lick him," said another.

"I am ready," coolly replied Richard, throwing off his coat.

But prudence carried the day, and the mutineers retired to the big oak.
Only about fifty, or one fourth of the students, responded to the call
of Redman, and the rest retired from the ground.

"What did they mean by 'watermelons'?" asked Bailey, as they walked up
to the Institute.

"I'll tell you all about it;" replied Richard. "I got into some scrapes
before I came here;" and he told his companions the whole story. "But,
fellows, I have turned over a new leaf."

"Good!" said Bailey. "I am glad you told us; and I'm sure no decent
fellow in the Institute will ever fling it at you."

Richard felt better when he had told the whole truth. He confided in
his friends, and feared not his enemies. When they reached the parade
ground they saw that the mutineers had taken possession of every one of
the boats, and were sailing up the lake towards Green Island. They
dared not return to the Institute, fearing that their plan might be
discovered.

Richard was informed that arrangements had been made before he joined
them; that they intended to take all the boats, so that the instructors
