made; and he determined to put it to good use. He was now more anxious
than before to meet his friend Mr. Waldron, and communicate the
startling information to him.

From the morning papers he saw that the Ben Nevis, whose name had been
changed to that of a famous Union general, had actually sailed, as
Langdon's note informed him. In the forenoon, he went to the navy yard,
expecting to find the ship ready to go into commission; but he learned
that the bed-plates of her pivot guns had to be recast, and that she
would not be ready for another week. He also learned that his friend Mr.
Waldron had been taken down with typhoid fever at his home, and was then
in a critical condition.

Somers was not only shocked, but disconcerted by this intelligence, for
it deprived him of the friend and counsellor whom he needed in this
emergency. After careful deliberation, he obtained a furlough of a week,
and went to the home of Mr. Waldron; but the sufferer could not even be
seen, much less consulted on a matter of business. Left to act for
himself, he hastened to New York, and then to Boston, to ascertain what
he could in regard to the Ben Nevis. So far as he could learn,
everything was all right in regard to her. After a short visit to
Pinchbrook, he hastened back to Philadelphia, and found the Chatauqua
hauled out into the stream, and ready to go into commission at once.
Lieutenant Pillgrim and the other officers had already gone on board.
Under these circumstances, Somers had not a moment to see Langdon. He
took possession of his state-room, and at once had all the work he could
do, in the discharge of his duty.

At meridian the ensign was run up, and the ship went into commission
under the command of Captain Cascabel. Mr. Pillgrim was doing duty as
executive officer, though a substitute for Mr. Waldron was expected
before the ship sailed. Somers was uneasy, and dissatisfied with
himself. He began to feel that he had left a duty unperformed. He had
intended to expose the conspiracy before the Chatauqua sailed, and thus
relieve himself from the heavy responsibility that rested upon him. Yet
to whom could he speak? Mr. Waldron was still dangerously ill. Mr.
Pillgrim was evidently a traitor himself.

He could give his information to the United States marshal at
Philadelphia; but how could he prove his allegations? Langdon and Coles
he had not seen since his return, and perhaps they were in another part
of the country by this time. He had the commander's commission and the
written orders, but in the absence of the principals, he feared these
would be better evidence against himself than against the conspirators.

The Ben Nevis had sailed, and the worst she could do at present would be
to run the blockade. The Chatauqua was generally understood to be
ordered to Mobile, where the Ben Nevis was to run in, and fit out for
her piratical cruise. After a great deal of serious reflection, Somers
came to the unsatisfactory conclusion that he must keep his secret. He
could not denounce Mr. Pillgrim as a rebel, with his present
information, without exposing himself to greater peril than the real
criminal. Besides, he was to be with the lieutenant, and he was going to
Mobile. He could watch the traitor, and await the appearance of the Ben
Nevis, when she arrived at the station.

Somers was not satisfied with this conclusion, but his judgment assured
him his intended course of action was the best the circumstances would
admit. Thus settling the question, he attended to his duty with his
usual zeal and energy.




CHAPTER VIII.

THE UNITED STATES STEAMER CHATAUQUA.


Somers had served in several vessels, but never before had he gone on
board his ship with a heavier responsibility resting upon him, than when
he took his station on the deck of the Chatauqua. He was now a ward-room
officer, and as such he would be required to keep a watch, and be in
command of the deck. But in addition to his professional duties, he had
in his keeping valuable but dangerous information, of which he must make
a judicious use.

The young officer was perfectly familiar with the routine of his duties.
He knew the ship from stem to stern, and from keel to truck. He felt
entirely at home, therefore, and hoped soon to merit the approbation of
his superiors. He was formally presented to Captain Cascabel and the
other officers of the ship. He was kindly and cordially greeted by all.
Mr. Pillgrim, as acting first lieutenant, proceeded at once to make out
the watch, quarter, and station bill; and, whatever his political
principles, it must be confessed that he performed this difficult duty
with skill and judgment.

Every day, until the ship sailed, the crew were exercised at the guns,
and in all the evolutions required for carrying on ship's duty, from
"fire stations" to piping down the hammocks. They made the usual
proficiency, and were soon in condition to work together--to handle the
ship in a tornado, or to meet an enemy. On the fourth day, when Mr.
Pillgrim was superseded by Mr. Hackleford, who was appointed in the
place of Mr. Waldron, everything was in an advanced stage of progress.

The Chatauqua was a screw steam sloop of war, of the first class. She
carried ten guns, and was about fourteen hundred tons burden. Her
complement of officers and men was about two hundred and fifty,
including forty-two attached to the engineer's department. The ship was
a two-decker. On the upper or spar deck was placed her armament,
consisting of two immense pivot guns and eight broadside guns.

Below this was the berth deck, on which all the officers and men ate and
slept. The after part was appropriated to the officers, and the forward
part to the men. The former were provided with cabins and state-rooms,
while the latter swung their hammocks to the deck beams over their
heads.



As most of our readers have probably never seen the interior of a ship
of war, we present on the adjoining page a plan of that portion of the
vessel occupied by the officers. The round part is the stern of the
ship, and the diagram includes a little less than one third of the
whole length of the vessel.

    A. The Captain's cabin, to which are attached the six small
       apartments on each side of it.

    1. The Companion-way, or stairs, by which the cabin is reached from
       the deck.

    2, 3. Store-rooms.

    4. Water-closet.

    5. Pantry.

    6, 7. State-rooms.

    B. The Ward-room, in which there is a table, long enough to
       accommodate the eight officers who occupy this apartment.

    8. First Lieutenant's state-room.

    9. Second     "         "    "

    10. Third     "         "    "

    11. Fourth    "         "    "
