signs of terror while he was menaced with the pistol, though he looked
stern and resolute, as he had probably been taught to be by his savage
father.

Ethan, finding that he had the power all in his own hands, walked a few
paces nearer to the messenger, dragging his prisoner after him. It was
not an easy matter to carry on a conversation with the savage, whose
knowledge of the English language was limited to a few words; but after
a long time, and a great deal of effort, he succeeded in making the
Indian spokesman understand his intention. He refused to give up
Wahena, but he promised that the boy should not be injured if the
Indians would retire, and not attempt to molest Fanny or himself. He
assured the messenger that he would kill the boy if the savages
followed, or fired upon himself or his companion.

It was a long and trying conference, and when the parties came to an
understanding, the Indian withdrew to communicate the result to his
chief. Ethan returned to the house with his prisoner, and from the
window watched the movements of the foe, while he related to Fanny what
had passed between himself and the messenger during the interview.

"I reckon they'll do it, Fanny," said Ethan.

"I hope they will."

"When we are safe, they kin hev the Injin boy; I don't want him. I
reckon it was a smart idee o' mine, ketchin' the young cub."

"I think it was a very good idea. They would certainly have butchered
us before this time if it hadn't been for him."

"I reckon they would; but ef I knows myself, some on 'em would hev gone
down fust."

"I suppose the Indians have murdered a great many people."

"I reckon they hev."

"It's awful!" exclaimed Fanny, shuddering, as she glanced at the place
where poor Mrs. Grant lay cold and still in death.

"So 'tis, but 'tain't no use to think on't now; it makes a feller feel
kind o' weak and sickly. We must figur' it out now."

"Thanks to your good management, we may yet escape."

"I reckon we will. Did you ever fire a pistil, Fanny?"

"No, but I'm not afraid to do so."

"Better take this, then, and I'll use the guns. I reckon it may be of
use to you," added he, handing her the weapon. "Hokee!" suddenly
exclaimed he, as he glanced out of the window.

"What is it, Ethan?"

"Them Injins is go'n off!"

"So they are."

"Mebbe they're comin' round to try us on t'other side of the house. Ef
they be, I'm thar. You hold on to the little Injin, and I'll watch
'em."

Ethan went to a window on the front of the house, and soon returned
with the gratifying intelligence that the redskins were actually moving
off in the direction of the burning buildings to the west of them.

"How thankful we ought to be that we have been saved!" said Fanny. "Let
us thank God with all our hearts, Ethan."

"We can't stop to do no more prayin' now, Fanny. Besides, we ain't out
o' the woods yet."

"We need not stop to pray," replied Fanny, devoutly. "If the prayer is
in our hearts, God will understand it."

"I'm thankful, I'm sure, as a body kin be. Now, you git together
everything you kin find to eat, and I'll git a wheelbarrer to fetch 'em
down to the lake. Ef we kin only git on the island, I don't keer for
all the redskins this side o' sundown."

Wahena was tied up in such a way that he could not escape, and Fanny
hurriedly collected everything in the shape of provisions which had
escaped the depredations of the Indians. Ethan brought from the
chambers an armful of blankets and bed-quilts, and the wheelbarrow was
loaded with all it would contain. A bushel of potatoes, a leg of bacon,
a bucket of corn-meal, a small supply of groceries, and a few cooking
utensils, constituted the stock upon which they were mainly to depend
for sustenance during their banishment from civilized life for they
knew not how long a time. But both of the exiles were hopeful, though
very sad, when they thought of the death and desolation they were
leaving behind them.




CHAPTER XVI.

THE YOUNG EXILES.


Wahena, with his hands still tied behind him, was led by Fanny, while
Ethan trundled the wheelbarrow, across the handles of which lay the two
guns, ready for use if occasion should require. The Indians had halted
on one of the little eminences of the prairie, and appeared to be
watching the departure of the fugitives from their once happy home.
Lean Bear was evidently very fond of his little son, who was a boy of
bright promise, measured by the Indian standard. He had exhibited no
concern for the mother while she lay senseless upon the ground, but he
seemed to be willing to make any sacrifice, even to the curbing of his
ferocious nature, for Wahena's sake.

The party of Indians on the knoll appeared to be impressed with the
misfortune of their leader in the loss of his favorite son. Though the
work of rapine and death was still going on in the settlement, they did
not heed it. The messenger had probably represented to Lean Bear that
Wahena would certainly be killed if he attempted to molest the little
party, and the chief had withdrawn far enough to remove all temptation
on the part of Ethan to execute his threat.

The wheelbarrow was heavily loaded, and it was hard work for the
prairie boy to move it along over the soft soil. On a hill, just before
the descent to the lake commenced, he paused to rest for a moment. He
was in excellent spirits, and was proud of the success which had thus
far attended his stratagem. He was confident that he should reach the
island in safety, where, having the only boat on the lake in his
possession, he was satisfied that he should be able to defend himself
and his companion, especially with Wahena as a guaranty for the good
behavior of the Indians.

Ethan was entirely satisfied with himself, and he was about to resume
the march towards the lake, when his attention was attracted by a noise
in the direction opposite to that in which Lean Bear and his party had
retreated.

"Creation hokee!" shouted Ethan.

"What's the matter?" asked Fanny.

