whether or not it is prudent to release him."

"I will."

"Thank you, sir. I feel a deep interest in the young man, and I hope he
may yet be saved."

When Mr. Agneau left the brig, after his second visit, Wilton, who was
very anxious to know what Shuffles meant by "making a chain," came out
of his mess room. He had been watching the chaplain, and wondering what
the prisoner could have to say to him.

"What's up, Shuffles?" asked Wilton, when Mr. Agneau had left the
steerage.

"I've been smoothing him down," laughed Shuffles, with an audible
chuckle. "I have concluded not to stay in here any longer."

"What do you mean?"

"I'm coming out pretty soon, though it has cost me a bottle and a half
of old sherry to get out," laughed Shuffles.

"I don't know what you mean."

"I told the parson that I was drunk when I disobeyed orders, and that I
was very sorry for it, and wouldn't get drunk any more."

"Did you tell him that?"

"I did; I assured him I was the worst fellow in the whole world, and
ought to be hung, drawn, and quartered for my wickedness; and he
swallowed it as a codfish does a clam."

"And you gave him all the wine?"

"No, I didn't; I gave him one full bottle, and what was left in the one
from which we drank this afternoon. I have two more."

"We were going to have a good time with that wine."

"I have enough left."

"Where is it?"

"In my locker."

"They may find it."

"No, they won't; I will put it in some other place before inspection
day. There is plenty of wine in the medical stores. It was a good joke
for the parson to suppose I was drunk."

"Perhaps you were," suggested Wilton.

"I felt good; but I was as sober as I am now."

"The drink I took went into my head, and I felt as though I was going up
in a ballon."

"That was because you are not used to the article. It waked me up a
little, but I knew what I was about."

"I think you were a confounded fool to do what you did."

"Wilton, I'm not going to live in the steerage--you may take my word for
it. I've been an officer too long to come down to that. If we don't
succeed in making a chain, I shall quit the concern the first time I put
my foot on shore in Ireland."

"What do you mean by making a chain?" asked Wilton, eagerly.

"A chain is strong."

"Well; what of it?"

"It is composed of many links. Can't you understand that?"

"Hush up! Some one is coming," said Wilton, as he walked away from the
brig.

"Here! who is that?" demanded Mr. Lowington, as he saw Wilton moving
away from the lock-up.

"No. 59, sir--Wilton," replied he. "I was just going on deck to find
you, sir."

"To find me?" asked the principal.

"Yes, sir. Shuffles called me when I was passing, and wished me to tell
you he wanted to see you very much. I was just going after you, sir."

"If there is any blame, sir, it rests on me," interposed Shuffles,
through the bars of his prison.

Mr. Lowington unlocked the door of the brig, and entered, followed by
Mr. Agneau, leaving Wilton to congratulate himself on the result of the
lies he had uttered.

"I am told you wish to see me, Shuffles," said the principal.

"Yes, sir; I wish to say that I am extremely sorry for what I have
done."

"I thought you were crazy when you refused to obey; and now I find you
were."

"I had been drinking, sir, I confess."

"Mr. Agneau has told me your story; it is not necessary to repeat it
now. To-morrow I shall require you to acknowledge your error at muster,
and promise obedience in the future. Are you willing to do so?"

"I am, sir."

"You are discharged from confinement then, and will at once return to
your duty," replied Mr. Lowington, upon whom Shuffles did not venture to
intrude his extremely penitential story. "To which watch do you belong?"

"To the port watch, first part, sir."

"It will be on deck during the first half of the mid watch, from twelve
till two," added the principal, as he came out of the brig.

Mr. Lowington made no parade of what he had done. He never subjected any
student to unnecessary humiliation. He indulged in no reproaches, and
preached no sermons. He went on deck, intending to leave the culprit to
the influence of the better thoughts which he hoped and believed had
been kindled in his mind by the events of the day. Mr. Agneau remained a
moment to give a final admonition to the penitent, as he regarded him,
and then went to his cabin.

"Are you going to turn in, Shuffles?" asked Wilton.

"Not yet. Are there any of our fellows below?"

"Plenty of them."

"Our fellows" was a term applied to that portion of the crew who were
understood to be ready for any scrape which might be suggested. Shuffles
