were the injured party."

"Exactly so, and I speak just what I mean. You talk to me just as though
you and your father had not suppressed my father's will, intending to
rob me of my inheritance, and kept my mother in a madhouse for ten or a
dozen years."

"What sort of bosh are you talking now?" demanded Tom, with an effort,
while his face was pale, and his frame trembled.

"I can prove it all. If you and your father wish to tell me where my
mother is, and to make terms you can tell me what you will do," I added,
following up my advantage.

"You have taken some ridiculous notion into your head, and I really
don't know what you are talking about."

"Did you ever read my father's will?"

"Your father's will!" exclaimed he. "I never heard that he made a will.
If he did, it was the most ridiculous thing he ever did in the whole
course of his life, for he hadn't a penny to leave."

"Perhaps you can tell me why my uncle so persistently refused to tell me
anything about my father or my mother?"

"I certainly can if you insist upon it; though, having more regard for
you than you have for yourself, I should prefer to follow your uncle's
example, and not say anything about them."

"I will not ask you to spare my feelings, Mr. Tom Thornton. Your father
went so far, when I insisted upon it, as to tell me that my mother was
insane."

"She is, poor woman, and I don't wonder that her reason was dethroned,"
replied Tom, whose face brightened up wonderfully as he spoke.

"He refused to tell me anything about my father."

"Which was very kind of him. Your uncle is a strange man; but his
greatest weakness is his regard for you. It is best you should know
nothing of your father; but if you wish to know, I'll tell you."

"I do wish to know."

"He committed a forgery in London, and died in Newgate before his trial
took place. Your poor mother was so grieved that it made her insane. Now
you know the whole truth, and you can understand why your uncle did not
wish to talk to you about your father."

I confess that I was rather startled by this explanation, and I could
not help asking myself if there was any truth in it. It certainly
accounted for my uncle's unwillingness to tell me anything about my
parents. But I would not believe it. It was treachery to my father's
memory to do so.

"Did he make his will in Newgate?" I asked.

"His will! What will? I have told you he had not a penny in the world.
Your uncle has ever since paid your mother's board in the insane
asylum."

"That is very kind of him. Can you tell me where she is?"

"I don't know."

"I suppose not; and probably it would not be convenient for you to tell
if you did."

"I would tell you if I knew. If you desire it, I will persuade your
uncle to tell you. You keep talking about a will. What do you mean by
it?"

"I found such a document in my uncle's strong box."

"Where is it?"

"It is safe."

"If there is any such document it is a mere fiction. I don't know
anything about it."

"You don't?"

"No."

"All right."

"What do you mean?"

"Nothing."

"Of course when you speak of a will, you mean something by it,"
persisted Tom.

"It's no use to talk."

"Why not?"

"Because the truth isn't in you."

"I speak the exact truth."

"No--you don't."

"But I do."

"You know all about the will. I heard my uncle speak to you about it;
and I heard you ask if it was not destroyed. You asked for it, and
wanted to burn it then. Don't you know anything about it now?"

"You heard all this?" said he, biting his lips.

"I heard it."

"You dreamed it."

"No, I didn't dream it. I heard a great deal more than this. You wanted
to destroy the will; but your father said he dared not do it."

"Pray, where were you, when you heard all this?"

"On the top of the bay window of the library. The upper sash was pulled
down, so as to let the air in."

"Then you are an eaves-dropper as well as a thief."

"I was on the eaves of the bay window, and I dropped down about the time
you went up stairs to look for me. Now you know all about it--and so do
I. You may tell me my father died in Newgate, and that you never heard
of any will. I shall believe just as much of it as I please, and no
more. You think I'm a boy, Mr. Tom Thornton; but I've got brains enough
to know chalk from cheese."

Tom wiped his forehead. He did not like my style; but he could not do
anything. He dared not take any decided step. After observing the
feebleness of his position, I made up my mind that I had won the
victory. He was afraid to arrest me, and I felt as safe as though I had
been in London then. But there was one more point I wanted to impress
upon him.
