
“You know it was supposed that old Sir Jasper, being a bachelor, would
leave his fortune to his two nephews. But he was an oddity, and as the
title must go to young Jasper by right, the old man said Maurice
should have the money. He was poor, young Jasper rich, and it seemed but
just, though Madame Mère was very angry when she learned how the will
was made.”

“But Maurice didn’t get the fortune. How was that?”

“There was some mystery there which I shall discover in time. All went
smoothly till that unlucky yachting trip, when the cousins were wrecked.
Maurice saved Jasper’s life, and almost lost his own in so doing. I
fancy he wishes he had, rather than remain the poor cripple he is.
Exposure, exertion, and neglect afterward brought on paralysis of the
lower limbs, and there he is--a fine, talented, spirited fellow tied to
that cursed chair like a decrepit old man.”

“How does he bear it?” asked Annon, as the major shook his gray head,
with a traitorous huskiness in his last words.

“Like a philosopher or a hero. He is too proud to show his despair at
such a sudden end to all his hopes, too generous to complain, for Jasper
is desperately cut up about it, and too brave to be daunted by a
misfortune which would drive many a man mad.”

“Is it true that Sir Jasper, knowing all this, made a new will and left
every cent to his namesake?”

“Yes, and there lies the mystery. Not only did he leave it away from
poor Maurice, but so tied it up that Jasper cannot transfer it, and at
his death it goes to Octavia.”

“The old man must have been demented. What in heaven’s name did he mean
by leaving Maurice helpless and penniless after all his devotion to
Jasper? Had he done anything to offend the old party?”

“No one knows; Maurice hasn’t the least idea of the cause of this sudden
whim, and the old man would give no reason for it. He died soon after,
and the instant Jasper came to the title and estate he brought his
cousin home, and treats him like a brother. Jasper is a noble fellow,
with all his faults, and this act of justice increases my respect for
him,” said the major heartily.

“What will Maurice do, now that he can’t enter the army as he intended?”
 asked Annon, who now sat erect, so full of interest was he.

“Marry Octavia, and come to his own, I hope.”

“An excellent little arrangement, but Miss Treherne may object,” said
Annon, rising with sudden kindling of the eye.

“I think not, if no one interferes. Pity, with women, is akin to love,
and she pities her cousin in the tenderest fashion. No sister could be
more devoted, and as Maurice is a handsome, talented fellow, one can
easily foresee the end, if, as I said before, no one interferes to
disappoint the poor lad again.”

“You espouse his cause, I see, and tell me this that I may stand aside.
Thanks for the warning, Major; but as Maurice Treherne is a man of
unusual power in many ways, I think we are equally matched, in spite of
his misfortune. Nay, if anything, he has the advantage of me, for Miss
Treherne pities him, and that is a strong ally for my rival. I’ll be as
generous as I can, but I’ll not stand aside and relinquish the woman I
love without a trial first.”

With an air of determination Annon faced the major, whose keen eyes had
read the truth which he had but newly confessed to himself. Major
Royston smiled as he listened, and said briefly, as steps approached,
“Do your best. Maurice will win.”

“We shall see,” returned Annon between his teeth.

Here their host entered, and the subject of course was dropped. But the
major’s words rankled in the young man’s mind, and would have been
doubly bitter had he known that their confidential conversation had been
overheard. On either side of the great fireplace was a door leading to a
suite of rooms which had been old Sir Jasper’s. These apartments had
been given to Maurice Treherne, and he had just returned from London,
whither he had been to consult a certain famous physician. Entering
quietly, he had taken possession of his rooms, and having rested and
dressed for dinner, rolled himself into the library, to which led the
curtained door on the right. Sitting idly in his light, wheeled chair,
ready to enter when his cousin appeared, he had heard the chat of Annon
and the major. As he listened, over his usually impassive face passed
varying expressions of anger, pain, bitterness, and defiance, and when
the young man uttered his almost fierce “We shall see,” Treherne smiled
a scornful smile and clenched his pale hand with a gesture which proved
that a year of suffering had not conquered the man’s spirit, though it
had crippled his strong body.

A singular face was Maurice Treherne’s; well-cut and somewhat haughty
features; a fine brow under the dark locks that carelessly streaked it;
and remarkably piercing eyes. Slight in figure and wasted by pain, he
still retained the grace as native to him as the stern fortitude which
enabled him to hide the deep despair of an ambitious nature from every
eye, and bear his affliction with a cheerful philosophy more pathetic
than the most entire abandonment to grief. Carefully dressed, and with
no hint at invalidism but the chair, he bore himself as easily and
calmly as if the doom of lifelong helplessness did not hang over him. A
single motion of the hand sent him rolling noiselessly to the curtained
door, but as he did so, a voice exclaimed behind him, “Wait for me,
cousin.” And as he turned, a young girl approached, smiling a glad
welcome as she took his hand, adding in a tone of soft reproach, “Home
again, and not let me know it, till I heard the good news by accident.”

“Was it good news, Octavia?” and Maurice looked up at the frank face
with a new expression in those penetrating eyes of his. His cousin’s
open glance never changed as she stroked the hair off his forehead with
the caress one often gives a child, and answered eagerly, “The best to
me; the house is dull when you are away, for Jasper always becomes
absorbed in horses and hounds, and leaves Mamma and me to mope by
ourselves. But tell me, Maurice, what they said to you, since you would
not write.”

“A little hope, with time and patience. Help me to wait, dear, help
me to wait.”

His tone was infinitely sad, and as he spoke, he leaned his cheek
against the kind hand he held, as if to find support and comfort there.
The girl’s face brightened beautifully, though her eyes filled, for to
her alone did he betray his pain, and in her alone did he seek
consolation.

“I will, I will with heart and hand! Thank heaven for the hope, and
trust me it shall be fulfilled. You look very tired, Maurice. Why go in
to dinner with all those people? Let me make you cozy here,” she added
anxiously.

“Thanks, I’d rather go in, it does me good; and if I stay away, Jasper
feels that he must stay with me. I dressed in haste, am I right,
little nurse?”

She gave him a comprehensive glance, daintily settled his cravat,
brushed back a truant lock, and, with a maternal air that was charming,
said, “My boy is always elegant, and I’m proud of him. Now we’ll go in.”
 But with her hand on the curtain she paused, saying quickly, as a voice
reached her, “Who is that?”

“Frank Annon. Didn’t you know he was coming?” Maurice eyed her keenly.
