"Yours, Daisy," said my father with a somewhat constrained
smile.

"Papa," I went on, trembling, but I thought it best to
venture, - "if the issue of this war could be to set all those
people free, I could almost be glad."

"That will not be the issue, Daisy," he said.

"Papa, what do you think will?"

"It can have but one issue. The Southern people cannot be put
down."

"Then, if they succeed, what will be the state of things
between them and the North?"

"It is impossible to tell how far things will go, Daisy, now
that they have actually taken up arms. But I do not think the
Southern people want anything of the North, but to be let
alone."

"How would it be, if the North succeeded, papa?"

"It cannot succeed, Daisy. You have heard a different
language, I suppose; but I know the men, - and the women, - of
the South. They will never yield. The North must, sooner or
later."

I could not carry this on, and turned the conversation. But I
had to listen to a great deal of the same sort of thing, in
which I took no part. It came up every day. I discovered that
my mother was using her influence and all her art to induce
our two young friends to return home and enter the Southern
army. She desired with equal vehemence that Ransom should take
the same course; and as they all professed to be strong in the
interests and sympathies that moved her, I was a little
puzzled to understand why they delayed so long. For they did
delay. They talked, but nothing came of it. Still we went on
fresh excursions and made new expeditions; spending days of
delight on the mountain sides, and days of enchantment in the
mountain valleys; and still our party was of the same four. It
is true that papa did not at all share mamma's eagerness to
have Ransom go; but Ransom did not greatly care for papa's
likings; and in the case of the others, I did not see what
held them.

The printed news from home we had of course, regularly; and as
far as I could without being watched, I studied them. The
papers after all were mostly Southern, and so filled with
outrageous invective and inflated boasting, that I could not
judge anything very certainly, from what they said. Nothing of
great importance seemed to be transpiring between the
belligerent parties. I supposed that it wanted but some such
occurrence or occasion to send off our three young men like a
ball from a rifle, straight to the seat of war. Meanwhile we
enjoyed ourselves. Others did, and I did also, whenever I
could put down fear and lift up hope; and I was young, and
that happened to me sometimes. So the weeks ran on.

"I really don't see why I should be in a hurry to plunge
myself into that angry confusion of things at home," Hugh
Marshall said one day. "It seems to me, they can get through
it without my help."

"Well, you are not in a hurry." I answered.

We were out as usual for a day's pleasure among the mountains,
and Hugh and I were resting on a sunny bank waiting for the
others to come up. We had distanced them.

"What do you think about it?" he said, suddenly drawing
himself up from the grass and looking in my face.

"Men do not rule their course by what women think," - I
answered.

"No, you are wrong; they do! Sometimes they do," - he said. "I
have no mother nor sister to counsel me; only Mrs. Randolph
bids me go home and be a soldier; but I would as lieve take
advice from you. What would you tell me to do - if I were your
brother?"

"I do not tell Ransom anything."

"He is under his mother's tutelage; but I am not. Tell me what
to do, Miss Randolph. I am sure your counsel would be good. Do
you wish me to go and fight the North, as your mother says I
ought?"

"I wish people would not fight at all," I said, with my heart
straitened.

"Of course; but here we are in it, or they are; and it is the
same thing. Don't you think they can get through it without
me? or do you say as your mother, - 'Every one go!' "

He looked at me more earnestly than was pleasant, and I was
greatly at a loss what to answer. It was wisest for me not to
commit myself to a course opposed to my mother's; and yet,
truth is wisest of all. I looked to see Ransom and Mr. De
Saussure, but they were not in sight.

"You are not speaking in jest," I said; "and I have no
business to speak in earnest."

"You never speak any other way," he rejoined. "Tell me your
mind. You are never violent; do you feel as Mrs. Randolph does
about it? Would you like me better if I went heart and soul
into the fray at home?"

"That would depend upon the-views and motives with which you
went into it."

"Well - if I did it for love of you?" he said smiling.

"I cannot imagine that anybody should do such a thing for love
of me. Nothing but the strongest and purest convictions of
duty can justify such a thing as fighting."

"I suppose I know what that means," he said somewhat gloomily.

"No," said I hastily, "I don't think you do."

"What does it mean, then?" he asked.

"Permit me to ask first, Are your convictions strong and
clear, that it is your duty to go home and enter the war for
the South?"

"That's a searching question," he said laughing. "To say yes,
would be to condemn myself at once. To say no, - what would
that do for me with Mrs. Randolph?"

"You are not speaking to Mrs. Randolph," I said, half under my
breath.

He looked up eagerly in my face. "You do not think as she
does!" he said. "You do not believe in fighting, under any
circumstances?"
