here."

"Can you make pies and cake?"

"No; we never had those things at the clearing until Mrs. Gracewood
came there."

"They were rich folks, you said."

"Yes; they have plenty of money; but it did not do them much good out
in the woods. I should like to hear how Mrs. Gracewood is."

"I hope she is better. When they come you will have some strong
friends."

"Yes; but I intend to take care of myself. They will go among big
folks, where I cannot go; but I hope I shall see Miss Ella sometimes."

"Of course you will."

"She is a beautiful young lady," I added, warmly.

"But you may find your father and mother one of these days."

"I hardly expect to do that; I doubt whether they are living."

"From what you say, I should think you might find out who they are.
Of course they had some relations somewhere, and perhaps they will be
willing to take care of you."

"I don't want any one to take care of me; I mean to take care of
myself. Mr. Gracewood has fifteen hundred dollars belonging to me."

"Well, that's comfortable. If you should be sick, you will not want for
anything."

We talked over the past and the present till breakfast was ready. The
fried bacon and potatoes looked like old friends, and I did ample
justice to the fare. I am not sure that my landlady was not alarmed
when she realized my eating capacity, as compared with the price I was
to pay for my board. At half past six I started for the building which
Mr. Clinch was putting up. It was a large storehouse, near the levee.

"Good, Phil! I'm glad to see you on hand in season," said my employer.

"I mean to be on time always, sir."

"I'm paying my best men two dollars a day now," added Mr. Clinch.

"Does that young man get two dollars a day?" I asked, pointing to a boy
of eighteen or nineteen, who was putting on his overalls in front of
the building.

"No; that's Morgan Blair. He came down from Illinois last spring. I
give him a dollar a day. He doesn't know the business, and that is more
than he is worth. You will work with Conant."

Calling one of the workmen who answered to this name, he directed him
to take me under his charge. The frame of the building was up, and we
were to be engaged in boarding it.

"Come along, my boy; we will take the stiffening out of you in about
two hours," said Conant, as he led the way to the stage.

"All right; when I break down I will give you leave to bury me."

"Do you think you can lift your end of a board?"

"I can; and lift both ends, if need be."

"You have got the pluck, but it's hard work for a boy."

"I will keep my side up."

Mr. Clinch had given me a hammer and a bag of nails, which I tied
around my body, as I saw the other men do. I was strong and tough, and
could easily handle any lumber used on the work. I carried my end of
each board up to the frame, and I am sure I drove as many nails as
Conant. But I will not describe the process by which the building was
erected. I did my full share of the work until noon.

"Don't you want to go to bed now?" asked Conant, when we knocked off.

"Go to bed! No. Why should I?"

"Ain't you tuckered out?"

"No, not at all; I don't feel quite so fresh as I did this morning, but
I shall be all right again when I get my dinner."

"You are a tough 'un, then."

"Well, Conant, how does Phil get along?" asked Mr. Clinch, as we came
down from the stage.

"Tip-top; he has done a man's work--twice as much as Morgan," replied
Conant, with more magnanimity than I had given him credit for.

"All right. Phil, I am glad you are getting along well. It will be
easier work when we get the building covered."

In going home to dinner, I went pretty near the steamboat levee.
A boat had just come in, and I wanted to know if it had come from
the Missouri, for I was very anxious to hear from the Gracewoods. I
hastened towards the landing. I met the passengers as they came up, and
on inquiry of one of them learned that the steamer was from St. Joe,
but she had not stopped at Delaware City; so of course the Gracewoods
could not have come in her.

I was about to leave, when I perceived Mr. Leonidas Lynchpinne coming
across the levee. I thought that I had business with him, and I
hastened to resume the relations with him which had been interrupted at
Leavenworth.




  CHAPTER IX.

  IN WHICH PHIL MEETS A SEEDY GENTLEMAN BY THE NAME OF FARRINGFORD.


Mr. Leonidas Lynchpinne, otherwise Lynch, had a small valise in his
hand, and was sauntering leisurely along, as though earth had no sorrow
for him, and he was not responsible in St. Louis for an infamous act
done in Leavenworth. I wanted my money; in fact, I needed it. For
Mrs. Greenough's remarks had assured me that my wardrobe was entirely
inadequate to the requirements of civilized life.

"How do you do, Mr. Leonidas Lynchpinne?" I began, making towards him.

He glanced at me very contemptuously, and continued on his way. I had
expected to astonish and confound him, but the result did not realize
my anticipations. It was decidedly a look of disdain that he bestowed
upon me, which I thought was adding insult to injury. So far I was
disgusted with his conduct; but I had no idea of abandoning the purpose
I had in view.

"I want to see you, Mr. Lynchpinne," I continued, following him, and
taking position at his side.
