“Maybe she’s been adopted by a rich family in Fifth Avenoo,” remarked
Mike,—a sally which nearly convulsed his mother with laughter.

“Shure, Mike, and you’ll be the death of me some time,” she said.

“She’d make an interestin’ young orphan,” continued Mike.

“Hadn’t you better marry her, Mike? and then you’d be my grandfather,”
suggested Tom.

“Such a beauty aint for the likes of me,” answered Mike. “Besides,
mother wouldn’t want her for a daughter-in-law. She’d likely get jealous
of her good looks.”

“O Mike, you’re a case!” said Mrs. Murphy, with a smile on her broad,
good-humored face.

So the evening passed, enlivened with remarks, not very intellectual or
refined, it is true, but good-natured, and at times droll. Tom enjoyed
it. She had a home-feeling, which she had never had at Mrs. Merton’s;
and above all she was cheered by the thought that she was welcome,
though the home was humble enough.

By and by the callers departed, and the family made preparations for
bed.

“I can’t give you a very nice bed, Tom,” said Mrs. Murphy, “but I’ll fix
you up a place to slape on the floor wid my Biddy.”

“That’ll be jolly,” said Tom. “If it wasn’t for you, I’d have to sleep
out in the street.”

“That would be a pity, entirely, as long as I have a roof over me.
There’s room enough for you, Tom, and it won’t be robbin’ any of us.”

Tom slept comfortably. Her bed was not one of the softest; but she had
never been used to beds of down, sleeping on a hard straw bed even at
Mrs. Merton’s. She woke, feeling refreshed, and in much better spirits
than when she set out from Mrs. Merton’s.

When breakfast was over, Mrs. Murphy set out for her place of business,
and Mike for his daily occupation. Biddy remained at home to take charge
of the younger children. With the rest Tom went too.

“Come back to-night, Tom,” said Mrs. Murphy.

“I should like to,” said Tom, “if you’ll let me pay for my board.”

“Shure we won’t quarrel about that. And what are you goin’ to do, Tom,
the day?”

“I don’t know,” said Tom. “If I had any money I’d buy some papers.”

“How much wud you want?”

“Twenty-five cents would give me a start.”

Mrs. Murphy dived into the recesses of a capacious pocket, and drew out
a handful of currency.

“I’ll lind it to you,” she said. “Why didn’t you ask me before?”

“Thank you,” said Tom. “I’ll bring it back to-night. You’re very kind to
me, Mrs. Murphy,” she added, gratefully.

“It’s the poor that knows how to feel for the poor,” said the
apple-woman. “It’s I that’ll trust you, Tom, dear.”

Three months before Tom would have told Mrs. Murphy that she was a
trump; but though some of her street phrases clung to her, she was
beginning to use less of the slang which she had picked up during her
long apprenticeship to a street life. Though her position, even at Mrs.
Merton’s, had not been as favorable as it might have been elsewhere, the
influences were far better than in the home (if it deserved the name) in
which she had been reared, and the association of the school which she
attended had, likewise, been of advantage to her. I do not wish it to be
understood that Tom had in three months changed from a young Arab into a
refined young lady. That would be hardly possible; but she had begun to
change, and she could never again be quite the wild, reckless girl whose
acquaintance we made at the street-crossing.

Tom went out with Mrs. Murphy, helping her to carry her basket of
apples. Leaving her at her accustomed stand, she went to the newspaper
offices, and laid in a small supply. With these she went to Fulton
Ferry, partly because she fancied that there was no danger of granny’s
coming there in pursuit of her. Even if the encounter did take place she
was resolved not to go back. Still it was better to avoid it altogether.

Tom was rather late in the field. Most of her competitors had been
selling papers for an hour, and some had already sold quite a number.
However, not being in the least bashful, she managed to obtain her share
of the trade that remained. The boats came in at frequent intervals,
loaded down with passengers,—clerks, shop-boys, merchants, bankers,
book-keepers, operatives, who made a home in Brooklyn, but spent the day
in the busy metropolis.

“Morning papers, sir?” asked Tom, to a rather portly gentleman, who did
business in Wall Street.

“Yes; give me the ‘Herald.’”

He drew a coin from his pocket, and handed to Tom.

“Never mind about the change,” he said.

Tom was about to put it in her pocket, supposing from the size that it
was a five-cent piece; but, chancing to glance at it more particularly,
she saw that it was a five-dollar gold piece.

Her eyes sparkled with joy. To her it was an immense fortune. She had
never, in all her life, had so much money before. “But did he mean to
give her so much?” was the question that suggested itself to her
immediately. He had, to be sure, told her to keep the change, but Tom
knew too much of human nature and the ways of the world to think it
likely that anybody would pay five dollars in gold for a morning paper,
without asking for a return of the change.

Now I am quite aware that in three cases out of four the lucky
news-vender would have profited by the mistake, and never thought of
offering to correct it. Indeed, I am inclined to think that Tom herself
would have done the same three months before. Even now she was strongly
tempted to do so. But she remembered the false charge that had been made
against her by Mrs. Merton the day before, and the indignation she felt.

“If I keep this, and it’s ever found out, she’ll be sure I took the
twenty dollars,” thought Tom. “I won’t do it. I won’t let her call me a
thief. I’ll give it back.”

The purchaser of the paper was already half through Fulton Market before
Tom made up her mind to return the money. She started on a run, afraid
her resolution might give way if she stopped to consider.

She easily recognized the man who had paid her the money.

“Mister,” said Tom, touching him to attract his attention.

“What’s wanted?” he inquired, looking at our heroine.

“Did you mean to give me this?” and Tom displayed the gold piece.

