"People coming to Europe are often disappointed because they find
almost everything so near like what they have been accustomed to,"
replied the doctor. "You will find Norway and Sweden more like New
England than any other countries on the continent. But I think you
will find differences enough to excite your interest and attention
before you return."

The students walked back to Christiansand, and having exhausted the
town, went on board the vessels of the squadron, ready and even
anxious to continue the voyage. The pilots were on deck, Paul Kendall
and lady had returned to the Grace, and the principal only waited the
arrival of the steamer Moss, from Frederiksv√¶rn, to give the order to
get under way. The boats were all hoisted up except the first cutter,
which was to bring off the unfortunate crew of the professor's barge,
as soon as they arrived.

At eight o'clock the steamer came in, and the first cutter, with the
principal on board, hastened to her landing-place, to meet Sanford and
his companions. To his great astonishment and regret, they were not on
board of the Moss. The captain, who spoke English very well, knew
nothing about the absentees, and was quite confident they were not on
board of the Foldin, the boat which had picked them up. Captain Hoell
had said nothing to him about the accident, but then the Foldin had
arrived only that morning, instead of the night before, when she was
due, and their interview had been very hurried. "Did any person in the
Moss know anything about the unfortunates?" the captain was kind
enough to inquire; and a passenger was found who heard some one say
that a party of young men had been landed by the Foldin at Lillesand.
But the Moss had left Lillesand at six o'clock, and her captain had
not seen or heard of the persons described. Mr. Lowington was very
anxious about the fate of the second cutter's crew, and feared that
some of them had been injured by the collision, so that they were
unable to take the steamer back to Christiansand. He returned to the
cutter and pulled off to the Tritonia, and directed Mr. Tompion, the
second vice-principal, in charge of her, to run into Lillesand, and
ascertain what had become of the absentees. Without waiting for the
signal, the Tritonia got under way, and under full sail, with a fresh
breeze, stood out of the harbor. The other vessels followed her soon
after, the principal intending to lay off and on till the Tritonia
reported.

The ship had been searched from keel to truck for Ole Amundsen on the
day before. Of course he was not found, and the conclusion was that he
had dropped into the water and swam ashore, though it was difficult to
understand how he had accomplished the feat without detection.
Inquiries in regard to him were made on shore, but if any one knew
him, application was not made to the right persons.

Mr. Clyde Blacklock had not yet jumped overboard, and during the busy
scene of getting under way, he stood with his mouth agape, watching
the proceedings with wondering interest. He was not quite sure, after
his anger had subsided, that he had made a bad bargain. There was
something rather pleasant in the motion of the ship, and the zeal and
precision with which the students worked, showed that they enjoyed
their occupation. No one noticed Clyde, or even seemed to be aware
of his presence. Before, when he behaved in an extravagant and
unreasonable manner, the boys only laughed at him. They did not beg
him to be pacified, as his mother and James always did; on the
contrary they seemed to enjoy his chagrin.

As soon as the ship was under way, the new student was informed that
he belonged to the port watch, second part, and the silver star, which
designated his watch, was affixed to his left arm. He was told that he
would be called with the others to take his turn on deck during the
night.

"What am I to do?" he asked, rather blankly.

"Just the same as the others do?" replied De Forrest, the fourth
lieutenant, who had the deck with the second part of the port watch.
"I have your station bill."

"What's that?"

"It is a card on which all your duties are explained. Here it is,"
added De Forrest, producing the station bill. "You are No. 71; all the
even numbers belong to the starboard watch, and all the odd numbers to
the port."

These cards were all printed; for among the various amusements
provided for the students, a couple of octavo Novelty presses, with
a sufficient supply of type and other printing material had been
furnished. All the blanks for use in the ship were printed on board,
and the Oceanic Enterprise, a weekly Journal, had been regularly
issued during the voyage across the Atlantic, though a gale of wind,
which disturbed the equilibrium of the press and the printers, had
delayed its publication a couple of days on one occasion.

Clyde read the station bill which was handed to him by the officer,
but it would have been just as intelligible to him if it had been in
Runic character.

"'Reefing, main-topsail, and main-topsail halyards,'" said Clyde,
reading from the card. "What does all that mean?"

"You mind only what you have to do yourself, and not trouble your head
about orders that have nothing to do with your work; for the orders
come as thick as snow flakes at Christmas. When all hands are called
to reef topsails, you are one of them, of course. When any thing is
said about topsails, or topsail-halyards, you are the man."

"Good; I understand that, and I shall make a sailor, I know," added
Clyde.

"I hope you will. The order will come to 'settle away the topsail
halyards.' Be ready to help then."

"But I don't know the topsail halyards from a pint of soup."

"Here they are," added the lieutenant, conducting his pupil to the
rail, and pointing out the main-topsail halyards. "Then, when the
officer says, 'Aloft, top-men,' you will run up the main rigging here,
and the midshipman in the top will tell you what to do. At the word,
you will lay out on the yard, and do as the others do. At the words,
'Lay down from aloft,' you will come on deck, and hoist up the
main-topsail. Nearly all your duty is connected with the main-topsail.
In tacking, you will go to the clew-garnets."

"What are they?"

"These ropes, by which the corners of the mainsail are hauled up,"
answered De Forrest, pointing out the clew-garnets. "You will also
let go the main tack. In getting under way, you will help loose the
main-topsail. In anchoring, you are at the main clew-lines, and the
main brace. Here they are. In loosing and furling you are on the
main-topsail. In boat service, you are attached to the third cutter.
You sleep in berth No. 71, your ship's number, and eat with mess No.
6."

De Forrest, as instructed by the principal, carefully explained the
duties of the new comer, indicating every rope as he mentioned it, and
describing its use. He was prudent in his manner, and tried to give
the proud youth no offence by making him feel the superiority of an
officer. The lieutenant then conducted him to his mess room, and
pointed out his berth.

The wind was still from the southward, and quite fresh; and though the
squadron went under short sail, it was off Lillesand in a couple of
hours. The Tritonia, which was a fast vessel, did not detain her
consorts more than a couple of hours. Mr. Tompion boarded the ship,
