we will go up into the mountains and stay with my mother, and have it
all to ourselves."

"Do you know, Harry," said Eva after a pause, "I can see that Sophie
Elmore really does admire Sydney. I can't help wondering how one can,
but I see she does. Now don't you hope she'll get engaged to him?"

"Certainly I do," said I, "I wan't all nice people to be engaged if they
have as good a time as we do. It's my solution of the woman question."

"Well, do you know I managed my last interview with Sydney with
reference to that? I made what you would call a split-shot in croquet to
send him from me and to her."

"How did you do it?"

"Oh, don't ask me to describe. There are ways of managing these men that
are incommunicable. One can play on them as upon a piano, and I'll wager
you a pair of gloves that Sydney goes off after Sophie. She's too good
for him, but she likes him, and Sophie will make him a nice wife. But
only think of poor Aunt Maria! It will be the last stroke that breaks
the camel's back to have the Elmores get Sydney."

"So long as he doesn't get you, I shall be delighted," said I.

"Now only think," she added, "this Spring I was drifting into an
engagement with that man just because I was idle, and blas√©, and
didn't know what to do next, and didn't have force enough to keep saying
'No' to mamma and Aunt Maria and all the rest of them."

"And what gave you force?"

"Well, sir, I couldn't help seeing that somebody else was getting very
prettily entangled, and I felt a sort of philosophic interest in
watching the process, and somehow--you know--I was rather sorry for
you."

"Well?"

"Well, and I began to feel that anybody else would be intolerable, and
you know they say there must be somebody."

"But me you could tolerate? Thank you, for so much."

"Yes, Harry, I think you are rather agreeable. I couldn't fancy myself
sitting a whole evening with Sydney as I do with you. I always had to
resort to whist and all sorts of go-betweens to keep him entertained;
and I couldn't fancy that I ever should run to the window to see if he
were coming in the evening, or long for him to come back when he was on
a journey. I'm afraid I should long quite the other way and want him to
go journeys often. But Sophie will do all these things. Poor man!
somebody ought to, for he wouldn't be a bit satisfied if his wife were
not devoted. I told him that, and told him that he needed a woman
capable of more devotion than I could feel and flattered him up a
little--poor fellow, he took to it so kindly! And after a while I
contrived to let fall a nice bit of a compliment I had once heard about
him from a lady, who I remarked was usually a little fastidious, and
hard to please, and you ought to have seen how animated he looked! A
mouse in view of a bit of toasted cheese never was more excited. I
wouldn't tell him who it was, yet I sent him off on such a track that he
inevitably will find out. That's what I call sending Sophie a ball to
play on. You see if they don't have a great wedding about the time we
have our little one!"




CHAPTER XL.

CONGRATULATIONS, ETC.


The announcement of my engagement brought the usual influx of
congratulations by letter and in person. Bolton was gravely delighted,
shook my hand paternally, and even promised to quit his hermit hole and
go with me to call upon the Van Arsdels.

As to Jim, he raised a notable breeze among the papers.

"Engaged!--you, sly dog, after all! Well! well! Let your sentimental
fellows alone for knowing what they're about. All your sighing, and
poetry, and friendship, and disinterestedness and all that don't go for
nothing. Up to 'biz' after all! Well, you've done a tolerably fair
stroke! Those Van Arsdel girls are good for a hundred thousand down, and
the rest will come in the will. Well, joy to you my boy! Remember your
old grandfather."

Now there was no sort of use in going into high heroics with Jim, and I
had to resign myself to being congratulated as a successful fortune
hunter, a thing against which all my resolution and all my pride had
always been directed. I had every appearance of being caught in the
fact, and Jim was prepared to make the most of the situation.

"I declare, Hal," he said, perching himself astride a chair, "such
things make a fellow feel solemn. We never know when our turn may come.
Nobody feels safe a minute; it's you to-day and me to-morrow. I may be
engaged before the week is out--who knows!"

"If nothing worse than that happens to you, you needn't be frightened,"
said I. "Better try your luck. I don't find it bad to take at all."

"Oh, but think of the consequences, man! Wedding journey, bandboxes and
parasols to look after; beefsteaks and coffee for two; house rent and
water taxes; marketing, groceries; all coming down on you like a
thousand of brick! And then 'My dear, won't you see to this?' and 'My
dear, have you seen to that?' and 'My dear, what makes you let it rain?'
and 'My dear, how many times must I tell you I don't like hot weather?'
and 'My dear, won't you just step out and get me the new moon and seven
stars to trim my bonnet?' That's what I call getting a fellow into
business! It's a solemn thing, Hal, now I tell you, this getting
married!"

"If it makes you solemn, Jim, I shall believe it," I said.

"Well, when is it to come off? When is the blissful day?"

"No time fixed as yet," said I.

"Why not? You ought to drive things. Nothing under heaven to wait for
except to send to Paris for the folderols. Well, I shall call up and
congratulate. If Miss Alice there would take me, there might be a pair
of us. Wouldn't it be jolly? I say, Hal, how did you get it off?"

"Get what off?"

"Why, the question."

"You'll have to draw on your imagination for that, Jim."

"I tell you what, Harry, I won't offer myself to a girl on
uncertainties. I'd pump like thunder first and find out whether she'd
have me or not."

"I fancy," said I, "that if you undertake that process with Miss Alice,
you'll have your match. I think she has as many variations of yes and no
as a French woman."

"She doesn't catch this child," said Jim, "though she's mag. and no
mistake. Soberly, she's one of the nicest girls in New York--but Jim's
time isn't come yet.
