
But he knew too well the danger of permitting his real sentiments to be
reflected in his face. It would only bring upon him a share of the same
punishment, without benefiting those who were unfortunate enough to
receive it.

When Ludovico’s punishment was ended, he was permitted to go to bed,
but without his supper. Nor was his the only case. Five other boys were
subjected to the same punishment. The stick had no want of exercise
on that evening. Here were nearly forty boys, subjected to excessive
fatigue, privation, and brutal treatment daily, on account of the greed
of one man. The hours that should been given in part to instruction, and
partly to such recreation as the youthful heart craves, were devoted to
a pursuit that did nothing to prepare them for the duties of life. And
this white slavery--for it merits no better name--is permitted by the
law of two great nations. Italy is in fault in suffering this traffic
in her children of tender years, and America is guilty as well in not
interfering, as she might, at all events, to abridge the long hours of
labor required of these boys, and forcing their cruel guardians to give
them some instruction.

One by one the boys straggled in. By midnight all had returned, and the
boys were permitted to retire to their beds, which were poor enough.
This, however, was the least of their troubles. Sound are the slumbers
of young however hard the couch on which it rests, especially when, as
with all the young Italian boys, the day has been one of fatigue.



CHAPTER VIII

A COLD DAY

The events thus far recorded in the life of our young hero took place
on a day toward the middle of October, when the temperature was
sufficiently mild to produce no particular discomfort in those exposed
to it. We advance our story two months, and behold Phil setting out for
his day’s wandering on a morning in December, when the keen blasts swept
through the streets, sending a shiver through the frames even of those
who were well protected. How much more, then, must it be felt by the
young street musician, who, with the exception of a woolen tippet, wore
nothing more or warmer than in the warmer months! Yet, Phil, with his
natural vigorous frame, was better able to bear the rigor of the winter
weather than some of his comrades, as Giacomo, to whom the long hours
spent in the streets were laden with suffering and misery.

The two boys went about together when they dared to do so, though the
padrone objected, but for what reason it did not seem manifest, unless
because he suspected that two would plan something prejudicial to his
interests. Phil, who was generally more successful than Giacomo, often
made up his smaller comrade’s deficiencies by giving him a portion of
his own gains.

It was a raw day. Only those who felt absolutely obliged to be out were
to be seen in the streets; but among these were our two little fiddlers.
Whatever might be the weather, they were compelled to expose themselves
to its severity. However the boys might suffer, they must bring home
the usual amount. But at eleven o’clock the prospects seemed rather
discouraging. They had but twenty-five cents between them, nor would
anyone stop to listen to their playing.

“I wish it were night, Filippo,” said Giacomo, shivering with cold.

“So do I, Giacomo. Are you very cold?”

“Yes,” said the little boy, his teeth chattering. “I wish I were back in
Italy. It is never so cold there.”

“No, Giacomo; you are right. But I would not mind the cold so much, if
I had a warm overcoat like that boy,” pointing out a boy clad in a thick
overcoat, and a fur cap drawn over his ears, while his hands were snugly
incased in warm gloves.

He, too, looked at the two fiddlers, and he could not help noticing how
cold they looked.

“Look here, you little chaps, are you cold? You look as if you had just
come from Greenland.”

“Yes,” said Phil. “We are cold.”

“Your hands look red enough. Here is an old pair of gloves for one of
you. I wish I had another pair. They are not very thick, but they are
better than none.”

He drew a pair of worsted gloves from his pocket, and handed them to
Phil.

“Thank you,” said Phil; but having received them, he gave them to
Giacomo.

“You are colder than I am, Giacomo,” he said. “Take them.”

“But you are cold, too, Filippo.”

“I will put my hands in my pockets. Don’t mind me.”

Of course this conversation took place in Italian; for, though Phil had
learned considerable English, Giacomo understood but a few words of it.

The gloves afforded some protection, but still both boys were very cold.
They were in Brooklyn, having crossed the ferry in the morning. They had
wandered to a part not closely built up, where they were less sheltered,
and experienced greater discomfort.

“Can’t we go in somewhere and get warm? pleaded Giacomo.

“Here is a grocery store. We will go in there.”

Phil opened the door and entered. The shopkeeper, a peevish-looking man,
with lightish hair, stood behind the counter weighing out a pound of tea
for a customer.

“What do you want here, you little vagabonds?” he exclaimed, harshly, as
he saw the two boys enter.

“We are cold,” said Phil. “May we stand by your stove and get warm?”

“Do you think I provide a fire for all the vagabonds in the city?” said
the grocer, with a brutal disregard of their evident suffering.

Phil hesitated, not knowing whether he was ordered out or not.

“Clear out of my store, I say!” said the grocer, harshly. “I don’t want
you in here. Do you understand?”

At this moment a gentleman of prepossessing appearance entered the
store. He heard the grocer’s last words, and their inhumanity made him
indignant.

“What do these boys want, Mr. Perkins?” he said.

“They want to spend their time in my shop. I have no room for such
vagabonds.”

“We are cold,” said Phil. “We only want to warm ourselves by the fire.”

“I don’t want you here,” said the grocer, irritably.

“Mr. Perkins,” said the gentleman, sharply, “have you no humanity? What
