
"What's the matter, Edward?" asked the Hon. Mr. Montague, who had
remained on board of the Penobscot, being too old to scramble about the
rocks.

"I have been overboard, grandfather," replied Grace, with a faint smile;
and it was evident that her condition was rapidly improving.

"Overboard, child!" exclaimed the old gentleman. "How did it happen?"

"I don't know. I was not with her," replied the colonel. "But where is
that boy?"

"That boy" has just come on deck, and had seated himself in the waist.
He had recovered his wind, and was now nearly as good as new. He felt
that he had done a big thing, and he wondered that no one said anything
to him. The boat that brought him to the yacht had gone for the party
which had been left on the island; and no one but the colonel knew
anything about the part he had borne in the affair. But he was not long
neglected, for the instant Colonel Montague thought of him he hastened
to the waist, and with tears in his eyes, grasped him by the hand.
Doubtless he betrayed more emotion than the occasion seemed to
warrant--emotion which was not all gratitude.

"My lad, you have done me a service which I can never forget," said he,
wiping the tears from his eyes.

"It's all right, sir. I feel better than if I hadn't done it," replied
Bobtail.

"But come aft, and see Grace," added the colonel.

"No, sir, I think I won't bother her now. She must feel pretty bad after
the ducking she got."

Just at this moment the barge from Blank Island dashed up to the steps.
Mrs. Montague was a demonstrative woman, and she had not even yet ceased
to scream.

"O, where is she? where is she, Edward?" cried the poor mother, as she
rose in the stern of the boat.

"Here I am, mother," exclaimed Grace, hastening to the rail on the
quarter-deck. "I am not drowned or hurt."

Mrs. Montague was assisted up the steps, and in another moment she was
sobbing over her child in her arms. While this scene was transpiring on
the quarter-deck, the rest of the party went to Little Bobtail, and took
him by the hand, as they expressed their admiration of his heroic
conduct.

"That wan't anything," replied Bobtail. "I have dived off that rock
twenty times before."

"But Grace would have drowned if you hadn't done it."

"Well, I don't know. I suppose, if I hadn't gone for her, some of the
rest of you would."

"I don't know about that," said one of them, shaking his head. "I might
have gone into the water, but I couldn't have done much."

Mrs. Montague hurried Grace into the cabin as soon as the violence of
her emotions had in a measure subsided.

"But I haven't seen Captain Bobtail yet," said the daughter.

"You shall see him; but you must take off your wet clothes first,"
replied her mother.

"Not yet, mother. I must see him this instant. Tell him to come down
here."

"I'll go for him," said Emily Walker, as she rushed up the
companion-way.

Perhaps Miss Walker was more sentimental than Miss Montague; at any
rate, she flew to the spot where Bobtail was seated, threw her arms
around his neck, and actually kissed him before he had a chance to repel
the assault, if he desired to do so.

"What a dear, good fellow you are!" exclaimed she. "But you must come
right down into the cabin this instant. Grace wants to see you."

"I'm all wet, and I guess I won't go down now," replied Bobtail,
blushing like a red cabbage in the dews of the morning.

"But you must come. Grace is dying to see you;" and Miss Walker took him
by the arm, and tugged at it till she dragged him to his feet.

"I don't like to go down into the cabin. I haven't got my coat and shoes
yet."

"Never mind your coat, Mr. Bobtail. Grace won't change her wet clothes
till she sees you."

Of course Miss Walker carried the day, and Little Bobtail was dragged
into the cabin. Grace seized him by both hands, and warmly expressed her
gratitude. Emily wondered that she did not kiss him. If he had saved
her, she would have kissed him twenty times. Mrs. Montague pressed his
hand, and thanked him over and over again. Then Colonel Montague took
his hand again, and expressed himself even more fully than before. The
Hon. Mr. Montague followed him, and every lady and gentleman of the
party took him by the hand, and said something exceedingly handsome; and
Bobtail began to think they were overdoing it.

"But come, my lad; you are in your wet clothes, while we are talking to
you," interposed the colonel. "You must have a dry suit."

"Never mind me, sir. I'm used to it," laughed Bobtail.

"You will catch cold."

"Catch a weasel asleep! I don't catch cold."

Colonel Montague insisted, and the sailing-master lent him a shirt and a
pair of trousers twice too big for him, and Bobtail put himself inside
of them. His bobtail coat and shoes, which had been brought from the
island, were dry, and he was in presentable condition. Grace soon
appeared, her hair nicely dried and dressed anew, wearing a white dress
and a blue sacque. She looked very pretty; but Bobtail thought that
Emily Walker was the prettier of the two. By this time dinner was ready,
and the skipper of the Skylark was invited to dine in the cabin. He did
not exactly like the idea, for he felt that he was not sufficiently
posted in the ways of genteel society to sit at the table with such
grand people.

"I'll take my grub with the hands forward, sir," said he, laughing. "I
shall feel more at home with them."

"But we shall not feel at home without you, my lad," replied Colonel
Montague. "Besides, when everybody gets cooled off, we want to talk over
the affair on the island, for I haven't even heard how Grace happened to
be in the water."

The owner of the Penobscot would not "let him up," as Bobtail expressed
it when he told his mother the story, and he was placed at the table
between Grace and Emily Walker. Chowder was served first. Bobtail kept
his "weather eye" open to see how the rest of the party did, and
adjusted his conduct by theirs. He wondered what "those towels were
