
“Decidedly not. My girl must have the best, and Clara’s training would
spoil an angel,” answered Dr. Alec quickly.

“But we shall find it hard to let our little Rose go out of the family.
How would Archie do? He has been well brought up and is a thoroughly
excellent lad.”

The brothers had retired to the study by this time and were alone, yet
Dr. Alec lowered his voice as he said with a tender sort of anxiety
pleasant to see: “You know I do not approve of cousins marrying, so I’m
in a quandary, Mac, for I love the child as if she were my own and feel
as if I could not give her up to any man whom I did not know and trust
entirely. It is of no use for us to plan, for she must choose for
herself yet I do wish we could keep her among us and give one of our
boys a wife worth having.”

“We must, so never mind your theories but devote yourself to testing our
elder lads and making one of them a happy fellow. All are heart-whole,
I believe, and, though young still for this sort of thing, we can be
gently shaping matters for them, since no one knows how soon the moment
may come. My faith it is like living in a powder mill to be among a lot
of young folks nowadays! All looks as calm as possible till a sudden
spark produces an explosion, and heaven only knows where we find
ourselves after it is over.”

And Uncle Mac sat himself comfortably down to settle Rose’s fate while
the doctor paced the room, plucking at his beard and knitting his brows
as if he found it hard to see his way.

“Yes, Archie is a good fellow,” he said, answering the question he had
ignored before. “An upright, steady, intelligent lad who will make an
excellent husband if he ever finds out that he has a heart. I suppose
I’m an old fool, but I do like a little more romance in a young man than
he seems to have more warmth and enthusiasm, you know. Bless the boy! He
might be forty instead of three or four and twenty, he’s so sober, calm,
and cool. I’m younger than he is, and could go a-wooing like a Romeo if
I had any heart to offer a woman.”

The doctor looked rather shamefaced as he spoke, and his brother
burst out laughing. “See here, Alec, it’s a pity so much romance and
excellence as yours should be lost, so why don’t you set these young
fellows an example and go a-wooing yourself? Jessie has been wondering
how you have managed to keep from falling in love with Phebe all this
time, and Clara is quite sure that you waited only till she was safe
under Aunt Plenty’s wing to offer yourself in the good old-fashioned
style.”

“I!” And the doctor stood aghast at the mere idea, then he gave a
resigned sort of sigh and added like a martyr, “If those dear women
would let me alone, I’d thank them forever. Put the idea out of their
minds for heaven’s sake, Mac, or I shall be having that poor girl flung
at my head and her comfort destroyed. She is a fine creature and I’m
proud of her, but she deserves a better lot than to be tied to an old
fellow like me whose only merit is his fidelity.”

“As you please, I was only joking,” and Uncle Mac dropped the subject
with secret relief. The excellent man thought a good deal of family and
had been rather worried at the hints of the ladies. After a moment’s
silence he returned to a former topic, which was rather a pet plan of
his. “I don’t think you do Archie justice, Alec. You don’t know him as
well as I do, but you’ll find that he has heart enough under his cool,
quiet manner. I’ve grown very fond of him, think highly of him, and
don’t see how you could do better for Rose than to give her to him.”

“If she will go,” said the doctor, smiling at his brother’s businesslike
way of disposing of the young people.

“She’ll do anything to please you,” began Uncle Mac in perfect good
faith, for twenty-five years in the society of a very prosaic wife had
taken nearly all the romance out of him.

“It is of no use for us to plan, and I shall never interfere except to
advise, and if I were to choose one of the boys, I should incline to my
godson,” answered the doctor gravely.

“What, my Ugly Duckling!” exclaimed Uncle Mac in great surprise.

“The Ugly Duckling turned out a swan, you remember. I’ve always been
fond of the boy because he’s so genuine and original. Crude as a green
apple now, but sound at the core, and only needs time to ripen. I’m sure
he’ll turn out a capital specimen of the Campbell variety.”

“Much obliged, Alec, but it will never do at all. He’s a good fellow,
and may do something to be proud of by and by, but he’s not the mate
for our Rose. She needs someone who can manage her property when we are
gone, and Archie is the man for that, depend upon it.”

“Confound the property!” cried Dr. Alec impetuously. “I want her to
be happy, and I don’t care how soon she gets rid of her money if it is
going to be a millstone round her neck. I declare to you, I dreaded the
thought of this time so much that I’ve kept her away as long as I could
and trembled whenever a young fellow joined us while we were abroad.
Had one or two narrow escapes, and now I’m in for it, as you can see
by tonight’s ‘success’ as Clara calls it. Thank heaven I haven’t many
daughters to look after!”

“Come, come, don’t be anxious take Archie and settle it right up safely
and happily. That’s my advice, and you’ll find it sound,” replied the
elder conspirator, like one having experience.

“I’ll think of it, but mind you, Mac, not a word of this to the sisters.
We are a couple of old fools to be matchmaking so soon but I see what is
before me and it’s a comfort to free my mind to someone.”

“So it is. Depend on me not a breath even to Jane,” answered Uncle Mac,
with a hearty shake and a sympathetic slap on the shoulder.

“Why, what dark and awful secrets are going on here? Is it a Freemason’s
Lodge and those the mystic signs?” asked a gay voice at the door; and
there stood Rose, full of smiling wonder at the sight of her two uncles
hand in hand, whispering and nodding to one another mysteriously.

They stared like schoolboys caught plotting mischief and looked so
guilty that she took pity on them, innocently imagining the brothers
were indulging in a little sentiment on this joyful occasion, so she
added quickly, as she beckoned, without crossing the threshold, “Women
not allowed, of course, but both of you dear Odd Fellows are wanted, for
Aunt Plenty begs we will have an old-fashioned contra dance, and I’m to
lead off with Uncle Mac. I chose you, sir, because you do it in style,
pigeon wings and all. So, please come and Phebe is waiting for you,
Uncle Alec. She is rather shy you know, but will enjoy it with you to
take care of her.”

“Thank you, thank you!” cried both gentlemen, following with great
alacrity.

Unconscious, Rose enjoyed that Virginia reel immensely, for the
pigeon wings were superb, and her partner conducted her through the
convolutions of the dance without a fault, going down the middle in his
most gallant style. Landing safely at the bottom, she stood aside to let
him get his breath, for stout Uncle Mac was bound to do or die on that
occasion and would have danced his pumps through without a murmur if she
had desired it.

Leaning against the wall with his hair in his eyes, and a decidedly
bored expression of countenance, was Mac, Jr., who had been surveying
the gymnastics of his parent with respectful astonishment.

“Come and take a turn, my lad. Rose is fresh as a daisy, but we old
