water. All these arrangements took up time; so the morning was well on
its way and the dew long off the grass, when at last the procession set
forth. Meredith drew the cart, which he was informed he must do
carefully, or the cream would slop over, and, possibly, other damage be
done.

It was not a long way they had to go this morning. Bordering upon the
lawn and shrubbery, to the east, rose a little rocky height, which, in
fact, prevented the dwellers at Mosswood from ever seeing the sun rise.
But the hill was so pretty, they forgave it. Towards the house it
presented a smooth wall of grey granite; on the top it also showed
granite in quantity, there, however, alternating with moss and thin
grass, and overshadowed by cedars, oaks, and pines, with now and then a
young hemlock. The soil was thin; the growth of trees in consequence not
lofty; nevertheless, very graceful. No cultivation, hardly any dressing,
had been attempted; the purple asters sprung up at the edge of the
rocks, and huckleberry bushes stood where they found footing; here and
there a bramble, here and there a bunch of ferns. Now the oak leaves
were turned yellow and brown; the huckleberry bushes in duller hues of
the same; moss was dry and crisp, and ferns odorous in the warm air.

To reach the top of the height a circuit must be made. There was no path
leading straight from the house. Through the grounds at the back of the
house the way wound along between beds of acheranthus and cineraria
which made warm strips of bordering, with scarlet pelargoniums lighting
up the beds beyond in a blaze of brilliance. Turning then into a
carriage road, the party followed it to the north of the height which
Maggie had called the South Pitch, and struck off then southwards into
a little, mossy, rocky, hardly-traced path under the trees.

"This is easy enough," said Meredith, guiding his cart somewhat
carefully, however, to avoid severe jolts which would have endangered
the cream. "I do not see where the pitch is yet."

"Ah, but you will when you get to the south end," said Maggie. "Look
out, Ditto, here's a rock in your way. And these huckleberry bushes are
very thick."

Following on over rocks and bushes, they soon came to the place Maggie
meant, and Meredith rested his cart and stood still to look. From the
southern brow of the little hill, the ground fell steeply away; so
steeply that the eye had unhindered range over the river which lay
below, and the hills bordering it, and the point of Gee's Point which
there pushes the river to the eastward. Not a tree-branch even was in
the way; river and hills lay in the October light, still, glowing, fair,
as only October can be.

"Do you like it, Meredith?" asked Maggie wistfully. Her opinion of
Mosswood had been long a fixed one.

"I have never seen such a place!"

"Uncle Eden had his tent up here one summer, and he cut away all the
branches and trees that were in the way of the view; for he wanted to
lie in his tent at night and be able to look out and see the river and
the hills in the moonlight."

"And did he have this wall built too?" asked Meredith, seeing that the
platform where he stood was held up on the side towards the river by a
regularly laid, though unmortared, wall.

"Oh," said Esther laughing, "that wall was laid a hundred years ago,
Meredith. Soldiers laid it; our soldiers; all Mosswood was fortified;
this is a breastwork."

"Whom do you mean by 'our soldiers'?"

"Why, the Americans," said Esther. "When they were fighting that war, a
hundred years ago. You'll find bits of breastwork all over Mosswood."

"Well, that is delightful," said Meredith. "We are historical. Now,
what are we to do first? I move, we make our camp just here. We cannot
have a better place."

So there a rock under a tree, here a bit of mossy bank, was taken
possession of; places were carpeted with shawls, and luxurious loungers
were at rest upon them. Fairbairn set down the pail of water and
departed; Flora got her worsted embroidery out of the cart, and Esther a
strip of afghan which she was ambitiously making. Maggie nestled up to
Meredith's side on the moss and laid her little hand in his, and for a
little while they were all quiet; these last two enjoying October. But
Meredith did not long sit still; he must go exploring, up and down and
all round the South Pitch. Maggie followed him, as ready to go as he,
and talking all the while. It was nothing but rocks and moss and trees
and brambles and ferns; with the delicious river glittering below the
rocks, and the glow of the hills coming to them through the trees, and
golden hickory leaves falling at their feet, and now and then a chestnut
burr or a hickory schale to be hammered open. Warm and tired at last
they came back to their place. And then the girls declared it was time
for dinner.




CHAPTER II.


A fire was the first thing. Meredith and Maggie gathered dry pine
branches and dead leaves, and Meredith built a nice place for the kettle
with some stones. Then they found they had no matches.

"We always forget something," cried Maggie. "Now, I'll run home and
fetch a box."

Meredith went too. It was only a little more walk. Then the fire was set
agoing, and the kettle filled and put over. Maggie sat by to keep up the
flame, which being fed with light material needed constant supply.
Meredith threw himself down on the mossy bank and opened his book. For a
little while there was silence.

"What are you reading, Ditto?" Maggie asked at length. She kept as good
watch of Meredith as of the fire.

"You would not understand if I told you. It is a German book."

"Is it very interesting?"

"Yes."

"I knew it was. I could see by your face; when you pull your brows
together in that way, I always know you are ever so much interested."

"Well, I am," said Meredith smiling.

"Would it interest me?"

"I think, perhaps, it would."

"Ah, Ditto, don't you want to try? Read us some of it. What is it
about?"

"It is a Mission Magazine."

"Missionary! Oh, then, we shouldn't like it," said Esther. "I don't
believe we should."

"And in it are stories," Meredith continued.

"What sort of stories? about heathen?"

