whatever she tells me.”

“By yourself, you are not fond of amusements?”

“Oh yes, of some sorts. I am not fond of dancing, and that sort of
thing; I am too old and sober. But I want to be amused; I came to Europe
for that.”

“But you can be amused in America, too.”

“I couldn’t; I was always at work. But after all, that was my
amusement.”

At this moment Madame de Bellegarde came back for another cup of tea,
accompanied by the Count Valentin. Madame de Cintré, when she had served
her, began to talk again with Newman, and recalling what he had last
said, “In your own country you were very much occupied?” she asked.

“I was in business. I have been in business since I was fifteen years
old.”

“And what was your business?” asked Madame de Bellegarde, who was
decidedly not so pretty as Madame de Cintré.

“I have been in everything,” said Newman. “At one time I sold leather;
at one time I manufactured wash-tubs.”

Madame de Bellegarde made a little grimace. “Leather? I don’t like that.
Wash-tubs are better. I prefer the smell of soap. I hope at least they
made your fortune.” She rattled this off with the air of a woman who had
the reputation of saying everything that came into her head, and with a
strong French accent.

Newman had spoken with cheerful seriousness, but Madame de Bellegarde’s
tone made him go on, after a meditative pause, with a certain light
grimness of jocularity. “No, I lost money on wash-tubs, but I came out
pretty square on leather.”

“I have made up my mind, after all,” said Madame de Bellegarde, “that
the great point is--how do you call it?--to come out square. I am on my
knees to money; I don’t deny it. If you have it, I ask no questions. For
that I am a real democrat--like you, monsieur. Madame de Cintré is very
proud; but I find that one gets much more pleasure in this sad life if
one doesn’t look too close.”

“Just Heaven, dear madam, how you go at it,” said the Count Valentin,
lowering his voice.

“He’s a man one can speak to, I suppose, since my sister receives him,”
 the lady answered. “Besides, it’s very true; those are my ideas.”

“Ah, you call them ideas,” murmured the young man.

“But Mrs. Tristram told me you had been in the army--in your war,” said
Madame de Cintré.

“Yes, but that is not business!” said Newman.

“Very true!” said M. de Bellegarde. “Otherwise perhaps I should not be
penniless.”

“Is it true,” asked Newman in a moment, “that you are so proud? I had
already heard it.”

Madame de Cintré smiled. “Do you find me so?”

“Oh,” said Newman, “I am no judge. If you are proud with me, you will
have to tell me. Otherwise I shall not know it.”

Madame de Cintré began to laugh. “That would be pride in a sad
position!” she said.

“It would be partly,” Newman went on, “because I shouldn’t want to know
it. I want you to treat me well.”

Madame de Cintré, whose laugh had ceased, looked at him with her head
half averted, as if she feared what he was going to say.

“Mrs. Tristram told you the literal truth,” he went on; “I want very
much to know you. I didn’t come here simply to call to-day; I came in
the hope that you might ask me to come again.”

“Oh, pray come often,” said Madame de Cintré.

“But will you be at home?” Newman insisted. Even to himself he seemed a
trifle “pushing,” but he was, in truth, a trifle excited.

“I hope so!” said Madame de Cintré.

Newman got up. “Well, we shall see,” he said smoothing his hat with his
coat-cuff.

“Brother,” said Madame de Cintré, “invite Mr. Newman to come again.”

The Count Valentin looked at our hero from head to foot with his
peculiar smile, in which impudence and urbanity seemed perplexingly
commingled. “Are you a brave man?” he asked, eying him askance.

“Well, I hope so,” said Newman.

“I rather suspect so. In that case, come again.”

“Ah, what an invitation!” murmured Madame de Cintré, with something
painful in her smile.

“Oh, I want Mr. Newman to come--particularly,” said the young man. “It
will give me great pleasure. I shall be desolate if I miss one of his
visits. But I maintain he must be brave. A stout heart, sir!” And he
offered Newman his hand.

“I shall not come to see you; I shall come to see Madame de Cintré,”
 said Newman.

“You will need all the more courage.”

“Ah, Valentin!” said Madame de Cintré, appealingly.

“Decidedly,” cried Madame de Bellegarde, “I am the only person here
capable of saying something polite! Come to see me; you will need no
courage,” she said.

Newman gave a laugh which was not altogether an assent, and took his
leave. Madame de Cintré did not take up her sister’s challenge to be
gracious, but she looked with a certain troubled air at the retreating
guest.



CHAPTER VII

One evening very late, about a week after his visit to Madame de
Cintré, Newman’s servant brought him a card. It was that of young M. de
Bellegarde. When, a few moments later, he went to receive his visitor,
he found him standing in the middle of his great gilded parlor and eying
it from cornice to carpet. M. de Bellegarde’s face, it seemed to
Newman, expressed a sense of lively entertainment. “What the devil is
he laughing at now?” our hero asked himself. But he put the question
without acrimony, for he felt that Madame de Cintré’s brother was a good
fellow, and he had a presentiment that on this basis of good fellowship
they were destined to understand each other. Only, if there was anything
