for the fine calf’s-head soup known by the same name.


BEAN AND CORN. 

This is a winter soup, and is made of white beans prepared according to
the foregoing receipt, but with the addition of a quart of dried or
canned corn. If the former is used—and the Shaker sweet corn is nearly,
salted corn quite as good for the purpose as the more expensive canned
green corn—soak it overnight in warm water—changing this early in the
morning, and pouring on more warm water, barely enough to cover the
corn, and keeping it in a close vessel until ready to put on the beans.
Let all boil together, with pork as in the bean soup proper. Strain out
as usual, rubbing hard through the cullender. Some persons have a habit
of neglecting the use of the cullender in making bean soup, and serving
it like stewed beans which have been imperfectly drained. The practice
is both slovenly and unwholesome, since the husks of the cereal are
thus imposed upon the digestive organs of the eater, with no additional
nutriment. To the beans and corn may be added a pint of stewed tomato,
if desired.


ASPARAGUS (White soup.)

    3 lbs. veal. The knuckle is best.
    3 bunches asparagus, as well bleached as you can procure.
    1 gallon water.
    1 cup milk.
    1 tablespoonful rice flour.
    Pepper and salt.

Cut off the hard green stem, and put half of the tender heads of the
asparagus into the water with the meat. Boil in closely covered pot for
three hours, until the meat is in rags and the asparagus dissolved.
Strain the liquor and return to the pot, with the remaining half of
the asparagus heads. Let this boil for twenty minutes more, and add,
before taking up, a cup of sweet milk (cream is better) in which has
been stirred a tablespoonful of rice-flour, arrow-root, or corn-starch.
When it has fairly boiled up, serve without further straining, with
small squares of toast in the tureen. Season with salt and pepper.


ASPARAGUS (Green soup.)

    3 lbs. veal—cut into small pieces.
    ½ lb. salt pork.
    3 bunches asparagus.
    1 gallon water.

Cut the entire stalk of the asparagus into pieces an inch long, and
when the meat has boiled one hour, add half of the vegetable to the
liquor in the pot. Boil two hours longer and strain, pressing the
asparagus pulp very hard to extract all the green coloring. Add the
other half of the asparagus—(the heads only, which should be kept in
cold water until you are ready for them), and boil twenty minutes more.
Then proceed as with the asparagus white soup, omitting the milk,
thickening, and salt. The pork will supply the latter seasoning.


TOMATO (Winter soup.) 

    3 lbs. beef.
    1 qt. canned tomatoes.
    1 gallon water.
    A little onion.
    Pepper and salt.

Let the meat and water boil for two hours, until the liquid is reduced
to little more than two quarts. Then stir in the tomatoes, and stew all
slowly for three-quarters of an hour longer. Season to taste, strain,
and serve.


TOMATO (Summer soup). 

    2½ lbs. veal, or lamb.
    1 gallon water.
    2 qts. fresh tomatoes, peeled and cut up fine.
    1 tablespoonful butter.
    1 teaspoonful white sugar.
    Pepper and salt. Chopped parsley.

Boil the meat to shreds and the water down to two quarts. Strain the
liquor, put in the tomatoes, stirring them very hard that they may
dissolve thoroughly; boil half an hour. Season with parsley or any
other green herb you may prefer, pepper, and salt. Strain again, and
stir in a tablespoonful of butter, with a teaspoonful of white sugar,
before pouring into the tureen.

This soup is more palatable still if made with the broth in which
chickens were boiled for yesterday’s dinner.


TURNIP.

    Knuckle of veal, well cracked.
    5 qts. water.

Cover closely and stew gently for four hours, the day before the soup
is wanted. On the morrow, skim off the fat and warm the stock gradually
to a boil. Have ready an onion and six large winter or a dozen small
summer turnips, sweet marjoram or thyme minced very finely. Put these
into the soup and let them simmer together for an hour. Strain:
return to the fire and add a cup of milk—in which has been stirred a
tablespoonful of rice-flour or other thickening—and a tablespoonful of
butter. Season with salt and pepper, let it boil up once, stirring all
the time, as is necessary in all soups where milk is added at last, and
remove instantly, or it will scorch.


POTATO.

    A dozen large mealy potatoes.
    2 onions.
    1 lb. salt pork.
    3 qts. water.
    1 tablespoonful butter.
    1 cup milk or cream.
    1 well-beaten egg.
    Chopped onion.

Boil the pork in the clear water for an hour and a half, then take
it out. Have ready the potatoes, which, after being peeled and
sliced, should lie in cold water for half an hour. Throw them into
the pot, with the chopped onion. Cover and boil three-quarters of an
hour, stirring often. Beat in butter, milk and egg. Add the latter
ingredients carefully, a little at a time; stir while it heats to a
final boil, and then serve.

This is a cheap wholesome dish, and more palatable than one would
suppose from reading the receipt.


GRAHAM SOUP. 

    3 onions.
    3 carrots.
    4 turnips.
    1 small cabbage.
    1 bunch celery.
