do not look nice as I should, it is not my fault." 

Mrs. Mowbray's eyes likewise went to the boots, and staid there. She had 
a little struggle with herself, not to speak what she felt. 

"What is the matter, Rotha?" 

"You see, Mrs. Mowbray. My boots would not go on over the thick 
stockings; so I have had to put on a pair of Antoinette's boots. So if I 
walk queerly, I want you to know I cannot help it." 

"You have more stockings than that pair, I suppose?" 

"Yes, ma'am; enough to last a good while." 

"Let me see them." 

Mrs. Mowbray examined the thick web. 

"Did you and your aunt have a fight over these?" 

"No, madame," said Rotha softly. 

"How was it then? You put them on quietly, and without remonstrance?" 

"Not exactly without remonstrance. But I didn't say much. I did not trust 
myself to say much. I knew I should say too much." 

"What made you fear that?" 

"I was so angry, ma'am." 

There came some tears again, dropping from Rotha's eyes. Mrs. Mowbray 
drew her down with a sudden movement, into her arms, and kissed her over 
and over again. 

"My dear," she said with a merry change of tone, "thick stockings are not 
the worst things in the world!" 

"No, ma'am." 

"You don't think so." 

"No, ma'am." 

"It will be a good check to your vanity, eh?" 

"Am I vain, Mrs. Mowbray?" 

"I don't know! most people are. Isn't it vanity, that makes you dislike 
to see your feet in shoes too large for them?" 

"Is it?" said Rotha. "But it is right to like to look nice, Mrs. Mowbray, 
is it not?" 

"It is right to like to see everything look nice, therefore of course 
oneself included." 

"Then that is not vanity." 

"No,--but vanity is near. It all depends on what you want to look nice 
for." 

Rotha looked an inquiry. 

"What do you want to look nice for?" Mrs. Mowbray asked smiling. 

"I suppose," Rotha said slowly, "one likes to have people like one." 

"And you think the question of dress has to do with that?" 

"Yes, ma'am, I do." 

"Well, so do I. But then--why do you want people to like you? What  
for?"

"One cannot help it," said Rotha, her eyes opening a little at these 
self-evident questions. 

"Perhaps that is true. However, Rotha, there are two reasons for it and 
lying back of the wish; one is one's own pleasure or advantage simply. 
The other is--the honour and service of God." 

"How, ma'am? I do not see." 

"Just using dress like everything else, as--a means of influence. I knew 
a lady who told me that since she was a child, she had never dressed 
herself that she did not do it for Christ." 

Rotha was silent and pondered. "Mrs. Mowbray, I think that is beautiful," 
she said then. 

"So do I, my dear." 

"But that would not make me like these boots any better." 

"No," said Mrs. Mowbray laughing. "Naturally. But I think nevertheless, 
in the circumstances, it would be better for you to wear them, at least 
during some of this winter weather, than to discard them and put on 
others. You shall judge yourself. What would be the effect, if, being 
known to have plenty of shoes and stockings to cover your feet, you cast 
them aside, and I procured you others, better looking?" 

"O you could not do that!" cried Rotha. 

"If I followed my inclinations, I should do it    But what would the 
effect be?" 

Rotha considered. "I suppose,--I should be called very proud; and you, 
madame, very extravagant, and partial." 

"Not a desirable effect." 

"No, madame. O no! I must wear these things." Rotha sighed. 

"Especially as we are both called Christians." 

"Yes, madame. There are a good many right things that are hard to do, 
Mrs. Mowbray!" 

"Else there would be no taking up the cross. But we ought to welcome any 
occasion of honouring our profession, even if it be a cross." 

Rotha went away much comforted. Yet the clumsy foot gear remained a 
constant discomfort to her, every time she put them on and every time she 
felt the heavy clump they gave to her gait. Happily, she had no leisure 
to dwell on these things. 

The holidays were ended, and the girls came trooping back from their 
various homes or places of pleasure. They came, as usual, somewhat 
disorganized by idleness and license. Study went hard, and discipline 
seemed unbearable; tempers were in an uncertain and irritable state. 
Rotha hugged herself that she had her own little corner room, in which 
she could be quite private and removed from all share in the dissensions 
and murmurings, which she knew abounded elsewhere. It was a very little 
room; but it held her and her books and her modest wardrobe too; and 
Rotha bent herself to her studies with great ardour and delight. She knew 
she was not popular among the girls; the very fact of her having a room 
to herself would almost have accounted for that; "there was no reason on 
earth why she should have it," as one of them said; and Mrs. Mowbray was 
