good--I wish I were!"

"Ah, I see!" exclaimed Diana. "It was a compliment."

"Of course," said Julius.

"Of course; but your compliments are often complicated, as the Marchesa
says."

Diana smiled as she spoke. Batiscombe knew that she was repaying him for
the remark he had made when she had unexpectedly appeared twenty minutes
earlier.

"I can only repeat," he retorted, "that Madame de Charleroi has a good
memory."

Leonora was puzzled. She saw well enough that Diana and Julius were, or
had been, much more intimate than she had supposed. They understood each
other at a glance, by a word, and they seemed on the verge of
quarrelling politely over nothing. She devoutly wished that Diana would
go away, instead of spoiling her afternoon. But Diana leaned back
against the rock and crossed her feet and prepared to be comfortable.
She was evidently not going. Batiscombe stood motionless, with the easy
stolidity of a very strong man who does not wish to move, and Leonora
could see his bold profile against the grey haze of the sky. There was a
short silence after his last remark, during which Leonora felt uneasy:
something was in the atmosphere that made her anxious, and she did not
like the way Diana looked at Batiscombe, with an air of absolute
superiority, as though she could do anything she pleased with him.

"How dreadfully solemn we are," said Leonora, rather awkwardly. Julius
turned quickly with a laugh.

"Let us be gay," he said. "I hate solemnity, unless there is enough of
it to make me laugh. I remember being at a ball once that produced that
effect."

"Allons!" said Diana, "give us some of your reminiscences, Monsieur
Batiscombe. They ought to be interesting."

"Not so much as you think. But the ball was very funny. It was in
Guatemala, three years ago. I was invited to a huge thing by the
president--an entirely new president, too, who had just cut the throats
of the old president and of all his relations. I believe there was some
sort of revolution at the time, and when it was over the victorious
individual gave a ball. The refreshments were simple--brandy for the men
and rosolio for the ladies; there was no compromise in the shape of a
biscuit or a glass of water."

Leonora laughed, being willing to laugh at anything so as to encourage
Julius to talk.

"En vérité, that was very amusing," remarked Diana coldly. Batiscombe
took no notice.

"The women sat round the room in a double row," he continued, "like a
court ball, excepting that they all smoked large cigars, and
industriously passed the liqueur. The men stood behind and gave their
undivided attention to the brandy. Not a soul spoke, and they all
scowled fiercely at the brandy, the rosolio, and each other. A ghastly
and tuneless quartette of instruments doled out a melancholy dirge,
slower than anything you ever heard at a funeral; and now and then some
enterprising and funereal man led out a less enterprising but equally
melancholy female in a strange step, like the tormented ghost of a waltz
in chains. It was so hideous that I went out and laughed till I almost
had a fit. I have never thought anything seemed very solemn since
then--it destroyed the proportion in my brain. A pauper's burial on a
rainy day in London is a wildly gay entertainment compared with that
ball."

Leonora laughed, and even Diana smiled; whereupon Julius was satisfied,
and relapsed into silence. But Leonora wanted conversation.

"What in the world took you to Guatemala, Mr. Batiscombe?" she asked.

"That is a question which I cannot answer, Marchesa," he replied. "I
believe I went there for some reason or other--chiefly because I could
go for nothing, and wanted to see something new."

"Can you always go to Guatemala for nothing?" asked Leonora. "It must be
very amusing."

"A steamer company offered me a free passage to any port in their
service," said Batiscombe; "and as the next ship went to Guatemala, I
sailed with her. It happened to be first on the list."

"What a queer idea!" exclaimed Leonora.

"You are too modest, Mr. Batiscombe," said Diana. "You ought to tell the
whole story--it is very interesting." Her voice was less cold than when
she had spoken last.

"Oh, do tell the story!" cried Leonora. "I adore autobiographies!"

"Mon Dieu!" said Julius, "there is very little to tell. I did a service
to a ship belonging to the company, and in acknowledgment they presented
me with a piece of plate and the free passage in question. Voilà tout!
madame is too good when she says it was interesting."

"If Monsieur Batiscombe will not be so obliging as to relate the
experience, I will," said Diana. "He shall correct me if I make a
mistake."

Batiscombe looked annoyed. He was not fond of telling his own
adventures, and he hated to hear them told by other people. He could not
imagine why Diana wanted to hear the story. He was irritated already,
and her conduct seemed more and more inexplicable. Leonora looked at him
expectantly.

Who can understand a woman? It may be that Diana, who was really fond of
him in a strange fashion, was sorry for the position she had taken that
afternoon, and was willing to atone by giving him the credit before
Leonora of some fine action he had done.

"It was three years ago or more, in the winter," began Diana. "Monsieur
Batiscombe was travelling in a ship on the coast of America. There were
a hundred passengers on board, or more, and a crew of thirty-five. Is
that exact?"

Julius bent his head and turned away.

"Eh bien, there was a great storm--such as there are in the ocean. It is
horrible, you may imagine. The ship was driven on the rocks, a long
distance from the shore. A reef, you call it, n'est-ce-pas?"

"Yes," said Batiscombe. "Fifty or sixty yards from the shore."

"Good. What do they do? Six brave sailors volunteer to throw themselves
into the sea in a chaloupe--a miserable boat"--

"And monsieur was one of the volunteers"--exclaimed Leonora,
enthusiastically.

"Not at all, my dear friend. The boat overturns; the sailors are
immediately drowned; every one is in consternation. Then Monsieur
Batiscombe arrives; he says he will save everybody; he ties a thin
line--a mere string--to his waist; he throws himself to the sea. The
passengers scream as they cling to the ropes and the side, while the
vessel is beaten horribly on the reef. He struggles in the waves,
swimming; he is thrown down again and again in the breakers; he rises
