"No; I do not feel as if I had any business with the young men," says
Violet, rather promptly, standing her ground with resolution.

"See here," exclaims Eugene, suddenly, "if I waltz with her, will you
give me another somewhere? If you won't, I shall not dance another step
to-night," and he shakes his black curls defiantly.

That means he will keep close to her as a shadow, and she wishes he
would not.

"Yes," she answers, "if you will do your duty you shall be rewarded."

"Be good and you will be happy," he quotes.

"Take me over to Mr. Carpenter."

"He will prose you to death. See, there is Mrs. Carpenter waltzing with
Fred Kirkbride. That is the way young and pretty second wives enjoy
themselves," says this candid young man.

Lucia Brade goes off supremely happy. Violet watches them from her
rustic seat. She has been a little amazed at Lucia's evident
preference, so plainly shown. Mr. Carpenter only needs a listener to
render him supremely happy in his monologues, so Violet can follow her
own thoughts.

She is wondering why she feels so lost and lonely in this bright scene,
and why the waltz did not enchant her! Where is Mr. Grandon--drowsing
in a railway car? If he were here! The very thought thrills her. Yes,
it is her husband she misses,--not quite as she used to miss him,
either. He has grown so much more to her, he fills all the spaces of
her life. He may be absent bodily, but he is in her soul, he has
possession of her very being. Is this love?

A strange thrill runs over her. The lights, the dancing, the talk
beside her, might all be leagues away. She is penetrated, possessed by
a blissful knowledge, something deeper, finer, keener than she has ever
dreamed, not simply the reverence and obedience of the marriage vow
that she has supposed included all. And then comes another searching
question,--how much of just this kind of love has Floyd Grandon for
her?

The waltz has ended, and the lanciers begun. She will not dance that,
but sends Eugene in quest of another partner, at which he grumbles. The
Latimers are not here,--a sick baby has prevented,--though now Violet
begins to feel quite at home with many of the dwellers in the park and
about. Even madame searches her out presently.

"My dear child," she says, in that soft, suave tone, "are you not well
this evening? You are such a little recluse."

"Quite well." And the brilliant face answers for her.

"Then you are not enjoying yourself. You young people ought to be up in
every set."

"I did dance. But I like to look on. The figures are so graceful, and
the music is bewitching."

"It seems unnatural for one of your age to be merely a spectator. How
lovely Eugene and Mrs. Carpenter look together! She is just about your
size and dances with the verve of youth, which I admire extremely.
Gravity at that age always seems far-fetched, put on as a sort of
garment to hide something not quite frank or open, but it never can
conceal the fact that it covers thoughts foreign to youth."

Violet wonders if she has been unduly grave this evening. She has
something to conceal, a sweet, sacred secret that only one person may
inquire into. Will he, some day? He has never yet asked her the lover's
question to which it would be so sweet to reply.

"There," exclaims Eugene, sitting down beside her, "I have done my
duty. The very next waltz, remember."

The last is in a whisper, and it brings the bright color to her face,
brighter because madame's eyes are upon her; but fortunately for her
peace, madame is wanted.

"Do you know," says Eugene, "I am very glad you married Floyd, for I
do think it would have ended by his taking her; not that he cared
particularly, and the queer thing was that Cecil would not make friends
with her; but she is the kind of woman who generally gets everything
she tries for. And I do believe she envies you your home and your
husband."

"Oh!" cries Violet, much abashed, "do not say so. It seems to me there
is nothing that she can envy or desire."

"Don't believe the half of that, little innocent! Oh, listen, this
measure is perfection! Come."

She rises, for she cannot endure sitting here and discussing madame,
and they all take so much for granted between her and Mr. Grandon.

The waltz is lovely out here in the summer moonlight. She forgets her
discomfort in it, and is very happy; but when it ends she feels that
her duty is done, that she would like to go home, and mentions her
desire to Eugene.

"Why, yes, if you like," he answers. "If it had not been for you the
whole thing would have bored me intolerably. Floyd may thank his stars
for an excuse to keep away."

They make their adieus to host and hostess. Marcia tosses her head with
a curt farewell.

But it has been a success. Doubtless many of the guests came from
curiosity; but Mrs. Wilmarth is delighted to have had what would have
been an enormous crush inside, and much elated to have it praised on
every hand.

"But what idiots Violet and Eugene made of themselves," she says, in
the privacy of her own room, when all is quiet and the old orchard is
left to the weird dancing shadows of the moonlight, while the insect
voices of the night keep up an accompaniment.

"Did they? I thought he was unusually modest and chary of his numerous
graces," returns Jasper Wilmarth, with his usual sneer, which is nearly
always lost upon Marcia, who has settled it as belonging to his way and
not meaning anything.

"That is just what I complain of. They walked round or sat under trees
like a couple of spooning lovers. I believe they did waltz once; and
Violet did nothing but dance the night of her ball."

"I wonder," Jasper Wilmarth says, slowly, "if Eugene does not, or will
not regret giving up the St. Vincent fortune."

"Giving up the fortune!" Marcia turns straight around, with a
resemblance to Medusa, since her short, uneven hair stands out every
way with the vigorous use of her magnetic brush. "How could he have had
the St. Vincent fortune?"

Wilmarth is surprised. Is it possible that Marcia does not know? Have
these two men kept the secret from the family?

"Why of course you are aware that it was offered to Eugene!" he
answers, composedly.

"No, I am not," she replies, shortly. "Was it to marry Violet?"
