Margaret's hand. Then, her feeble fingers resting on it, "Garda," she
said, in her husky voice, "Margaret--whom I trust entirely--has
promised--to take charge of you--for a while--after--I am gone. Promise
me--on your side--to obey her--to do as she wishes."

"Do not make her promise that," said Margaret. "I think she loves me;
that will be enough."

Garda, crying bitterly, kissed Margaret, and then sank on her knees
beside the bed, her head against her mother's arm. The sight of her
child's grief did not bring the tears to Mrs. Thorne's eyes--already the
calm that precedes death had taken possession of them; but it did cause
a struggling effort of the poor harassed breath to give forth a sob. She
tried to stroke Garda's hair, but could not. "How can I go--and leave
her?" she whispered, looking piteously at Margaret, and then at
Winthrop, as he stood at the foot of the bed. "She had--no one--but me."
And again came the painful sound in the throat, though the clogged
breast had not the strength to rise.

"If I could only know," she went on, desolately, to Margaret, the slow
turning of the eyes betraying the approach of that lethargy which was
soon to touch the muscles with numbness. "You have said--for a while;
but you did not promise for longer. If I could only know, Margaret, that
she would be under your care as long as she is so alone in the world,
then, perhaps, it would be easier to die."

These words, pronounced with difficulty one by one, separated by the
slow breaths, seemed to Winthrop indescribably affecting. It was the
last earthly effort of mother-love.

Margaret hesitated. It was only for a moment that she was silent. But
Evert took that moment to come forward, he came to the side of the bed
where she was standing. "Give me your permission, Mrs. Thorne," he
said to the dying woman. "Trust me, and I will fill the trust. Garda
shall have every care, my aunt shall take charge of her." He was
indignant with Margaret for hesitating.

But Margaret hesitated no longer. "I think I am the better person," she
interposed, gently. Then, bending forward, she said, with distinctness,
"Mrs. Thorne, Garda shall live with me, or near me under my charge, as
long as she is so young and alone, as long as she needs my care. You
have given me a great trust, I hereby accept it; and I will keep it
with all the faithfulness I can." Her voice took on an almost solemn
tone as the last words were spoken.

Winthrop, glancing at her as she bent forward beside him, perceived that
though she was holding herself in strict control, she was moved by some
deep emotion; he could feel that she was trembling. Again, even then and
there, he gave an instant to the same conjecture which had occupied his
thoughts before. Why should she show emotion? why should her voice take
on that tone? She was not excitable; he had had occasion to know that
she was not afraid of death, she had stood beside too many death-beds in
her visits among the poor (not that he admired her philanthropy); it
could not be that she had suddenly become so fond of poor Mrs. Thorne.
But he left his conjectures unsolved. A faint but beautiful smile was
passing strangely over the mother's face, strangely, because no feature
stirred or changed--she was beyond that--and yet the smile was there;
the eyes became so transfigured that the two who were watching stood
awe-struck; for it seemed as if she were beholding something, just
behind or above them, which was invisible to them, something which had
lifted from her all the pains and cares of her earthly life, and set her
free. For some moments longer the beautiful radiance shone there. Then
the light departed, and death alone was left, though the eyes retained a
consciousness. They seemed to try to turn to Garda, who was still
kneeling with her head hidden against her mother's shoulder.

"Take her in your arms, Garda," whispered Margaret; "your face is the
last she wishes to see."

Winthrop had summoned Dr. Kirby; the other friends came softly in. For
twenty minutes more the slow breaths came and went, but with longer and
longer intervals between. Garda, lying beside her mother, held her in
her arms, and the dying woman's fixed eyes rested on her child's for
some time; then consciousness faded, the lids drooped. Garda put her
warm cheek against the small white face, and, thus embraced, the
mother's earthly life ebbed away, while in the still room ascended, in
the voice of the clergyman, the last prayer--"O Almighty God, with whom
do live the spirits of men after they are delivered from their earthly
prisons, we humbly commend to Thee the soul of this thy servant, our
dear sister--" Our dear sister; they were all there, her Gracias
friends--Mrs. Kirby, Mrs. Carew, Mrs. Moore, Madam Giron, Madam
Ruiz--and they all wept for her as though she had been a sister indeed.
In the hall outside, at the open door, stood handsome Manuel, not
ashamed of his tears; and near him, more devout as well as more
self-controlled, knelt Torres, reverently waiting, with head turned
away, for the end.

Dr. Kirby laid the little hand he had been holding, down upon the
coverlet. "She has gone," he said, in a low voice. And, with a visible
effort to control his features, he passed round to the other side of the
bed, and lifting Garda tenderly, tried to draw her away. But Garda clung
to the dead, and cried so heart-brokenly that all the women, with fresh
tears starting at the desolate sound--that sound of audible sobbing
which first tells those outside the still room that the blow has
fallen--all the women came one by one and tried to comfort her. But it
was not until Margaret Harold took her in her arms that she was at all
quieted.

"Come with me, Garda," she said. "You are not leaving your mother alone,
your mother is not here; she has gone home to God. Come with me;
remember she wished it." And Garda yielded.

They buried Mrs. Thorne in the family burying-ground at East Angels (the
one of which she had spoken), her daughter and her friends following, on
foot, the coffin, borne on the shoulders of eight of their former
slaves. Thus the little procession crossed the Levels to the secluded
enclosure at the far end, Mr. Moore in his surplice leading the way. A
high hedge of cedar-trees set closely together like a wall, their dark
branches sweeping the ground, encircled the place; across the narrow
opening which had been left for entrance, was a low paling-gate. Within,
ranged in a circle, were a number of oblong coquina tombs, broad and
low, without inscriptions; here slept all the Dueros, the first
Englishman, Edgar Thorne, and the few American-born Thornes who had
succeeded him. Into the presence of this company was now borne Melissa
Whiting.

Her coffin was covered with the beautiful flowers of the South; but
within, hidden on her breast, there was a faded spray of arbutus, the
last "May-flowers" which had been sent to her, years before, from her
northern home; she had given them to Margaret, and asked her, when the
time came, to place them there. Thus was she lowered to her rest. All
who were present came one by one, according to Gracias custom, to cast
into the deep grave the handful of white sand which, in Florida,
represents the "earth to earth"--that sound which, soft though it be,
breaks the heart. Garda, shivering, clung to Margaret and hid her face.
Then rose Mr. Moore's voice among them: "I heard a voice from heaven
saying unto me, 'Write. From henceforth blessed are the dead--for they
rest from their labors.'"

Beautiful words, unmeaning to the young and happy, more and more do they
convey to many of us a dear comfort, for ourselves as well as for those
already gone--blessed are the dead, for they rest from their labors. For
they rest.

That evening the negroes of the neighborhood assembled at East Angels,
and, standing outside in the darkness, under the windows, sang their own
funeral hymn; their voices rose with sweetness in the wildly plaintive
minor strains; then grew softer and softer, as, still singing sweetly,
they marched quietly away.

