"I will tell you," said Joe, "as well I can remember it. Mamma used to
tell it to me years and years ago, when I was quite a small thing. It is a
pretty story. Listen."

"Once on a time, far away in the north, there lived an angel. She was
very, very beautiful, and all of the purest snow, quite white, her face
and her hands and her dress and her wings. She lived alone, ever so far
away, all through the long winter, in a valley of beautiful snow, where
the sun never shone even in the summer. She was the most lovely angel that
ever was, but she was so cold that she could not fly at all, and so she
waited in the valley, always looking southward and wishing with all her
heart that the sun would rise above the hill.

"Sometimes people passed, far down below, in sledges, and she almost would
have asked some one of them to take her out of the valley. But once, when
she came near the track, a man came by and saw her, and he was so
dreadfully frightened that he almost fell out of the sled.

"Sometimes, too, the little angels, who were young and curious, would fly
down into the cold valley and look at her and speak to her.

"'Pretty angel,' they would say, 'why do you stay all alone in this dreary
place?'

"'They forgot me here,' she used to answer, 'and now I cannot fly until
the sun is over the hill. But I am very happy. It will soon come.'

"It was too cold for the little angels, and so they soon flew away and
left her; and they began to call her the Snow Angel among themselves, and
some of them said she was not real, but the other ones said she must be,
because she was so beautiful. She was not unhappy, because angels never
can be, you know; only it seemed a long time to wait for the sun to come.

"But at last the sun heard of her, and the little angels who had seen her
told him it was a shame that he should not rise high enough to warm her
and help her to fly. So, as he is big and good-natured and strong, he said
he would try, and would do his best; and on midsummer's day he determined
to make a great effort. He shook himself, and pushed and struggled very
hard, and got hotter than he had ever been in his whole life with his
exertions, but at last, with a great brave leap, he found himself so high
that he could see right down into the valley, and he saw the Snow Angel
standing there, and she was so beautiful that he almost cried with joy.
And then, as he looked, he saw a very wonderful sight.

"The Snow Angel, all white and glistening, looked up into the sun's face
and stretched her arms towards him and trembled all over; and as she felt
that he was come at last and had begun to warm her, she thrust out her
delicate long wings, and they gleamed and shone and struck the cold clear
air. Then the least possible tinge of exquisite color came into her face,
and she opened her lips and sang for joy; and presently, as she was
singing, she rose straight upward with a rushing sound, like a lark in the
sunlight, the whitest and purest and most beautiful angel that ever flew
in the sky. And her voice was so grand and clear and ringing, that all the
other angels stopped in their songs to listen, and then sang with her in
joy because the Snow Angel was free at last.

"That is the story mamma used to tell me, long ago, and when I first saw
you I thought of it, because you were so cold and beautiful that you
seemed all made of snow. But now the sun is over the hill, Sybil dear, is
it not?"

"Dear Joe," said Sybil, winding her arm round her friend's neck and laying
her face close to hers, "you are so nice."

The sun sank suddenly behind them, and all the eastern water caught the
purple glow. It was dark when the two girls walked slowly back to the old
house.

Joe stayed many days with Sybil at Sherwood, and the days ran into weeks
and the weeks to months as the summer sped by. Ronald came and went daily,
spending long hours with Sybil in the garden, and growing more manly and
quiet in his happiness, while Sybil grew ever fairer in the gradual
perfecting of her beauty. It was comforting to Joe to see them together,
knowing what honest hearts they were. She occupied herself as she could
with books and a few letters, but she would often sit for hours in a deep
chair under the overhanging porch, where the untrimmed honeysuckle waved
in the summer breeze like a living curtain, and the birds would come and
swing themselves upon its tendrils. But Joe's cheek was always pale, and
her heart weary with longing and with fighting against the poor imprisoned
love that no one must ever guess.




CHAPTER XXI.



The wedding-day was fixed for the middle of August, and the ceremony was
to take place in Newport. It is not an easy matter to arrange the marriage
of two young people neither of whom has father or mother, though their
subsequent happiness is not likely to suffer much by the bereavement. It
was agreed, however, that Mrs. Wyndham, who was Sybil's oldest friend,
should come and stay at Sherwood until everything was finished; and she
answered the invitation by saying she was "perfectly wild to come,"--and
she came at once. Uncle Tom Sherwood was a little confused at the notion
of having his house full of people; but Sybil had been amusing herself by
reorganizing the place for some time back, and there is nothing easier
than to render a great old-fashioned country mansion habitable for a few
days in the summer, when carpets are useless and smoking chimneys are not
a necessity.

Mrs. Wyndham said that Sam would come down for the wedding and stay over
the day, but that she expected he was pretty busy just now.

"By the way," she remarked, "you know John Harrington has come home. We
must send him an invitation."

The three ladies were walking in the garden after breakfast, hatless and
armed with parasols. Joe started slightly, but no one noticed it.

"When did he come--where has he been all this time?" asked Sybil.

"Oh, I do not know. He came down to see Sam the other day at our place. He
seems to have taken to business. They talked about the Monroe doctrine and
the Panama canal, and all kinds of things. Sam says somebody has died and
left him money. Anyway, he seems a good deal interested in the canal."

Mrs. Wyndham chatted on, planning with Sybil the details of the wedding.
The breakfast was to be at Sherwood, and there were not to be many people.
Indeed, the distance would keep many away, a fact for which no one of
those principally concerned was at all sorry. John Harrington, sweltering
in the heat of New York, and busier than he had ever been in his life,
received an engraved card to the effect that Mr. Thomas Sherwood requested
the pleasure of Mr. Harrington's company at the marriage of his
grandniece, Miss Sybil Brandon, to Mr. Ronald Surbiton, at Sherwood, on
the 15th of August. There was also a note from Mrs. Wyndham, saying that
she was staying at Sherwood, and that she hoped John would be able to
come.

John had, of course, heard of the engagement, but he had not suspected
that the wedding would take place so soon. In spite of his business,
however, he determined to be present. A great change had come over his
life since he had bid Joe good-by six months earlier. He had been called
to London as he had expected, and had arrived there to find that Z was
dead, and that he was to take his place in the council. The fiery old man
had died very suddenly, having worked almost to his last hour, in spite of
desperate illness; but when it was suspected that his case was hopeless,
John Harrington was warned that he must be ready to join the survivors at
once.
