hurt nobody, nor employed anybody to hurt another; that she served
God; and that the God she served was He who made heaven and earth. It
appears, however, that she believed in the reality of the "affliction;"
for she ended by accusing a fellow-prisoner of having hurt the children.
The report of the examination, noted at the time by two of the heads of
the congregation, is inane and silly beyond belief; yet the celebration
was unutterably solemn to the assembled crowd of fellow-worshipers; and
it sealed the doom of the community, in regard to peace and good repute.


A CHILD WITCH.

Mrs. Good was carried to jail. Not long after her little daughter
Dorcas, aged four years, was apprehended at the suit of the brothers
Putnam, chief citizens of Salem. There was plenty of testimony produced
of bitings and chokings and pinchings inflicted by this infant; and she
was committed to prison, and probably, as Mr. Upham says, fettered with
the same chains which bound her mother. Nothing short of chains could
keep witches from flying away; and they were chained at the cost of
the state, when they could not pay for their own irons. As these poor
creatures were friendless and poverty-stricken, it is some comfort to
find the jailer charging for "two blankets for Sarah Good's child,"
costing ten shillings.

What became of little Dorcas, with her healthy looks and natural
childlike spirits, noticed by her accusers, we do not learn. Her mother
lay in chains till the 29th of June, when she was brought out to receive
sentence. She was hanged on the 19th of July, after having relieved her
heart by vehement speech of some of the passion which weighed upon
it. She does not seem to have been capable of much thought. One of
the accusers was convicted of a flagrant lie, in the act of giving
testimony: but the narrator, Hutchinson, while giving the fact, treats
it as of no consequence, because Sir Matthew Hale and the jury of his
court were satisfied with the condemnation of a witch under precisely
the same circumstances. The parting glimpse we have of this first victim
is dismally true on the face of it. It is most characteristic.

"Sarah Good appears to have been an unfortunate woman, having been
subject to poverty, and consequent sadness and melancholy. But she was
not wholly broken in spirit. Mr. Noyes, at the time of her execution,
urged her very strenuously to confess. Among other things, he told her
'she was a witch, and that she knew she was a witch.' She was conscious
of her innocence, and felt that she was oppressed, outraged, trampled
upon, and about to be murdered, under the forms of law; and her
indignation was roused against her persecutors. She could not bear in
silence the cruel aspersion; and although she was about to be launched
into eternity, the torrent of her feelings could not be restrained, but
burst upon the head of him who uttered the false accusation. 'You are a
liar,' said she. 'I am no more a witch than you are a wizard; and if you
take away my life, God will give you blood to drink.' Hutchinson says
that, in his day, there was a tradition among the people of Salem, and
it has descended to the present time, that the manner of Mr. Noyes'
death strangely verified the prediction thus wrung from the incensed
spirit of the dying woman. He was exceedingly corpulent, of a plethoric
habit, and died of an internal hemorrhage, bleeding profusely at the
mouth." (Vol. ii. p. 269.)

When she had been in her grave nearly twenty years, her
representatives--little Dorcas perhaps for one--were presented with
thirty pounds sterling, as a grant from the Crown, as compensation for
the mistake of hanging her without reason and against evidence.


THE TOWNE SISTERS.

In the early part of the century, a devout family named Towne were
living at Great Yarmouth, in the English county of Norfolk. About the
time of the King's execution they emigrated to Massachusetts. William
Towne and his wife carried with them two daughters; and another daughter
and a son were born to them afterward in Salem. The three daughters were
baptized at long intervals, and the eldest, Rebecca, must have been at
least twenty years older than Sarah, and a dozen or more years older
than Mary. A sketch of the fate of these three sisters contains within
it the history of a century.

On the map which Mr. Upham presents us with, one of the most conspicuous
estates is an inclosure of 300 acres, which had a significant story of
its own--too long for us to enter upon. We need only say that there had
been many strifes about this property--fights about boundaries, and
stripping of timber, and a series of lawsuits. Yet, from 1678 onward,
the actual residents in the mansion had lived in peace, taking no notice
of wrangles which did not, under the conditions of purchase, affect
them, but only the former proprietor. The frontispiece of Mr. Upham's
book shows us what the mansion of an opulent landowner was like in the
early days of the colony. It is the portrait of the house in which the
eldest daughter of William Towne was living at the date of the Salem
Tragedy.

Rebecca, then the aged wife of Francis Nurse, was a great-grandmother,
and between seventy and eighty years of age. No old age could have had
a more lovely aspect than hers. Her husband was, as he had always been,
devoted to her, and the estate was a colony of sons and daughters, and
their wives and husbands; for 'Landlord Nurse' had divided his land
between his four sons and three sons-in-law, and had built homesteads
for them all as they married and settled. Mrs. Nurse was in full
activity of faculty, except being somewhat deaf from age; and her health
was good, except for certain infirmities of long standing, which it
required the zeal and the malice of such a divine as Mr. Parris to
convert into "devil's marks." As for her repute in the society of which
she was the honored head, we learn what it was by the testimony supplied
by forty persons--neighbors and householders--who were inquired of in
regard to their opinion of her in the day of her sore trial. Some of
them had known her above forty years; they had seen her bring up a large
family in uprightness; they had remarked the beauty of her Christian
profession and conduct; and had never heard or observed any evil of her.
This was Rebecca, the eldest.

The next, Mary, was now fifty-eight years old, the wife of "Goodman
Easty," the owner of a large farm. She had seven children, and was
living in ease and welfare of every sort when overtaken by the same
calamity as her sister Nurse. Sarah, the youngest, had married twice.
Her present husband was Peter Cloyse, whose name occurs in the parish
records, and in various depositions which show that he was a prominent
citizen. When Mr. Parris was publicly complaining of neglect in respect
of firewood for the parsonage, and of lukewarmness on the part of the
hearers of his services, "Landlord Nurse" was a member of the committee
who had to deal with him; and his relatives were probably among the
majority who were longing for Mr. Parris' apparently inevitable
departure. In these circumstances, it was not altogether surprising that
"the afflicted children" trained in the parsonage parlor, ventured,
after their first successes, to name the honored "Goody Nurse" as one
of the allies lately acquired by Satan. They saw her here, there,
everywhere, when she was sitting quietly at home; they saw her biting
the black servants, choking, pinching, pricking women and children; and
if she was examined, devil's marks would doubtless be found upon her.
She was examined by a jury of her own sex. Neither the testimony of
her sisters and daughters as to her infirmities, nor the disgust of
decent neighbors, nor the commonest suggestions of reason and feeling,
availed to save her from the injury of being reported to have what the
witnesses were looking for.

We have a glimpse of her in her home when the first conception of her
impending fate opened upon her. Four esteemed persons, one of whom was
her brother-in-law, Mr. Cloyse, made the following deposition, in the
prospect of the victim being dragged before the public:

"We whose names are underwritten being desired to go to Goodman Nurse,
his house, to speak with his wife, and to tell her that several of the
afflicted persons mentioned her; and accordingly we went, and we found
her in a weak and low condition in body as she told us, and had been
