I’ll tease her a bit and see what she says. Oh dear, I wish I
could do it! Perhaps she’ll be famous some day, and then I’ll have
the glory of discovering her.”

With that consolation Emily turned over the pages of the ledger and
found several more bits of verse, some very good for an untaught
girl, others very faulty, but all having a certain strength of
feeling and simplicity of language unusual in the effusions of young
maidens at the sentimental age.

Emily had a girlish admiration for talent of any kind, and being
fond of poetry, was especially pleased to find that her humble
friend possessed the power of writing it. Of course she exaggerated
Becky’s talent, and as she waited for her, felt sure that she had
discovered a feminine Burns among the New Hampshire hills, for all
the verses were about natural and homely objects, touched into
beauty by sweet words or tender sentiment. She had time to build a
splendid castle in the air and settle Becky in it with a crown of
glory on her head, before the quiet figure in a faded sunbonnet came
slowly up the slope with the glow of sunset on a tired but tranquil
face.

“Sit here and have a good rest, while I talk to you,” said Emily,
eager to act the somewhat dramatic scene she had planned. Becky sunk
upon the red cushion prepared for her, and sat looking down at the
animated speaker, as Emily, perched on a mossy stone before her,
began the performance.

“Becky, did you ever hear of the Goodale children? They lived in the
country and wrote poetry and grew to be famous.”

“Oh yes, I’ve read their poems and like ‘em very much. Do you know
‘em?” and Becky looked interested at once.

“No, but I once met a girl who was something like them, only she
didn’t have such an easy time as they did, with a father to help,
and a nice Sky-farm, and good luck generally. I’ve tried to write
verses myself, but I always get into a muddle, and give it up. This
makes me interested in other girls who CAN do it, and I want to help
my friend. I’m SURE she has talent, and I’d so like to give her a
lift in some way. Let me read you a piece of hers and see what you
think of it.”

“Do!” and Beck threw off the sunbonnet, folded her hands round her
knees, and composed herself to listen with such perfect
unconsciousness of what was coming that Emily both laughed at the
joke and blushed at the liberty she felt she was taking with the
poor girl’s carefully hidden secret.

Becky was sure now that Emily was going to read something of her own
after this artful introduction, and began to smile as the paper was
produced and the first four lines read in a tone that was half
timid, half triumphant. Then with a cry she seized and crumpled up
the paper, exclaiming almost fiercely,--

“It’s mine! Where did you get it? How dar’st you touch it?”

Emily fell upon her knees with a face and voice so full of
penitence, pleasure, sympathy, and satisfaction, that Becky’s wrath
was appeased before her friend’s explanation ended with these
soothing and delightful words,--

“That’s all, dear, and I beg your pardon. But I’m sure you will be
famous if you keep on, and I shall yet see a volume of poems by
Rebecca Moore of Rocky Nook, New Hampshire.”

Becky hid her face as if shame, surprise, wonder, and joy filled her
heart too full and made a few happy tears drop on the hands so worn
with hard work, when they ached to be holding a pen and trying to
record the fancies that sung in her brain as ceaselessly as the soft
sough of the pines or the ripple of the brook murmured in her ear
when she sat here alone. She could not express the vague longings
that stirred in her soul; she could only feel and dimly strive to
understand and utter them, with no thought of fame or fortune,--for
she was a humble creature, and never knew that the hardships of her
life were pressing out the virtues of her nature as the tread of
careless feet crush the sweet perfume from wild herbs.

Presently she looked up, deeply touched by Emily’s words and
caresses, and her blue eyes shone like stars as her face beamed with
something finer than mere beauty, for the secrets of her innocent
heart were known to this friend now, and it was very sweet to accept
the first draught of confidence and praise.

“I don’t mind much, but I was scared for a minute. No one knows but
Mother, and she laughs at me, though she don’t care if it makes me
happy. I’m glad you like my scribbling, but really I never think or
hope of being anybody. I couldn’t, you know! but it’s real nice to
have you say I MIGHT and to make believe for a while.”

“But why not, Becky? The Goodale girls did, and half the poets in
the world were poor, ignorant people at first, you know. It only
needs time and help, and the gift will grow, and people see it; and
then the glory and the money will come,” cried Emily, quite carried
away by her own enthusiasm and good-will.

“Could I get any money by these things?” asked Becky, looking at the
crumpled paper lying under a laurel-bush.

“Of course you could, dear! Let me have some of them, and I’ll show
you that I know good poetry when I see it. You will believe if some
bank-bills come with the paper the verses appear in, I hope?”

Blind to any harm she might do by exciting vain hopes in her
eagerness to cheer and help, Emily made this rash proposal in all
good faith, meaning to pay for the verses herself if no editor was
found to accept them.

Becky looked half bewildered by this brilliant prospect, and took a
long breath, as if some hand had lifted a heavy burden a little way
from her weary back, for stronger than ambition for herself was love
for her family, and the thought of help for them was sweeter than
any dream of fame.

“Yes, I would! oh, if I only COULD, I’d be the happiest girl in the
world! But I can’t believe it, Emily. I heard Mrs. Taylor say that
only the VERY BEST poetry paid, and mine is poor stuff, I know well
enough.”

“Of course it needs polishing and practice and all that; but I’m
sure it is oceans better than half the sentimental twaddle we see in
the papers, and I KNOW that some of those pieces ARE paid for,
because I have a friend who is in a newspaper office, and he told me
so. Yours are quaint and simple and some very original. I’m sure
that ballad of the old house is lovely, and I want to send it to
Whittier. Mamma knows him; it’s the sort he likes, and he is so kind
to every one, he will criticise it, and be interested when she tells
him about you. Do let me!”

“I never could in the world! It would be so bold, Mother would think
I was crazy. I love Mr. Whittier, but I wouldn’t dar’st to show him
my nonsense, though reading his beautiful poetry helps me ever so
much.”

Becky looked and spoke as if her breath had been taken away by this
audacious proposal; and yet a sudden delicious hope sprung up in her
heart that there might, perhaps, be a spark of real virtue in the
little fire which burned within her, warming and brightening her
dull life.

