I would take no part in their excesses, I retired to rest, but could
not sleep. The door of my cabin opened gently, to admit the cook; he
sat down by me, and said as softly as possible:

"While you were on shore to-day, the captain called together the crew,
and told them that during the course of four weeks they had all
learned to know the captive Englishman, and must be aware that he was
most useful in every capacity. 'But,' said the captain, 'he is not to
be trusted; I see that he meditates escape, day and night, and if his
plans should succeed, which is not impossible, the first English
man-of-war that he meets will have the secret of our retreat here, and
all will be over with us. I have, therefore, formed a resolution that
will certainly seem right to you all. We will let him finish the sails
that he is now at work upon, and then get rid of him. Some evening I
will get up a dispute with him; you will gather around us and take
sides, and in the heat of argument I will plunge my knife into his
bosom, and you will finish the business.' The crew consulted together,
and opinion was divided; only a few of the most bloody-minded agreed
to the thought of your murder; at last it was determined to have you
closely watched, and not to allow you to go on shore any more."

"Have it so then," cried the captain, angrily; "you will see what will
come of it."

"Now my friend," concluded the brave fellow, "now you know every
thing. I fear the captain has not given up his intention; therefore,
take your measures accordingly. If I can assist you in carrying out
any plan that you may form, rely upon my desire to serve you. God
grant, that if you escape, I may accompany you."

With these words he bade me good night and left me. What were my
sensations. "Am I then," I said to myself "to be thus cut off in the
midst of my youth? No! I will balk these monsters. I must attempt to
save myself even if the attempt cost me my life." These thoughts
occupied me during the night, and I did not sleep until towards four
o'clock in the morning.


VI.

At sunrise the schooner weighed anchor, in order to accompany the
coaster. Towards noon we discovered an English brig, which proved to
be a merchantman, and the customary pursuit and capture ensued. The
cargo consisted of rum, for the vessel was bound for Liverpool from
Jamaica. The English captain, who was an old acquaintance of mine,
offered to ransom his vessel, and begged me to make the arrangement
for him; this I gladly did, and the brig was ransomed for four hundred
doubloons and eight casks of rum. The Englishman, who had a
considerable amount of cash on board, pressed upon me, at parting,
twenty doubloons.

Towards evening the skies were covered with black clouds; the sea
began to rage, and every thing indicated an approaching storm. We
therefore ran into a little bay, sheltered by high rocks, and passed a
very quiet night, although a fearful storm was raging on the open sea,
and the rain fell in torrents. The next morning we set sail again and
conveyed the coaster almost to the place of her destination. On our
return voyage we captured a French vessel, but it was also ransomed,
and on the evening of the fourth day we reached again our old station,
where the Dutch brig had been left under the command of the pilot. The
Dutch captain and a great part of his crew had accompanied us.

The pirate was very well pleased with his short, profitable trip, and
gave orders to the steward to prepare a magnificent collation, to
which he invited his officers, the Dutch captain, and myself. As it
was too warm in the cabin the table was laid on deck; the steward had
done his best, and when the wine had begun to take effect, the
Dutchman informed me that he had a proposition to make. He spoke in
Dutch, and that no suspicion might be excited, I immediately informed
the captain of what he had said, and offered to carry on the
negociation. This was agreed to, and the Dutchman then informed me
that he had concealed upon his person, a heavy gold chain, a gold
watch set with brilliants, and two diamond rings, and that he would
give them all if the pirate would release his vessel and allow him to
depart, with provisions for eight days. I translated all this to the
captain as well as I could, and his countenance immediately beamed
with the friendliest expression.

"Tell the captain," he replied mildly, "that I accept his offer, and
if he will hand over to me the articles in question, I swear by the
holy virgin, that he shall depart to-morrow morning early, with eight
days' provisions, and sail whither he pleases."

I interpreted this to the captain, who hastened, joyfully, into the
cabin, and returned in a few minutes with the jewels, which he laid
before the captain, on the table.

"Done," said he, reaching his hand and filling his glass; "join me
captain and gentlemen all. By heaven, I will keep my word; you are all
witnesses."

We remained at table until eleven o'clock, when all retired; my
thoughts kept me awake during the whole night. Immediately after
sunrise, the Dutch vessel was supplied with the promised provisions,
besides six casks of water and two of Geneva. The captain took leave
of us all; put several pieces of gold into my hand, and betook himself
on board of his own ship. In half an hour he set sail, and with a
favourable wind was soon out of sight.

Towards eight o'clock, a boat appeared from the shore, and brought two
calves and two sheep, just killed, and a quantity of fowls,
vegetables, and fruit, as a present for the captain, from Don Toribios
and the other officials. They announced their intention, also, of
paying us a visit with their wives, in the afternoon, whereat the
captain was much pleased. Preparations were instantly made for their
reception, and the steward was busy enough; at half-past two the
little fleet appeared, and the guests arrived on board, where they
were served with refreshments. They talked, laughed, joked, played the
guitar, and sang, until near sunset, when the air grew cooler. Then
the seats and benches were cleared away; the old people betook
themselves, with their wine, to the cabin, and the young ones danced
until they were called to supper. The time was passed most pleasantly,
and I almost forgot that I was on board a pirate vessel. Don
Toribios, too, was very friendly, and called out as soon as he saw
me, "Going on excellently! all healed over!" I examined his wounds and
found it actually so. The old gentleman then applied himself
industriously to the wine, and appeared determined to make up for the
abstinence of two weeks. My warning, to be prudent, was not regarded
in the least.

The company found the entertainment so much to their liking that they
remained three hours longer on board than they had at first intended;
the moon was in her first quarter, but shone brighter than even the
full moon in England. A little after nine, the guests took leave of
the captain and entered their boats; the little fleet rowed away in
the glorious moonlight, and every thing was restored to order on board
of the schooner.

The captain was unusually gay and friendly; had three bottles of
Bordeaux brought, and called to me: "Sit down; we will drink another
glass together. Fill for yourself. I see you are a brave, fine fellow,
and if you conduct yourself well, you shall have such wages as you'll
get on no ship of the line, I can tell you. Come, drink; here's to our
noble profession!"

I was obliged to join him, and drank in this way almost a bottle full.
I succeeded, however, in allaying all his suspicion of me. Towards
midnight I threw myself upon my bed, but could not close my eyes, my
thoughts were so busy with plans of escape. Where shall I be, I asked
myself, in one--two weeks--in a month? If my plan succeeds, I shall be
