"Oh, pa, she said such terrible things to me--our own Cicely. I don't
know how to take it!" moaned poor Miss Sabrina to her father when they
were left alone.

"Well, you are pretty black, Sabrina," suggested the judge, doubtfully.
"Those tossels now--"

"I got them because they were cheap. I hope they look like mourning?"

"You needn't be afraid; they're hearse-like!"

"Are they, really?" said Miss Sabrina, with gratification. "The choice
at the mainland store is so small." But presently the tears came again.
"Oh, pa, everything is so sad now. Do you remember when I used to ride
my little pony by your side, and you were on your big black horse? How
kind you have always been to me, pa; and I have been such a
disappointment to you!"

"No, no, Breeny; no, little girl," said the judge.

They kissed each other, the old man and his gray-haired child. Their
minds went back to brighter days; they understood each other's sorrow.

At two o'clock Eve had not yet gone to bed. There was a tap at her door.
She spoke. "Cicely?"

"Yes."

She drew back the bolt, and Cicely entered, carrying a small lamp. "You
haven't gone to bed? So much the better; you are to come with me."

"Where?"

"To all the places where we went that night."

"I cannot."

"There is no question of 'cannot;' I wish you to go, and you must, if I
say so."

Eve looked at her with forlorn eyes. But Cicely was inflexible. She
opened the door; Eve followed her.

"First, I want to see that Jacky is all right," Cicely said. She led the
way to her own room. Jack was asleep, his dimpled arms thrown out on the
pillow. Cicely bent over him for a moment. Then she looked at Eve. "You
won't ever be troubled by this sort of thing, will you? You'll never
have a child!" She laughed, and, taking the lamp, turned towards the
door. "This was Ferdie's dressing-room; don't you see him over there by
the window?" Eve shrank. "Now he has gone. But we shall hear him
following us along the corridor presently, and across the ballroom.
Then, in the thicket, he will come and look at us;--do you remember his
eyes, and the corners of his mouth,--how they were drawn down?" And the
corners of her own mouth took the same grimace.

"I cannot go with you," said Eve, stopping.

"You will do what I wish you to," answered Cicely;--"one generally does
when one has injured a person as you have injured me. For I loved
Ferdie, you know; I really had the folly to love him." (She said this
insolently.) Turning to Eve, with the same insolent smile, "At last you
know what love is, don't you?" she added. "Has it brought you much
happiness?"

Eve made no answer, she followed humbly; together they went through the
labyrinth of small rooms at the end of the corridor and entered the
ballroom.

Its empty space was dark, a glimmering gray alone marking the
unshuttered windows. The circle of light from their lamp made the
blackness still blacker.

"Do you remember when I put on that ball-dress of my grandmother's, and
came jumping along here?" said Cicely. "How strange it is!--I think I
was intended to be happy."

After a moment she went on: "Now we must begin to listen; he will come
in behind us, we shall hear his step. You ought to hear it all your
life!" she added.

They reached the window at last; it had seemed to Eve an endless
transit. Cicely drew back the bolt, threw up the sash, and, with the aid
of a chair, stepped out.

"Wait here," she said, when Eve had joined her outside; "then, when I
have reached the thicket, draw the window down, just as he did; I want
to hear the sound."

She went quickly towards the thicket, carrying her lamp. Eve was left
alone on the veranda.

After a few minutes Eve tried to draw down the sash. It resisted, and
she was obliged to use all her strength. A shiver came over her as she
lifted her arms to try a second time, she almost expected to see a hand
come stealing over her shoulder (or under it), and perform the task for
her; and the hand would be--Ferdie's. She hurried after Cicely.

Cicely came out from the thicket. "Now take the lamp and walk down the
road a little way; I wish to see the gleam moving over the
bushes,--don't you remember?"

Eve obeyed. It seemed to her as if she should never be free from this
island and its terror; as if she should spend the rest of her life here
following Cicely, living over again their dreadful flight.

When she came back, Cicely said, "Now for the north point;" she led the
way along the road; their footsteps made crunching sounds in the sand.

Cicely said, "I was in hopes that the moon would come out from behind
those clouds. Oh, I'm so glad! there it is! Now it will light up the
very spot where you shot him. I will leave the lamp here on the sand;
that will give the yellow gleam that we saw behind us. Now go into the
woods. Then, in a few moments, you must come out and look about, just as
you did then, and you must put out your hand and make a motion of
shooting."

"I will not," said Eve, outraged. "I shall leave you and go back."

Cicely saw that she had come to the end of her power. She put her arms
round Eve's neck, and held her closely. "To please me, Eve; I shall
never be content without it; I want to see how it all was, how you
looked. Just this once, Eve; never again, but just this once."

"I thought you had forgiven me, Cicely?"

"I have, I have." She kissed Eve again. "Do content me."

Eve went slowly towards the trees. As she disappeared within the
shadow, Cicely instantly concealed herself on the other side of the
road. There was a silence.

The moon, emerging still further from the clouds, now silvered the
forest, the path, and the sound with its clear light; there was no boat
drawn up at the point's end; the beach sloped smoothly to the water,
unbroken by any dark outline, and the water stretched smoothly towards
Singleton Island, with only the track of the moon across it.

Eve stood in the shadow under the trees. The spell of the place was upon
her; like a somnambulist, she felt herself forced by some inward
compelling power to go through the whole scene. The thought of Cicely
