feet gently.

"Aunt Dolly said no at once to that plan; for how could she let her
precious boy go and live in that little house down in the poor part of
the city?

"There was no other way, however, for Val would not leave his sister and
his beloved lathe, and was wise enough to see how impossible it would be
to have his own way with the child in a house where every one obeyed his
whims and petted him, as such afflicted children usually are petted.

"So Val stood firm, and for a time nothing was done.

"I was much interested in the affair, and every time I saw my cousin Gus
I told him what nice times I had down there; how strong and lively Bobby
was, and declared my firm belief that Val could cure every disease under
the sun.

"These glowing accounts made Gus want to go, and when he set his heart
on anything he always got it; so in the end Aunt Dolly consented, and
Gus went to board in the little house, much to the wonder of some folks.

"The plan succeeded capitally, however, and Gus thrived like a dandelion
in springtime; for simple food, plenty of air, no foolish indulgence,
and the most faithful care, built up the little lad in a way that
astonished and delighted us all.

"The feet improved slowly; and Val was sure that in time they would be
all right, for everything helped on the good work.

"Dear me, what happy days I used to spend at Betsey’s!  Sometimes Isaac,
the jolly, bluff pilot, would take us out in his boat; and then what
rosy cheeks and good appetites we got! Sometimes we played in Val’s
shop, and watched him make pretty things or helped him in some easy job,
for he liked to have us near him.  And, oh, my heart, what delicious
suppers Betsey used to get us in the front room, where all sorts of
queer sea treasures were collected,--shells, coral, and seaweed; odd
pictures of ships and fish, and old books full of sailor songs and
thrilling tales of wrecks."

"I wish I had been there!" interrupted Alice.  "Is the house all gone,
aunty?"

"All gone, dear, and every one of that merry party but myself," answered
Aunt Pen, with a sigh.

"Don’t think about the sad part of it, but go on and tell about the bed,
please," said Alice, feeling that it was about time this interesting
piece of furniture appeared in the story.

"Well, that was made to comfort me when Gus went home, as he did after
staying two years.  Yes, he went home with straight feet, the heartiest,
happiest little lad I ever saw.

"I was heart-broken at losing my playmate, and mourned for him as
bitterly as a child could, till Val comforted me, not only by the
cunning bedstead for my doll, but by a hundred kindly words and acts,
for which I never thanked him half enough.

"Aunt Dolly and my father were so grateful and pleased at Val’s success
with Gus that they helped him in a plan he had some years later, when he
took a larger house in a better place, and with Betsey as nurse, opened
a small hospital for the cure of deformed feet.  It was an excellent
plan; and all was going well, when poor Val wasted rapidly away, and
died just as his work began to bring him money and some honor."

"That was very bad!  But what became of Bobby and Gus?" asked Alice, who
was not of an age to care much about the "sad part" of any story.

"Bob became a sea-captain, and was an excellent fellow till he went down
with his ship in a storm after rescuing all his crew, even to the
cabin-boy.  I’m proud of Bob, and keep those two great pearly shells in
memory of him, for he brought them to me after his first voyage."

Aunt Pen’s eyes lit up, and her voice rose as she spoke with real pride
and affection of honest Captain Brown, who to her was always little Bob.

"I like that, it was so brave and good; but I do wish he had been saved,
for then I could have seen him.  And maybe he would have brought me a
big green parrot that could say funny things.  What became of Gus?"
asked Alice, after a moment spent in the delightful thought of owning a
green parrot with a red tail.

"Ah, my dear, I wish I knew!" exclaimed Aunt Pen, so earnestly that
Alice dropped her work, astonished at the change in that usually quiet
face.

"Don’t tell any more if you ’d rather not," said the little girl,
feeling instinctively that she had touched some tender string.

But Aunt Pen only stroked her curly head and went on in a softer tone,
with her eyes fixed upon a faded picture that had hung over her
work-table ever since Alice could remember.

"I like to tell you, dear, because I want you to love the memory of this
old friend of mine. Gus went to sea also, much against his mother’s
will, for the years spent in the little house near the wharf had given
the boy a taste for salt water, and he could not overcome it, though he
tried.

"He sailed with Captain Bob all round the world, and would have been
with him on that last voyage if a sudden whim had not kept him ashore.
More than this we don’t know; and for seven years have had no tidings of
him. The others give him up, feeling sure that he was lost in the wild
hill-country of India, whither he went in search of adventures.  I
suppose they are right; but I cannot make it true, and still hope to
see the dear boy back, or at least to hear some news of him."

"Would n’t he be rather an old boy now, Aunt Pen?" asked Alice, softly;
for she wanted to chase away the load of pain with a smile if she could.

"Bless my heart, so he would!  Forty, at least.  Well, well, he never
will seem old to me, though his hair should be gray when he comes home."
And Aunt Pen did smile as her eyes went back to the faded picture with a
tender look that made Alice say timidly, while she laid her blooming
cheek against her aunt’s hand,--

"Would you mind if I asked if it was Gus who gave you this pretty ring,
and was your sweetheart once?  Mamma told me you had one, and he was
dead; so I must never ask why you did n’t marry as she did."

"Yes, he gave me this, and was to come back in a year or two; but I have
never seen him since, and never shall, I fear, till we all meet over the
great sea at last."

There Aunt Pen broke down, and spreading her hands before her face, sat
so still that Alice feared to stir.

Even her careless child’s heart was full of pity now; and two great
tears rolled down upon the little blanket, to lie sparkling like drops
of dew in the heart of the very remarkable red rose she was working in
the middle.

Then it was that Ariadne distinguished herself, and proved beyond a
doubt that her blue china eyes were worth something.  A large, brown,
breezy-looking man had been peeping in from the door for several
moments, and listening in the most improper manner.  No one saw him but
Ariadne, and how could she warn the others, poor thing, when she had n’t
a tongue in her head?  Don’t tell me that dolls have n’t hearts
somewhere in their sawdust bosoms!  I know better; and I am firmly
