disagreeable, scratching, paring sound of the Cossack's heavy knife as it
cut its way through the great packages of leaves. The mid-day hour
afforded no relief, for the pressure of work was great and each of the
workers had brought a little food to be eaten in haste and almost without
a change of position. For the work was paid for in proportion to its
quantity, and the poor people were glad enough when there was so much to
do, since there was then just so much more to be earned. There were times
when the demand was slack and when Fischelowitz would not keep his people
at their tables for more than two or three hours in a day. They might
occupy the rest of their time as they could, and earn something in other
ways, if they were able. When those hard times came poor Vjera picked up a
little sewing, paid for at starvation rates, Johann Schmidt turned his
hand to the repairing of furs, in which he had some skill, and which is an
art in itself, and Dumnoff varied his existence by exercising great
economy in the matter of food without making a similar reduction in the
allowance of his drink. Under ordinary circumstances Vjera would have
rejoiced at the quantity of work to be done, and as it was, her mental
suffering did not make her fingers awkward or less nervously eager in the
perpetual rolling of the little pieces of paper round the glass tube. Even
acute physical pain is often powerless to affect the mechanical skill of a
hand trained for many years to repeat the same little operation thousands
of times in a day with unvarying perfection. Vjera worked as well and as
quickly as ever, though the hours seemed so endlessly long as to make her
wonder why she did not turn out more work than usual. From time to time
the two men exchanged more or less personal observations after their
manner.

"It seems to me that you work better than usual," remarked the Cossack,
looking at Dumnoff.

"I feel better," laughed the latter. "I feel as though I had been having a
holiday and a country dance."

"For the sake of your health, you ought to have a little excitement now
and then," continued Schmidt. "It is hard for a man of your constitution
to be shut up day after day as you are here. A little bear-fight now and
then would do you almost as much good as an extra bottle of brandy,
besides being cheaper."

"Yes." Dumnoff yawned, displaying all his ferocious white teeth to the
assembled company. "That is true--and then, those green cloth policemen
look so funny when one upsets them. I wish I had a few here."

"You have not heard the last of your merry-making yet," said Fischelowitz,
who was standing in the doorway. "If I had not got you out this morning
you would still be in the police-station."

"There is something in that," observed Schmidt. "If he were not out, he
would still be in."

"Well, if I were, I should still be asleep," said Dumnoff. "That would not
be so bad, after all."

"You may be there again before long," suggested Fischelowitz. "You know
there is to be an inquiry. I only hope you will do plenty of work before
they lock you up for a fortnight."

"I suppose they will let me work in prison," answered Dumnoff,
indifferently. "They do in some places."

Vjera, whose ideas of prisons have been already explained at length, was
so much surprised that she at last opened her lips.

"Have you ever been in prison?" she asked in a wondering tone.

"Several times," replied the other, without looking up. "But always," he
added, as though suddenly anxious for his reputation, "always for that
sort of thing--for upsetting somebody who did not want to be upset. It is
a curious thing--I always do it in the same way, and they always tumble
down. One would think people would learn--" he paused as though
considering a profound problem.

"Perhaps they are not always the same people," remarked the Cossack.

"That is true. That may have something to do with it." The ex-coachman
relapsed into silence.

"But, is it not very dreadful--in prison?" asked Vjera rather timidly,
after a short pause.

"No--if one can sleep well, the time passes very pleasantly. Of course,
one is not always as comfortable as we were last night. That is not to be
expected."

"Comfortable!" exclaimed the girl in surprise.

"Well--we had a nice room with a good light, and there happened to be
nobody else in for the night. It was dry and clean and well
furnished--rather hard beds, I believe, though I scarcely noticed them. We
smoked and talked some time and then I went to sleep. Oh, yes--I passed a
very pleasant evening, and a comfortable night."

"But I thought--" Vjera hesitated, as though fearing that she was going to
say something foolish. "I thought that prisoners always had chains," she
said, at last.

Everybody laughed loudly at this remark and the poor girl felt very much
ashamed of herself, though the question had seemed so natural and had been
in her mind a long time. It was an immense relief, however, to know that
things had not been so bad as she had imagined, and Dumnoff's description
of the place of his confinement was certainly reassuring.

As the endless day wore on, she began to glance anxiously towards the
door, straining her ears for a familiar footstep in the outer shop. As has
been said, the Count sometimes looked in on Wednesdays, when his
calculations had convinced him that his friends, not having arrived by one
train, could not be expected for several hours. But to-day he did not
come, to-day when Vjera would have given heaven and earth for a sight of
him. Never, in her short life, had she realised how slowly the hours could
limp along from sunrise to noon, from noon to sunset, never had the little
spot of sunlight which appeared in the back-shop on fine afternoons taken
so long to crawl its diagonal course from the left front-leg of Dumnoff's
table, where it made its appearance, to the right-hand corner of her own,
at which point it suddenly went out and was seen no more, being probably
intercepted by some fixed object outside.

Time is the measure of most unhapppiness, for it is in sorrow and anxiety
that we are most keenly conscious of it, and are oppressed by its leaden
weight. When we are absorbed in work, in study, in the production of
anything upon which all our faculties are concentrated, we say that the
time passes quickly. When we are happy we know nothing of time nor of its
movement, only, long afterwards, we look back, and we say, "How short the
hours seemed then!"

Vjera toiled on and on, watching the creeping sunshine on the floor,
glancing at the ever-increasing heap of cut leaves that fell from the
Cossack's cutting-block, noting the slow rise in the pile of paper shells
before her and comparing it with that produced by the girl at her elbow,
longing for the moment when she would see the freshly-made cigarettes just
below the inner edge of Dumnoff's basket, taking account of every little
thing by which to persuade herself that the day was declining and the
evening at hand.

Her life was sad and monotonous enough at the best of times. It seemed as
though the accidents of the night had made it by contrast ten times more
sad and monotonous and hopeless than before.




