the occasion seemed to require of him. But the commander restrained
himself as much as he could, and extended his hand to the first
lieutenant, which the young man accepted, and received a pressure that
was almost enough to crush his feebler paw. In spite of himself, he
could not help laughing in sympathy with his superior.

"I am sorry you did not bring it all off with you, Mr. Passford," said
Captain Blowitt, as soon as he was able to speak, for his risibles
seemed to have obtained complete control of him.

"I have brought it all off with me, captain," replied Christy, though he
had not yet got at the point of the joke, and spoke at a venture.

"What, the whole State of Florida!" exclaimed the commander.

"No, sir; I did not bring it all off with me, for I did not think it
would be quite safe to do this, for it might set the Gulf Stream to
running in a new course, and derange navigation by making all our charts
useless," replied Christy, smoothing down the muscles of his face so
that he looked as sober as before.

"I thought from the appearance that you had brought it all off," added
Captain Blowitt. "Did I instruct you to bring it off?"

"No, sir; you were considerate enough to say that you did not expect me
to capture the whole State, and therefore I have not done it."

"But we heard heavy guns this morning," continued the commander, putting
on his sober face, for he could be as serious as a judge, though his
adipose structure compelled him to be a great joker at suitable times.
"You had no boat guns."

"No, sir; but we picked up four twelve-pounder field pieces, which you
see, two of them on carriages, on the forecastle of that steamer. We
found the garrison asleep, and we carried off the four guns with which
the battery was mounted. We put them on the Seahorse Key, and went into
the bay to see what was there, sir. We found two schooners, and on the
way we took the steamer. When we were hauling out the two schooners, the
garrison woke up, and attempted to drive us off with musketry. We beat
them off and sunk two boats with the field pieces. This is my report in
brief."

"And a very good report it is, Mr. Passford. I did not expect you to do
anything more than bring off full information in regard to the situation
at the port," added Captain Blowitt.

"But you ordered me to do anything I could to prepare the way for a
visit from the Bronx," suggested Christy.

"And you have prepared the way by bringing off everything at the port,
so that there is nothing for the Bronx to do there," said the commander
with a smile.

"When I found that the garrison were all asleep, I thought it was
my duty not to lose the opportunity that was thus presented to me.
Everything was in our favor, and I was led to do one thing after another
till there was nothing more to do. I found that Captain Lonley, the
worthy gentleman who had made prisoners of Mr. Flint and myself on Santa
Rosa Island, was in command of the steamer. He was not glad to see me;
and from him I learned that the Havana, which is her name, belonged to
my uncle Homer; and so did the schooners."

"Then your uncle has a heavy charge against you, for you have now taken
four of his vessels."

"Possibly the Confederate government is behind him in this operation.
I don't know; but I am sure that the loss of every dollar he has in the
world would not change his views in regard to the justice of his cause.
But, Captain Blowitt, there are on board of the Havana a gentleman and
his daughter, who reside in Newburgh. He is an invalid and a loyal
citizen," continued Christy, as he happened to see Miss Pembroke on the
quarter deck of the steamer.

"They wish to go home, I suppose, and there will soon be an opportunity
for them to do so," replied the captain, as he went with his lieutenant
to take a look at the prizes.

He gave particular attention to the Havana, which it was said had been
built to run between Cedar Keys and the port for which she had been
named, in connection with the railroad. She appeared to be a good vessel
of about four hundred tons, which was as large as the navigation of the
channel to the port would permit. She was not fit for war purposes in
her present condition, and Captain Blowitt decided to send her to New
York. Most of the hands on board of the three prizes were negroes, who
were too happy to go to the North.

"Sail, ho!" shouted the lookout on board of the Bronx, while the
commander was still discussing his plans with Christy.

"Where away?" demanded the captain.

"Coming down from the northwest," reported a quartermaster.

Captain Blowitt hastened on board of the Bronx, for it did not yet
appear whether the vessel was a friend or an enemy. She was a steamer,
and she left a thin streak of black smoke in the sky, which indicated
that her coal came from British territory.

The Havana and the schooners were left in charge of Mr. Amblen, after
the prisoners had been properly disposed of in safe places. Mr. Spinnet,
the second assistant engineer, was sent on board of her, for the
commander had not full confidence in Dolly, though he permitted him to
remain as assistant. The boats used by the expedition were hoisted up to
the davits, and the first and second lieutenants were ordered to return
to the Bronx, and only six seamen were left on board to guard the
prisoners, of whom Lonley was the only dangerous one, at all likely to
make trouble.

The Bronx steamed off at her best speed in the direction of the
approaching steamer, which appeared to be fast, and to be of that
peculiarly rakish class of vessels of which there were so many engaged
in the business of blockade running. She was examined by the officers
with their glasses; but they were unable to make her out. Her ensign was
set on a stern pole; but they could not see whether it was the American
or the Confederate flag.

"What do you make of her, Mr. Passford?" asked the captain, as they
watched her advance over the smooth sea.

"She is or has been a blockade runner, and that is all I can make out of
her," replied Christy.

"She may have run the blockade, fitted in Mobile or some other port as a
cruiser, and come out to do what mischief she can. We may have to fight
for our prizes, but the splinters will fly before she gets them away
from us," said Captain Blowitt, who watched the steamer with an anxious
look on his face, resolute as he was in the discharge of his duty. "She
is considerably larger than the Bronx."

"As I make her out, she looks something like the Ocklockonee and the
Escambia, which we sent to New York, though they had but one smokestack
each while this one has two. They were about five hundred tons; and I
should think this vessel was of very nearly the same size," added
Christy.

"Flies the American flag, sir," reported a quartermaster who had been
sent into the main rigging to observe her.

"That may be a trick," said the captain, "though I hardly think it is,
for she is larger than the Bronx, and need not resort to tricks."
