the present road. The Yosemite will remain as it is. The simplicity of
its grand features is unassailable so long as the Government protects
the forests that surround it and the streams that pour into it. The
visitor who goes there by rail will find plenty of adventure for days
and weeks in following the mountain trails, ascending to the great
points of view, exploring the cañons, or climbing so as to command the
vast stretch of the snowy Sierras. Or, if he is not inclined to
adventure, the valley itself will satisfy his highest imaginative
flights of the sublime in rock masses and perpendicular ledges, and his
sense of beauty in the graceful water-falls, rainbow colors, and
exquisite lines of domes and pinnacles. It is in the grouping of objects
of sublimity and beauty that the Yosemite excels. The narrow valley,
with its gigantic walls, which vary in every change of the point of
view, lends itself to the most astonishing scenic effects, and these the
photograph has reproduced, so that the world is familiar with the
striking features of the valley, and has a tolerably correct idea of the
sublimity of some of these features. What the photograph cannot do is to
give an impression of the unique grouping, of the majesty, and at times
crushing weight upon the mind of the forms and masses, of the
atmospheric splendor and illusion, and of the total value of such an
assemblage of wonders. The level surface of the peaceful, park-like
valley has much to do with the impression. The effect of El Capitan,
seen across a meadow and rising from a beautiful park, is much greater
than if it were encountered in a savage mountain gorge. The traveller
may have seen elsewhere greater water-falls, and domes and spires of
rock as surprising, but he has nowhere else seen such a combination as
this. He may be fortified against surprise by the photographs he has
seen and the reports of word painters, but he will not escape (say, at
Inspiration Point, or Artist Point, or other lookouts), a quickening of
the pulse and an elation which is physical as well as mental, in the
sight of such unexpected sublimity and beauty. And familiarity will
scarcely take off the edge of his delight, so varied are the effects in
the passing hours and changing lights. The Rainbow Fall, when water is
abundant, is exceedingly impressive as well as beautiful. Seen from the
carriage road, pouring out of the sky overhead, it gives a sense of
power, and at the proper hour before sunset, when the vast mass of
leaping, foaming water is shot through with the colors of the spectrum,
it is one of the most exquisite sights the world can offer; the
elemental forces are overwhelming, but the loveliness is engaging. One
turns from this to the noble mass of El Capitan with a shock of
surprise, however often it may have been seen. This is the hour also, in
the time of high-water, to see the reflection of the Yosemite Falls. As
a spectacle it is infinitely finer than anything at Mirror Lake, and is
unique in its way. To behold this beautiful series of falls, flowing
down out of the blue sky above, and flowing up out of an equally blue
sky in the depths of the earth, is a sight not to be forgotten. And
when the observer passes from these displays to the sight of the aerial
domes in the upper end of the valley, new wonders opening at every turn
of the forest road, his excitement has little chance of subsiding: he
may be even a little oppressed. The valley, so verdant and friendly with
grass and trees and flowers, is so narrow compared with the height of
its perpendicular guardian walls, and this little secluded spot is so
imprisoned in the gigantic mountains, that man has a feeling of
helplessness in it. This powerlessness in the presence of elemental
forces was heightened by the deluge of water. There had been an immense
fall of snow the winter before, the Merced was a raging torrent,
overflowing its banks, and from every ledge poured a miniature cataract.



Noble simplicity is the key-note to the scenery of the Yosemite, and
this is enhanced by the park-like appearance of the floor of the valley.
The stems of the fine trees are in harmony with the perpendicular lines,
and their foliage adds the necessary contrast to the gray rock masses.
In order to preserve these forest-trees, the underbrush, which is
liable to make a conflagration in a dry season, should be removed
generally, and the view of the great features be left unimpeded. The
minor cañons and the trails are, of course, left as much as possible to
the riot of vegetation. The State Commission, which labors under the
disadvantages of getting its supplies from a Legislature that does not
appreciate the value of the Yosemite to California, has developed the
trails judiciously, and established a model trail service. The Yosemite,
it need not be said, is a great attraction to tourists from all parts of
the world; it is the interest of the State, therefore, to increase their
number by improving the facilities for reaching it, and by resolutely
preserving all the surrounding region from ravage.





This is as true of the Mariposa big tree region as of the valley.
Indeed, more care is needed for the trees than for the great chasm, for
man cannot permanently injure the distinctive features of the latter,
while the destruction of the sequoias will be an irreparable loss to the
State and to the world. The Sequoia gigantea differs in leaf, and size
and shape of cone, from the great Sequoia semper virens on the coast
near Santa Cruz; neither can be spared. The Mariposa trees, scattered
along on a mountain ridge 6500 feet above the sea, do not easily obtain
their victory, for they are a part of a magnificent forest of other
growths, among which the noble sugar-pine is conspicuous for its
enormous size and graceful vigor. The sequoias dominate among splendid
rivals only by a magnitude that has no comparison elsewhere in the
world. I think no one can anticipate the effect that one of these
monarchs will have upon him. He has read that a coach and six can drive
through one of the trees that is standing; that another is thirty-three
feet in diameter, and that its vast stem, 350 feet high, is crowned with
a mass of foliage that seems to brush against the sky. He might be
prepared for a tower 100 feet in circumference, and even 400 feet high,
standing upon a level plain; but this living growth is quite another
affair. Each tree is an individual, and has a personal character. No man
can stand in the presence of one of these giants without a new sense of
the age of the world and the insignificant span of one human life; but
he is also overpowered by a sense of some gigantic personality. It does
not relieve him to think of this as the Methuselah of trees, or to call
it by the name of some great poet or captain. The awe the tree inspires
is of itself. As one lies and looks up at the enormous bulk, it seems
not so much the bulk, so lightly is it carried, as the spirit of the
tree--the elastic vigor, the patience, the endurance of storm and
change, the confident might, and the soaring, almost contemptuous pride,
that overwhelm the puny spectator. It is just because man can measure
himself, his littleness, his brevity of existence, with this growth out
of the earth, that he is more personally impressed by it than he might
be by the mere variation in the contour of the globe which is called a
mountain. The imagination makes a plausible effort to comprehend it, and
is foiled. No; clearly it is not mere size that impresses one; it is the
dignity, the character in the tree, the authority and power of
antiquity. Side by side of these venerable forms are young sequoias,
great trees themselves, that have only just begun their millennial
career--trees that will, if spared, perpetuate to remote ages this race
of giants, and in two to four thousand years from now take the place of
their great-grandfathers, who are sinking under the weight of years, and
one by one measuring their length on the earth.



The transition from the sublime to the exquisitely lovely in nature can
nowhere else be made with more celerity than from the Sierras to the
coast at Monterey; California abounds in such contrasts and surprises.
After the great stirring of the emotions by the Yosemite and the
Mariposa, the Hotel del Monte Park and vicinity offer repose, and make
an appeal to the sense of beauty and refinement. Yet even here something
unique is again encountered. I do not refer to the extraordinary beauty
of the giant live-oaks and the landscape-gardening about the hotel,
which have made Monterey famous the world over, but to the sea-beach
drive of sixteen miles, which can scarcely be rivalled elsewhere either
for marine loveliness or variety of coast scenery. It has points like
the ocean drive at Newport, but is altogether on a grander scale, and
shows a more poetic union of shore and sea; besides, it offers the
curious and fascinating spectacles of the rocks inhabited by the
