
'I do not care,' he answered. 'Yet for your own sake, I advise you to go
away.'

'For my own sake!' she repeated, trying to speak scornfully, and turning
to go a second time.

But she did not reach the door. She stood still before the weapons which
hung upon the wall, and paused a moment and then took a sword from its
place. Khaled watched her. She grasped the hilt as well as she could
and swung the weapon in the air once with all her might. Then she
uttered a little cry of pain, for she had twisted her wrist. The sword
fell to the floor.

'He is right,' she said in a low tone, speaking aloud to herself. 'I am
weak and can be of no use to him.'

She went on once more towards the door, slowly, her head bent down, then
stopped and then looked back again. She feared that she might see a
smile on his face, but his eyes were grave and calm. Then he saw her
turn and lean against the wall as though she were suddenly weak. She hid
her face, and there was silence for a moment, and after that a low sound
of weeping filled the still room.

'Why do you shed tears?' Khaled asked presently. 'There is no danger for
you, I think. If you will go and shut yourself in the inner rooms you
will be safe.'

She turned fiercely and their eyes met.

'What do I care for myself?' she cried. 'Among so many deaths there is
surely one for me!'

Even as she spoke Khaled felt a cool breath upon his forehead, stirring
the stillness. He knew that it came from the beating of an angel's
wings. All his body trembled, his head fell forward a little and his
eyes closed.

'This is death,' he thought, 'and my fate has come. A little longer,
and she would have loved me.' But he did not speak aloud.

Again Zehowah's face was turned towards the wall, and still the sound of
her weeping filled the air, not subsiding and dying away, but rather
increasing with every moment.

'Life is not yet gone,' said Khaled in his heart. 'There is yet hope.'
For he no longer felt the cold breath on his forehead, and the trembling
had ceased for a moment.

He tried to speak aloud, but his lips could not form words nor his
throat utter sounds, and he was amazed at his weakness. A great despair
came upon him and his eyes were darkened so that he could not see the
lights.

'If only I could speak to her now, she might love me yet!' he thought.

The distant murmur from without was louder now and reached the room, and
he heard it. He tried with all his might to raise his hand, to lift his
head, to speak a single word.

'It may be that this is the nature of death,' he thought again, 'and I
am already dead.'

The noise from the multitude came louder and louder. Zehowah heard it
and her breath was caught in her throat. She looked up and saw that the
high window of the chamber was no longer quite dark. The day was
dawning. Then pressing her bosom with her hands she looked again at
Khaled. His head was bent upon his breast and he was so still that she
thought he had fallen asleep. A cry broke from her lips.

'He cares not!' she exclaimed. 'What is it to him, whether I go, or
stay?'

Again Khaled felt the cool breeze in the room, fanning his forehead, and
once more his limbs trembled. Then he felt that his strength was
returning and that he could move. He raised his head and looked at
Zehowah, and just then there was a distant crashing roar, as the
Bedouins began to strike upon the gates.

'It is time,' he said, and taking his sword in his hand he rose from his
seat.

Zehowah came towards him with outstretched hands, wet cheeks and burning
eyes. She stood before him as though to bar the way, and hinder him from
going out.

'What is it to you, whether I go, or stay?' he asked, repeating her own
words.

'What is it? By Allah, it is all my life--I will not let you go!' And
she took hold of his wrists with her weak woman's hands, and tried to
thrust him back.

'Go, Zehowah,' he answered, gently pressing her from him. 'Go now, and
let me meet them alone, knowing that you are safe. For though this be
pity which you feel, I know it is nothing more.'

He would have passed by her, but still she held him and kept before him.

'You shall not go!' she cried. 'I will prevent you with my body. Pity,
you say? Oh, Khaled! Is pity fierce? Is pity strong? Does pity burn like
fire? You shall not go, I say!'

Then her hands grew cold upon his wrists, her cheeks burned and in her
eyes there was a deep and gleaming light. All this Khaled felt and saw,
while he heard the raging of the multitude without. His sight grew again
uncertain. A third time the cool breath blew in his face.

'Yet it cannot be love,' he said uncertainly. Yet she heard him.

'Not love? Khaled, Khaled--my life, my breath, my soul--breath of my
life, life of my spirit--oh, Khaled, you have never loved as I love you
now!'

Her hands let go his wrists and clasped about his neck, and her face was
hidden upon his shoulder while her breath came and went like the gusts
of the burning storm in summer.

But as he held her, Khaled looked up and saw that the Angel of Allah was
before him, having a smiling countenance and bearing in his hand a
bright flame like the crescent moon.

'It is well done, O Khaled,' said the Angel, 'and this is thy reward.
Allah sends thee this to be thy own and to live after thy body, saying
that thou hast well earned it, for love such as thou hast got now is a
rare thing, not common with women and least of all with wives of kings.
And now Allah alone knows what thy fate is to be, but thou shalt be
judged at the end like other men, according to thy deeds, be they good
or evil. And so receive thy soul and do with it as thou wilt.'

The Angel then held out the flame which was like the crescent moon and
it immediately took shape and became the brighter image of Khaled
himself, endowed with immortality, and the knowledge of its own good and
evil. And when Khaled had looked at it fixedly for a moment, being
overcome with joy, the vision of himself disappeared, and he was aware
that it had entered his own body and taken up its life within him.

'Return thanks to Allah, and go thy way to the end,' said the Angel, who
then unfolded his wings and departed to paradise whence he had come.

