The baffled police, thinking at least to pacify the angry people
behind them, kept up that appearance of energy, with that absence
of expectation, for which their race is distinguished.

An officer who was stealthily studying the docks far to the
westward, and alone, suddenly stopped. A cry for help reached
him; and it was a woman’s cry. The voice kept up an interrupted
iteration:--

“Police! Help!--Murder! Sergeant!--Help! Help!” as if choked off,
or strangled in the intervals.

The sergeant, following the sound as well as he could, leaped down
the long, empty wharf from whose direction the cry seemed to come,
and peered over the slimy edge. The storm was passing noisily up
the sky, and the darkness was of the deepest.

Out of its hollow a girl’s voice uprose:--

“Sergeant! Sergeant! He’s drowning me! But I’ve got him!” and
bubbled away into silence.

At that moment there was lightning; and the outlines of two figures
struggling in the water could be distinctly seen. These two persons
were Lena and Ben Trawl. They seemed to have each other in a mutual
death-grip. The girl’s hands were at the man’s throat. He dashed
her under and under the water. But her clutch did not relax by a
finger. He held her down. But Lena held on.

“After I’ve strangled you!” gasped Lena.

“---- you,” muttered the man. “Drown, then!”

Her head went under; her mouth filled; this time she could not
struggle up; her ears rang; her brain burst. But the little fingers
on the big throat clutched on. Then she felt herself caught from
above--air came, and breath with it--and Ben swore faintly.

“Undo your hands, Lena,” said the sergeant. “We’ve got him. You
don’t want to hang him before his time.”

Another flash of lightning revealed the sea and sky, the docks and
the officers, and Ben, purple and breathing hard, stretched upon
the wharf. Lena heard the snap of the handcuffs upon his wrists;
and then she heard and saw no more.

The sergeant touched the girl’s dripping and unconscious figure
with a respect never shown to Lena in Windover police circles
before.

“She might not come to, yet,” he said; “she’s nigh enough to a
drowned girl. Get a woman, can’t you, somebody?”

“The man’s all we can manage,” replied a brother officer. “Get him
to the station the back way--here! Give a hand there! Quick! We’ll
have lynch-law here in just about ten minutes, if you ain’t spry.
Hark! D’ye hear that?”

A muffled roar came down the throat of Angel Alley. It grew, and
approached. It was the cry of all Windover raging to avenge the
Christian hero whom it learned, too late, to honor.

       

“Anyhow, he’ll hang for it,” muttered Lena, when she came to
herself in her decent room. Johnny’s mother was moaning over her.
Lena pushed the old woman gently away, and commanded the retreating
officer,

“Say, won’t he? Out with it!”

“Well,” replied the officer in a comfortable tone, “a good deal
depends. Liquor men ain’t skerce in this county. He’d get twenty
witnesses to swear to an alibi as easy as he’d get one.”

“Let ’em swear,” said Lena. “I see him do it. I saw him heave the
stone.”

“That might alter the case, and again it mightn’t,” replied the
officer; “it would depend on the value of the testimony--previous
reputation, and so on.”

Lena groaned.

“But I caught him by the arm! I stood alongside of him. I was
watching for it. I thought I’d be able to stop him. I’m pretty
strong. I grabbed him--but he flung me off and stamped on me. I see
him heave the rock. See! There’s the mark, where he kicked me. Then
he ran, and I after him. I can swear to it before earth and heaven.
I see him fling that rock!”

“You see,” observed the officer, “it ain’t a case of manslaughter
just yet. The minister was breathing when they moved him.”

       

They carried him to his own rooms, for it was not thought possible
to move him further. He had not spoken nor stirred, but his pulse
indicated that a good reserve of life remained in him. The wound
was in the lung. The stone was a large and jagged one, with a cruel
edge. It had struck with malignant power, and by one of those
extraordinary aims which seem to be left for hate and chance to
achieve.

His wife had caught him as he fell. She had uttered one cry; after
that, her lips had opened only once, and only to say that she
assented to her father’s proposal for the removal of her husband
to Mrs. Granite’s house, and that she entreated them to find some
gentle method of transportation over the rough road. For Windover
was a town of many churches, but of no hospital.

Oddly, the only quite coherent thought she had was of a man she had
heard about, a carpenter, who fell from a staging on the other side
of the Cape. He was put into an express cart and driven home, a
seven-mile gallop, over the rudest road in the State, to his wife;
naturally, he was dead when he got there. Bayard had been called to
see the widow.

Captain Hap stepped up (on tiptoe, as if he had been in a
sick-room), and whispered to the surgeon who had been summoned to
Angel Alley.

“That will do,” said the surgeon; “it has never been tried, that
I know of, but it is worth trying--most modern ideas are--if
practicable.”

“The fishermen hev cleared the car, the company has cleared the
track, and the motor man is one of his people,” said Captain Hap;
“an’ there’s enough of us to carry him from here to heaven so--so
lovin’ly he’d never feel a jolt.”

The old captain made no effort to wipe the tears which rained down
his wrinkled cheeks. He and Job Slip, with Mr. Bond and Bob and
Tony, took hold of the stretcher; they looked about, to choose, out
of a hundred volunteers, the sixth strong hand.

The Reverend George Fenton, agitated and trembling, forced his way
through the parting crowd, and pleaded piteously to be allowed to
offer his assistance in carrying his wounded classmate.

