It was her one moment of madness (who has not had one?). She married
him, marvelling a little inwardly when he required her to walk to
Assisi, but content to walk to China if that should be his pleasure.
When she reached the squalid house on the height and saw its crowd of
occupants, when her own money was demanded to send down to Assisi to
purchase the wedding dinner, then she understood--why they had walked.

But she never understood anything else. She never permitted herself to
understand. Tonio, plump and idle, enjoyed a year of paradisiacal
opulence under her ministrations (and in spite of some of them); he was
eighteen years younger than she was; it was natural that he should wish
to enjoy on a larger scale than hers--so he told her. At the end of
twelve months a fever carried him off, and his widow, who mourned for
him with all her heart, was left to face the world with the eight
children, the grandmother, the good old uncle, and whatever courage she
was able to muster after counting over and over the eighty-five dollars
that alone remained to her of the six hundred she had brought him.

Of course she could have gone back to her own country. But that idea
never once occurred to her; she had married Tonio for better or worse;
she could not in honor desert the worst now that it had come. It had
come in force; on the very day of the funeral she had been obliged to
work eight hours; on every day that had followed through all these
years, the hours had been on an average fourteen; sometimes more.

Bent under her basket, the widow now arrived at the back door of her
home. It was a small narrow house, built of rough stones plastered over
and painted bright yellow. But though thus gay without, it was dark
within; the few windows were very small, and their four little panes of
thick glass were covered with an iron grating; there was no elevation
above the ground, the brick floor inside being of the same level as the
flagging of the path without, so that there was always a sense of
groping when one entered the low door. There were but four rooms, the
kitchen, with a bedroom opening from it, and two chambers above under
the sloping roof.

Prudence unstrapped her basket and placed it in a wood-shed which she
had constructed with her own hands. For she could not comprehend a house
without a wood-shed; she called it a wood-shed, though there was very
little wood to put in it: in Assisi no one made a fire for warmth; for
cooking they burned twigs. She hung up the fagot (it was a fagot of
twigs), the herbs, and the sickle; then, after giving her narrow skirts
a shake, she entered the kitchen.

There was a bed in this room. Granmar would not allow it to be moved
elsewhere; her bed had always been in the kitchen, and in the kitchen it
should remain; no one but Denza, indeed, would wish to shove her off;
Annunziata had liked to have her dear old granmar there, where she could
see for herself that she was having everything she needed; but
Annunziata had been an angel of goodness, as well as of the dearest
beauty; whereas Denza--but any one could see what Denza was! As
Granmar's tongue was decidedly a thing to be reckoned with, her bed
remained where it always had been; from its comfortable cleanliness the
old creature could overlook and criticise to her heart's content the
entire household economy of Annunziata's successor. Not only the
kitchen, but the whole house and garden, had been vigorously purified by
this successor; single-handed she had attacked and carried away
accumulations which had been there since Columbus discovered America.
Even Granmar was rescued from her squalor and coaxed to wear a clean cap
and neat little shawl, her withered brown hands reposing meanwhile upon
a sheet which, though coarse, was spotless.

Granmar was a very terrible old woman; she had a beak-like nose, round
glittering black eyes set in broad circles of yellow wrinkles, no mouth
to speak of, and a receding chin; her voice was now a gruff bass, now a
shrill yell.

"How late you are! you do it on purpose," she said as Prudence entered.
"And me--as haven't had a thing I've wanted since you went away hours
upon hours ago. Nunziata there has been as stupid as a stone--behold
her!"

She spoke in peasant Italian, a tongue which Mrs. Guadagni the second
(called Denza by the family, from Prudenza, the Italian form of her
first name) now spoke readily enough, though after a fashion of her own.
She remained always convinced that Italian was simply lunatic English,
English spoiled. One of the children, named Pasquale, she called
Squawly, and she always believed that the title came from the strength
of his infant lungs; many other words impressed her in the same way.

She now made no reply to Granmar's complaints save to give one
business-like look towards the bed to see whether the pillows were
properly adjusted for the old creature's comfort; then she crossed the
room towards the stove, a large ancient construction of bricks, with two
or three small depressions over which an iron pot could be set.

"Well, Nounce," she said to a girl who was sitting there on a little
bench. The tone of her voice was kindly; she looked to see if a fire had
been made. A few coals smouldered in one of the holes. "Good girl," said
Prudence, commendingly.

"Oh, very good!" cried Granmar from the bed--"very good, when I told her
forty times, and fifty, to make me an omelet, a wee fat one with a drop
of fig in it, and I so faint, and she wouldn't, the snake! she wouldn't,
the toad!--toadest of toads!"

The dark eyes of the girl turned slowly towards Prudence. Prudence, as
she busied herself with the coals, gave her a little nod of approbation,
which Granmar could not see. The girl looked pleased for a moment; then
her face sank into immobility again. She was not an idiot, but wanting,
as it was called; a delicate, pretty young creature, who, with her
cousin Pippo, had been only a year old when the second wife came to
Assisi. It was impossible for any one to be fond of Pippo, who even at
that age had been selfish and gluttonous to an abnormal degree; but
Prudence had learned to love the helpless little girl committed to her
care, as she had also learned to love very dearly the child's brother
Giovanni, who was but a year older; they had been but babies, both of
them. The girl was now seventeen. Her name was Annunziata, but Prudence
called her Nounce. "If it means 'Announce,' Nounce is near enough, I
guess," she said to herself, aggressively. The truth was that she hated
the name; it had belonged to Tonio's first wife, and of the memory of
that comely young mother, poor Prudence, with her sixty years, her white
hair, and wrinkled skin, was burningly jealous even now. Giovanni's name
she pronounced as though it were two words--Jo Vanny; she really thought
there were two. Jo she knew well, of course; it was a good New England
name; Vanny was probably some senseless Italian addition. The name of
the eldest son, Augusto, became on her lips Gooster; Paolo was Parlo,
Assunta was Soonter.

The nuns had finally taken Soonter. The step-mother had been unable to
conceal from herself her own profound relief. True, the girl had gone to
a "papish" convent; but she had always been a mystery in the house, and
the constant presence of a mystery is particularly trying to the New
England mind. Soonter spent hours in meditation; she was very quiet; she
believed that she saw angels; her face wore often a far-away smile.

On this September evening she prepared a heavily abundant supper for
Granmar, and a simple one for Nounce, who ate at any time hardly more
than a bird; Granmar, on the contrary, was gifted with an appetite of
extraordinary capacities, the amount of food which was necessary to keep
her, not in good-humor (she was never in good-humor), but in passable
bodily tranquillity, through the twenty-four hours being equal to that
which would have been required (so Prudence often thought) for three
hearty New England harvesters at home. Not that Granmar would touch New
England food; none of the family would eat the home dishes which
Prudence in the earlier years had hopefully tried to prepare from such
materials as seemed to her the least "onreasonable"; Granmar, indeed,
had declared each and all fit only for the hogs. Prudence never tried
them now, and she had learned the art of Italian cooking; for she felt
that she could not afford to make anything that was to be for herself
