looked round.

"Oh!" she exclaimed. "Already! Well--it had to come. Have you met?"

Clare told her all that had happened.

"And he said that he was glad?" asked Mrs. Bowring, with the ghost of a
smile.

"He said so--yes. His voice was cold. But when he first heard my name
and asked about my father his face softened."

"His face softened," repeated Mrs. Bowring to herself, just above a
whisper, as the ghost of the smile flitted about her pale lips.

"He seemed glad at first, and then he looked displeased. Is that it?"
she asked, raising her voice again.

"That was what I thought," answered Clare. "Why don't you have luncheon
in your room, mother?" she asked suddenly.

"He would think I was afraid to meet him," said the elder woman.

A long silence followed, and Clare sat down on a stiff straw chair,
looking out of the window. At last she turned to her mother again.

"You couldn't tell me all about it, could you, mother dear?" she asked.
"It seems to me it would be so much easier for us both. Perhaps I could
help you. And I myself--I should know better how to act."

"No. I can't tell you. I only pray that I may never have to. As for you,
darling--be natural. It is a very strange position to be in, but you
cannot know it--you can't be supposed to know it. I wish I could have
kept my secret better--but I broke down when you told me about the
yacht. You can only help me in one way--don't ask me questions, dear. It
would be harder for me, if you knew--indeed it would. Be natural. You
need not run after them, you know--"

"I should think not!" cried Clare indignantly.

"I mean, you need not go and sit by them and talk to them for long at a
time. But don't be suddenly cold and rude to their son. There's nothing
against--I mean, it has nothing to do with him. You mustn't think it
has, you know. Be natural--be yourself."

"It's not altogether easy to be natural under the circumstances," Clare
answered, with some truth, and a great deal of repressed curiosity which
she did her best to hide away altogether for her mother's sake.

At luncheon the Johnstones were all three placed on the opposite side of
the table, and Brook was no longer Clare's neighbour. The Bowrings were
already in their places when the three entered, Sir Adam giving his arm
to his wife, who seemed to need help in walking, or at all events to be
glad of it. Brook followed at a little distance, and Clare saw that he
was looking at her regretfully, as though he wished himself at her side
again. Had she been less young and unconscious and thoroughly innocent,
she must have seen by this time that he was seriously in love with her.

Sir Adam held his wife's chair for her, with somewhat old-fashioned
courtesy, and pushed it gently as she sat down. Then he raised his head,
and his eyes met Mrs. Bowring's. For a few moments they looked at each
other. Then his expression changed and softened, as it had when he had
first met Clare, but Mrs. Bowring's face grew hard and pale. He did not
sit down, but to his wife's surprise walked quietly all round the end of
the table and up the other side to where Mrs. Bowring sat. She knew that
he was coming, and she turned a little to meet his hand. The English old
maids watched the proceedings with keen interest from the upper end.

Sir Adam held out his hand, and Mrs. Bowring took it.

"It is a great pleasure to me to meet you again," he said slowly, as
though speaking with an effort. "Brook says that you have been very good
to him, and so I want to thank you at once. Yes--this is your
daughter--Brook introduced me. Excuse me--I'll get round to my place
again. Shall we meet after luncheon?"

"If you like," said Mrs. Bowring in a constrained tone. "By all means,"
she added nervously.

"My dear," said Sir Adam, speaking across the table to his wife, "let me
introduce you to my old friend Mrs. Bowring, the mother of this young
lady whom you have already met," he added, glancing down at Clare's
flaxen head.

Again Lady Johnstone slightly bent her apoplectic neck, but her
expression was not stony, as it had been when she had first looked at
Clare. On the contrary, she smiled very pleasantly and naturally, and
her frank blue eyes looked at Mrs. Bowring with a friendly interest.

Clare thought that she heard a faint sigh of relief escape her mother's
lips just then. Sir Adam's heavy steps echoed upon the tile floor, as he
marched all round the table again to his seat. The table itself was
narrow, and it was easy to talk across it, without raising the voice.
Sir Adam sat on one side of his wife, and Brook on the other, last on
his side, as Clare was on hers.

There was very little conversation at first. Brook did not care to talk
across to Clare, and Sir Adam seemed to have said all he meant to say
for the present. Lady Johnstone, who seemed to be a cheerful,
conversational soul, began to talk to Mrs. Bowring, evidently attracted
by her at first sight.

"It's a beautiful place when you get here," she said. "Isn't it? The
view from my window is heavenly! But to get here! Dear me! I was carried
up by two men, you know, and I thought they would have died. I hope
they are enjoying their dinner, poor fellows! I'm sure they never
carried such a load before!"

And she laughed, with a sort of frank, half self-commiserating amusement
at her own proportions.

"Oh, I fancy they must be used to it," said Mrs. Bowring, reassuringly,
for the sake of saying something.

"They'll hate the sight of me in a week!" said Lady Johnstone. "I mean
to go everywhere, while I'm here--up all the hills, and down all the
valleys. I always see everything when I come to a new place. It's
pleasant to sit still afterwards, and feel that you've done it all,
don't you know? I shall ruin you in porters, Adam," she added, turning
her large round face slowly to her husband.

"Certainly, certainly," answered Sir Adam, nodding gravely, as he
dissected the bones out of a fried sardine.

"You're awfully good about it," said Lady Johnstone, in thanks for
unlimited porters to come.

Like many unusually stout people, she ate very little, and had plenty of
time for talking.

"You knew my husband a long time ago, then!" she began, again looking
across at Mrs. Bowring.

Sir Adam glanced at Mrs. Bowring sharply from beneath his shaggy brows.

"Oh yes," she said calmly. "We met before he was married."

The grey-headed man slowly nodded assent, but said nothing.

"Before his first marriage?" inquired Lady Johnstone gravely. "You know
