hoisted up. The lady was the first to leap from her place to the rail of
the ship.

The passengers applauded as she moved aft; and she replied with her
usual cry, and ended it with a squeak. She went directly to the
promenade, which she mounted, and then hastened to Mrs. Belgrave's
chair. She looked at her baby as though it had been overboard. Miss
Mingo's keeper had taken care that the infant should not see her mother
in the water; and the little one could not have told what was the matter
if any one had asked her, first because she did not know, and second for
an obvious reason.

The ship was going ahead again, and the captain came to the promenade.
He took the lady into the sun, and persuaded her to lie down and dry
herself. She seemed to understand the matter, and stretched herself out.

"What made her fall overboard, Captain?" asked the lady--meaning Mrs.
Belgrave this time, and not the siamang.

[Illustration: SHE MADE A VIGOROUS LEAP INTO THE FORE-SHEETS.

Page 267.]

"The fore topgallant halliard was not made fast to the cleat, and when
it ran out, it jerked her from it," replied the commander. "It ought not
to have been loose, and there is a bit of discipline for some jack-tar."

The ship went along as before; and when the passengers turned out the
next morning Manila was in sight, and not five miles distant.




CHAPTER XXIX

GOING ON SHORE IN MANILA


The ship had slowed down in the afternoon, and reached the entrance of
Manila Bay about eight bells, or four o'clock in the morning. At the
Boca Grande she had taken a pilot; but she still had twenty-five miles
to run. She had come in by the larger of the two passages, formed by a
group of islands, both of which are called "mouths" (bocas); and the
smaller of them is the Boca Chica. The Blanche had followed the example
of the Guardian-Mother in slowing down, and had taken a pilot at about
the same time.

The passengers had asked the steward on watch in the cabin to call them
at half-past five, and they were all on deck as soon as it was light
enough for them to see the shore clearly. But the bay is so large that
they could make out the shores only ahead of the ship. They could see
the mountains in the distance, with a lower stretch of land between them
and the low ground of the shore. All that they could observe was
tropical verdure, with lofty palms on every hand. The low ground,
covered with water in the rainy season, was planted with rice-fields.

The ladies declared that the view was lovely; and certainly it presented
variety enough, with the high lands in the background, and the rich and
luxuriant growth near the bay. The pilot was a Spaniard who could speak
a little English; and the commander ordered him to bring the ship to
anchor at a safe place, as near as convenient off the end of the two
piers at the mouth of Pasig. The Blanche took a position abreast of her,
off the fort, while the first was off the lighthouse.

The health-officer came on board, and by this time it was after sunrise.
He was blandly received by the commander, as every official or visitor
was, and the conversation was carried on in English. All the ship's
company and the passengers were mustered on the upper deck. The papers,
including lists of all the persons on board, were examined, and compared
with the number presented, which made it clear that no one was sick in
his stateroom or in the forecastle.

The custom-house officers were not far behind, and the character of the
steamer was explained. There was no manifest, for there was no cargo to
be invoiced. The principal officer was very minute in his inquiry, and
not particularly courteous. He was evidently impressed by his authority;
and the captain did not invite him to breakfast, as he would have done
if he had been somewhat less conscious of the magnitude of his office.

The duties on merchandise brought into the islands were formerly
discriminating in favor of Spanish vessels, which caused other
merchantmen to avoid the port to its commercial injury; but about
twenty years before a uniform tariff was established, without regard to
the flag under which the ship sailed, and all export duties were
abolished. The official went over the ship, and the arrangement of her
accommodations ought to have been enough to convince the man that the
vessel was a pleasure yacht. The self-sufficient officer retreated in
good order when he had completed his examination, leaving a subordinate
on board to see that no merchandise was landed. The latter was a
gentlemanly person, spoke English, and was disposed to make himself
agreeable. He was invited to breakfast in the cabin.

The passengers had seated themselves on the promenade during the
official examination, observing all the proceedings, and watching the
boats in sight, some of which were different from anything they had seen
before. They were near enough to the piers to see some distance up the
river. Of course the Blanche was subjected to the same examination; but
a different set of officials had boarded her, and completed their work
in a much shorter time. It could be seen that her crew were putting the
steam-launch into the water.

"The Blanchita will be exceedingly serviceable here," said the
commander, who had taken a stand near the steps of the promenade. "We
can go on shore, and land anywhere we please; for there are quays all
along the river."

"Boat coming down the river with the American flag at the stern,
Captain Ringgold," said Mr. Scott, saluting the commander.

"Our consul probably," added the captain. "Would you like to go to a
hotel in Manila, ladies?" asked he.

No one answered the question, but three of them glanced at Mrs.
Belgrave, as though they expected her to reply; but she made no sign.

"You don't answer, ladies," added the captain.

"We are waiting for Mrs. Belgrave to speak," said Mrs. Woolridge.

"I beg you will excuse me," said that lady, laughing. "I do not know why
I am expected to voice the sentiments of the party."

"Because, like the wife of the President of the United States at home,
you are the first lady on board," returned the wife of the magnate of
the Fifth Avenue. "Your son is the owner of the Guardian-Mother, and you
are the mother for whom the ship is named."

"I most respectfully decline to be so regarded; and if I have ever put
on any airs, I will repent and reform," replied Mrs. Belgrave, laughing
all the while.

"You have never put on airs, or assumed anything at all," protested Mrs.
Woolridge.

"I consider my son a very good boy, and an earnest advocate of fair play
with others," continued the "first lady" more seriously; and all the
party heartily approved the remark. "Louis found that the other members
of the 'Big Four' were disposed to rely upon him, and wished to do as he
desired. On the Borneo question he took a secret ballot, and would not
express his own opinion till the vote was declared, though he voted
