I found the fact touching.  They had not wished to be in any wise
beholden to me, and had even tried to reject my friendly readiness to
know them better; but they had probably sought my vicinity in a sense of
their loneliness and helplessness, which they hoped I would not divine,
but which I divined instantly.  Still, I thought it best not to show any
consciousness of them, and we sat through the first part of the concert
without taking notice of one another.  Then the man leaned forward and
touched me on the shoulder.

“Will you let me take your programme a minute?”

“Why, certainly,” said I.

He took it, and after a vague glance at it he passed it to his wife, who
gave it in turn to the young girl.  She studied it very briefly, and
then, after a questioning look, offered it back to me.

“Won’t you keep it?” I entreated.  “I’ve quite done with it.”

“Oh, thank you,” she answered in her tender voice, and she and the wife
looked hard at the man, whom they seemed to unite in pushing forward by
that means.

He hemmed, and asked, “Have you been in Saratoga much?”

“Why, yes,” I said; “rather a good deal.  My wife and I have been here
three or four summers.”

At the confession of my married state, which this statement implicated,
the women exchanged a glance, I fancied, of triumph, as if they had been
talking about me, and I had now confirmed the ground they had taken
concerning me.  Then they joined in goading the man on again with their
eyes.

“Which hotel,” he asked, “should you say had the most going on?”

The young girl and the wife transferred their gaze to me, with an
intensified appeal in it.  The man looked away with a certain shame—the
shame of a man who feels that his wife has made him make an ass of
himself.  I tried to treat his question, by the quantity and quality of
my answer, as one of the most natural things in the world; and I probably
deceived them all by this effort, though I am sure that I was most
truthful and just concerning the claims of the different hotels to be the
centre of excitement.  I thought I had earned the right to ask at the
end, “Are you stopping at the Grand Union?”

“No,” he said; and he mentioned one of the smaller hotels, which depend
upon the great houses for the entertainment of their guests.  “Are you
there?” he asked, meaning the Grand Union.

“Oh no,” I said; “we couldn’t do that sort of thing, even if we wanted.”
And in my turn I named the modest hotel where we were, and said that I
thought it by all odds the pleasantest place in Saratoga.  “But I can’t
say,” I added, “that there is a great deal going on there, either.  If
you want that sort of thing you will have to go to some of the great
hotels.  We have our little amusements, but they’re all rather mild.”  I
kept talking to the man, but really addressing myself to the women.
“There’s something nearly every evening: prestidigitating, or
elocutioning, or a little concert, or charades, or impromptu theatricals,
or something of that sort.  I can’t say there’s dancing, though really, I
suppose, if any one wanted to dance there would be dancing.”

I was aware that the women listened intelligently, even if the man did
not.  The wife drew a long breath, and said, “It must be very pleasant.”

The girl said—rather more hungrily, I fancied—“Yes, indeed.”

I don’t know why their interest should have prompted me to go on and
paint the lily a little, but I certainly did so.  I did not stop till the
music began again, and I had to stop.  By the time the piece was finished
I had begun to have my misgivings, and I profited by the brief interval
of silence to say to the young girl, “I wouldn’t have you think we are a
whirl of gaiety exactly.”

“Oh no,” she answered pathetically, as if she were quite past expecting
that or anything like it.

We were silent again.  At the end of the next piece they all rose, and
the wife said timidly to me, “Well, good-evening,” as if she might be
venturing too far; and her husband came to her rescue with “Well,
good-evening, sir.”  The young girl merely bowed.

I did not stay much longer, for I was eager to get home and tell my wife
about my adventure, which seemed to me of a very rare and thrilling kind.
I believed that if I could present it to her duly, it would interest her
as much as it had interested me.  But somehow, as I went on with it in
the lamplight of her room, it seemed to lose colour and specific
character.

“You are always making up these romances about young girls being off and
disappointed of a good time ever since we saw that poor little Kitty
Ellison with her cousins at Niagara,” said Mrs. March.  “You seem to have
it on the brain.”

“Because it’s the most tragical thing in the world, and the commonest in
our transition state,” I retorted.  I was somewhat exasperated to have my
romance treated as so stale a situation, though I was conscious now that
it did want perfect novelty.  “It’s precisely for that reason that I like
to break my heart over it.  I see it every summer, and it keeps me in a
passion of pity.  Something ought to be done about it.”

“Well, don’t you try to do anything, Basil, unless you write to the
newspapers.”

“I suppose,” I said, “that if the newspapers could be got to take hold of
it, perhaps something might be done.”  The notion amused me; I went on to
play with it, and imagined Saratoga, by a joint effort of the leading
journals, recolonised with the social life that once made it the paradise
of young people.

“I have been writing to the children,” said my wife, “and telling them to
stay on at York Harbour if the Herricks want them so much.  They would
hate it here.  You say the girl looked cross.  I can’t exactly imagine a
cross goddess.”

“There were lots of cross goddesses,” I said rather crossly myself; for I
saw that, after having trodden my romance in the dust, she was willing I
should pick it up again and shake it off, and I wished to show her that I
was not to be so lightly appeased.

“Perhaps I was thinking of angels,” she murmured.

“I distinctly didn’t say she was an angel,” I returned.

“Now, come, Basil; I see you’re keeping something back.  What did you try
to do for those people?  Did you tell them where you were stopping?”

“Yes, I did.  They asked me, and I told them.”

“Did you brag the place up?”

“On the contrary, I understated its merits.”

“Oh, very well, then,” she said, quite as if I had confessed my guilt;
“they will come here, and you will have your romance on your hands for
the rest of the month.  I’m thankful we’re going away the first of
August.”



