"I don't quite see that you have any choice. The deed is made out in
your name, and in due time you will find that you will have to pay taxes
on them."

"Then I suppose I must submit. I don't know how to thank you."

"Then don't do it. It would make me feel awkward. I will give you some
good advice before I leave you. Those lots I believe will advance in
price very rapidly. Building is going on very near them, and they are in
the path of improvement. My advice is that you hold on to them at least
five years. They may realize you a small fortune."

"I will certainly be guided by your advice. Do you know, Mr. Packard, I
imagine there are very few bell-boys in New York who are as rich as I
am?"

"I don't think I have ever heard of a bell-boy millionaire," said the
cattleman, smiling, "though I hope the one before me may make the first
exception to a general rule. Did I tell you that I expect to start on my
return to Colorado to-morrow?"

"So soon as that?"

"Yes; I have received news from my agent there--good news, mind--that
makes it advisable for me to abridge my visit. May I hope that you will
write me sometimes?"

"I shall be glad to do so, Mr. Packard."

"Mind, it is a compact. Some time I expect you to visit me out there."

"When my child gets a little older," said Rupert, with a smile.

"And if at any time you find the expense too great for your means, let
me help you."

"I will."

So the two friends parted, and Rupert resumed his regular routine as a
bell-boy.




CHAPTER XXI.

RUPERT BECOMES A CONFIDANT.


Some three months later Rupert's attention was called to a boy of
seventeen or thereabouts, with long black hair and a high forehead, who
registered as a guest, and took one of the cheapest rooms in the hotel.
The boy seemed to have no companion, and to know very little about the
city.

"Can you direct me to Palmer's Theatre?" he asked, rather diffidently.

"It is on Broadway, corner of Thirtieth Street," answered Rupert.

"And Daly's?"

"That is nearly opposite, on the other side of Broadway."

The boy took out a memorandum-book and noted down these addresses.

"What can he want at those theatres?" thought Rupert.

Of course he might want to buy a reserved seat in advance, but Rupert
did not think it likely.

After getting his information the boy went out (it was about ten
o'clock), and did not reappear till four o'clock in the afternoon.
Rupert noticed him as he entered the hotel, and observed that he looked
anxious and despondent. He did not go upstairs at once, but sank into a
chair near Rupert, and apparently gave way to sorrowful reflections.

"He has some secret trouble," thought the bell-boy. "If he would speak
to me I might be able to comfort him."

On the impulse of the moment he went up to the young guest, and asked,
in a low tone of sympathy,

"Are you in any trouble?"

The boy started, flushed, and looked at Rupert half suspiciously. But
there was something so friendly and sympathetic in Rupert's face that he
was assured of his being a safe confidant.

"Yes," he said, "I am in trouble."

"If you will tell me, perhaps I can help you."

The boy looked about him hesitatingly.

"I shouldn't like to tell you here," he answered. "There are too many
people round."

"I shall be at leisure after six o'clock. Will that do?"

"Yes. Could you come up to my room?"

"I will come with pleasure."

"I want a confidant. I want advice. You are younger than I am--at least
you look so--but you have lived in the city while I am from the
country."

"At any rate I will give you the best advice I can."

"Thank you. I feel better for having found a friend. I will go and take
a walk, and you will find me here at six o'clock."

When Rupert got through work he found the boy waiting for him in the
same place.

"I can go upstairs with you now."

"All right!" said the young guest, rising from his seat quickly. "We
will take the elevator, for my room is on the top floor."

"In business hours," said Rupert, "I am not allowed to use the elevator.
Now I am no longer a bell-boy, but your visitor."

The room was a small hall bedroom. It was one that was let for
seventy-five cents a day, while the better and larger rooms ranged
upwards to a dollar and a half. The room contained one chair only.

"Please take a seat," said the young host.

"But where will you sit?"

"I will sit on the bed. I don't know but you will laugh at me," he went
on, "when I tell you what brought me to New York."

"Oh, no. I shall not laugh at you. But first, as we are to be friends,
let me tell you my name and ask yours. I am Rupert Rollins."

"That is a nice name. It sounds like a story name. Mine is Leslie
Waters."

