used to their new life much sooner because there are so many of their
own kind about them. When I find that a couple are thinking of going to
house-keeping, I root a branch of poplar, or hickory, or maple, in a tub
of moist earth, and curtain off a corner where they will not be
disturbed in the nesting-time."

"That was the very thing the celebrated or-nith-ol-o-gist said was
absolutely impossible," cried Cousin Molly Belle. "Even though I told
him that, if he would pay us a visit, I would show him the cosey corner,
and the pretty bride and gallant bridegroom building their nest."

"A great many things happen to each of us that others would not believe,
no matter how solemnly we might declare them to be true," said Madam
Leigh, very seriously.

I had a notion that she was thinking of other things in her strangely
desolated life besides the aviary and the learn√®d man who knew all about
birds.

"To me, the most singular part of my management of my hummers is that I
succeed in making them comfortable and contented in the winter," she
said. "For their forefathers and foremothers have been going South at
the first sign of frost for six thousand years or so. I have a stove put
up in here, covered with wire netting to hinder the little dears from
flying against it; then I keep an even temperature and fill the room
with flowers. It has, as you see, a southern exposure. I live here with
them all day long. When it begins to grow dark, I say, 'Good night' and
go across to my chamber. At bedtime I look in to make sure the fire will
keep in until morning, and that my darlings are all right. While
daylight lasts we are very happy together. I am busy with my pygmies
and my flowers. I feed the hummers with sugar-and-water in winter, with
a taste of honey on Sundays"--laughing cheerily. "To make them glad that
Sunday has come, you know. I've an idea that they need stronger food in
cold weather than in summer. It helps tame them to make them eat from
the tip of my finger. I take a great deal of pains to keep a succession
of plants in flower, for, after all, hive-honey isn't quite as pure and
delicate after it has gone through the bee's body as when the hummer
sips it fresh from the flower-cup. You must come over next winter, Molly
Belle, and bring the little lady to see my nasturtiums, and hyacinths,
and morning-glories. Roses and cape-jessamines, and the like are of no
use to us. Our flowers must be shaped like wine-glasses, with a drop of
honey-dew in the bottom, to please us perfectly. The hummers and I
understand that. You wouldn't believe how much company we are for one
another, or how much I learn from them. Even my silly mannikins give
work to my fingers and keep my thoughts steady."

Cousin Molly Belle put her arms around the wee old lady and hugged her
hard--the honeysuckles and catalpas falling to the floor.

"All this is the loveliest thing I ever heard!" laughing to keep from
crying. "I hope you will live to be a hundred years old, and give the
lie to or-nith-ol-o-gists every day you live. And Molly and I will come
to see you, often and often, whenever she is at our house. You dear,
brave, sensible, lion-hearted, royal Queen Mab!"

She kept her word. It was one of her many ways to do more than she had
promised. I never paid a visit to my dearest cousins, the Frank Mortons,
without riding, or driving, up through the woods, and across the creek,
and up the two long, and the one short, hill, and along the grass-grown
lane to the gray cottage that always reminded me of a "hummer's" nest
masked with moss. I spent a good deal of that summer with Cousin Molly
Belle, and one week in the very middle of December.

The weather was very mild for midwinter, and the great south room felt
too warm to me. So warm that I began to feel sleepy and a little dizzy,
and Madam Leigh noticed the yawn I could not quite swallow.

"Put on your hood and cloak, little lady," she said, "and run into the
garden to see if you cannot find some roses for your cousin. Betty tells
me there has been so little frost this season that the rose-bushes are
still all in leaf."

I scampered off willingly, and did not show myself in the house again
until the sun almost touched the tree-tops. I gathered chrysanthemums
and nasturtiums and late heartsease, and at least a dozen roses and
buds, and, wandering farther and farther down the quiet paths, I saw
what I had never noticed before--that there was a small graveyard at the
back of the garden, of which it formed a part. An arbor, thickly
curtained with a Florida honeysuckle that kept its leaves all winter,
was at one side of the burial-place; a walk, edged with box, stretched
from it straight up to the house-yard. Now that the trees were bare, I
saw that old Madam Leigh could have a full view, through the windows in
the south gable, of the arbor, and the two white headstones before it:--

             JOHN AND RUTH LEIGH.

   TWIN-CHILDREN OF EDWARD AND JUDITH LEIGH.

            BORN SEPTEMBER 3, 1790.

             DIED AUGUST 1, 1810.

   "I was dumb; I opened not my mouth, because THOU
                           didst it."

I sat down in the summer-house and had a long thinking spell, all by
myself. Too young to word the emotions that swelled my heart, the
thoughts that oppressed my brain, there was, all the while, in heart and
head, the recollection of the story she had told of her manner of
getting the first pair of humming-birds--and how she had stolen softly
around to the window after dark, and shut the parents in with their
nestlings.

I never saw her again. On Christmas morning the maid, who came as usual
to awake and dress her mistress, found that she had died in her sleep.

[Illustration]




Chapter XVII

Out into the World


[Illustration]

Cousin Burwell Carter fell in love with our handsome, amiable Boston
governess, Miss Davidson, and married her when I was ten years of age.
She comforted my mother for her loss by sending for her younger sister,
who was even prettier than herself, and had such winsome ways that Mr.
John Morton, Cousin Frank's bachelor brother, married her at the end of
her first session in our school-room.

My father looked quizzically grave when the two sisters recommended a
Miss Bradnor of Springfield, Massachusetts, as a person who was sure to
please our parents and to bring us on finely in our studies.

"Is she pretty and marriageable?" he asked. "My business, nowadays,
seems to be providing the eligible bachelors of Powhatan with wives. It
is pleasant enough from one standpoint, and that is the young men's. But
my children must be educated."

Both young matrons assured him, earnestly, that Miss Bradnor was "a
predestined old maid--a man-hater, in fact--and was likely to remain a
fixture in our school-room as long as we needed her." When she arrived I
was surprised to see a prim, quiet little personage who looked too
gentle to hate any one. She fitted easily into her place in our family
and soon proved herself the prize we had been promised, being a born
