
“It soon will.”

“Of course if I buy it I do not wish to interfere with your occupation
of it as long as you live.”

“No, I suppose not. There is no place for me to go. But I think the
land will some time be worth a good deal more than at present, and I
want Gerald to reap the benefit of it.”

“I am offering you more than it is worth at present,” said Wentworth
impatiently. “Two hundred dollars for eighty acres makes two dollars
and a half an acre.”

“I cannot sell the boy’s little patrimony,” said Mr. Lane firmly.

“It seems to me he ought to be consulted. As you say, he will soon be
the owner.”

At this moment Gerald entered the cabin.

“Gerald,” said his father, “Mr. Wentworth has offered me two hundred
dollars for our little home, including the cabin and land. He thinks
you ought to be consulted in the matter.”

“I don’t want to sell, father,” said Gerald. “This place is the only
home I have, and I don’t want to part with it.”

“But the money will be very useful to you,” interrupted Wentworth, “and
from what your father says, money will be scarce with you.”

“I suppose it will,” said Gerald with a steady look at the visitor,
“though it ought not to be if we had our rights. But, be that as it
may, I do not care to have the property sold.”

Opposition only made Mr. Wentworth more eager. “I will give you two
hundred and fifty dollars,” he said.

“It is of no use, Mr. Wentworth. This humble home is all father has to
leave me. For a time, at least, I wish to retain it.”

Mr. Wentworth bit his lip, and was silent. He saw by the resolute face
of Gerald, so much stronger and firmer than his father’s, that it would
be of no use to prolong the discussion.

The evening wore away. It was a question how the guest was to be
accommodated for the night. But Gerald settled the question. He had a
small single bed in one corner while his father occupied a larger one.
He surrendered his bed to the guest, and stretched himself out, fully
dressed, on a buffalo robe near the door. They retired early, as Gerald
and his father usually did. Mr. Wentworth did not ordinarily keep early
hours, but he had been fatigued by his walks during the day, partly
because he had traversed considerable ground, but partly on account of
the high altitude which made the air rarer, and exertion more difficult.

All three slept soundly. Though his bed was a hard one, Gerald was no
child of luxury and rested peacefully.

About seven o’clock Mr. Wentworth rose and dressed himself. Gerald
was already up, preparing breakfast. All at once he was startled by
an exclamation. Looking around he saw Bradley Wentworth examining his
pockets in a high state of excitement.

“What’s the matter?” asked Gerald.

“Matter enough!” returned the visitor. “I’ve been robbed during the
night, and you,” he added fiercely, with a furious glance at Gerald,
“you are the thief!”




CHAPTER VII.

TRACKING THE THIEF.


GERALD blushed with indignation at the unexpected accusation.

“What do you mean, Mr. Wentworth?” he demanded angrily.

“I mean just what I say. During the night my wallet, which was full of
bank bills, has been stolen. Of course your father couldn’t have taken
it. There was no one else in the room except yourself.”

“You are making a poor return for our hospitality,” said Gerald coldly.
“In what pocket did you keep your wallet?”

“In the inside pocket of my coat.”

“Look about on the floor. It may have slipped out.”

Bradley Wentworth deigned to accept this suggestion. Both he and Gerald
looked about on the floor, but could discover no trace of the lost
article.

“Just as I expected,” observed Wentworth in a significant tone.

Gerald colored and felt mystified.

“I don’t understand it,” he said slowly.

“Probably the wallet walked off without hands,” sneered Wentworth.

“It must have been taken,” said Gerald quietly, “but who could have
done it?”

“Yes, who could have done it?” repeated Wentworth with another sneer.

“I will trouble you to speak in a different tone,” said Gerald with
quiet dignity. “My father and I are poor enough, but no one ever
charged us with dishonesty.”

Mr. Lane, awakening from sleep, heard the last words.

“What is the matter? What has happened?” he asked dreamily.

“Mr. Wentworth misses his pocketbook, father,” exclaimed Gerald.

“How much money was there in your wallet, Bradley?” asked the sick man.

“Nearly two hundred dollars.”

“That is a great deal of money to lose. You are sure it was in your
pocket when you went to bed?”

“Yes, I felt it there.”

“Some one must have got into the cabin during the night.”

“But the door was locked,” said Wentworth.

“True, but there is a window near your bed. There was no fastening,
and it could be raised easily. And that reminds me,” he continued with
a sudden thought, “I waked up during the night, that is I partially
awakened, and thought I saw a figure near your bed in a stooping
position. It must have been the thief going through your pockets.”

“Why didn’t you speak, father?”

