
"Oh, you'll feel better to-morrow. I'll bring you some porridge
presently. You can get that clown, and it is better to have something
on your stomach."

He was right. The next day Dodger felt considerably better, and
ventured to go upon deck. He looked about him in surprise.

There had been a storm, and the waves were white with foam.

As far as the eye could see there was a tumult and an uproar.

The ship was tossed about like a cockle shell. But the sailors went
about their work unruffled. It was no new sight for them.

Though his head did not feel exactly right, the strong wind entered
Dodger's lungs, and he felt exhilarated. His eyes brightened, and he
began to share in the excitement of the scene.

Pacing the deck was a stout, bronzed seaman, whose dress made it clear
even to the inexperienced eyes of Dodger that he was the captain.

"Good-morning, Master Grant," he said, pleasantly. "Are you getting
your sea legs on?"

The name was unfamiliar to Dodger, but he could see that the remark
was addressed to him.

"Yes, sir," he answered.

"Ever been to sea before?"

"No, sir."

"You'll get used to it. Bless me, you'll stand it like an old sailor
before we get to 'Frisco."

"Is it a long voyage, captain?" asked Dodger.

"Five months, probably. We may get there a little sooner. It depends
on the winds and weather."

"Five months," said Dodger to himself, in a tone of dismay.

The captain laughed.

"It'll be a grand experience for a lad like you, Arthur!" said the
captain, encouragingly.

Arthur! So his name was Arthur! He had just been called Master Grant,
so Arthur Grant was his name on board ship.

Dodger was rather glad to have a name provided, for he had only been
known as Dodger heretofore, and this name would excite surprise. He
had recently felt the need of a name, and didn't see why this wouldn't
answer his purpose as well as any other.

"I must write it down so as not to forget it," he resolved. "It would
seem queer if I forgot my own name."

"I shouldn't enjoy it much if I were going to be seasick all the
time," he answered.

"Oh, a strong, healthy boy like you will soon be all right. You don't
look like an invalid."

"I never was sick in my life."

"But your guardian told me he was sending you on a sea voyage for your
health."

"Did Mr. Waring say that?"

"Yes; didn't you know the object of your sea trip?" asked Capt.
Barnes, in surprise.

"No."

"There may be some tendency to disease in your system--some hereditary
tendency," said the captain, after a pause.

"Were your parents healthy?"

"They--died young," answered Dodger, hesitatingly.

"That accounts for your guardian's anxiety. However, you look strong
enough, in all conscience; and if you're not healthy, you will be
before the voyage ends."

"I don't know what I am to do for clothes," said Dodger, as a new
source of perplexity presented itself. "I can't get along with one
shirt and collar for five months."

"You will find plenty of clothes in your valise. Hasn't it been given
you?"

"No, sir."

"You may ask the steward for it. You didn't think your guardian would
send you on a five-months' voyage without a change of clothing, did
you?"

And the captain laughed heartily.

"I don't know Mr. Waring very well," said Dodger, awkwardly.

As he went downstairs to inquire about his valise, this question
haunted him:

"Why did Curtis Waring send him on a sea voyage?"




Chapter XXII.
The Other Passenger.


Dodger sought the steward, and asked for his valise.

"Isn't it in your stateroom?" asked that functionary.

"I haven't seen it."

"I remember now. It was put with the luggage of the other passenger. I
will show it to you."

He took Dodger to a part of the ship where freight was stored, and
pointed to a sizable valise with a card attached to it on which was
inscribed the name: "Arthur Grant."

"This must be yours," he said.

"Yes, I suppose so," answered Dodger, glad to have found out the new
name which had been given him, otherwise he would have supposed the
valise belonged to some other person.

He took the valise to his stateroom, and, finding a key tied to the
handles, he opened it at once.

