“And tell me who are the men, Auntie?”

“I’m afraid I won’t have time,” said Mrs. Roberts, glancing out of
the carriage. “We are too near home. But I will tell you about one
of them, if you like.”

“The king-bee?” laughed Helen. “Is there a king-bee?”

“Yes,” said Mrs. Roberts; “there is. At any rate, my husband and I
think he is, and we are anxious to see what you think. His name is
Gerald Harrison, and he comes from Cincinnati.”

“Oh, dear,” said Helen, “I hate to meet men from the West. He must
be a pork-packer, or something horrible.”

“No,” said the other, “he is a railroad president.”

“And why do you think he’s the king-bee; is he very rich?”

“He is worth about ten million dollars,” said Aunt Polly.

Helen gazed at her wildly. “Ten million dollars!” she gasped.

“Yes,” said the other; “about that, probably a little more. Mr.
Roberts knows all about his affairs.”

Helen was staring into her aunt’s face. “Tell me,” she asked, very
nervously indeed. “Tell me, honestly!”

“What?”

“Is that the man you are bringing me here to meet?”

“Yes, Helen,” said the other quietly.

The girl’s hands were clasped tightly together just then. “Aunt
Polly,” she asked, “what kind of a man is he? I will not marry a bad
man!”

“A bad man, child? How ridiculous! Do you suppose I would ask you to
marry a bad man, if he owned all New York? I want you to be happy.
Mr. Harrison is a man who has made his own fortune, and he is a man
of tremendous energy. Everyone is obliged to respect him.”

“But he must be old, Auntie.”

“He is very young, Helen, only about forty.”

“Dear me,” said the girl, “I could never marry a man as old as
forty; and then, I’d have to go out West!”

“Mr. Harrison has come to New York to live,” was the other’s reply.
“He has just bought a really magnificent country seat about ten
miles from here--the old Everson place, if you remember it; and he
is negotiating for a house near ours in the city. My husband and I
both agreed, Helen, that if you could make Mr. Harrison fall in love
with you it would be all that we could desire.”

“That is not the real problem,” Helen said, gazing out of the
carriage with a frightened look upon her face; “it is whether I can
fall in love with him. Aunt Polly, it is dreadful to me to think of
marrying; I don’t want to marry! I don’t care who the man is!”

“We’ll see about that later on,” said the other, smiling
reassuringly, and at the same time putting her arm about the girl;
“there is no hurry, my love, and no one has the least thought of
asking you to do what you do not want to do. But a chance like this
does not come often to any girl, my dear. Mr. Harrison is in every
way a desirable man.”

“But he’s stupid, Aunt Polly, I know he’s stupid! All self-made men
are; they tell you about how they made themselves, and what
wonderful things they hare made!”

“You must of course not expect to find Mr. Harrison as cultured as
yourself, Helen,” was the reply; “his education has been that of the
world, and not of books. But nobody thinks less of a man for that in
the world; the most one can ask is that he does not make pretenses.
And he is very far from stupid, I assure you, or he would not have
been what he is.”

“I suppose not,” said Helen, weakly.

“And, besides,” observed Aunt Polly, laughing to cheer the girl up,
“I assure you it doesn’t make any difference. My husband makes no
pretense to being a wit, or a musician, or anything like that; he’s
just a plain, sensible man, but we get along as happily as you could
wish. We each of us go our own way, and understand each other
perfectly.”

“So I’m to marry a plain, sensible man?” asked the girl, apparently
not much comforted by the observation.

“A plain, sensible man with ten million dollars, my dear,” said Aunt
Polly, “who adores you and has nothing to do with his money but to
let you make yourself happy and glorious with it? But don’t worry
yourself, my child, because the first thing for you to feel is that
if you don’t like him you need not take him. It all rests upon you;
he won’t be here till after the rest, till the evening train, so you
can have time to think it over and calculate whether ten million
dollars will buy anything you want.” And Mrs. Roberts laughed.

Then the carriage having passed within the gates of her home, she
kissed the girl upon her cheek. “By the way,” she added, “if you
want to meet a romantic person to offset Mr. Harrison, I’ll tell you
about Mr. Howard. I haven’t mentioned him, have I?”

“I never heard of him,” said Helen.

“It’s a real romance,” said the other. “You didn’t suppose that your
sensible old auntie could have a romance, did you?”

“Tell me about it,” laughed Helen.

The carriage was driving up the broad avenue that led to the Roberts
house; it was a drive of a minute or two, however, and so Aunt Polly
had time for a hasty explanation.

“It was over twenty years ago,” she said, “before your mother was
married, and when our family had a camp up in the Adirondacks; there
were only two others near us, and in each of them there was a young
man about my age. We three were great friends for three or four
years, but we’ve never seen each other since till a short while
ago.”

“And one of them is this man?”

“Yes,” said Mrs. Roberts; “his name is David Howard; I met him quite
by accident the other day, and recognized him. He lives all alone,
in the winter in New York somewheres, and in the summer up at the
same place in the mountains; he’s the most romantic man you ever
met, and I know you’ll find him interesting. He’s a poet, I fancy,
or a musician at any rate, and he’s a very great scholar.”

“Is he rich too?” asked the girl, laughing.

“I fancy not,” was the reply, “but I can’t tell; he lives very
plainly.”

“Aren’t you afraid I’ll fall in love with him, Auntie?”
