All these replies, which passed above and below the marquis's guard,
pierced the quick; and the marquis, whose impulse had been good, but
whose approach to the vital point of discussion was without tact, began
to lose patience; and a cold anger awoke in his eyes.

"Monsieur le Comte," he said, rising, "I have summoned you here to
discuss not the past, but the future."  He was quite as tall as his son,
but gaunt and with loosely hanging clothes.

"The future?" said the Chevalier.  "Best assured, Monsieur, that you
shall have no hand in mine."

"Be not too certain of that," replied the marquis, his lips parting in
that chilling smile with which he had formerly greeted opponents on the
field of honor.  "And, after all, you might have the politeness to
remember that I am, whatever else, still your father."

The Chevalier bowed ironically.  Had he been less drunk he would have
read the warning which lay in his father's eyes, now brilliant with the
spirit of conflict.  But he rushed on to his doom, as it was written he
should.  Paris was in his mind, Paris and mademoiselle, whose letter lay
warm against his heart.  He turned to his mother's portrait, and again
bowed, sweeping the floor with the plume of his hat.

"Madame, yours was a fortunate escape.  Would that I had gone with you on
the journey.  Have you a spirit?  Well, then, observe me; note the bister
about my eyes, the swollen lips, the shaking hand.  'Twas a lesson I
learned some years ago from Monsieur le Marquis, your husband, my father.
You, Madame, died at my birth, therefore I have known no mother.  Am I a
drunkard, a wine-bibber, a roisterer by night?  Say then, who taught me?
Before I became of age my foolish heart was filled with love which must
spend itself upon something.  I offered this love, filial and respectful,
to Monsieur le Marquis.  Madame, the bottle was more responsive to this
outburst of generous youth than Monsieur le Marquis, to whom I was a
living plaything, a clay which he molded as a pastime--too readily, alas!
And now, behold! he speaks of respect.  It would be droll if it were not
sad.  True, he gave me gold; but he also taught me how to use this
devil-key which unlocks the pathways of the world, wine-cellars and
women's hearts.  Respect?  Has he ever taken me by the hand as natural
fathers take their sons, and asked me to be his comrade?  Has he ever
taught me to rise to heights, to scorn the petty forms and molds of life?
Have I not been as the captive eagle, drawn down at every flight?  And
for this . . . respect?  Oh, Madame, scarcely!  And often I thought of
the happiness of beholding my father depending on me in his old age!"

"You thought that, Monsieur?" interrupted the marquis, his eyes losing
some of their metallic hardness.  "You thought that?"  What irony lay in
the taste of this knowledge!

"Monsieur," said the Chevalier with drunken asperity, "permit me to say
that you are interrupting a fine apostrophe! . . .  And as a culmination,
he would have me wed the daughter of your mortal enemy, his mistress!  It
is some mad dream, Madame; we shall soon awake."

"Even immediately," replied the marquis calmly.  The Chevalier had
snuffed more than candles this night.  He had snuffed also the belated
paternal spark of affection which had suddenly kindled in his father's
breast.  "Your apostrophe, as you are pleased to term the maudlin talk of
a drunken fool, is being addressed to my wife."

"Well?" insolently.

"Your mother, while worthy and beautiful, was not sufficiently noble to
merit Rubens's brush.  It is to be regretted, but I never had a portrait
of your mother."

The roisterers burst into song again . . . .

  "When Ma'm'selle drinks from her satin shoe
  With a Bacchante's love for a Bacchic brew!"

How this rollicking song penetrated the ominous silence which had
suddenly filled the salon!  The Chevalier grew rigid.

"What did I understand you to say, Monsieur?" with an unnatural quietness
which somewhat confused the marquis.

"I said that I never had a portrait of your mother.  Is that explicit
enough?  Yonder Rubens was my wife."  The marquis spoke lightly.  The
tone hid well the hot wrath which for the moment obliterated his sense of
truth and justice, two qualities the importance of which he had never
till now forgotten.  He watched the effect of this terrible thrust, and
with monstrous satisfaction he saw the shiver which took his son in its
chilling grasp and sent him staggering back.  "Then you return to Paris
to-morrow? . . . to be the Chevalier du CÃ©vennes till the end?  Ah well!"
How often man over-reaches himself in the gratification of an ignoble
revenge!  "We all have our pastimes," went on the marquis, deepening the
abyss into which he was finally to fall.  "You were mine.  I had intended
to send you about some years ago; but I was lonely, and there was
something in your spirit which amused me.  You tickled my fancy.  But
now, I am weary; the pastime palls; you no longer amuse."

The Chevalier stood in the midst of chaos.  He was experiencing that
frightful plunge of Icarus, from the clouds to the sea.  He was falling,
falling.  When one falls from a great height, when waters roll
thunderously over one's head, strange and significant fragments of life
pass and repass the vision.  And at this moment there flashed across the
Chevalier's brain, indistinctly it is true, the young Jesuit's words,
spoken at the Silver Candlestick in Paris. . . .  "An object of scorn,
contumely, and forgetfulness; to dream what might and should have been;
to be proved guilty of a crime we did not commit; to be laughed at!"
Spots of red blurred his sight; his nails sank into his palms; his breath
came painfully; there was a straining at the roots of his hair.

"Monsieur," he cried hoarsely, "take care!  Are you not telling me some
dreadful lie?"

"It would be . . . . scarcely worth while."  The marquis controlled his
agitation by gently patting the gold knob on his stick.  His gaze
wandered, seeking to rest upon some object other than his son.  The first
blinding heat of passion had subsided, and in the following haze he saw
that he had committed a wrong which a thousand truths might not wholly
efface.  And yet he remained silent, obdurate: so little a thing as a
word or the lack of it has changed the destinies of empires and of men.

A species of madness seized the Chevalier.  With a fierce gesture he drew
his sword.  For a moment the marquis thought that he was about to be
impaled upon it; but he gave no sign of fear.  Presently the sword
deviated from its horizontal line, declined gradually till the point
touched the floor.  The Chevalier leaned upon it, swaying slightly.  His
eyes burned like opals.

"No, Monsieur, no!  I will let you live, to die of old age, alone, in
silence, surrounded by those hideous phantoms which the approach of death
creates from ill-spent lives.  Since you have taught me that there is no
God, I shall not waste a curse upon you for this wrong.  Think not that
the lust to kill is gone; no, no; but I had rather let you live to die in
bed.  So!  I have been your pastime?  I have now ceased to amuse
you? . . . . as my mother, whoever she may be, ceased to amuse?"  His
sardonian laugh chilled the marquis in the marrow.  "And I have spent
your gold, thinking it lawfully mine? . . . lorded over your broad lands,
believing myself to be heir to them? . . . been Monsieur le Comte this
and Monsieur le Comte that?  How the gods must have laughed as I walked
forth among the great, arrogant in my pride of birth and riches!  Poor
fool!  Surely, Monsieur, it must be as you say: Heaven and hell are of
our own contriving.  Poor fool!  And I have held my head so high, faced
the world so fearlessly and contemptuously! . . . to find that I am this,
this!  My God, Monsieur, but you have stirred within me all the hate, the
lust to kill, the gall of envy and despair!  But live," his madness
increasing; "live to die in bed, no kin beside you, not even the
