come to see him. I have funds from Corbario to pay any possible expenses
in the case."

"Who is that man?" asked the Superintendent. "There has been a great
deal of talk about him in the papers since his stepson was lost. What
was he before he married the rich widow?"

The Chief of Police did not reply at once, but lit a cigarette
preparatory to going away, smoothed his hat on his arm, and flicked a
tiny speck of dust from the lapel of his well-made coat. Then he smiled
pleasantly and gave his answer.

"I suppose that before he married Consalvi's widow he was a gentleman of
small means, like many others. Why should you think that he was ever
anything else?"

To this direct question the Superintendent had no answer ready, nor, in
fact, had the man who asked it, though he had looked so very wise. Then
they glanced at each other and both laughed a little, and they parted.

Half an hour later, Marcello was carried to an airy room with green
blinds, and was made even more comfortable than he had been before. He
slept, and awoke, and ate and slept again. Twice during the afternoon
people were brought to see him. They were servants from the villa on the
Janiculum, but he looked at them dully and said that he could not
remember them.

"We do not think it is he," they said, when questioned. "Why does he
not know us, if it is he? We are old servants in the house. We carried
the young gentleman in our arms when he was small. But this youth does
not know us, nor our names. It is not he."

They were dismissed, and afterwards they met and talked up at the villa.

"The master has been sent for by telegraph," they said one to another.
"We shall do what he says. If he tells us that it is the young gentleman
we will also say that it is; but if he says it is not he, we will also
deny it. This is the only way."

Having decided upon this diplomatic course as the one most likely to
prove advantageous to them, they went back to their several occupations
and amusements. But at the very first they said what they really
thought; none of them really believed the sick youth at the hospital to
be Marcello. An illness of nearly seven weeks and a long course of
privation can make a terrible difference in the looks of a very young
person, and when the memory is gone, too, the chances of his being
recognised are slight.

But the Chief of Police was not disturbed in his belief, and after he
had smoked several cigarettes very thoughtfully in his private office,
he wrote a telegram to Corbario, advising him to come back to Rome at
once. He was surprised to receive an answer from Folco late that night,
inquiring why he was wanted. To this he replied in a second telegram of
more length, which explained matters clearly. The next morning Corbario
telegraphed that he was starting.

The visiting physician came early and examined Marcello's head with the
greatest minuteness. After much trouble he found what he was looking
for--a very slight depression in the skull. There was no sign of a wound
that had healed, and it was clear that the injury must have been either
the result of a fall, in which case the scalp had been protected by a
stiff hat, or else of a blow dealt with something like a sandbag, which
had fractured the bone without leaving any mark beyond a bruise, now no
longer visible.

"It is my opinion," said the doctor, "that as soon as the pressure is
removed the man's memory will come back exactly as it was before. We
will operate next week, when he has gained a little more strength. Feed
him and give him plenty of air, for he is very weak."

So he went away for the day. But presently Regina came and demanded
admittance according to the promise she had received, and she was
immediately brought to the Superintendent's office, for he had given
very clear instructions to this effect in case the girl came again. He
had not told the Chief of Police about her, for he thought it would be
amusing to do a little detective work on his own account, and he
anticipated the triumph of finding out Marcello's story alone, and of
then laying the facts before the authorities, just to show what ordinary
common sense could do without the intervention of the law.

Regina was ushered into the high cool room where the Superintendent sat
alone, and the heavy door closed behind her. He was a large man with
close-cropped hair and a short brown beard, and he had kind brown eyes.
Regina came forward a few steps and then stood still, looking at him,
and waiting for him to speak. He was astonished at her beauty, and at
once decided that she had a romantic attachment for Marcello, and
probably knew all about him. He leaned back in his chair, and pointed to
a seat near him.

"Pray sit down," he said. "I wish to have a little talk with you before
you go upstairs to see Marcello."

"How is he?" asked Regina, eagerly. "Is he worse?"

"He is much better. But sit down, if you please. You shall stay with him
as long as you like, or as long as it is good for him. You may come
every day if you wish it."

"Every day?" cried Regina in delight. "They told me that I could only
come on Sunday."

"Yes. That is the rule, my dear child. But I can give you permission to
come every day, and as the poor young man seems to have no friends, it
is very fortunate for him that you can be with him. You will cheer him
and help him to get well."

"Thank you, thank you!" answered the girl fervently, as she sat down.

A great lady of Rome had been to see the Superintendent about a patient
on the previous afternoon; he did not remember that she moved with more
dignity than this peasant girl, or with nearly as much grace. Regina
swept the folds of her short coarse skirt forward and sideways a little,
so that they hid her brown woollen ankles as she took her seat, and with
the other hand she threw back the end of the kerchief from her face.

"You do not mind telling me your name?" said the Superintendent in a
questioning tone.

"Spalletta Regina," answered the girl promptly, putting her family name
first, according to Italian custom. "I am of Rocca di Papa."

"Thank you. I shall remember that. And you say that you know this poor
young man. Now, what is his name, if you please? He does not seem able
to remember anything about himself."

"I have always called him Marcello," answered Regina.

"Indeed? You call him Marcello? Yes, yes. Thank you. But, you know, we
like to write down the full name of each patient in our books. Marcello,
and then? What else?"

By this time Regina felt quite at her ease with the pleasant-spoken
gentleman, but in a flash it occurred to her that he would think it very
strange if she could not answer such a simple question about a young man
she professed to know very well.

"His name is Botti," she said, with no apparent hesitation, and giving
the first name that occurred to her.

"Thank you. I shall enter him in the books as 'Botti Marcello.'"
