
To this Orr objected. A wrangle ensued. Orr was sustained. Peacock
reconstructed his question. Annandale answered that he had gone to
Miss Waldron's, but that he remembered nothing else.

"Is this yours?" Peacock suddenly asked, producing the pistol marked
exhibit A.

"Probably," said Annandale, looking, not at it, but at the ceiling.

"That's all."

Annandale got from the stand. Others succeeded him there, experts for
the defense, men who recited their qualities and degrees as though
they were eating truffles to the sound of trumpets. One after another
they testified that liquor can ablate memory partially, wholly; can
ablate it regarding events antecedent and subsequent to a rememorated
point between; can, moreover, leave the subject in a condition
apparently normal yet actually in a state of trance.

"Do you really regard these people as experts?" Peacock with pitying
contempt asked of Orr. Then at once in rebuttal were other experts,
equally pleased with themselves, humorously disposing of psychical
epilepsy, affecting to regard it as a medicolegal myth. Among the
spectators the usual jest circulated. The mendacious were subdivided
into liars, damned liars, expert witnesses. Yet there you were. But
not Orr. Tortuously he involved the deponents in helpful
contradictions, smiling at them, at Peacock and the jury, smiling
with an air of saying "You see what confounded idiots these imbeciles
are."

But the session was closing. One more witness remained to be called.

"Miss Waldron, will you take the stand?"

With the charming manner of the thoroughbred New York girl Sylvia
circled the room. It was refreshing to see her, refreshing to hear the
way in which she corroborated what Annandale had said.

"But," objected Peacock, "you had just gone from his house; what did
he go to yours for?"

"To restore a string of pearls."

"Did he repeat to you anything that he had said to his wife?"

"Had he attempted to I should have refused to listen."

"Was he drunk?"

"I cannot say. I have never seen anyone in that condition."

"Did he make any threats regarding Loftus?"

"A gentleman does not make threats."

"Miss Waldron, I will thank you to answer me directly. Did he or did
he not?"

"He did not."

"You swear to that?"

"I do."

It was perjury, of course. Yet if a girl may not perjure herself like
a lady for the man she loves things have come to a pretty pass. That
idea apparently struck Peacock.

"Prior to the defendant's marriage you were engaged to him, were you
not?"

"I was."

"Are you engaged to him now?"

Very prettily and gracefully, without embarrassment, rather with
pride, Sylvia answered: "I am."

"That's all," said Peacock. "The State rests." But as he said it he
looked at the jury and sighed, sighed audibly, much as were he adding,
"You may judge the value of her testimony from that."

The resting, however, was but figurative. In a moment the summing up
began, a summing which, at first passionless as algebra, dealt with
technical points.

"Gentlemen," said Peacock turning again to the jury, "the evidence in
this case is of the kind known to you perhaps as circumstantial.
Evidence of this nature can lead and often does lead to a conclusion
more satisfactory than direct evidence can produce. Circumstances
cannot lie any more than facts can. Unless we resort to them it is in
vain that we attempt to detect and to punish crime. Crime shuns the
light of day. It seeks darkness. It courts secrecy. The assassin
moves stealthily. He calls no witness to see him shoot his victim
down. If you wait for an eye-witness you grant impunity to crime. It
is true, and probably you will be so told by counsel for the defense,
that there are cases in which the innocent have been convicted. Yet if
men have been erroneously convicted on circumstantial evidence, so
have they been convicted on direct testimony also. That is not,
though, a reason for declining to accept such testimony. The
possibility of error exists alike. But because men may err do they
refuse to act? Because wheat may be blighted does the farmer refuse to
sow? No, gentlemen. Until we have means of knowledge beyond our
present faculties we must accept this kind of evidence or grant
practical immunity to crime."

The exordium concluded, Peacock warmed to his work. What he said he
seemed to literally tear from his mouth. It was an arraignment not
delivered but hurled, headlong, with the force and rush of a cavalry
charge. Before it Orr's points sank overwhelmed. To replace them with
others of his own Peacock made new ones, evolving them with a fire and
lucidity that was pyrotechnic. They were like bombs exploding before
the jury's eyes. He arraigned the defendant, arraigned the defense,
stampeded their tactics, denounced Annandale's manner, which he
declared to be that of a hardened criminal, and pictured him as a
jealous husband who, in accordance with a plot long premeditated, had
first lured his victim to his house, then following him thence had
murdered him in the darkness, but who now swore that he was drunk and
remembered nothing. "Assuming that he was drunk," Peacock shouted,
"his intoxication was a feigned disguise, assumed for the purpose and
legally an aggravation of his dastard crime."

Beneath, in the unlovely street, an organ was tossing a jig. The jolts
of it mounted to the court, fusing with Peacock's voice, adding their
vulgarity to his own, and it was to the wretchedness of them that he
said at last: "My duty is done."

He had scored points by the dozen. In as many seconds Orr had their
heads off by half.

"Harris, gentlemen, is the rock of the People's case. His hand
fashioned it. Without him it crumbles. Let me array for you Harris
against Harris."

Leisurely Orr began, showing the man's hand for what it was, not dirty
and disreputable merely, but discredited.

"Apart from that hand where is the promised evidence? Where is it?
Where is that evidence? Gentlemen, not a bit of evidence have you had,
