war, by constant courtesy and loyalty, it was the duty of the aspirant to
please them. Pending the novitiate no word of love was permitted and any
advancement might be lost through an awkwardness of speech or gesture. But
the caprices of a lady properly endured and the tests undergone
unfalteringly, relations might ensue, in which case, if the lady were
single, the connection was not thought contrary to the best traditions,
provided that it was a prelude to marriage, nor, if the lady were already
married was it thought at variance with those traditions, provided that
the articles of the code were observed.[42]

Concerning the origin of the code history stammers. The chief authority,
Maître André, said that in Broceliande--a locality within the confines of
the Arthurian myth--a vavasour--quidam miles--met a lass--formosa
puella--who agreed to accept his attentions on condition that he
outjousted the Knights of the Round Table and got a falcon from them for
her. These labors accomplished and the vavasour rewarded--plenius suo
remuneravit amore--there was found attached to the falcon's claw, a
scroll, a holy writ, a code of love, a corpus juris amoris.[43]

The story is as imaginary as Broceliande. The code was probably derived
from some critique of pure courtesy then common in manuals of chivalry.
But its source is unimportant. Gradually promulgated throughout
Christendom it resulted in making love the subject of law for the
administration of which courts open and plenary were founded. These courts
which were at once academies of fine sentiments and parliaments of joy,
existed, Maître André stated, before Salahaddin decapitated a Christian
and lasted, Nostradamus declared, until post-Petrarchian days.[44]

The code is as follows:

          I. Causa conjugii ab amore non est excusatio recta.

         II. Qui non celat amare non potest.

        III. Nemo duplici potest amore ligari.

         IV. Semper amorem minui vel crescere constat.

          V. Non est sapidum quod amans ab invito sumit amante.

         VI. Masculus non solet nisi in plena pubertate amare.

        VII. Biennalis viduitas pro amante defuncto superstiti
             præscribitur amanti.

       VIII. Nemo, sine rationis excessu, suo debet amore privari.

         IX. Amare nemo potest, nisi qui amoris suasione compellitur.

          X. Amor semper ab avaritia consuevit domiciliis exulare.

         XI. Non decet amare quarum pudor est nuptias affectare.

        XII. Verus amans alterius nisi suæ coamantis ex affectu non cupit
             amplexus.

       XIII. Amor raro consuevit durare vulgatus.

        XIV. Facilis perceptio contemptibilem reddit amorem, difficilis
             eum parum facit haberi.

         XV. Omnis consuevit amans in coamantis as pectupallescere.

        XVI. In repentina coamantis visione, cor tremescit amantis.

       XVII. Novus amor veterem compellit abire.

      XVIII. Probitas sola quemcumque dignum facit amore.

        XIX. Si amor minuatur, cito deficit et raro convalescit.

         XX. Amorosus semper est timorosus.

        XXI. Ex vera zelotypia affectus semper crescit amandi.

       XXII. De coamante suspicione percepta zelus interea et affectus
             crescit amandi.

      XXIII. Minus dormit et edit quem amoris cogitatio vexat.

       XXIV. Quilibet amantis actus in coamantis cogitatione finitur.

        XXV. Verus amans nihil beatum credit, nisi quod cogitat amanti
             placere.

       XXVI. Amor nihil posset amori denegare.

      XXVII. Amans coamantis solatiis satiari non potest.

     XXVIII. Modica præsumptio cogit amantem de coamante suspicari
             sinistra.

       XXIX. Non solet amare quem nimia voluptatis abundantia vexat.

        XXX. Verus amans assidua, sine intermissione, coamantis imagine
             detinetur.

       XXXI. Unam feminam nihil prohibet a duobus amari, et a duabus
             mulieribus unum.

Of these articles, the translation of a few may suffice.

     The allegation of marriage is an insufficient plea against love.

     No one should love two people at the same time.

     Without exceeding good reason no one should be forbidden to love.

     No one need love unless persuasion invite.

     It is not seemly to love one whom it would be unseemly to marry.

     A new love banishes an old one.

     Love readily yielded is lightly held.

The establishment of courts for the maintenance of principles such as
these may seem unnecessary. Yet they had their raison d'être. In cases of
tort and felony the lord of a fief possessed the right of justice high and
low. There are crimes now which the law cannot reach. It was the same way
then. There were controversies which no mere man could adjust. To remedy
the defect the wives of the lords created tribunals of their own.

In the English dominions on the Continent generally, as also in Flanders,
Champagne and Provence, these courts were frequent. In describing them
Nostradamus said that "disputes arising from the beautiful and subtle
questions of love were submitted to illustrious ladies who, after
deliberation, rendered judgments termed, 'Lous arrêsts d'amours.'"

Of the beautiful and subtle questions here is one: A confidant charged by
a friend with messages of love found the lady so to his liking that he
addressed her in his own behalf. Instead of being repulsed he was
encouraged. Whereupon the injured party brought suit. Maître André,
prothonotary of the court, relates that the plaintiff prayed that the
fraud be submitted to the Countess of Champagne, who, sitting in banco
with sixty ladies, heard the complaint and, on deliberation, rendered
judgment as follows: "It is ordered that the defendants henceforth be
debarred the frequentation of honest people." Here is another instance. A
knight was charged by a lady not to say or do anything in her praise. It
so fell about that her name was lightly taken. The knight challenged the
