He did not betray the least of this, but his first remark as they rested
the horses on the slight hill leading to Isabel's ranch was less
irrelevant than it may have seemed to himself.

"I suppose you met all sorts of interesting Johnnies in that beloved San
Francisco of yours," he said, abruptly.

"Of course. It will be quite cool in an hour and we can go out.
Fortunately I never gave away Uncle Hiram's shooting-togs, and he was
quite your height and figure. We'll take tea and sandwiches with us so
that we need not hurry home for supper."

She suddenly forgot the ducks and pointed with her whip at the low hills
behind her house. The runs were covered with several thousand
snow-white, red-combed chickens, and all their little white houses shone
in the sun. The effect was by no means inartistic, but Gwynne elevated
his nose. He hated the sight of chickens.

"Did you ever see anything more beautiful than that?" asked Isabel,
proudly. "They all know me, and I love every one of them."

"I don't doubt there is money in them," said Gwynne, dryly. "But as a
pet I should prefer even a cat."

"Oh, I only pet them when they are ill. There is an old feather-bed in
the house, and I put them in that when they need nursing at night. That
is a device of my own, and much better than going out at twelve o'clock
on a cold dark night. By-the-way, I think your idea of selling half or
more of Lumalitas admirable. Great tracts of land in this part of the
State are out of date, and more bother than they are worth, anywhere.
You can invest the money to great advantage in San Francisco; but I
think you should devote the rest of the ranch to chickens--"

"No, madam!" Gwynne turned upon her the glittering eye of an animal at
bay. Then he laughed. "I have heard that proposition from every man I
have met and daily from my superintendent until I managed to suppress
him. I won't have a chicken on the ranch. The sight of them not only
fills me with ennui, but I have no intention of presenting your comic
papers with material. I could write their jokes myself--'Gwynne before
and after': Westminster in the background and a hayseed figure in front
addressing a constituency of chickens. Stumping the country with eggs in
my pockets for the children. Dining the eminent members of my
constituency on horse-meat, under the delusion that what is good for
chickens is good for votes. 'Leghorn Gwynne.' 'The Member from
Chickenville.' No thanks. No weapons that I can withhold."




IX


"This is all on my ranch," said Isabel; "so there is no danger of being
peppered. The rest of the marsh is owned by clubs, and as there was no
shooting here last year the ducks should be thicker than anywhere else.
We should get our fifty apiece in no time."

They were entering a narrow slough, hardly wider than the boat. It cut
its zigzag way through the marsh for many miles, and they could follow
its course with the eye but a few feet at a time. Gwynne shipped the
oars and began to scull, his gun across his knee. Isabel, in front and
with her back to him, sat with her own gun ready for a shot. On one side
of them was a large piece of marsh-land, on the left, smaller patches,
and little islands caught in the long grasping fingers of the tide.
Gwynne had attired himself with an ill grace in a pair of his cousin
Hiram's rubber boots that completely covered his body below the waist,
and an old shooting-coat with capacious pockets. Isabel wore a similar
costume, and but for her hair might have been mistaken for a lad. She
possessed no interest for Gwynne whatever at the moment. Nor did
anything else but the prospect of a new and exciting sport. The October
evening was mellow and full of color, the entire reach of the marsh
steeped in a golden haze shed from the glory in the west. Even the
forests and the lower ridges rising to Tamalpais had something aqueous
in their vague outlines, swayed gently in the golden tide. Only the tide
lands were green; the very water was yellow. Here and there, but far
away, a mast or sail rose above the level surface of the marsh. From the
distance came the sound of constant shooting.

Gwynne sculled silently, but with some impatience. They had left the
open creek far behind and had not seen a duck. Suddenly Isabel's gun
leaped to her shoulder. They rounded a sharp point and the whole surface
of the narrow slough between them and the next bend was black with
sleeping ducks. Gwynne's knee moved automatically to the seat in front
of him, and as the startled birds rose he and Isabel fired to right and
left. The scattering shot played havoc, and the second charge brought
down at least half as many on the higher wing. Isabel reloaded the guns
while Gwynne went for the ducks that had fallen on the land. He fell
into several holes himself, and returned covered with mud, but waving
his birds in triumph; and once more they stole softly along their
winding way. The shot had roused neighboring flocks; several dark clouds
had risen simultaneously, but in a few moments they settled again.

"You had better use both guns," whispered Isabel, "and I will do the
reloading. We can't do much with these old-fashioned things at best."

Gwynne accepted this act of sacrifice with a matter-of-fact nod, and it
was but a moment later that they came upon another flock. He fired with
an accuracy of aim that won him an admiring mutter, although to miss
would have been almost as noteworthy. But after repeating this
experience several times, he shrugged his shoulders and announced
himself blas√©.

"I'd like something a little more difficult," he said. "Ten minutes of
this and we can glut the market."

"All men are children," said Isabel, indulgently. "Tie up the boat and
we'll go after widgeon."

They landed and stole softly over the larger reach of marsh-land, Isabel
in the lead as she knew every hole. It was ten minutes before she raised
her hand and pointed to a wilted but still effective screen. Under cover
of this they crawled towards a large pond on which ducks were resting
but by no means asleep. Before the guns were shouldered they had taken
flight; so few were brought down on the wing that Gwynne's interest
revived, and he followed Isabel eagerly towards another pond with a
better blind. Here they were more wary and more fortunate, and Isabel
took a curious pleasure in watching the manifest bliss of her companion.
She had never seen him look really happy before. Upon his return to
Capheaton from his triumphant battle on the hustings he had been as
impassive as his traditions demanded. On the morning of his engagement
he had looked rather silly to her detached eye; and immediately after,
tragedy and trouble and infinite vexation had claimed him. But this
evening, with his cap pushed back, his nostrils distended, his eyes
sparkling, he looked like any other young fellow to whom the present was
all. Isabel reflected somewhat cynically that it was the opportunity to
kill something that had effected this momentary reconciliation with
life. But she was too good a sportswoman not to understand his mood, and
when he had waded into the lake and returned flushed and triumphant with
his bag, she complimented him so warmly that he laughed aloud in sheer
delight.

"We have enough for once," she began, but he would not hear of returning
to the boat even for the refreshment of tea, and they went on and on
until their feet were as weary as their shoulders under the burden that
was Isabel's part to string while her partner enjoyed himself.

"But we must really go," she announced, finally. "We have a long stretch
out in the open creek after we leave the slough, and it is not so easy
to keep the channel after dark. I have lost track of things and don't
remember what time the moon rises. You can come every day if you like;
