
There was silence again as she leaned back, sufficiently satisfied to
wait another hour for the fat quails, the Italian rice, and the
fig-paste, to which she was looking forward. And the yacht moved on at
her leisurely twelve-knot speed, through the flat calm of the late
summer sea, while an atmosphere of bodily peace and comfort gathered
round Baraka like a delicate mist that hid the future and softened the
past.

By and by, when she had eaten the fat quail and the Italian rice, and
then the fig-paste, and had drunk more sherbet of rose leaves, and
more coffee, but none of these things in any excess, that perfect
peace came upon her which none but Asiatics can feel, and which we
cannot understand; and they call it Kêf, and desire it more than any
other condition of their inner and outer selves; but there is no
translating of that word.

It is the inexplicable state of the cat when it folds its fore-paw in,
and is so quiet and happy that it can hardly purr, but only blinks
mildly once in two or three minutes. Logotheti knew the signs of it,
though he had never really felt it himself, and he knew very well that
its presence has the power to deaden all purpose and active will in
those who enjoy it. The sole object of taking opium is to produce it
artificially, which is never quite possible, for with most
opium-smokers or opium-eaters the state of peace turns into stupor at
the very moment when it is about to become consciously beatific.

He understood that this wonderful barbarian girl, who had shown such
courage, such irresistible energy, such unchanging determination in
the search that had lasted more than two years, was temporarily
paralysed for any purpose of action by the atmosphere with which he
was surrounding her. She would come to herself again, and be as much
awake, as determined, and as brave as ever, but she was quiescent now,
and the mere thought of effort would be really painful. Perhaps no one
who has not lived in Asia can quite understand that.

Logotheti took out his notebook, which had a small calendar with a few
lines for each day in the year, and he began to count days and
calculate dates; for when he had expected to go to Bayreuth with the
Primadonna he had found out all about the performances, and he knew
how long she meant to stay.

His calendar told him that this was the off-day, between the second
and third representations of Parsifal, and that Margaret had her
rooms at the hotel for another week. He would allow two days more for
her to reach Versailles and rest from the journey before she would
wish to see him; and as he thought she had treated him rather badly in
not letting him go with her, because he was not enough of a Wagnerian,
he intended to keep her waiting even a day or two longer, on the
sometimes mistaken theory that it is better to make a woman impatient
than to forestall her wishes before she has had time to change her
mind.

Besides, Van Torp's telegram showed that he was in Bayreuth, and
Logotheti flattered himself that the more Margaret saw of the
American, the more anxious she would be to see her accepted adorer. It
was her own fault, since Logotheti might have been with her instead.

The result of his calculations was that he had at least ten days
before him, and that as he was not at all bored by the little Tartar
lady in blue serge, it was quite useless to put her ashore at
Carterets and take her to Paris by that way. The idea of spending
eight or nine hours alone in a hot and dirty railway carriage, while
she and her maid passed the night in another compartment, was
extremely dreary; and besides, he had not at all made up his mind what
to do with her, and it would probably end in his taking her to his own
house. Margaret would have some right to resent that; but as for the
trip in the yacht, she need never know anything about it. The girl was
really as safe with him as any girl could be with her own brother, and
so long as no one knew that she was with him, nothing else mattered.
Furthermore, he was good enough to be convinced that if she were let
loose in Europe by herself, with plenty of money, boundless courage,
and such a clever courier as Spiro seemed to be, she would certainly
find Kralinsky at last and murder him, regardless of having sworn by
the inviolable water of the Styx. Lastly, he saw that she was at
present in that state of Asiatic peace in which it was perfectly
indifferent to her what happened, provided that she were not
disturbed.

He rose quietly and went aft. Though she was awake she scarcely
noticed that he had left her, and merely opened and shut her eyes
twice, like the happy cat already spoken of. She was not aware that
the yacht changed her course again, though it was pleasant not to have
the reflexion from the sea in her eyes any longer; if Logotheti had
told her that he was heading to seaward of Ushant instead of for
Jersey and Carterets, she would not have understood, nor cared if she
had, and would have been annoyed at being disturbed by the sound of
his voice.

It was pure bliss to lie there without a want, a thought, or a memory.
An imaginative European might fancy that she had waking dreams and
visions in the summer air; that she saw again the small white town,
the foot-hills, the broad pastures below, the vastness of Altai
above, the uncounted flocks, the distant moving herds, the evening
sunlight on the walls of her father's house; or that she lived over
again those mortal hours of imprisonment in the rocky hollow, and
looked into the steel-bright eyes of the man who would not love her
and saw the tall figure of Saäd already dead, bending forward from the
ledge and pitching headlong to the sand.

Not at all. She saw none of these things. She was quiescently
blissful; the mysterious Kêf was on her, and the world stood still in
the lazy enchantment--the yacht was not moving, the sun was not
sinking westwards, her pulse was not beating, she was scarcely
breathing, in her own self she was the very self of peace, motionless
in an immeasurable stillness.

When the sky reddened at evening Logotheti was again in his chair,
reading. She heard six bells struck softly, the first sound she had
noticed in four hours, and she did not know what they meant; perhaps
it was six o'clock alla Franca, as she would have called it; no one
could understand European time, which was one in Constantinople,
another in Paris, and another in England. Besides, it made no
difference what time it was; but Kêf was departing from her--was gone
already, and the world was moving again--not at all in an unpleasant
or disturbing way, but moving nevertheless.

'When shall we reach that place?' she asked lazily, and she turned her
face to Logotheti.

'Allah knows,' he answered gravely, and he laid his book on his knees.

She had been so well used to hearing that answer to all sorts of
questions since she had been a child that she thought nothing of it,
and waited awhile before speaking again. Her eyes studied the man's
face almost unconsciously. He now wore a fez instead of a yachting
cap, and it changed his expression. He no longer looked in the least
like a European. The handsome red felt glowed like blood in the
evening light, and the long black silk tassel hung backwards with a
dashing air. There was something about him that reminded Baraka of
Saäd, and Saäd had been a handsome man, even in her eyes, until the
traveller had come to her father's house with his blue eyes and golden
beard. But Saäd had only seen her unveiled face once, and that was the
last thing he saw when the ball from the Mauser went through his
forehead.

'I mean,' she asked after some time, 'shall we be there to-morrow? or
the next day? I see no land on this side; is there any on the other?'

'No,' Logotheti answered, 'there is no land near. Perhaps, far off, we
