that her master would have her thrown out of the house at once, and
ducked in the canal besides, if he ever heard of it. But he was a man of
unchanging habits. Each time that Stradella came he led him in, sat
down, listened while Ortensia sang one of his own pieces, and then went
away, not to return that morning. So when Pina was quite sure that his
coming and going had settled to a habit, she boldly ran the risk, if it
was one, and left the two together.

Alessandro Stradella was a Sicilian on both sides, though he had been
born in Naples, and he wasted no time when his chance came. He tried no
little trick of word or glance, he did not gaze into Ortensia's eyes and
sigh, still less did he boldly try to take her hand and pour out a
fervid declaration of his love; for by this time, without the exchange
of a word, the girl had taken hold of his heart, and he saw her eyes
before him everywhere, in the sunlit streets and canals, and at night,
in the dark, and in his dreams.

He did none of these things. He was the master singer of his age, and he
himself had made divine melodies that still live; he knew his power, and
he trusted to that alone. The velvet curtain had scarcely fallen behind
Pina as she went out, when he bent over his lute, and with one look at
Ortensia began to sing. But it was not one of those ninety-seven
compositions on which the Senator prided himself: it was a love-song of
Stradella's own that he had made within the week in the secrecy of his
own room, and no one had heard it yet; and it was his masterpiece.

Ortensia felt that it was hers. That strange voice of his that was not
deep, yet never seemed high-pitched, breathed softly through and through
her being, as a spring breeze through young leaves, more felt than
heard, yet a wonder to hear. The notes vibrated, but did not tremble;
they swelled and grew strong and rang out fiercely, but were never loud;
and again they died away, but were not quite silent, and lingered
musically in the air, though a whisper would have drowned them.

The girl's eyes grew dark under their drooping lids, and her face was
luminously pale; her delicate young lips moved now and then
unconsciously, and they were icy cold; but she felt a wild pulse beating
at her throat, as if her heart were there and breaking to be free.

She felt his look on her too, but she could not answer it, and when the
song ended she turned from him and laid her white cheek against the high
back of the chair, looking out at the cypress against the sky. She
could not tell whether it was pain or pleasure she felt, but it was
almost more than she could bear, and her hands strained upon each other,
clasped together just on her two knees.

In the silence the velvet curtain was lifted and fell again, and Pina's
step was heard on the marble floor.

'I have brought you some water to drink,' said the nurse quietly; and
speaking to both, 'Your throats must be dry with so much singing!'

Ortensia took one of the tall glasses and drank eagerly before she
turned her face from the window.

'Thank you,' she said, recovering herself and smiling at Pina.

'And you, Maestro?' asked the latter, offering Stradella the drink.

'Thank you,' he said, 'but it is too much. With your permission!'

And then, with the effrontery of youth in love, he deliberately took the
almost empty glass from which Ortensia had drunk, poured a little into
it from the other, and drank out of it with a look of undisguised
gratitude on his handsome face. Thereupon a little colour came to
Ortensia's ivory-pale cheek, and Pina smiled pleasantly. Instead of
setting down the salver, however, she took it away, leaving the room
again.

'How beautiful that song is!' Ortensia said in a low voice, and glancing
at Stradella almost timidly, when they were again alone. 'How more than
beautiful!'

'It is yours,' answered the musician. 'I made it for you--it is not even
written down yet.'

'For me!' The exquisite colour deepened twice in her face and faded
again as her heart fluttered.

'For you,' Stradella answered, so softly that she barely heard.

The nurse came back just then, having merely left the salver outside to
be taken away. In her judgment things had gone far enough for the
present. Then the mid-day bells clanged out, and it was time to end the
lesson, and Stradella put his lute into its purple bag and bowed himself
out as he always did; but to-day he kept his eyes on Ortensia's, and
hers did not turn from him while she could see his face.




CHAPTER II


Love-dealings and Deceit, says an ancient poet, were born into the world
together, daughters of Night; and several dry-hearted old critics, who
never were in love and perhaps never deceived anybody in their lives,
have had so much trouble in understanding why these divinities should
have made their appearance in the world at the same time, that they have
suspected the passage and written pages of learned trash about what
Hesiod probably wrote instead of 'Love-dealings,' or the pretty word for
which I can think of no better translation.

Pignaver was not a particularly truthful person himself, but he exacted
strict truthfulness from others, which is good business if it is bad
morality; and Ortensia had been brought up rigidly in the practice of
veracity as a prime virtue. She had not hitherto been tempted to tell
fibs, indeed; but she had always looked upon doing so as a great sin,
which, if committed, would require penance.

Yet no sooner had she fallen in love with Alessandro Stradella than she
found herself telling the most glaring untruths every day, with a
readiness and self-possession that were nothing short of terrifying. For
instance, her uncle often asked her to tell him exactly what she had
been studying with the music-master, and he inquired especially whether
the latter ever sang any of his own music to her. To these questions she
answered that she was too anxious to profit by the lessons she was
receiving, through her uncle's kindness, to waste the precious time in
which she might be studying his immortal works.

She used those very words, without a blink, and Pignaver swallowed the
flattery as a dog bolts a gobbet of meat. She added that the Maestro
himself was so enthusiastic about the Senator's songs that he now cared
for nothing else.

Yet the truth was that Stradella had summed up his criticism in a few
words.

'They are all so much alike that they almost produce the impression of
having been written by the same person.'

That was what he had really said, and Ortensia had laughed sweetly and
cruelly; and even Pina, busy with her lace-pillow, had smiled with evil
satisfaction in her corner, for she was a clever woman, who had been
educated above her present station, and she understood.

Further, the Senator asked whether Stradella ever attempted to enter
into conversation with his pupil, between one piece of music and the
next.

