the boats."

There was a blaze of scarlet on her cheeks and her eyes flashed fire,
but she stood up straight and defiant, when another child might have
broken down and cried. Chilian Leverett always remembered the picture
she made--small, dark, and spirited.

"No," he exclaimed, "you need not go back." Then he rose and took her
hand that was cold and trembling. "You will not go back. Let us find
Miss Winn----"

"Chilian!" warned Elizabeth.

He led Cynthia from the room, up the stairs. Miss Winn sat there sewing.
She clasped her arms about him, he could fairly feel the throb in them.

"Oh," she cried with a strange sort of sweetness. "I love you. You are
so good to me, and I have told you just the truth."

Then she buried her face on Miss Winn's bosom.

Chilian went downstairs. He laughed, yet he was deeply touched by her
audacity and bravery.

"Elizabeth," he announced; "I will see Mrs. Wilby. Let the matter die
out, do not refer to it. I did not think it quite the school for her. We
will find something else."

"Chilian, I must make one effort for you and her. Going on this way will
be her ruin. I should insist upon her going back to school and
apologizing to Mrs. Wilby. I wouldn't let a chit like that order what a
household of grown people should do and make them bow down to her. You
will be sorry for it in the end. You have had no experience with
children, you have seen so few. And a man hasn't the judgment----"

His usually serene temper was getting ruffled, and with such characters
the end is often obstinacy.

"If she is to make a disturbance here, become a bone of contention with
us, I will send her away. Cousin Giles is taking a great interest in
her. There are good boarding-schools in Boston, or she and Miss Winn
could have a home together under his supervision. There is enough to
provide for them."

"And you would turn her over to that half-heathen woman!" in a horrified
tone. "Then I wash my hands of the matter. Send her to perdition, if you
will."




CHAPTER VII

CHANGEFUL LIGHTS OF CHILDHOOD


Elizabeth Leverett busied herself about the supper. She felt as one does
in the threatening of a thunderstorm, when the clouds roll up and the
rumbling is low and distant and one studies the sky with presentiments.
Then it comes nearer, flirts a little with the elements, breaks open and
shows the blue that the scurrying wind soon hides and the real storm
bursts. She had believed all along that it must come.

She was not an ungracious or a selfish woman outside of her own home.
She was good to the sick and the needy, she gave of her time and
strength. In the home there was a sense of ownership, of the
self-appropriation so often termed duty. Everything had gone on smoothly
for years. She had settled that Chilian would not marry. Such a bookish
man, whose interests lay chiefly with men, did not need a wife when
there was some one at hand to make him comfortable. And that he surely
was. He understood and enjoyed it. He had only to suggest to have. Her
affection for him was like that for a younger brother. Even Eunice could
not minister so well for his comfort, though, like Mary of Bible lore,
she often added a delicate pleasure in listening to matters or
incidents that interested him.

Elizabeth had settled to the idea of a little heathen soul that she was
to lead aright. Missionary work in godless lands had not made much
advance and, having no mother, who was there to warn her of the great
peril of her soul? Seafaring men were not much given to thought of the
other world. Perhaps there was some grace for them in the hours of
peril, she had heard they prayed to God in an extremity; and there was
the dying thief. But on land no one had a right to count on this.

The child had changed everything. Even Eunice seemed to have lost the
sharp distinction. Miss Winn belonged to the ungodly, that was
clear--though she was upright, honest, neat, and in some ways sensible.
But her ideas about the child were foreign and reprehensible--dangerous
even. The child was no worse than others, not as bad as some, for she
had either by nature or training a delicate respect for the property of
others. She never meddled. She asked few questions even when she stood
by the kitchen table and watched the mysteries of cake and pie making
and the delicacies of cooking. It was the right to herself that annoyed
Elizabeth. People had hardly begun to suspect that children had any
rights.

"But if she went away? If she was swallowed up in the vortex of the more
populous city"--greater, Salem would not have admitted. "If the child's
soul was finally lost, would she be quite clear? Would she have done all
that she could for her salvation?"

She thought of it as she prepared the supper. She surveyed the
inviting-looking table and then rang the bell. Eunice brought in a
handful of flowers. Chilian came--and Miss Winn.

"Cynthia has gone to bed, she does not want any supper," was her quiet
announcement.

Elizabeth would have sent her to bed supperless, and approved of a
severer punishment.

Miss Winn asked some questions about Boston.

"I have quite a desire to see it," she added.

Yes, she would no doubt plan for a removal. Then the child would be
forever lost. And a Leverett, too, come of a strong God-fearing family!

The child, when she had hidden her face on Rachel's bosom, gave some
dry, hard sobs that shook her small frame. Rachel smoothed her hair,
patted the shoulder softly, and said "Dear" in a caressing tone. Then
had come a torrent of tears, a wild hysterical weeping. She did not
attempt to check it, but took Cynthia in her arms as if she had been a
baby.

"I'm not going to that school any more," she said brokenly, after a
while.

"What happened, dear?"

Cynthia raised her head. "It was very mean, as if I had done it on
purpose! Why, I might have hurt myself;" indignantly.

"How was it?" gently.

And then the story came tumbling out. She saw a certain ludicrous aspect
in it now, and laughed a little herself. "I couldn't help being saucy.
And I thought she was going to strike me. Tommy Marsh began to laugh
first. The slate broke----"

