
"Now the logs, Kelly, dear," she said, "the kind that catch fire in a
second and make frying-pan music, please."

He laid three or four logs of yellow birch across the bed of coals. The
blaze caught swiftly, mounting in a broad sheet of yellow flame, making
their faces brilliant in the darkness; and the tall shadows leaped
across floor and wall and towered, wavering above them from the ruddy
ceiling.

"Kelly!"

"What?"

"I wish you a Happy New Year."

"Thank you. I wish you the same."

"Come over here and curl up on the hearth and drop your head back on my
knees, and tell me what is the trouble--you sulky boy!"

He did not appear to hear her.

"Please?--" with a slight rising inflection.

"What is the use of pretending?" he said, shortly.

"Pretending!" she repeated, mimicking him delightedly. Then with a
clear, frank laugh: "Oh, you great, big infant! The idea of you being
the famous painter Louis Neville! I wish there was a nursery here. I'd
place you in it and let you pout!"

"That's more pretence," he said, "and you know it."

"What silly things you do say, Louis! As though people could find life
endurable if they did not pretend. Of course I'm pretending. And if a
girl pretends hard enough it sometimes comes true."

"What comes true?"

"Ah!--you ask me too much.... Well, for example, if I pretend I don't
mind your ill-temper it may come true that you will be amiable to me
before I go home."

There was no smile from him, no response. The warmth of the burning logs
deepened the colour in her cold cheeks. Snow crystals on her dark hair
melted into iris-rayed drops. She stretched her arms to the fire, and
her eyes fell on Gladys and her kitten, slumbering, softly embraced.

"Oh, do look, Kelly! How perfectly sweet and cunning! Gladys has her
front paws right around the kitten's neck."

Impulsively she knelt down, burying her face in the fluffy heap; the
kitten partly opened its bluish eyes; the mother-cat stretched her legs,
yawned, glanced up, and began to lick the kitten, purring loudly.

For a moment or two the girl caressed the drowsy cats, then, rising, she
resumed her seat, sinking back deeply into the arm-chair and casting a
sidelong and uncertain glance at Neville.

The flames burned steadily, noiselessly, now; nothing else stirred in
the studio; there was no sound save the ghostly whisper of driving snow
blotting the glass roof above.

Her gaze wandered over the silken disorder in the studio, arrested here
and there as the firelight gleamed on bits of armour--on polished
corselet and helmet and the tall hilts of swords. Then she looked upward
where the high canvas loomed a vast expanse of gray, untouched except
for the brushed-in outlines of men in shadowy processional.

She watched Neville, who had begun to prowl about in the disorder of
the place, stepping over trailing velvets, avoiding manikins armed
cap-a-pie, moving restlessly, aimlessly. And her eyes followed his
indecision with a smile that gradually became perplexed and then a
little troubled.

For even in the uncertain firelight she was aware of the change in his
face--of features once boyish and familiar that seemed now to have
settled into a sterner, darker mould--a visage that was too lean for his
age--a face already haunted of shadows; a mature face--the face of a man
who had known unhappiness.

He had paused, now, head lifted, eyes fixed on vast canvas above. And
for a long while he stood there leaning sideways against a ladder,
apparently oblivious of her.

Time lagged, halted--then sped forward, slyly robbing him of minutes of
which his senses possessed no record. But minutes had come and gone
while he stood there thinking, unconscious of the trick time played
him--for the fire was already burning low again and the tall clock in
the shadows pointed with stiff and ancient hands to the death of another
hour and the birth of yet another; and the old-time bell chimed
impartially for both with a shift and slide of creaking weights and
wheels.

He lifted his head abruptly and looked at Valerie, who lay curled up in
her chair, eyes closed, dark lashes resting on her cheeks.

As he passed her chair and returned to place more logs on the fire she
opened her eyes and looked up at him. The curve of her mouth grew softly
humorous.

"I'd much prefer my own bed," she said, "if this is all you have to say
to me."

"Had you anything to say to me?" he asked, unsmiling.

"About what, Kelly, dear?"

"God knows; I don't."

"Listen to this very cross and cranky young man!" she exclaimed, sitting
up and winking her eyes in the rushing brilliancy of the blaze. "He is
neither a very gracious host, nor a very reasonable one; nor yet
particularly nice to a girl who left a perfectly good party for an hour
with him."

She stole a glance at him, and her gaze softened:

"Perhaps," she said aloud to herself, "he is not really very cross;
perhaps he is only tired--or in trouble. Otherwise his voice and manners
are scarcely pardonable--even by me."

He stood regarding the flames with narrowing gaze for a few moments,
then, hands in his pockets, walked over to his chair once more and
dropped into it.

A slight flush stole into her cheeks; but it went as it came. She rose,
crossed to where he sat and stood looking down at him.

"What is the matter?"

"With me?" in crude pretence of surprise.

"Of course. I am happy enough. What troubles you?"

"Absolutely nothing."

"Then--what troubles us?" she persisted. "What has gone wrong between
us, Kelly, dear? Because we mustn't let it, you know," she added,
