
Mingled, too, with his worried cogitations was the thought of Henry
Tennant’s nieces—these young California girls of whom he had vaguely
heard without any particular interest. New Yorkers are never interested
in relatives they never saw; seldom in any relatives at all. And, long
ago, there had been marriage between Tennant and Edgerton—in colonial
days, if he remembered correctly; and, to his own slight surprise, he
felt it now as an added obligation.  It was not enough that he efface
himself until they found employment; more than that was due them from an
Edgerton. And, as he had nothing to do it with, he wondered how he was
to do anything at all for these distant cousins.

Standing there in the sunshine he cast an ironical glance around him at
the Beauvais tapestries, the old masters, the carved furniture of
Charles II’s time, rugs dyed with the ancient splendor of the East, made
during the great epoch when carpets of Ispahan, Damascus—and those
matchless hues woven with gold and silver which are called
Polish—decorated the palaces of Emperor and Sultan.

Not one thing could he sell under the will of Peter Edgerton to save his
body from starvation or his soul from anything else; and he jingled the
two dollars in his pocket and thought of his talents, and wondered what
market there might be for any of them in a city where bricklayers were
paid higher wages than school teachers, and where the wealthy employed
others to furnish their new and gorgeous houses with everything from
pictures and books to the ancient plate from which they ate.

And, thinking of these things, his ears caught a slight rustle of silk;
and he lifted his head as Diana Tennant and her sister Silvette came
toward him through the farther room.




                             *CHAPTER III*

                              *SUB JUDICE*


"Isn’t this a mess!" said Silvette in a clear, unembarrassed voice,
giving him her hand.  "Imagine my excitement up on the roof, Mr.
Edgerton, when Diana appeared and told me what a perfectly delightful
man had come to evict us!"

"I didn’t say it that way," observed Diana, her ears as pink as the
powder-puff peonies above them.  "My sister," she explained, "is one of
those girls whose apparent frankness is usually nonsense.  I’m merely
warning you, Mr. Edgerton."

Silvette—a tall, free-limbed, healthy, and plumper edition of her
sister—laughed.  "In the first place," she said, "suppose we have
luncheon.  There is a fruit salad which I prepared after breakfast.  Our
maid is out, but we know how to do such things, having been made to when
schoolgirls."

"You’ll stay, won’t you?" asked Diana.

"Poor Mr. Edgerton—where else is he to go?" said Silvette calmly.
"Diana, if you’ll set places for three at that very beautiful and
expensive antique table, I’ll bring some agreeable things from the
refrigerator."

"Could I be of any use?" inquired Edgerton, smiling.

"Indeed, you can be.  Talk to Diana and explain to her how respectable
we are and you are, and how everything is certain to be properly
arranged to everybody’s satisfaction. Diana has a very wonderful idea,
and she’s come to one of her celebrated snap-shot conclusions—a
conclusion, Mr. Edgerton, most flattering to you.  Ask her."  And she
went away toward the kitchenette not at all embarrassed by her pretty
morning attire nor by the thick braid of golden hair which hung to her
girdle.

Diana cast a swift glance at Edgerton, and, seeing him smile, smiled,
too, and set about laying places for three with snowy linen, crystal,
silver, and the lovely old Spode porcelain which had not its match in
all the city.

"It’s like a play or a novel," she said; "the hazard of our coming here
the way we did, and of you coming back to America; but, of course, the
same cause operated in both cases, so perhaps it isn’t so remarkable
after all! And"—she repressed a laugh—"to think that I should mistake
you for a malefactor!  Did it seem to you that I behaved in a silly
manner?"

"On the contrary, you exhibited great dignity and courage and
self-restraint."

"Do you really mean it?  I was nearly scared blue, and I was perfectly
certain you’d stuffed your suit cases full of our toilet silver.
Wasn’t it funny, Mr. Edgerton!  And what did you think when you
looked into your studio and saw a woman?"

"I was—somewhat prepared."

"Of course—after a glimpse into our bedroom! But that must have
astonished you, didn’t it?"

"Slightly.  The first thing I saw was a white cat staring at me from the
top of a trunk."

She laughed, arranging the covers with deft touch.

"And what next did you see?"

"Garments," he explained briefly.

"Oh!  Yes, of course."

"Also a silk-flowered slipper with a very high heel on the threshold."

"Mine," she said.  "You see, in the days of our affluence, I used to
have a maid.  I forget, and throw things about sometimes."

"You’ve a maid now, haven’t you?"

"Oh, just a combination cook and waitress until we can find employment.
She’s horridly expensive, too, but it can’t be helped, because it would
create an unfavorable impression if Silvie or I answered the door bell."

"You’re quite right," he said; "people have a curious aversion to
employing those who really need it.  Prosperity never lacks employment.
It’s odd, isn’t it?"

"It’s rather cruel," she said under her breath.

Silvette came in bringing a chilled fruit salad, bread and butter, cold
chicken, and tea. "We’ll have to put it all on at once.  You don’t mind,
do you, Mr. Edgerton?"

He said smilingly but distinctly: "One’s own family can do no wrong.
That is my creed."

Diana looked up at him.

"I wondered whether you knew we were relations," she said, flushing
deliriously.

"You see," added Silvette, "it was not for us to remind you."

