Something new and sinister in his eyes arrested the other's attention.
He considered the man for a few moments, then, coolly:

"I wouldn't, Ledwith."

"Why not?"

"He isn't worth it--even as company in hell."

"Do you think I'm going to let him live on?"

"Do you care to sink to his level?"

"Sink! Can I sink any lower than I am?"

Quarren shrugged:

"Easily, if you commit murder."

"That isn't murder----"

But Quarren cut him short continuing:

"Sink lower, you ask? What have you done, anyway--except to commit this
crime against yourself?"--touching him on the wrist. "I'm not aware of
any other crime committed by you, Ledwith. You're clean as you
stand--except for this damnable insult and injury you offer yourself!
Can't you reason? A bullet-stung animal sometimes turns and bites
itself. Is that why you are doing it?--to arouse the amusement and
contempt of your hunter?"

"Quarren! By God you shall not say that to me----"

"Why not? Have you ever considered what that man must think of you to
see you turn and tear at the body he has crippled?"

Ledwith's sunken eyes blazed; he straightened himself, took one menacing
step forward; and Quarren laid a light, steady hand on his shoulder.

"Listen to me," he said; "has it never occurred to you that you could
deal him no deeper blow than to let him see a man stand up to him, face
to face, where a creature lay writhing before, biting into its own
vitals?"

He smiled into the fixed eyes of the almost mindless man:

"If you say the word I'll stand by you, Ledwith. If all you want to do
is to punish him, murder isn't the way. What does a dead man care? Cut
your own throat and the crime might haunt him--and might not. But
kill!--Nonsense. It's all over then--except for the murderer."

He slid his hand quietly to Ledwith's arm, patted it.

"To punish him you need a doctor.... It's only a week under the new
treatment. You know that, don't you? After that a few months to get back
nerve and muscle and common sense."

"And then?" motioned Ledwith with dry lips.

"Then? Oh, anything that you fancy. It's according to a man's personal
taste. You can take him by the neck and beat him up in public if you
like--or knock him down in the club as often as he gets up. It all
depends, Ledwith. Some of us maintain self-respect without violence;
some of us seem to require it. It's up to you."

"Yes."

Quarren said carelessly: "If I were you, I think that I'd face the world
as soon as I was physically and mentally well enough--the real world I
mean, Ledwith--either here or abroad, just as I felt about it.

"A man can get over anything except the stigma of dishonesty.
And--personally I think he ought to have another chance even after that.
But men's ideas differ. As for you, what you become and show that you
are, will go ultimately with the world. Beat him up if you like; but,
personally, I never even wished to kick a cur. Some men kick 'em to
their satisfaction; it's a matter of taste I tell you. Besides----"

He stopped short; and presently Ledwith looked up.

"Shall I say it?"

"Yes. You are kind to me, always."

"Then--Ledwith, I don't know exactly how matters stand. I can only try
to put myself in your present place and imagine what I ought to do,
having arrived where you have landed.... And, do you know, if I were
you, and if I listened to my better self, I don't think that I'd lay a
finger on Langly Sprowl."

"Why?"

"For the sake of the woman who betrayed me--and who is now betrayed in
turn by the man who betrayed us both."

Ledwith said through his set teeth: "Do you think I care for her? If I
nearly kill him, do you imagine I care what the public will say about
her?"

"You are generous enough to care, Ledwith."

"I am not!" he said, hoarsely. "I don't care a damn!"

"Then why do you care whether or not he keeps his word to her and shares
with her a coat of social whitewash?"

"I--she is only a little fool--alone to face the world now----"

"You're quite right, Ledwith. She ought to have another chance. First
offenders are given it by law.... But even if that chance lay in his
marrying her, could you better it by killing him if he won't do it? Or
by battering him with a dog-whip?

"It isn't really much of a chance, considering it on a higher level than
the social viewpoint. How much real rehabilitation is there for a woman
who marries such a man?"

He smiled: "Because," he continued, "my viewpoint has changed. Things
that once seemed important to me seem so no longer. To live cleanly and
do your best in the real world is an aspiration more attractive to me
than social absolution."

Ledwith remained silent for a long while, then muttered something
indistinctly.

"Wait a moment," said Quarren, throwing aside his painter's blouse and
pulling on his coat. "I'll ring up a taxi in a second!... You mean it,
Ledwith?"

The man looked at him vacantly, then nodded.

"You're on!" said Quarren, briskly unhooking the telephone.

While they were waiting Ledwith laid a shaking hand on Quarren's sleeve
and clung to it. He was trembling like a leaf when they entered the cab,
whimpering when they left it in front of a wide brown-stone building
composed of several old-time private residences thrown together.

"Stand by me, Quarren," he whispered brokenly--"you won't go away, will
you? You wouldn't leave me to face this all--all alone. You've been kind
