but to-morrow.  Another day with this mysterious tantalizing woman,
thought Warrington.  He went in search of her, but before he found her,
he was summoned to the captain's cabin.  Warrington presented himself,
mildly curious.  The captain nodded to a stool.

"Sit down, Mr. Warrington.  Will you have a cheroot?"

"Yes, thanks."

A crackle of matches followed.

"This fellow Craig has complained about his treatment by you this
morning.  I fancy you were rather rough with him."

"Perhaps.  He was very drunk and abusive, and he needed cold water more
than anything else.  I once knew the man."

"Ah!  But it never pays to manhandle that particular brand of tippler.
They always retaliate in some way."

"I suppose he has given you an excerpt from my history?"

"He says you can not return to the States."

"I am returning on the very first boats I can find."

"Then he was lying?"

"Not entirely.  I do not know what he has told you, and I really do not
care.  The fact is, Craig is a professional gambler, and I warned him
not to try any of his tricks on board.  It soured him."

"And knowing myself that he was a professional, I gave no weight to his
accusations.  Besides, it is none of my business.  The worst scoundrel
unhung has certain rights on my ship.  If he behaves himself, that is
sufficient for me.  Now, what Craig told me doesn't matter; but it
matters that I warned him.  A word to any one else, and I'll drop him
at Penang to-morrow, to get out the best way he can.  Ships passing
there this time of year are generally full-up.  Will you have a peg?"

"No, thanks.  But I wish to say that it is very decent of you."
Warrington rose.

"I have traveled too long not to recognize a man when I see him.  Do
you play cricket?" asked the captain, his gaze critically covering the
man before him.

"No; I regret I'm not familiar with the game."

"Ah!  Well, drop in any night after ten, if you care to."

"I shall be glad to accept your hospitality."

Outside, Warrington mused on the general untruths of first impressions.
He had written down the captain as a pompous, self-centered individual.
One never could judge a man until he came to the scratch.  It heartened
him to find that there was a man on board who respected his misfortune,
whether he believed it or not.  He sought Elsa, and as they promenaded,
lightly recounted the episode of the morning.

Elsa expressed her delight in laughter that was less hearty than
malicious.  How clearly she could see the picture!  And then, the
ever-recurring comparisons: Arthur would have gone by, Arthur would not
have bothered himself, for he detested scenes and fisticuffs.  How few
real men she had met, men who walked through life naturally, unfettered
by those self-applied manacles called "What will people say?"

"Let us go up to the bow," she invited.  "I've a little story myself to
tell."

They clambered down and up the ladders, over the windlass and
anchor-chains which a native was busily painting.  A school of porpoise
were frolicking under the cutwater.  Plop! plop! they went; and
sometimes one would turn sidewise and look up roguishly with his
twinkling seal-like eyes.  Plop! plop!  Finally all save one sank
gracefully out of sight.  The laggard crisscrossed the cutwater a dozen
times, just to show the watchers how extremely clever he was; and then,
with a plop! that was louder than any previous one, he vanished into
the deeps.

"I love these Oriental seas," said Elsa, with her arms on the rail and
her chin resting upon them.  She wore no hat, and her hair shimmered in
the sun and shivered in the wind.

"And yet they are the most treacherous of all seas.  There's not a
cloud in sight; in two hours from now we may be in the heart of a
winter storm.  Happily, they are rarities along this coast; so you will
not have the excitement of a shipwreck."

"I am grateful for that.  Mercy!  Think of being marooned on a desert
island with the colonel and his three spinsters!  Proprieties, from
morning until night.  And the chattering tourists!  Heaven forfend!"

"You had a story to tell me," he suggested.  His heart was hot within
him.  He wanted to sweep her up in his arms and hold her there forever.
But the barrier of wasted opportunities stood between.  How delicately
beautiful she was: Bernini's Daphne.

"Oh, yes; I had almost forgotten."  She stood up and felt for wandering
strands of hair.  "I find the world more amusing day by day.  I ought
to feel hurt, but I am only amused.  I spoke to the colonel this
morning, merely to say howdy-do.  He stared me in the eye and
de-lib-erately turned his back to me."

"The doddering old---"

"There, there!  It isn't worth getting angry about."

"But, don't you understand?  It's all because of me.  Simply because
you have been kind to a poor devil, they start in to snub you, you!
I'll go back to my old seat at the table.  You mustn't walk with me any
more."

"Don't be silly.  If you return to your chair, if you no longer walk
with me, they'll find a thousand things to talk about.  Since I do not
care, why should you?"

"Can't I make it clear to you?" desperately.

"I see with reasonable eyes, if that is what you mean.  The people I
know, mine own people, understand Elsa Chetwood."

So her name was Elsa?  He repeated it over and over in his mind.

She continued her exposition.  "There are but few, gently born.  They
are generous and broad-minded.  They could not be mine own people
otherwise.  They are all I care about.  I shun mediocrity as I would
the plague.  I refuse to permit it to touch me, either with words or
with deeds.  The good opinion of those I love is dear to me; as for the
rest of the world!"  She snapped her fingers to illustrate how little
she cared.

"I am a man under a cloud, to be avoided."

"Perhaps that cloud has a silver lining," with a gentle smile.  "I do
not believe you did anything wrong, premeditatively.  All of us, one
time or another, surrender to wild impulse.  Perhaps in the future
there awaits for me such a moment.  I cannot recollect the name of
Warrington in a cause célèbre," thoughtfully.

