scheme to extort money. How can you be sure it is your child? There are
so many swindlers or blackmailers in the world."

He was arranging his wife on the couch, thankful she had borne the
tidings so well. Then he seated himself beside her, bending over to kiss
the pallid lips.

"There can scarcely be any chance for fraud. No one would profit by it,
and now, shall I go on with the story?"

They both acquiesced.

There was something so pathetic in the fostermother's love for the child
and her fear of its being cast on the world as no one seemed to know
anything about the supposed mother. Then her return to her early home;
her struggles against misfortune, poverty and ill health, and after a
little, her dismay at finding the child so different from what she had
been herself, so ambitious, so longing for refinement and showing such a
distaste for common ways. The failure of her own health, the
impossibility of keeping the girl at school any longer when Mrs.
Barrington's proffer had seemed a perfect godsend. But it was too late
to recover the health that had been so shattered by poverty and hard
work.

"Well, if it is true she was a courageous woman," declared Miss
Crawford. "One can't forgive her for taking the child without making a
single inquiry."

"But everything was in such confusion, and you will remember that
Marguerite lay unconscious for a long while, just hovering between life
and death. And at that time, in the western countries there were not so
many safeguards. When Dr. Kendricks reached the place, Jane and the baby
had been temporarily buried. Yes, it was easy for the thing to happen
when Mrs. Boyd wanted the baby so much. I can hardly forgive her, but we
must admit that the confession showed an earnest desire to repair the
wrong."

"Where is she?"

"At Mrs. Barrington's. Dr. Kendricks thinks she can last but a few days
longer and the child is resolved to stay until the end. I tried to shake
her determination but found it useless."

"I admire her for it," said Mrs. Crawford.

"I should doubt her fervent love if it could be transferred so easily
from poverty to wealth. Yes, I am proud of my dear daughter whom I have
not seen in fifteen years. But the whole story is marvellous."

"And yet there is nothing impossible about it. We can see how simply it
all happened."

"What is she like?"

"Mrs. Barrington was quite puzzled about a resemblance to some one, and
she thinks it you. She has not the radiant beauty of your girlhood,
neither has she the dazzling charm of Zay. Oh, I think she is the most
like Willard; rather too grand for a girl of sixteen, with a great deal
of dignity. Oh, you should hear Mrs. Barrington talk about her. And how
do you suppose she and the doctor kept the secret yesterday! They knew
it would disturb our happy Christmas. And she was nursing the sick
woman."

"Oh, did she know?"

"Not that she was our daughter until this morning. I felt bewildered
over it all," and Major Crawford gave a deep drawn sigh.

His wife pressed his hand. Her tears were flowing silently.

"Well--it will be very strange to have her here," remarked Miss
Crawford. "But I warn you, Zay will always be the dearest to me."

Twilight was falling around them. Mrs. Crawford would never have her own
lights early. This was her favorite hour with her husband. Aunt Kate
stole softly to Zay's room and found her sleeping tranquilly, the fever
mostly gone.

"Oh, I wonder how you will take it," she mused. "You have been the
darling of the household so long."

For somehow, she was not in a mood to welcome this newcomer. True, there
must be the strongest proof or Major Crawford would not have been
convinced or allowed himself to get in such a passion with this Mrs.
Boyd. But a girl reared amid the commonest surroundings, enduring the
straits of poverty, lack of education, no accomplishments, how could she
take her place in the front rank of Mount Morris society? And the
boys--how would they accept this rusticity and probably self conceit?

Major Crawford and his wife often fell into tender and mysterious
confidences at this hour, that were never shared with others. They were
very happy in her recovery though the last two years she had suffered
very little. But she did not want to depute the care of her daughter
growing into womanhood entirely to Aunt Kate who had many worldly aims
and prejudices, and who was very proud of her niece's beauty. And now
such a load was lifted from her soul that had never quite forgiven
itself for taking her finest baby on the unfortunate journey.

"Oh, I must see her," she cried in a whisper.

"But she will not come here until all is over with that poor woman. I do
not see how she can care so much for her."

"My dear, it shows a true and strong regard. Remember it is the only
mother she has ever known. To turn at once would show a volatile
disposition. I have been afraid of that in Zaidee, who is easily taken
with new friends, though I will admit that she does not discard the old
ones. But I wish sometimes other people were not so easily attracted by
her."

"But she is charming," said the admiring father.

"I hope they will love each other. We must expect a little jealousy at
first. And you think she is not--that her narrow life has not dwarfed
her."

"Oh, you should listen to Mrs. Barrington's enthusiasm. You see, it was
not an easy place to fill, after all. She was in some of the classes,
but she held herself aloof. Then she taught a little among the younger
day scholars, and kept a certain supervision in the evening study hour.
Her mother's position was a sort of handicap, she was so very meek and
retiring. All women cannot add dignity to an inferior position, and
young people are very apt to take them according to the position. Mrs.
Barrington was planning some changes for the new term that would be
brought about by the passing away of the poor woman. I think she meant,
in a way, to adopt her."

"Oh, she must be worthy, to have made such a friend."

And the mother was wondering, but dared not ask what Marguerite had
grown into. She was not like Zay, all the coloring was darker. Willard
was fine looking for a young man, but would it not be rather masculine
for a girl? She had a fancy for the soft attractiveness in a woman.

Then the light came and dinner. Mrs. Crawford went to Zay's room
afterward and found her comfortable and better, with no recurrence of
fever, and they had a pleasant little chat.

The next morning a letter came from Phillipa, full of merry nonsense
about gifts and gayety and lovers. She was very well, with the very
