
The following morning she went down to the stream to bathe; at the same
time the parent leopards came for drink.  They had not cared to seek
their lair during the night on account of the fires; and, worrying over
their cubs, they were not in the most agreeable mood.

Kathlyn saw their approach in time to reach her platform.  They snarled
about the tree, and the male climbed up as far as the platform.
Kathlyn reached over with a stout club and clouted the brute on his
tender nose.

A shot broke the silence and a bullet spat angrily against the tree
trunk.  Two cats fled.  Immediately there came a squealing and
trumpeting from the stockade.

This is what had happened: The chief mahout had discovered the cubs and
had taken them into the stockade just as another hunter had espied the
parent leopards.  The rifle shot had frightened one of the wild
elephants.  With a mighty plunge he had broken the chain which held him
prisoner to the decoy elephant and pushed through the rotten stockade,
heading straight for the river.

Kathlyn saw his bulk as it crashed straight through the brush.  He
shuffled directly toward her tree.  The ground about was of clay,
merging into sand as it sloped toward the river.  The frantic runaway
slipped, crushed against the tree trunk, recovered himself, and went
splashing into the water.

Kathlyn was flung headlong and only the water saved her from severe
bodily harm.  When she recovered her senses she was surrounded by a
group of very much astonished Mohammedans.

They jabbered and gesticulated to one another and she was conducted to
the stockade.  She understood but two words--"Allaha" and "slave."




CHAPTER VIII

THE SLAVE MART

Having decided upon the fate of Kathlyn, the natives set about
recapturing the wild elephant.  It took the best part of the morning.
When this was accomplished the journey to Allaha was begun.  But for
the days of peace and quiet of the wilderness and the consequent
hardness of her flesh, Kathlyn would have suffered greatly.  Half the
time she was compelled to walk.  There was no howdah, and it was a
difficult feat to sit back of the mahout.  The rough skin of the
elephant had the same effect upon the calves of her legs that sandpaper
would have had.  Sometimes she stumbled and fell, and was rudely jerked
to her feet.  Only the day before they arrived was she relieved in any
way: she was given a litter, and in this manner she entered the hateful
city.

In giving her the litter the chief mahout had been inspired by no
expressions of pity; simply they desired her to appear fresh and
attractive when they carried her into the slave mart.

In fitful dreams all that had happened came back to her--the story her
father had told about saving the old king's life, and the grim,
ironical gratitude in making Colonel Hare his heir--as if such things
could be!  And then her own journey to Allaha; the nightmarish durbar,
during which she had been crowned; the escape from the ordeals with
John Bruce; the terrors of the temple of the sun; the flight from there
. . .  John Bruce!  She could still see the fire in his eyes; she could
still feel the touch of his gentle yet tireless hand.  Would she ever
see him again?

On the way to the mart they passed under the shadow of the grim prison
walls of the palace.  The elephants veered off here into a side street,
toward the huge square where horses and cattle and elephants were
bought and sold.  The litter, in charge of the chief mahout, proceeded
to the slave mart.  Kathlyn glanced at the wall, wondering.  Was her
father alive?  Was he in some bleak cell behind that crumbling masonry?
Did he know that she was here?  Or was he really dead?  Ah, perhaps it
were better that death should have taken him--better that than having
his living heart wrung by the tale of his daughter's unspeakable
miseries.

Even as she sent a last lingering look at the prison the prisoner
within, his head buried in his thin wasted hands, beheld her in a
vision--but in a happy, joyous vision, busying about the living room of
the bungalow.

And far away a younger man beheld a vision as very tenderly he gazed at
Kathlyn's discarded robe and resumed his determined quest.  Often,
standing beside his evening fires, he would ask the silence, "Kathlyn,
where are you?"  Even then he was riding fast toward Allaha.

A slave mart is a rare thing these days, but at the time these scenes
were being enacted there existed many of them here and there across the
face of the globe.  Men buy and sell men and women these
times--enlightened, so they say--but they do it by legal contract or
from vile hiding places.

Allaha had been a famous mart in its prime.  It had drawn the agents of
princes from all over India.  Persia, Beloochistan, Afghanistan, and
even southern Russia had been rifled of their beauties to adorn the
zenanas of the slothful Hindu princes.

The slave mart in the capital town of Allaha stood in the center of the
bazaars, a great square platform with a roof, but open on all four
sides.  Here the slaves were exhibited, the poor things intended for
dalliance and those who were to struggle and sweat and die under the
overseer's lash.

Every fortnight a day was set aside for the business of the mart.
Owners and prospective buyers met, chewed betel-nut, smoked their
hookas, sipped coffee and tea, and exchanged the tattle of the hour.
It was as much an amusement as a business; indeed, it was the oriental
idea of a club, and much the same things were discussed.  Thus, Appaji
bought a beautiful girl at the last barter and Roya found a male who
was a good juggler, and only night before last they had traded.  The
bazaars were not what they used to be.  Dewan Ali had sold his wife to
a Punjab opium merchant.  Aunut Singh's daughter had run away with the
son of a bheestee.  All white people ate pig.  And no one read the
slokas, or moral, stanzas, any more.  Yes, the English would come some
day, when there would be enough money to warrant it.

All about there were barkers, and fruit sellers, and bangle wallas (for
slave girls should have rings of rupee silver about their ankles and
wrists), and solemn Brahmins, and men who painted red and ocher caste
marks on one's forehead, and ash covered fakirs with withered hands,
Nautch girls, girls from the bazaars, peripatetic jewelers, kites, and
red-headed vultures--this being a proper place for them.

The chief mahout purchased for Kathlyn a beautiful saree, or veil,
which partially concealed her face and hair.

"Chalu!" he said, touching Kathlyn's shoulder, whenever she lagged, for
they had dispensed with the litter, "Go on!"

She understood.  Outwardly she appeared passive enough, but her soul
was on fire and her eyes as brilliant as those of the circling,
whooping kites, watching that moment which was to offer some loophole.
On through the noisy bazaars, the object of many a curious remark,
sometimes insulted by the painted women at the windows, sometimes
jested at by the idlers around the merchants' booths.  Vaguely she
wondered if some one of her ancestors had not been terribly wicked and
