you slip away out of my life, do you? And I don’t understand why you are
in such a sudden panic about my going away——"

"But you are going soon!—You were."

"How did you know?"

"Madame Arlon told me that you had already given congé.  I didn’t care;
I thought I was to go with you.  But now that you wish me to go to the
Château—it—it frightens me."

He rose, stood looking at her for a moment, turned and paced the river
bank once or twice, then came back to where she was seated.

"Come up to the Château now," he said.  "I give you this promise,
anyway; as long as you think you want me and need me in the world, you
have only to say so, Philippa.  And if I cannot come to you, then you
shall come to me."

He hadn’t quite analyzed what he was saying before he said it; he felt a
little confused and uncertain, even now, as to how deeply his promise
involved him.  But even while he was speaking, a subtle undercurrent of
approval seemed to reassure him that he was not all wrong, not too rash
in what he promised.  Or perhaps it was the very rashness of the impulse
that something obscure within him was approving.

As for the girl, she stood up, tremulous, deep-eyed, trying to smile,
trying to speak but failing, and only taking his arm into her possession
again and clasping it closely with a childishly unconscious and
instinctive sense of possession.

When she found her voice at last, she laughed and pressed her cheek
impulsively against his shoulder.

"Tiens!" she said.  "Your Château and its chatelaine have no terrors now
for me, Monsieur....  Did you tell her who I am, and what I have been,
and all that you know about me?"

"Yes, I did."

She dropped his arm, but kept step close beside him.

"You know," she said, "it is odd—perhaps it is effrontery—I don’t
know—but I, Philippa Wildresse—for want of another name—perhaps lacking
the right to any name at all—am tranquil and serene at heart in the
crisis so swiftly approaching."

"What crisis, Philippa?"

"My interview with a lady of the world, Monsieur—Madame la Comtesse de
Moidrey.  The caissière de cabaret should feel very humble and afraid.
Is it effrontery?  What is it that does not disturb me in the
slightest?"

"Perhaps it is that other comrade of many years, Philippa—your other and
inner self."

"It must be.  For she could not hesitate to look anybody in the
face—that wonderful and other self—wonderful as a bright dream,
Monsieur....  Which is all she is, I know."

"You are wrong, Philippa: she is even more real than you.  And some day
you shall be part of her. You are growing so every hour.  And when that
finally happens, then this—all this—will become unreal."

"Not you."

"We shall see....  Here are the gates of the Château des Oiseaux.  It is
you who enter, Philippa; but it shall be your inner and real self who
shall go out through the gates one day—God willing."

The girl smiled at him:

"They have but one soul between them," she said. "And that is yours and
God’s, I hope."




                             *CHAPTER XXII*


Madame de Moidrey, strolling with Warner on the south terrace of the
Château des Oiseaux, glanced sideways at intervals through the open
French windows, where, at the piano inside, Philippa sat playing, and
singing in a subdued voice ancient folk songs of the lost provinces.

Peggy Brooks, enchanted, urged her to more active research through the
neglected files of a memory still vivid; Philippa’s voice was
uncultivated, unplaced, but as fresh and carelessly sweet as a
blackbird’s in May. Some of these old ballads she had picked up from
schoolmates, many from the Cabaret de Biribi, where clients were
provincial and usually sentimental, and where some of the ancient songs
were sung almost every day.

Madame de Moidrey had not immediately referred to Philippa when, with
Warner, she had strolled out to the terrace, leaving the two younger
girls together at the piano.

They had spoken of the sudden and unexpected menace of war, of the
initial movements of troops along the Saïs Valley that morning; the
serious chances of a German invasion, the practical certainty that in
any event military operations were destined to embrace the country
around them.  Warner seemed very confident concerning the Barrier Forts,
but he spoke of Montmedy and of Mézières with more reserve, and of
Ausone not at all.

They promenaded for a few minutes longer in silence, each preoccupied
with anxious speculations regarding a future which began already to loom
heavy as a thundercloud charged with unloosed lightnings.

From moment to moment the handsome woman beside him glanced through the
open windows of the music room, where her younger sister and the girl
Philippa were still busily interested in working out accompaniments to
the old-time songs.

Philippa sang "J’ai perdu ma beauté":

    "I have lost my beauty—
    Fate has bereft me,
    Fortune has left me,
    None owes me duty.

    I have lost my lover;
    I shall not recover.
    Our Lady of Lorraine,
    Pity my pain!"


They paused to listen to this naïve melody of other days, then strolled
on.

Madame de Moidrey said:

"She is very interesting, your little friend from Ausone."

"I am glad you think so."

"Oh, yes, there is no doubt about her being clever and intelligent....
I wonder where she acquired her aplomb."
