In a few minutes the first challenge came; they stopped; helmeted
figures clustered around them, a few words were whispered, then on they
rolled, slowly, until there came another challenge, another delay; and
others followed in succession as the tall phantoms of Uhlans loomed up
around them in the night.

Two of these lancers wheeled and accompanied the automobile at a canter.
One of the riders was a trumpeter; and very soon the car halted and the
Uhlan set his trumpet to his lips and sounded it.

Almost immediately a distant bugle answered. The cavalryman on the
rumble stood up, hung one of the lanterns to a white flag, and waved it
slowly to and fro. Then the mounted Uhlan tied the flag to his
lance-tip, hung the lantern to it, and raised it high in the air.
Already the chauffeur had piled their luggage by the roadside; the
officer got out, came around, and opened the door. As Karen descended he
gave her his arm, then saluted and sprang to his place. The car backed
in a half circle, turned, backed again, swung clear around, and went
humming away into the darkness.

From the shadowy obscurity ahead came the trample of horses.

"Halt! Who goes there?" cried the mounted lancer.

"Parlementaire with a flag!"

The Uhlan trumpeter sounded the parley again, then, reversing his
trumpet, reined in and sat like a statue, as half a dozen cloaked riders
walked their horses up under the rays of the lantern which dangled from
the Uhlan's lifted lance.

A cavalryman wearing a jaunty Belgian forage cap leaned from his saddle
and looked earnestly at Guild.

"Who is this, if you please?" he asked curiously.

"Reserve cavalry officer and his wife," said the Uhlan crisply. "Orders
are to deliver them to you."

The Belgian lieutenant had already recognized the uniform of the Guides;
so had the other cavalrymen; and now they were hastily dismounting and
leading their horses forward.

"Karen," said Guild unsteadily, "it's my own regiment!" And he stepped
forward and took the lieutenant's hands in both of his. His features
were working; he could not speak, but the troopers seemed to understand.

They gave Karen a horse; Guild lifted her to the saddle, shortened the
stirrup, and set her sideways.

They offered him another horse, but he shook his head, flung one arm
over Karen's saddle and walked on slowly beside her stirrup.

Behind them the clatter of retreating hoofs marked the return of the
Uhlans. From somewhere in the darkness a farm cart rumbled up and
cavalrymen lifted in their luggage.

Now, under the clustered planets the cart and the troopers moved off
over a wide, smooth road across the plain.

And last of all came Karen with Guild on foot beside her.

[Illustration: "And last of all came Karen with Guild on foot beside
her"]

Her horse stepped slowly, cautiously; her slim hand lay on her lover's
shoulder, his arm was around her, and his cheek rested against her
knees.

All the world was before them now, with all that it can ever hold for
the sons of men--the eternal trinity, inexorable, unchangeable--Death,
and Life, and Love.




                              CHAPTER XXVI

                               AMICUS DEI


                                   I

  Through the April meadows ambling
  Where the new born lambs are gamb'ling
  Cometh May and vanisheth;--
  Cometh lovely June a-rambling;--
  July follows out of breath
  Scattering the playful swallows;
  On her heels a Shepherd follows,
  All dolled up like Old Man Death.

                                   II

  While he capers, pipes, and prances,
  Meadows wither where he dances;
  Suddenly the sunshine ends!
  Shrinking from his grinning glances,
  Every blossom wilts and bends.
  Spectral forests rise and tower,
  Bursting into crimson flower,
  And an iron rain descends.

                                  III

  Shepherd, Shepherd, lithely whirling,
  To your screaming pipes a-skirling,
  Tell me why you blithely dance?
  But the shrilling tempest, hurling
  Shrivelled blossoms of Romance,
  Answered: "Help! For Christ is dying!"
  And I heard the pipes replying:
  "Let the Friend of God advance!"

                                   IV

  Prince of the Vanguard, armed from head to heel,
  And reassuring God amid your bayonets
  Where the Imperial standard frets
  And the sun sets
  Across five million marching acolytes in steel,
  Red looms a ruined world against the West,
  Red lie its dead beneath your sombre crest,
  And redly drips your sword
  And the lances of your horde
  Where all things died, the loveliest and best.
  In this dead land there stirs no pulse, no breath,
  For, where you ride, on your right hand rides Death.

                                   V

  God's ally, self-ordained to wield His rod,
  Trampling His will into the heretics,
  Leveling their shrines to heaps of bricks,
  How the red stain sticks
  To the ten million pair of boots that plod!
  Quickly on Him your Iron Cross bestow
  That He may wash you whiter than the snow.

                                   VI
