The book-counter should stretch the whole length of the store, and at
intervals beside it, against the book-shelving, should be set
old-fashioned chairs, but not too old-fashioned. Against the lower
book-shelves on a deeper shelf might be stood against the books a few
sketches in water-color, or even oil.

This was Margaret Green's idea.

"And would you guarantee the quality?" Erlcort asked.

"Perhaps they wouldn't be for sale, though if any one insisted--"

"I see. Well, pass the sketches. What else?"

"Well, a few little figures in plaster, or even marble or bronze, very
Greek, or very American; things in low relief."

"Pass the little figures and low reliefs. But don't forget it's a
bookstore."

"Oh, I won't. The sketches of all kinds would be strictly subordinated
to the books. If I had a tea-room handy here, with a table and the
backs of some menus to draw on, I could show you just how it would
look."

"What's the matter with the Casino?"

"Nothing; only it's rather early for tea yet."

"It isn't for soda-lemonade."

She set him the example of instantly rising, and led the way back
along the lake to the Casino, resting at that afternoon hour among its
spring flowers and blossoms innocent of its lurid after-dark
frequentation. He got some paper from the waiter who came to take
their order. She began to draw rapidly, and by the time the waiter
came again she was giving Erlcort the last scrap of paper.

"Well," he said, "I had no idea that I had imagined anything so
charming! If this critical bookstore doesn't succeed, it'll be because
there are no critics. But what--what are these little things hung
against the partitions of the shelves?"

"Oh--mirrors. Little round ones."

"But why mirrors of any shape?"

"Nothing; only people like to see themselves in a glass of any shape.
And when," Margaret added, in a burst of candor, "a woman looks up and
sees herself with a book in her hand, she will feel so intellectual
she will never put it down. She will buy it."

"Margaret Green, this is immoral. Strike out those mirrors, or I will
smash them every one!"

"Oh, very well!" she said, and she rubbed them out with the top of her
pencil. "If you want your place a howling wilderness."

He looked at the ruin her rubber had wrought. "They were rather
nice. Could--could you rub them in again?"

"Not if I tried a hundred years. Besides, they were rather impudent.
What time is it?"

"No time at all. It's half-past three."

"Dear me! I must be going. And if you're really going to start that
precious critical bookstore in the fall, you must begin work on it
right away."

"Work?"

"Reading up for it. If you're going to guarantee the books, you must
know what's in them, mustn't you?"

He realized that he must do what she said; he must know from his own
knowledge what was in the books he offered for sale, and he began
reading, or reading at, the new books immediately. He was a good
deal occupied by day with the arrangement of his store, though he left
it mainly with the lively young decorator who undertook for a lump sum
to realize Margaret Green's ideas. It was at night that he did most of
his reading in the spring books which the publishers were willing to
send him gratis, when they understood he was going to open a
bookstore, and only wanted sample copies. As long as she remained in
town Margaret Green helped him read, and they talked the books over,
and mostly rejected them. By the time she went to Europe in August
with another elderly girl they had not chosen more than eight or ten
books; but they hoped for better things in the fall.

Word of what he was doing had gone out from Margaret, and a great many
women of their rather esthetic circle began writing to him about the
books they were reading, and commending them to him or warning him
against them. The circle of his volunteer associates enlarged itself
in the nature of an endless chain, and before society quite broke up
for the summer a Sympathetic Tea was offered to Erlcort by a Leading
Society Woman at the Intellectual Club, where he was invited to
address the Intellectuals in explanation of his project. This was
before Margaret sailed, and he hurried to her in horror.

"Why, of course you must accept. You're not going to hide your
Critical Bookstore under a bushel; you can't have too much publicity."

The Leading Society Woman flowed in fulsome gratitude at his
acceptance, and promised no one but the club should be there; he had
hinted his reluctance. She kept her promise, but among the
Intellectuals there was a girl who was a just beginning journalist,
and who pumped Erlcort's whole scheme out of him, unsuspicious of what
she was doing, till he saw it all, with his picture, in the Sunday
Supplement. She rightly judged that the intimacy of an interview would
be more popular with her readers than the cold and distant report of
his formal address, which she must give, though she received it so
ardently with all the other Intellectuals. They flocked flatteringly,
almost suffocatingly, around him at the end. His scheme was just what
every one had vaguely thought of: something must be done to stem the
tide of worthless fiction, which was so often shocking as well as
silly, and they would only be too glad to help read for him. They were
nearly all just going to sail, but they would each take a spring book
on the ship, and write him about it from the other side; they would
each get a fall book coming home, and report as soon as they got back.

His scheme was discussed seriously and satirically by the press; it
became a joke with many papers, and a byword quickly worn out, so that
people thought that it had been dropped. But Erlcort gave his days and
nights to preparation for his autumnal campaign. He studied in careful
comparison the reviews of the different literary authorities, and was
a little surprised to find, when he came to read the books they
reviewed, how honest and adequate they often were. He was obliged to
own to himself that if people were guided by them, few worthless books
would be sold, and he decided that the immense majority of the
book-buyers were not guided by the critics. The publishers themselves
seemed not so much to blame when he went to see them and explained his
wish to deal with them on the basis of a critical bookseller. They
said they wished all the booksellers were like him, for they would ask
nothing better than to publish only good books. The trouble, they
said, lay with the authors; they wrote such worthless books. Or if now
and then one of them did write a good book and they were over-tempted
to publish it, the public united in refusing to buy it. So he saw? But
if the booksellers persisted in selling none but good books, perhaps
something might be done. At any rate they would like to see the
experiment tried.
