it had been in the family since the days of the Peacock Throne, and
most of the jewels besides.  Night and day the chest was guarded.  It
lay upon an ancient Ispahan rug, in the center of the bedroom, which no
hotel servant was permitted to enter.  His five servants saw to it that
all his wants were properly attended to, that no indignity to his high
caste might be offered: as having his food prepared by pariah hands in
the hotel kitchens, foul hands to make his bed.  He was thoroughly
religious; the gods of his fathers were his in all their ramifications;
he wore the Brahmin thread about his neck.

He was unique among Indian princes.  An Oxford graduate, he
persistently and consistently clung to the elaborate costumes of his
native state.  And when he condescended to visit any one, it was
invariably stipulated that he should be permitted to bring along his
habits, his costumes and his retinue.  In his suite or apartments he
was the barbarian; in the drawing-room, in the ballroom, in the
dining-room (where he ate nothing), he was the suave, the courteous,
the educated Oriental.  He drank no wines, made his own cigarettes, and
never offered his hand to any one, not even to the handsome women who
admired his beautiful skin and his magnificent ropes of pearls.

Some one had entered the bedroom, overpowered the guard, and looted the
bag containing the emeralds.  The prince, the lightest of sleepers, had
slept through it all.  He had awakened with a violent headache, as had
four of his servants.  The big Rajput who had stood watch was in the
hospital, still unconscious.

All the way from San Francisco the police had been waiting for such a
catastrophe.  The newspapers had taken up and published broadcast the
story of the prince's pastime.  Naturally enough, there was not a crook
in all America who was not waiting for a possible chance.  Ten
emeralds, weighing from six to ten carats each; a fortune, even if
broken up.

Haggerty laid aside the newspaper and gravely finished his ham and eggs.

"I'll take a peek int' this, Milly," he said to his wife.  "We've been
waiting for this t' happen.  A million dollars in jools in a chest y'
could open with a can-opener.  Queer ginks, these Hindus.  We see lots
o' fakers, but this one is the real article.  Mebbe a reward.  All
right; little ol' Haggerty can use th' money.  I may not be home t'
supper."

"Anything more about Mr. Crawford's valet?"

Haggerty scowled.  "Not a line.  I've been living in gambling joints,
but no sign of him.  He gambled in th' ol' days; some time 'r other
he'll wander in somewhere an' try t' copper th' king.  No sign of him
round Crawford's ol' place.  But I'll get him; it's a hunch.  By-by!"

Later, the detective was conducted into the Maharajah's reception-room.
The prince, in his soft drawling English (far more erudite and polished
than Haggerty's, if not so direct), explained the situation, omitting
no detail.  He would give two thousand five hundred for the recovery of
the stones.

"At what are they valued?"

"By your customs appraisers, forty thousand.  To me they are priceless."

"Six t' ten carats?  Why, they're worth more than that."

The prince smiled.  "That was for the public."

"I'll take a look int' your bedroom," said Haggerty, rising.

"Oh, no; that is not at all necessary," protested the prince.

"How d' you suppose I'm going t' find out who done it, or how it was
done, then?" demanded Haggerty, bewildered.

A swift oriental gesture.

The hotel manager soothed Haggerty by explaining that the prince's
caste would not permit an alien to touch anything in the bedroom while
it contained the prince's belongings.

"Well, wouldn't that get your goat!" exploded Haggerty.  "That lets me
out.  You'll have to get a clairyvoint."

The prince suggested that he be given another suite.  His servants
would remove his belongings.  He promised that nothing else should be
touched.

"How long'll it take you?"

"An hour."

"All right," assented Haggerty.  "Who's got th' suite across th' hall?"
he asked of the manager, as they left the prince.

"Lord Monckton.  He and his valet left this morning for Bar Harbor.
Back Tuesday.  A house-party of Fifth Avenue people."

"Uhuh."  Haggerty tugged at his mustache.  "I might look around in
there while I'm waiting for his Majesty t' change.  Did y'ever hear th'
likes?  Bug-house."

"But he pays a hundred the day, Haggerty.  I'll let you privately into
Lord Monckton's suite.  But you'll waste your time."

"Sure he left this morning?"

"I'll phone the office and make sure. . . .  Lord Monckton left shortly
after midnight.  His man followed early this morning.  Lord Monckton
went by his host's yacht.  But the man followed by rail."

"What's his man look like?"

"Slim and very dark, and very quiet."

"Well, I'll take a look."

The manager was right.  Haggerty had his trouble for nothing.  There
was no clue whatever in Lord Monckton's suite.  There was no paper in
the waste-baskets, in the fireplace; the blotters on the writing-desk
were spotless.  Some clothes were hanging in the closets, but these
revealed only their fashionable maker's name.  In the reception-room,
on a table, a pack of cards lay spread out in an unfinished game of
solitaire.  All the small baggage had been taken for the journey.
Truth to tell, Haggerty had not expected to find anything; he had not
cared to sit idly twiddling his thumbs while the Maharajah vacated his
rooms.

In the bathroom (Lord Monckton's) he found two objects which aroused
his silent derision: a bottle of brilliantine and an ointment made of
walnut-juice.  Probably this Lord Monckton was a la-de-dah chap.  Bah!

Once in the prince's vacated bedroom Haggerty went to work with classic
thoroughness.  Not a square foot of the room escaped his vigilant eye.
The thief had not entered by the windows; he had come into the room by
the door which gave to the corridor.  He stood on a chair and examined
the transom sill.  The dust was undisturbed.  He inspected the keyhole;
sniffed; stood up, bent and sniffed again.  It was an odor totally
unknown to him.  He stuffed the corner of his fresh handkerchief into
the keyhole, drew it out and sniffed that.  Barely perceptible.  He
wrapped the corner into the heart of the handkerchief, and put it back
into his pocket.  Some powerful narcotic had been forced into the room
through the keyhole.  This would account for the prince's headache.
These Orientals were as bad as the Dutch; they never opened their
