sure way. I'd better go down now, to the pier. Where's your steamer
ticket?"

"I--I have both tickets and both checks in my bag. He--let me have
the p-pleasure of carrying them----" Again her voice broke childishly,
but the threatened emotion was strangled and resolutely choked back.

"Give me the tickets and checks," he said. "I'll go down to the dock
now."

She drew out the papers, sat holding them for a few moments without
relinquishing them. Then she raised her eyes to his, and a bright
flush stained her face:

"Why should I not go to Paris by myself?" she demanded.

"You mean now? On this ship?"

"Yes. Why not? I have enough money to go there and study, haven't I?"

"Yes. But----"

"Why not!" she repeated feverishly, her grey eyes sparkling. "I have
three thousand dollars; I can't go back to Brookhollow and disgrace
them. What does it matter where I go?"

"It would be all right," he said, "if you'd ever had any
experience----"

"Experience! What do you call what I've had today!" She exclaimed
excitedly. "To lose in a single day my mother, my home--to go through
in this city what I have gone through--what I am going through now--is
not that enough experience? Isn't it?"

He said:

"You've had a rotten awakening, Rue--a perfectly devilish experience.
Only--you've never travelled alone----" Suddenly it occurred to him
that his lively friend, the Princess Mistchenka, was sailing on the
Lusitania; and he remained silent, uncertain, looking with vague
misgivings at this girl in the armchair opposite--this thin, unformed,
inexperienced child who had attained neither mental nor physical
maturity.

"I think," he said at length, "that I told you I had a friend sailing
on the Lusitania tomorrow."

She remembered and nodded.

"But wait a moment," he added. "How do you know that this--this fellow
Brandes will not attempt to sail on her, also----" Something checked
him, for in the girl's golden-grey eyes he saw a flame glimmer;
something almost terrible came into the child's still gaze; and
slowly died out like the afterglow of lightning.

And Neeland knew that in her soul something had been born under his
very eyes--the first emotion of maturity bursting from the
chrysalis--the flaming consciousness of outrage, and the first, fierce
assumption of womanhood to resent it.

She had lost her colour now; her grey eyes still remained fixed on
his, but the golden tinge had left them.

"I don't know why you shouldn't go," he said abruptly.

"I am going."

"All right! And if he has the nerve to go--if he bothers you--appeal
to the captain."

She nodded absently.

"But I don't believe he'll try to sail. I don't believe he'd dare,
mixed up as he is in a dirty mess. He's afraid of the law, I tell you.
That's why he denied marrying you. It meant bigamy to admit it.
Anyway, I don't think a fake ceremony like that is binding; I mean
that it isn't even real enough to put him in jail. Which means that
you're not married, Rue."

"Does it?"

"I think so. Ask a lawyer, anyway. There may be steps to take--I don't
know. All the same--do you really want to go to France and study art?
Do you really mean to sail on this ship?"

"Yes."

"You feel confidence in yourself? You feel sure of yourself?"

"Yes."

"You've got the backbone to see it through?"

"Yes. It's got to be done."

"All right, if you feel that way." He made no move, however, but sat
there watching her. After a while he looked at his watch again:

"I'm going to ring up a taxi," he said. "You might as well go on board
and get some sleep. What time does she sail?"

"At five thirty, I believe."

"Well, we haven't so very long, then. There's my bedroom--if you want
to fix up."

She rose wearily.

When she emerged from his room with her hat and gloves on, the taxicab
was audible in the street below.

Together they descended the dark stairway up which she had toiled with
trembling knees. He carried her suitcase, aided her into the taxi.

"Cunard Line," he said briefly, and entered the cab.

Already in the darkness of early morning the city was awake; workmen
were abroad; lighted tramcars passed with passengers; great wains,
trucks, and country wagons moved slowly toward markets and ferries.

He had begun to tell her almost immediately all that he knew about
Paris, the life there in the students' quarters, methods of living
economically, what to seek and what to avoid--a homily rather hurried
and condensed, as they sped toward the pier.

She seemed to be listening; he could not be sure that she understood
or that her mind was fixed at all on what he was saying. Even while
speaking, numberless objections to her going occurred to him, but as
he had no better alternatives to suggest he did not voice them.

In his heart he really believed she ought to go back to Brookhollow.
It was perfectly evident she would not consent to go there. As for her
remaining in New York, perhaps the reasons for her going to Paris were
as good. He was utterly unable to judge; he only knew that she ought
to have the protection of experience, and that was lacking.

"I'm going to remain on board with you," he said, "until she sails.
I'm going to try to find my very good friend, the Princess Mistchenka,
and have you meet her. She has been very kind to me, and I shall ask
her to keep an eye on you while you are crossing, and to give you a
