
Garret looked at his slender, attractive mother and laughed again:

"Is that what keeps you so young and pretty, mother?--looking after
me?"

"Alas, Garry, I'm over forty, and I look it!"

"Do you?--you sweet little thing!" he interrupted, picking her up
suddenly from the floor and marching proudly around the room with her.
"Gaze upon my mother, Jim! Isn't she cunning? Isn't she the smartest
little thing in America? Behave yourself, mother! Your grateful son is
showing you off to the appreciative young gentleman from New
York----"

"You're ridiculous! Jim! Make him put me down!"

But her tall son swung her to his shoulder and placed her high on the
mantel shelf over the huge fireplace; where she sat beside the clock,
charming, resentful, but helpless, her spurred boots dangling down.

"Come on, Lee!" cried her brother, "I'm going to put you up beside
her. That mantel needs ornamental bric-a-brac and objets d'art----"

Lee turned to escape, but her brother cornered and caught her, and
swung her high, seating her beside his indignant mother.

"Just as though we were two Angora kittens," remarked Lee, sidling
along the stone shelf toward her mother. Then she glanced out through
the open front door. "Lift us down, quick, Garry. You'd better! The
horses are in the flower beds and there'll be no more bouquets for the
table in another minute!"

So he lifted them off the mantel and they hastily departed, each
administering correction with her riding crop as she dodged past him
and escaped.

"If your guests want horses you know where to find them!" called back
his sister from the porch. And presently she and his mother, securely
mounted, went cantering away across country, where grass and fern and
leaf and blossom were glistening in the rising breeze, weighted down
with diamond drops of rain.

Westmore walked leisurely toward his quarters, to freshen up and don
knickers. Garret followed him into the west wing, whistling
contentedly under his breath, inspecting each remembered object with
great content as he passed, nodding smilingly to the servants he
encountered, lingering on the landing to acknowledge the civilities of
the ancient family cat, who recognised him with effusion but coyly
fled the advances of Westmore, ignoring all former and repeated
introductions.

Their rooms adjoined and they conversed through the doorway while
engaged in ablutions.

Presently, from behind his sheer sash-curtains, Westmore caught sight
of Thessalie on the west terrace below. She wore a shell-pink frock
and a most distractingly pretty hat; and he hurried his dressing as
much as he could without awaking Garret's suspicions.

A few minutes later, radiant in white flannels, he appeared on the
terrace, breathing rather fast but wreathed in persuasive smiles.

"I know this place; I'll take you for a walk where you won't get your
shoes wet. Shall I?" he suggested, with all his guile and cunning
quite plain to Thessalie, and his purpose perfectly transparent to her
smiling eyes.

But she consented prettily, and went with him without demurring,
picking her way over the stepping-stone walk with downcast gaze and
the trace of a smile on her lips--a smile as delicately indefinable as
the fancy which moved her to accept this young man's headlong
advances--which had recognized them and accepted them from the first.
But why, she did not even yet understand.

"Agreeable weather, isn't it?" said Westmore, fatuously revealing his
present paucity of ideas apart from those which concerned the wooing
of her. And he was an intelligent young man at that, and a sculptor of
attainment, too. But now, in his infatuated head, there remained room
only for one thought, the thought of this girl who walked so demurely
and daintily beside him over the flat, grass-set stepping stones
toward the three white pines on the little hill.

For it had been something or other at first sight with Westmore--love,
perhaps--anyway that is what he called the mental chaos which now
disorganised him. And it was certain that something happened to him
the first time he laid eyes on Thessalie Dunois. He knew it, and she
could not avoid seeing it, so entirely na√Øve his behaviour, so utterly
guileless his manoeuvres, so direct, unfeigned and childish his
methods of approach.

At moments she felt nervous and annoyed by his behaviour; at other
times apprehensive and helpless, as though she were responsible for
something that did not know how to take care of itself--something
immature, irrational, and entirely at her mercy. And it may have been
the feminine response to this increasing sense of obligation--the
confused instinct to guide, admonish and protect--that began being the
matter with her.

Anyway, from the beginning the man had a certain fascination for her,
unwillingly divined on her part, yet specifically agreeable even to
the point of exhilaration. Also, somehow or other, the girl realised
he had a brain.

And yet he was a pitiably hopeless case; for even now he was saying
such things as:

"Are you quite sure that your feet are dry? I should never forgive
myself, Thessa, if you took cold.... Are you tired?... How wonderful
it is to be here alone with you, and strive to interpret the mystery
of your mind and heart! Sit here under the pines. I'll spread my coat
for you.... Nature is wonderful, isn't it, Thessa?"

And when she gravely consented to seat herself he dropped recklessly
onto the wet pine needles at her feet, and spoke with imbecile delight
again of nature--of how wonderful were its protean manifestations, and
how its beauties were not meant to be enjoyed alone but in mystic
communion with another who understood.

It was curious, too, but this stuff seemed to appeal to her, some
commonplace chord within her evidently responding. She sighed and
looked at the mountains. They really were miracles of colour--masses
of purest cobalt, now, along the horizon.

But perhaps the trite things they uttered did not really matter;
probably it made no difference to them what they said. And even if he
had murmured: "There are milestones along the road to Dover," she
might have responded: "There was an old woman who lived in a shoe";
and neither of them would have heard anything at all except the rapid,
confused, and voiceless conversation of two youthful human hearts
beating out endless questions and answers that never moved their
smiling lips. There was the mystery, if any--the constant wireless
current under the haphazard flow of words.

There was no wind in the pines; meadow and pasture, woodland and swale
stretched away at their feet to the distant, dark-blue hills. And all
around them hung the rain-washed fragrance of midsummer under a still,
cloudless sky.

"It seems impossible that there can be war anywhere in the world," she
