"There is a house there, no longer roofless, and built of slabs of
fossil-pitted limestone. The glass in the windows is so old that it is
iridescent.

"A seven-foot wall encloses the house, built also of slabs blasted out
of the rock outcrop, and all pitted with fossil shells.

"Inside is a garden--not the remains of one--a beautiful garden full
of unfamiliar flowers. And in this garden I saw the Yezidee on his knees
making living things out of lumps of dead earth!"

"The Tchordagh!" whispered the girl.

"What was the Yezidee doing?" demanded Cleves nervously.

Involuntarily all three drew nearer each other there in the sunshine.

"It was difficult for me to see," said Selden in his quiet, serious
voice. "It was nearly twilight: I lay flat on top of the wall under the
curving branches of a huge syringa bush in full bloom. The Yezidees----"

"Were there two!" exclaimed Cleves.

"Two. They were squatting on the old stone path bordering one of the
flower-beds." He turned to Tressa: "They both wore white cloths twisted
around their heads, and long soft garments of white. Under these their
bare, brown legs showed, but they wore things on their naked feet which
were shaped like what we call Turkish slippers--only different."

"Black and green," nodded Tressa with the vague horror growing in her
face.

"Yes. The soles of their shoes were bright green."

"Green is the colour sacred to Islam," said Tressa. "The priests of
Satan defile it by staining with green the soles of their footwear."

After an interval: "Go on," said Cleves nervously.

Selden drew closer, and they bent their heads to listen:

"I don't, even now, know what the Yezidees were actually doing. In the
twilight it was hard to see clearly. But I'll tell you what it looked
like to me. One of these squatting creatures would scoop out a handful
of soil from the flower-bed, and mould it for a few moments between his
lean, sinewy fingers, and then he'd open his hands and--and something
alive--something small like a rat or a toad, or God knows what, would
escape from between his palms and run out into the grass----"

Selden's voice failed and he looked at Cleves with sickened eyes.

"I can't--can't make you understand how repulsive to me it was to see a
wriggling live thing creep out between their fingers and--and go running
or scrambling away--little loathsome things with humpy backs that hopped
or scurried through the grass----"

"What on earth were these Yezidees doing, Tressa?" asked Cleves almost
roughly.

The girl's white face was marred by the imprints of deepening horror.

"It is the Tchor-Dagh," she said mechanically. "They are using every
resource of hell to destroy me--testing the gigantic power of Evil--as
though it were some vast engine charged with thunderous
destruction!--and they were testing it to discover its terrific capacity
to annihilate----"

Her voice died in her dry throat; she dropped her bloodless visage into
both hands and remained seated so.

Both men looked at her in silence, not daring to interfere. Finally the
girl lifted her pallid face from her hands.

"That is what they were doing," she said in a dull voice. "Out of
inanimate earth they were making things animate--living
creatures--to--to test the hellish power which they are
storing--concentrating--for my destruction."

"What is their purpose?" asked Cleves harshly. "What do these Mongol
Sorcerers expect to gain by making little live things out of lumps of
garden dirt?"

"They are testing their power," whispered the girl.

"Like tuning up a huge machine?" muttered Selden.

"Yes."

"For what purpose?"

"To make larger living creatures out of--of clay."

"They can't--they can't create!" exclaimed Cleves. "I don't know
how--by what filthy tricks--they make rats out of dirt. But they can't
make a--anything--like a--like a man!"

Tressa's body trembled slightly.

"Once," she said, "in the temple, Prince Sanang took dust which was
brought in sacks of goat-skin, and fashioned the heap of dirt with his
hands, so that it resembled the body of a man lying there on the marble
floor under the shrine of Erlik.... And--and then, there in the shadows
where only the Dark Star burned--that black lamp which is called the
Dark Star--the long heap of dust lying there on the marble pavement
began to--to breathe!--"

She pressed both hands over her breast as though to control her
trembling body: "I saw it; I saw the long shape of dust begin to
breathe, to stir, move, and slowly lift itself----"

"A Yezidee trick!" gasped Cleves; but he also was trembling now.

"God!" whispered the girl. "Allah alone knows--the Merciful, the Long
Suffering--He knows what it was that we temple girls saw there--that
Yulun saw--that Sa-n'sa and I beheld there rising up like a man from the
marble floor--and standing erect in the shadowy twilight of the Dark
Star...."

Her hands gripped at her breast; her face was deathly.

"Then," she said, "I saw Prince Sanang draw his sabre of Indian steel,
and he struck ... once only.... And a dead man fell down where the
thing had stood. And all the marble was flooded with scarlet blood."

"A trick," repeated Cleves, in the ghost of his own voice. But his gaze
grew vacant.

Presently Selden spoke in tones that sounded weakly querulous from
emotional reaction:

"There is a path--a tunnel under the matted briers. It took me more than
a week to cut it out. It is possible to reach Fool's Acre. We can
try--with our rifles--if you say so, Mrs. Cleves."

The girl looked up. A little colour came into her cheeks. She shook her
head.

"Their bodies may not be there in the garden," she said absently. "What
you saw may not have been that part of them--the material which dies by
knife or bullet.... And it is necessary that these Yezidees should die."
