explanation. But it is my thesis that whatever the cause, if you trace
down the causes of the cause, you will find economic inequality and
class privilege. It is evident in the lives of the rich, and it is even
more evident in the lives of the poor, who are not permitted the luxury
of pretense. The poor live in a world dominated by forces which they
seldom understand, subjected to enormous pressure which crushes and
destroys them, without their being able to see it or touch it. In the
world of the poor there is first of all poverty; there is insecurity of
employment and insufficiency of wage, and the daily and hourly terror of
starvation and ruin. Above this is a world of power and luxury, a
wonderland of marvels and thrills, seen through a colored mist of
romance. The working-class girl, born to drudgery and perpetual
child-bearing, has a brief hour in which her cheeks are red and her
beauty is ripe; and out of the heaven above her steps a male creature
panoplied in the armor of ruling class prestige--that is to say, a dress
suit--and scattering about him a shower of automobile rides, jewelry and
candy and flowers. She opens her arms to him; and then, when her brief
hour of rapture is past, she becomes the domestic drudge of some
workingman, or else the inmate of a brothel.

It is a custom of social workers and church people, seeking data about
these painful subjects, to interview numbers of prostitutes, and
question them as to the causes of their "fall"; so you read statistics
to the effect that seventeen per cent of prostitution has an economic
cause, that twenty-six per cent is caused by love of finery, etc. These
pious people, employed by the ruling class to maintain ruling class
prestige by demonstrating that wage slavery has nothing to do with
white slavery, attain their purpose by restricting the word "economic"
to food and shelter; forgetting that young girls do not live by bread
alone, but also by ribbons, and silk stockings, and moving picture
shows, and trips to Coney Island, and everything else that gives a
momentary escape from drudgery into joy. We all understand, of course,
that the daughters of the rich are entitled to joy, and we provide them
with it as a matter of course; but the daughters of the poor are
supposed to work in a cotton mill ten or eleven hours a day from
earliest childhood, and the joy we provide for them is vicarious. As a
woman poet sets it forth:

    "The golf links lie so near the mill
       That almost every day
     The laboring children can look out
       And see the men at play."

Some years ago my wife and I were invited to meet Mrs. Mary J. Goode, a
keeper of brothels in the "Tenderloin," who had revolted against the
system of police graft, and had exposed it in the newspapers. My wife
questioned her closely as to the psychology of people in her business,
and she insisted that the majority of prostitutes were not oversexed,
nor were they feeble minded; they were women who had loved and trusted,
and had been "thrown down." As Mrs. Goode phrased it, they said to
themselves: "Never again! After this, they'll pay!"

As a matter of fact, the causes of prostitution are so largely economic
that the other factors are hardly worth mentioning. The sale of sex is
unknown in savage society, and would be unknown in a Socialist society.
If here and there some degenerate individual would rather sell her sex
than do her share of honest labor in a free and just world, such an
individual would become a patient in the psychopathic ward of a public
hospital. Economic forces drive women to prostitution, first, by direct
starvation, and second, by teaching them money standards of prestige,
the ideal of living without working, which is the heaven achieved by the
rich and longed for by the poor. Contributory to the process are
policemen, politicians, and judges who protect the property of the rich,
and prey upon the disinherited; also newspaper editors, college
professors, priests of God and preachers of Jesus, who attribute the
social evil to "original sin," or the "weakness of human nature."

So far as men are concerned, economic forces operate by three main
channels; late marriage, loveless marriage, and drudgery in wives. You
will find patronizing and maintaining the brothels the following kinds
of males; first, young boys who have been taught that it is "manly" to
gratify their sex impulses; second, young men who take it for granted
that they cannot afford to marry; third, old bachelors who have looked
at marriage and decided that it is not a paying proposition; fourth,
married men who have been picked out for their money, and have come to
the conclusion that "good women" are necessarily sexless; and finally,
married men whose wives have lost the power to charm them by continuous
childbearing, and the physical and nervous strain of domestic slavery.

This latter applies not merely to the wives of the poor. It applies to
members of the middle classes, and even of the richer classes, because
the job of managing many servants is often as trying as the doing of
one's own work. To explain how domestic drudgery is caused by economic
pressure would require a little essay in itself. The home is the place
where the man keeps his sex property apart under lock and key, and it
is, therefore, the portion of our civilization least influenced by
modern ideas. Women still drudge in separate kitchens and nurseries, as
they have drudged for thousands of years. They cook their dinners over
separate fires, and have each their own little group of children,
generally ill cared for, because the work is done by an untrained
amateur. Moreover, the prestige of this home has to be kept up, because
the social position and future prosperity of the man depend upon it. The
children must be dressed in frilled and starched clothing, which makes
them miserable, and wears out the tempers and pocketbooks of the
mothers. Costly entertainments must be given, and twice a day a meal
must be prepared for the father of the family--all good wives have
learned the ancient formula for the retention of masculine affections:
"Feed the brute!" Living in a world of pecuniary prestige, every
particle of the woman's surplus energy must go into some form of
ostentation, into buying or making things which are futile and
meaningless. In such a blind world, dazed by such a struggle, women
become irritable, they lose their sex charm, they forget all about
love; so the husband gives up hoping for the impossible, accepts the
common idea that love and marriage are incompatible, and adopts the
formula that what his wife doesn't know will not hurt her.

And step by step, as economic evolution progresses, as vested wealth
becomes more firmly established and claims for itself a larger and
larger share of the total product of society--so step by step you find
the pecuniary ideals becoming more firmly established, you find marriage
becoming more and more a matter of property, and less and less a matter
of love. In European countries there may still be some love marriages
among the poor, but in the upper classes there is no longer any pretense
of such a thing, and if you spoke of it you would be considered absurd.
In countries of fresh and naive commercialism, like America, the women
select the men because of their money prestige; but in Germany, the
process has gone a step further--the men are so firmly established in
their class positions that they insist upon being bought with a fortune.
The same is true when titled foreigners condescend to visit our "land of
the dollar." They will stoop to a vulgar American wife only in case her
parents will make a direct settlement of a fortune upon the husband, and
then they take her back home, and find their escape from boredom in the
highly cultivated mistresses of their own land.

Everywhere on the Continent, and in Great Britain also, it is accepted
that marriages are matters of business, and only incidentally and very
slightly of affection. The initiative is commonly taken, not by the
young people, but by the heads of the families. Preliminary protocols
are exchanged, and then the family solicitors sit down and bargain over
the matter. If they were making a deal for a carload of hams, they would
be governed by the market price of hams at the moment, also by the
reputation of that particular brand of ham; and similarly, in the case
of marriage, they are governed by the prestige of the family names, and
the market price of husbands prevailing. Always the man exacts a cash
settlement, and in Catholic countries he becomes the outright owner of
all the property of his wife, thus reducing her completely to the status
of a chattel. If any young couple dares to break through these laws of
their class, the whole class unites to trample them down. One of the
greatest of English novelists, George Meredith, wrote his greatest
novel, "The Ordeal of Richard Feverel," to show how, under the most
