every poor man is assumed to be guilty until he is proven innocent.
I have heard Aunt Jennie arguing the matter with considerable
energy. Our banks are housed in palaces, and our Chamber of Commerce
and our Merchants and Manufacturers and our Real Estate Exchange and
all the rest of our boosters have commodious and expensive quarters;
but our prisoners lie in torment, and no one boosts for them.

Did Carpenter know these things? Had the strikers or his little
company of agitators, told him about them? Suddenly he said, “Let us
pray;” and there on the steps of the jail he raised his hands in
invocation, and prayed for all prisoners and captives. And when he
finished, Comrade Abell suddenly lifted his voice and began to sing.
I would not have supposed that so big a voice could have come out of
so frail a body; but I was reminded that Abell had been practicing
on soap-boxes a good part of his life. He was one of these shouting
evangelists--only his gospel was different. He sang:

    Arise, ye pris’ners of starvation!
    Arise, ye wretched of the earth!
    For justice thunders condemnation,
    A better world’s in birth.

I think I would have shuddered, even more than I did, if I had known
the name of this song; if I had realized that this group of fanatics
were sounding the dread Internationale on the steps of our city
jail! I suspect that what saved them was the fact that the guardians
of the jail had no more idea what it was than I had!

The group had sung a couple of verses, when the iron-barred doors
were opened, and a policeman stepped out. He addressed Carpenter,
who was not singing. “Tell that bunch of nuts of yours to can the
yowling.”

To which Carpenter replied: “I tell you that if these men should
hold their peace, the stones of your jail would immediately cry
out!” And he turned, and looked up and down the streets of the city,
and suddenly I saw that he was weeping. “Oh, Mobland, Mobland! If
you had known even at this time the way of justice! But the way is
hid from your eyes, and you will not see it, and now the hour is
coming, the horrors of the class war are upon you, ruin and
destruction are at hand! Your towers of pride shall fall, your own
children shall destroy you; they shall not leave you one stone upon
another, because you knew not the time for justice when it came.”

The doors of the jail opened again, and three or four more policemen
came out, with clubs in their hands. “Get along, now!” they said
roughly, and began poking the prophet and his disciples in the back;
they poked them down the stairs and along the street for a block or
so--until they were sure the ears of the jail inmates would no
longer be troubled by offensive sounds. But still they did not
arrest them, and I marveled, wondering how long it could go on. I
had an uneasy feeling that the longer the climax was postponed, the
more severe it would be.

There was quite a crowd following us now, hoping that something
sensational would happen. And presently a woman saw us, and rushed
into the house, and came out leading a blind man, and appealing to
Carpenter to restore his sight; and when he stopped to do this,
there were a couple of newspaper men, and an operator with a camera,
and more excitement and more crowds! So we started to walk again,
and came to Main Street, which in our city is given up to ten cent
picture-shows, and pawn-brokers, and old clothes shops, and
eating-stands for workingmen. A block or so distant we saw a mass of
people, and something warned me--my heart sank into my boots.
Another mob!



XLVII


There was shouting, and people running from every direction. The
throng would surge back, and a few run from it. “What’s the matter?”
 I cried to one of these, and the answer was, “They’re cleaning out
the reds!” Comrade Abell, who knew the neighborhood, exclaimed in
dismay, “It’s Erman’s Book Store!”

“Who’s doing this?” I asked of another bystander, and the answer
was, “The Brigade! They’re cleaning up the city before the
convention!” And Comrade Abell clasped his hands to his forehead,
and wailed in despair, “It’s because they’ve been selling the
‘Liberator’! Erman told me last week he’d been warned to stop
selling it!”

Now, I don’t know whether or not Carpenter had ever heard of this
radical monthly. But he knew that here was a mob, and people in
trouble, and he shook off the hands which sought to restrain him,
and pushed his way into the throng, which gave way before him,
either from respect or from curiosity. I learned later that some of
the mob had dragged the bookseller and his two clerks out by the
rear entrance, and were beating them pretty severely. But
fortunately Carpenter did not see this. All he saw were a dozen or
so ex-soldiers in uniform carrying armfuls of magazines and books
out into a little square, which was made by the oblique intersection
of two avenues. They were dumping the stuff into a pile, and a man
with a five gallon can was engaged in pouring kerosene over it.

“My friend,” said Carpenter, “what is this that you do?”

The other turned upon him and stared. “What the hell you got to do
with it? Get out of the way there!” And to emphasize his words he
slopped a jet of kerosene over the prophet’s robes.

Said Carpenter: “Do you know what a book is? One of your poets has
described it as the precious life-blood of a great spirit, embalmed
and preserved to all posterity.”

The other laughed scornfully. “Was he talkin’ about Bolsheviki
books, you reckon?”

Said Carpenter: “Are you one that should be set to judge books? Have
you read these that you are about to destroy?” And as the other,
paying no attention, knelt down to strike a match and light the
pyre, he cried, in a louder voice: “Behold what a thing is war! You
have been trained to kill your fellow men; the beast has been let
loose in your heart, and he raves within!”

“One of these God-damn pacifists, eh?” cried the ex-soldier; and he
dropped his matches and sprang up with fists clenched. Carpenter
faced him without flinching; there was something so majestic about
him, the man did not strike him, he merely put his spread hand
against the prophet’s chest and shoved him violently. “Get back out
of the way!”

I well knew the risk I was taking, but I could not refrain. “Now,
look here, buddy!” I began; and the soldier whirled upon me. “You
one of these Huns, too?”

“I was all through the Argonne,” I said quickly. “And I belong to
the Brigade.”

“Oh ho! Well, pitch in here, and help carry out this bloody
Arnychist literature!”

I was about to answer, but Carpenter’s voice rang out again. He had
turned and stretched out his arms to the crowd, and we both stopped
to listen to his words.

“Shall ye be wolves, or shall ye be men? That is the choice, and ye
have chosen wolfhood. The blood of your brothers is upon your hands,
