Dwight was an artist and could always fall back on technique.  But
although her book was the intellectual expression of wildly distorted
complexes, owing to the disillusionments of war, the humiliation of her
ego in woman's most disastrous adventure, and the consequent repression
of all her dearest urges, she deserved her success far more than any of
her adolescent rivals.  She had formed her style in the days of
complete normalcy, and not only was that style distinguished, vigorous,
and individual, but she was able to convey her extremest realism so
subtly and yet so unambiguously that she could afford to disdain the
latrinities of the "younger school."  A marvellous feat.  Most of them
used the frank vocabulary of the humble home, as alone synonymous with
Truth.  Never before had such words invaded the sacrosanct pages of
American letters.  Little they recked, as Mr. Lee Clavering, who took
the entire school as an obscene joke, pointed out, that they were but
taking the shortest cut--advantage of the post-war license affecting
all classes--to save themselves the exhausting effort of acquiring a
vocabulary and forming a style.

The spade as a symbol vanished from fiction.

Miss Dwight had her own ideals, little as she permitted her unfortunate
characters to have any, and not only was she a consummate master of
words and of the art of suggestion, but she had been brought up by
finicky parents who held that certain words were not to be used in
refined society.  The impressions received in plastic years were not to
be obliterated by any fad of the hour.

No one knew, not even her fellow Californians, that she had had a
disastrous love affair which had culminated in an attempt to murder her
beautiful sister-in-law.  Her book had been a wild revulsion from every
standard of her youth, and she loathed love and the bare idea of mutual
happiness in fellow mortals as she recently had loathed blood and filth
and war and Germans.

Success is a great healer.  Moreover, she was a woman of strong and
indomitable character, and very proud.  She consigned the man, who,
after all, was the author of her phenomenal success, to nethermost
oblivion.  You cannot sell three hundred thousand copies of a book,
receive hundreds of letters from unknown admirers telling you that you
are the greatest novelist living, see your name constantly in the
"news," be besieged by editors and publishers, and become a popular
favorite with Sophisticates, and carry around a lacerated heart.  The
past fades.  The present reigns.  The future is rosy as the dawn.  Gora
Dwight was far too arrogant at this period of her career to love any
man even had there been anything left of her heart but a pump.  Her
life was full to the brim.  She was quite aware that the present rage
for stark and dour realism would pass--the indications were to be seen
in the more moderate but pronounced success of several novels by
authors impervious to crazes--but she was too fertile for apprehension
on that score.  She had many and quite different themes wandering like
luminous ghosts about the corridors of a brain singularly free from
labyrinths, ready to emerge, full-bodied, when the world was ready for
them.

The last time Clavering had sat opposite a woman by a log fire both had
enjoyed the deep luxury of easy chairs and his hostess had seemed to
melt into the depths until they enfolded her.  But Miss Dwight never
lounged.  Her backbone appeared to be made of cast-iron.  She sat erect
today on a hassock while he reclined in a chair that exactly fitted his
spine and enjoyed contrasting her with the other woman.  Gora Dwight
had no beauty, but she never passed unnoticed in a crowd, even if
unrecognized.  Her oval eyes were a pale clear gray, cold, almost
sinister, and she wore her mass of rich brown hair on top of her head
and down to her heavy eyebrows.  Her mouth was straight and sharply
cut, but mobile and capable of relaxing into a charming smile, and she
had beautiful teeth.  The nose was short and emphatic, the jawbone
salient.  It was, altogether, a disharmonic type, for the head was long
and the face short, broad across the high cheekbones; and her large
light eyes set in her small dark face produced a disconcerting effect
on sensitive people, but more often fascinated them.  Clavering had
been told that in her California days she had possessed a superb bust,
but long years of unremitting work in France and England had taken toll
of her flesh and it had never returned; she was very thin and the
squareness of her frame was emphasized by the strong uncompromising
bones.  But her feet and her brown hands were long and narrow, and the
straight lines of the present fashion were very becoming to her.  She
wore today a gown of dark red velvet trimmed with brown fur and a touch
of gold in the region of the waist.  It was known that she got her
clothes at the "best houses."

She was a curious mixture, Clavering reflected, and not the least
contradictory thing about her was the way in which her rather sullen
face could light up: exactly as if some inner flame leapt suddenly
behind those uncanny eyes and shed its light over the very muscles of
her cheeks and under her skin.  The oddest of her traits was her
apparent pleasure in seeing a man comfortable while she looked like a
ramrod herself; and she was the easiest of mortals to talk to when she
was in the right mood.  She was morose at times, but her favorites were
seldom inflicted with her moods, and of all her favorites Clavering
reigned supreme.  This he knew and took advantage of after the fashion
of his sex.  He told her all his troubles, his ambitions, which he
believed to be futile--he had written plays which his own criticism had
damned and no eye but his own and Gora Dwight's had ever seen--and she
refreshed and stimulated his mind when his daily column must be written
and his brain was stagnant.  She also knew of his secret quest of the
one woman and had been the repository of several fleeting hopes.  And
never for a moment had she thought him saturnine or disillusioned.  Not
she!  Gora Dwight had an extraordinary knowledge of men for a woman to
whom men did not make love.  But if she had neither beauty nor allure
she had genius; and a father confessor hardly knows more about women
than a nurse about men.  Moreover, she had her arts, little as men
suspected it.  Long ago she had read an appraisement of Madame Récamier
by Sainte-Beuve: "She listens avec séduction."  Gora had no intention
of practising seduction in any of its forms, but she listened and she
never betrayed, and her reward was that men sound and whole, and full
of man's inherent and technical peculiarities, had confided in her.
Altogether she was well equipped for fiction.



[1] See the author's "Sisters-in-Law."




XV

She was listening now as Clavering told her of his adventurous meeting
with Madame Zattiany, of their subsequent conversations, and of his
doubts.

"Are you sure she is not playing a part deliberately?" she asked.
"Having her little fun after those horrible years?  She looks quite
equal to it, and a personal drama would have its attractions after an
experience during which a nurse felt about as personal as an amputated
limb.  And while one is still young and beautiful--what a lark!"

"No.  I don't believe anything of the sort.  I fancy that if she didn't
happen to be so fond of the theatre she'd have come and gone and none
of us been the wiser.  Her secret is sui generis, whatever it is.
I've racked my mind in vain.  I don't believe she is the Countess
Zattiany's daughter, nor a third cousin, nor the Countess Josef
Zattiany.  I've tried to recall every mystery story I ever read that
would bear on the case, but I'm as much in the dark as ever."

"And you've thought of nothing else.  Your column has fallen off."

"Do you think that?"  He sat up.  "I've not been too satisfied myself."

"You've been filling up with letters from your correspondents after the
