then the room-door opened, and Edward Claire came in. What a depth of
tenderness was in his voice as he bent his lips to those of his young
wife, murmuring--

"My Edith!" and then touching, with a gentler pressure, the white
forehead of his sleeping babe.

"You were late this evening, dear," said Edith, looking into the face
of her husband, whose eyes drooped under her earnest gaze.

"Yes," he replied, with a slight evasion in his tone and manner; "we
have been busier than usual to-day."

As he spoke the young wife arose, and taking her slumbering child into
the adjoining chamber, laid it gently in its crib. Then returning, she
made the tea--the kettle stood boiling by the grate--and in a little
while they sat down to their evening meal.

Edith soon observed that her husband was more thoughtful and less
talkative than usual. She asked, however, no direct question touching
this change; but regarded what he did say with closer attention,
hoping to draw a correct inference, without seeming to notice his
altered mood.

"Mr. Jasper's business is increasing?" she said, somewhat
interrogatively, while they still sat at the table, an expression of
her husband's leading to this remark.

"Yes, increasing very rapidly," replied Claire, with animation. "The
fact is, he is going to get rich. Do you know that his profit on
to-day's sales amounted to fifty dollars?"

"So much?" said Edith, yet in a tone that showed no surprise or
particular interest in the matter.

"Fifty dollars a day," resumed Claire, "counting three hundred
week-days in the year, gives the handsome sum of fifteen thousand
dollars in the year. I'd be satisfied with as much in five years."

There was more feeling in the tone of his voice than he had meant to
betray. His young wife lifted her eyes to his face, and looked at him
with a wonder she could not conceal.

"Contentment, dear," said she, in a gentle, subdued, yet tender voice,
"is great gain. We have enough, and more than enough, to make us
happy. Natural riches have no power to fill the heart's most yearning
affections; and how often do they take to themselves wings and fly
away."

"Enough, dear!" replied Edward Claire, smiling. "O no, not enough, by
any means. Five hundred dollars a year is but a meagre sum. What does
it procure for us? Only these two rooms and the commonest necessaries
of life. We cannot even afford the constant service of a domestic."

"Why, Edward! what has come over you? Have I complained?"

"No, dear, no. But think you I have no ambition to see my wife take a
higher place than this?"

"Ambition! Do not again use that word," said Edith, very earnestly.
"What has love to do with ambition? What have we to do with the world
and its higher places? Will a more elegant home secure for us a
purer joy than we have known and still know in this our Eden? Oh,
my husband! do not let such thoughts come into your mind. Let us be
content with what God in his wisdom provides, assured that it is best
for us. In envying the good of another, we destroy our own good. There
is a higher wealth than gold, Edward; and it supplies higher wants.
There are riches without wings; they lie scattered about our feet;
we may fill our coffers, if we will. Treasures of good affections and
true thoughts are worth more than all earthly riches, and will bear
us far more safely and happily through the world; such treasures are
given to all who will receive them, and given in lavish abundance. Let
us secure of this wealth, Edward, a liberal share."

"Mere treasures of the mind, Edith, do not sustain natural life, do
not supply natural demands. They build no houses; they provide not
for increasing wants. We cannot always remain in the ideal world; the
sober realities of life will drag us down."

The simple-hearted, true-minded young wife was not understood by her
husband. She felt this, and felt it oppressively.

"Have we not enough, Edward, to meet every real want?" she urged. "Do
we desire better food or better clothing? Would our bodies be more
comfortable because our carpets were of richer material, and our
rooms filled with costlier furniture? O no! If not contented with such
things as Providence gives us to-day, we shall not find contentment in
what he gives us to-morrow; for the same dissatisfied heart will beat
in our bosoms. Let Mr. Jasper get rich, if he can; we will not envy
his possessions."

"I do not envy him, Edith," replied Claire. "But I cannot feel
satisfied with the small salary he pays me. My services are, I know,
of greater value than he estimates them, and I feel that I am dealt by
unjustly."

Edith made no answer. The subject was repugnant to her feelings,
and she did not wish to prolong it. Claire already regretted its
introduction. So there was silence for nearly a minute.

When the conversation flowed on again, it embraced a different theme,
but had in it no warmth of feeling. Not since they had joined hands at
the altar, nearly two years before, had they passed so embarrassed and
really unhappy an evening as this. A tempting spirit had found its way
into their Paradise, burning with a fierce desire to mar its beauty.




CHAPTER II.


"Oh, what a dream I have had!" exclaimed Mrs. Claire, starting
suddenly from sleep, just as the light began to come in dimly through
the windows on the next morning; and, as she spoke, she caught hold of
her husband, and clung to him, frightened and trembling.

"Oh, such a dream!" she added, as her mind grew clearer, and she felt
better assured of the reality that existed. "I thought, love, that
we were sitting in our room, as we sit every evening--baby asleep, I
sewing, and you, as usual, reading aloud. How happy we were! happier,
it seemed, than we had ever been before. A sudden loud knock startled
us both. Then two men entered, one of whom drew a paper from his
pocket, declaring, as he did so, that you were arrested at the
instance of Mr. Jasper, who accused you with having robbed him of a
large amount of money."

"Why, Edith!" ejaculated Edward Claire, in a voice of painful
surprise. He, too, had been dreaming, and in his dream he had done
what his heart prompted him to do on the previous evening--to act
unfaithfully toward his employer.

"Oh, it was dreadful! dreadful!" continued Edith. "Rudely they seized
and bore you away. Then came the trial. Oh, I see it all as plainly
as if it had been real. You, my good, true, noble-hearted husband,
who had never wronged another, even in thought--you were accused
of robbery in the presence of hundreds, and positive witnesses were
brought forward to prove the terrible charge. All they alleged was
believed by those who heard. The judges pronounced you guilty, and
then sentenced you to a gloomy prison. They were bearing you off,
when, in my agony, I awoke. It was terrible, terrible! yet, thank God!
only a dream, a fearful dream!"

Claire drew his arms around his young wife, and clasped her with a
straining embrace to his bosom. He made no answer for some time. The
relation of a dream so singular, under the circumstances, had startled
him, and he almost feared to trust his voice in response. At length,
with a deeply-drawn, sighing breath, nature's spontaneous struggle for
relief, he said--

"Yes, dear, that was a fearful dream. The thought of it makes me
shudder. But, after all, it was only a dream; the whispering of a
malignant spirit in your ear. Happily, his power to harm extends no
further. The fancy may be possessed in sleep, but the reason lies
inactive, and the hands remain idle. No guilt can stain the spirit.
The night passes, and we go abroad in the morning as pure as when we
laid our heads wearily to rest."

"And more," added Edith, her mind fast recovering itself; "with a
clearer perception of what is true and good. The soul's disturbed
balance finds its equilibrium. It is not the body alone that is
refreshed and strengthened. The spirit, plied with temptation after
temptation through the day, and almost ready to yield when the night
cometh, finds rest also, and time to recover its strength. In the
morning it goes forth again, stronger for its season of repose. How
often, as the day dawned, have I lifted my heart and thanked God for
sleep!"

Thus prompted, an emotion of thankfulness arose in the breast of
Claire, but the utterance was kept back from the lips. He had a
secret, a painful and revolting secret, in his heart, and he feared
lest something should betray its existence to his wife. What would he
not have given at the moment to have blotted out for ever the memory
of thoughts too earnestly cherished on the evening before, when he was
alone with the tempter?

There was a shadow on the heart of Edith Claire. The unusual mood of
her husband on the previous evening, and the dream which had haunted
her through the night, left impressions that could not be shaken off.
She had an instinct of danger--danger lurking in the path of one in
whom her very life was bound up.

When Edward was about leaving her to go forth for the day, she
lingered by his side and clung to him, as if she could not let him
pass from the safe shelter of home.

"Ah! if I could always be with you!" said Edith--"if we could ever
move on, hand in hand and side by side, how full to running over would
be my cup of happiness!"

"Are we not ever side by side, dear?" replied Claire, tenderly. "You
are present to my thought all the day."

"And you to mine. O yes! yes! We are moving side by side; our mutual
thought gives presence. Yet it was the bodily presence I desired. But
that cannot be."

"Good-bye, love! Good-bye, sweet one!" said Claire, kissing his wife,
and gently pressing his lips upon those of the babe she held in her
arms. He then passed forth, and took his way to the store of Leonard
Jasper, in whose service he had been for two years, or since the date
of his marriage.

A scene transpired a few days previous to this, which we will briefly
describe. Three persons were alone in a chamber, the furniture
of which, though neither elegant nor costly, evinced taste and
refinement. Lying upon a bed was a man, evidently near the time of his
departure from earth. By his side, and bending over him, was a woman
almost as pale as himself. A little girl, not above five years of age,
sat on the foot of the bed, with her eyes fixed on the countenance of
her father, for such was the relation borne to her by the sick man.
A lovely creature she was--beautiful even beyond the common beauty of
childhood. For a time a solemn stillness reigned through the chamber.
A few low-spoken words had passed between the parents of the child,
and then, for a brief period, all was deep, oppressive silence. This
was interrupted, at length, by the mother's unrestrained sobs, as she
laid her face upon the bosom of her husband, so soon to be taken from
her, and wept aloud.

No word of remonstrance or comfort came from the sick man's lips. He
only drew his arm about the weeper's neck, and held her closer to his
heart.

The troubled waters soon ran clear: there was calmness in their
depths.

"It is but for a little while, Fanny," said he, in a feeble yet steady
voice; "only for a little while."

"I know; I feel that here," was replied, as a thin, white hand was
laid against the speaker's bosom. "And I could patiently await my
time, but"----

Her eyes glanced yearningly toward the child, who sat gazing upon her
parents, with an instinct of approaching evil at her heart.

Too well did the dying man comprehend the meaning of this glance.

"God will take care of her. He will raise her up friends," said he
quickly; yet, even as he spoke, his heart failed him.

"All that is left to us is our trust in Him," murmured the wife and
mother. Her voice, though so low as to be almost a whisper, was firm.
She realized, as she spoke, how much of bitterness was in the parting
hours of the dying one, and she felt that duty required her to sustain
him, so far as she had the strength to do so. And so she nerved her
woman's heart, almost breaking as it was, to bear and hide her own
sorrows, while she strove to comfort and strengthen the failing spirit
of her husband.

"God is good," said she, after a brief silence, during which she was
striving for the mastery over her weakness. As she spoke, she leaned
over the sick man, and looked at him lovingly, and with the smile of
an angel on her countenance.

"Yes, God is good, Fanny. Have we not proved this, again and again?"
was returned, a feeble light coming into the speaker's pale face.

"A thousand times, dear! a thousand times!" said the wife, earnestly.
"He is infinite in his goodness, and we are his children."

"Yes, his children," was the whispered response. And over and over
again he repeated the words, "His children;" his voice falling lower
and lower each time, until at length his eyes closed, and his in-going
thought found no longer an utterance.

Twilight had come. The deepening shadows were fast obscuring all
objects in the sick-chamber, where silence reigned, profound almost as
death.

"He sleeps," whispered the wife, as she softly raised herself from
her reclining position on the bed. "And dear Fanny sleeps also," was
added, as her eyes rested upon the unconscious form of her child.

Two hours later, and the last record was made in Ruben Elder's Book of
Life.

For half an hour before the closing scene, his mind was clear, and
he then spoke calmly of what he had done for those who were to remain
behind.

"To Leonard Jasper, my old friend," said he to his wife, "I have left
the management of my affairs. He will see that every thing is done
for the best. There is not much property, yet enough to insure a small
income; and, when you follow me to the better land, sufficient for the
support and education of our child."

Peacefully, after this, he sank away, and, like a weary child falling
into slumber, slept that sleep from which the awakening is in another
world.

How Leonard Jasper received the announcement of his executorship has
been seen. The dying man had referred to him as an old friend; but, as
the reader has already concluded, there was little room in his sordid
heart for so pure a sentiment as that of friendship. He, however, lost
no time in ascertaining the amount of property left by Elder, which
consisted of two small houses in the city, and a barren tract of about
sixty acres of land, somewhere in Pennsylvania, which had been taken
for a debt of five hundred dollars. In view of his death, Elder had
wound up his business some months before, paid off what he owed, and
collected in nearly all outstanding accounts; so that little work
remained for his executor, except to dispose of the unprofitable tract
of land and invest the proceeds.

On the day following the opening of our story, Jasper, who still felt
annoyed at the prospect of more trouble than profit in the matter of
his executorship, made a formal call upon the widow of his old friend.

The servant, to whom he gave his name, stated that Mrs. Elder was so
ill as not to be able to leave her room.

"I will call again, then, in a few days," said he. "Be sure you give
her my name correctly. Mr. Jasper--Leonard Jasper."

The face of the servant wore a troubled aspect.

"She is very sick, sir," said she, in a worried, hesitating manner.
"Won't you take a seat, for a moment, until I go up and tell her that
you are here? Maybe she would like to see you. I think I heard her
mention your name a little while ago."

Jasper sat down, and the domestic left the room. She was gone but a
short time, when she returned and said that Mrs. Elder wished to see
him. Jasper arose and followed her up-stairs. There were some strange
misgivings in his heart--some vague, troubled anticipations, that
oppressed his feelings. But he had little time for thought ere he was
ushered into the chamber of his friend's widow.

A single glance sufficed to tell him the whole sad truth of the case.
There was no room for mistake. The bright, glazed eyes, the rigid,
colourless lips, the ashen countenance, all testified that the hour
of her departure drew nigh. How strong, we had almost said, how
beautiful, was the contrasted form and features of her lovely child,
whose face, so full of life and rosy health, pressed the same pillow
that supported her weary head.

Feebly the dying woman extended her hand, as Mr. Jasper came in,
saying, as she did so--

"I am glad you have come; I was about sending for you."

A slight tremor of the lips accompanied her words, and it was plain
that the presence of Jasper, whose relation to her and her child she
understood, caused a wave of emotion to sweep over her heart.

"I am sorry, Mrs. Elder, to find you so very ill," said Jasper,
with as much of sympathy in his voice as he could command. "Has your
physician been here to-day?"

"It is past that, sir--past that," was replied. "There is no further
any hope for me in the physician's art."

A sob choked all further utterance.

How oppressed was the cold-hearted, selfish man of the world! His
thoughts were all clouded, and his lips for a time sealed. As the
dying woman said, so he felt that it was. The time of her departure
had come. An instinct of self-protection--protection for his
feelings--caused him, after a few moments, to say, and he turned
partly from the bed as he spoke--

"Some of your friends should be with you, madam, at this time. Let me
go for them. Have you a sister or near relative in the city?"

The words and movement of Mr. Jasper restored at once the conscious
self-possession of the dying mother, and she raised herself partly up
with a quick motion, and a gleam of light in her countenance.

"Oh, sir," she said eagerly, "do not go yet. I have no sister, no near
relative; none but you to whom I can speak my last words and give my
last injunction. You were my husband's friend while he lived, and to
you has he committed the care of his widow and orphan. I am called,
alas, too soon! to follow him; and now, in the sight of God, and
in the presence of his spirit--for I feel that he is near us now--I
commit to you the care of this dear child. Oh, sir! be to her as a
father. Love her tenderly, and care for her as if she were your own.
Her heart is rich with affection, and upon you will its treasures be
poured out. Take her! take her as your own! Here I give to you, in
this the solemn hour of my departure, that which to me is above all
price."

And as she said this, with a suddenly renewed strength, she lifted
the child, and, ere Jasper could check the movement, placed her in his
arms. Then, with one long, eager, clinging kiss pressed upon the
lips of that child, she sank backward on the bed; and life, which had
flashed up brightly for a moment, went out in this world for ever.




CHAPTER III.


Leonard Jasper would have been less than human had he borne such an
assault upon his feelings without emotion; less than human had his
heart instantly and spontaneously rejected the dying mother's wildly
eloquent appeal. He was bewildered, startled, even deeply moved.

The moment he could, with propriety and a decent regard for
appearances, get away from the house where he had witnessed so painful
a scene, he returned to his place of business in a sobered, thoughtful
state of mind. He had not anticipated so direct a guardianship of
Ruben Elder's child as it was evident would now devolve upon him,
in consequence of the mother's death. Here was to be trouble for
him--this was his feeling so soon as there was a little time for
reaction--and trouble without profit. He would have to take upon
himself the direct charge of the little girl, and duly provide for her
maintenance and education.

"If there is property enough for this, well and good," he muttered
to himself; he had not yet become acquainted with the real state of
affairs. "If not," he added, firmly, "the loss will be hers; that is
all. I shall have sufficient trouble and annoyance, without being put
to expense."

For some time after his return to his store, Jasper refrained from
entering upon any business. During at least fifteen or twenty minutes,
he sat at his desk, completely absorbed in thought. At length he
called to Edward Claire, his principal clerk, and said that he wished
to speak a few words with him. The young man came back from the
counter to where he was sitting, wondering what had produced the very
apparent change in his employer's state of mind.

"Edward," said Mr. Jasper, in a low, serious voice, "there is a
little matter that I must get you to attend to for me. It is not very
pleasant, it is true; though nothing more than people are required to
do every day. You remember Mr. Elder, Ruben Elder, who formerly kept
store in Second street?"

"Very well."

"He died last week."

"I noticed his death in the papers."

"He has appointed me his executor."

"Ah?"

"Yes; and I wish to my heart he had appointed somebody else. I've too
much business of my own to attend to."

"Of course," said Claire, "you will receive your regular commissions
for attending to the settlement of his estate."

"Poor picking there," replied Jasper, shrugging his shoulders. "I'd
very cheerfully give up the profit to be rid of the trouble. But that
doesn't signify now. Elder has left his affairs in my hands, and I
must give them at least some attention. I'm not coming to the point,
however. A little while ago I witnessed the most painful scene that
ever fell under my eyes."

"Ah!"

"Yes, truly. Ugh! It makes the chills creep over me as I think of
it. Last evening I received regular notification of my appointment as
executor to Elder's estate, and to-day thought it only right to call
upon the widow, and see if any present service were needed by the
family. Such a scene as I encountered! Mrs. Elder was just at the
point of death, and expired a few moments after my entrance. Besides
a single domestic and a child, I was the only witness of her last
extremity."

"Shocking!"

"You may well say shocking, Edward, unprepared as I was for such an
occurrence. My nerves are quivering yet."

"Then the widow is dead also?"

"Yes; both have gone to their long home."

"How many children are left?"

"Only one--a little girl, not, I should think, above four years of
age."

"Some near relative will, I presume, take charge of her."

"In dying, the mother declared that she had no friend to whom she
could leave the child. On me, therefore, devolves the care of seeing
to its maintenance."

"No friend. Poor child! and of so tender an age!"

"She is young, certainly, to be left alone in the world."

Jasper uttered these words, but felt nothing of the sad meaning they
involved.

"What disposition will you make of her?" asked Claire.

"I've had no time to think of that yet. Other matters are first to be
regarded. So let me come to the point. Mrs. Elder is dead; and, as far
as I could see, there is no living soul, beyond a frightened servant,
to do any thing. Whether she will have the presence of mind to call in
the neighbours, is more than I can say. I left in the bewilderment of
the moment; and now remember me that something is to be done for the
dead. Will you go to the house, and see what is needed? In the next
block is an undertaker; you had better call, on your way, and ask him
to go with you. All arrangements necessary for the funeral can be left
in his hands. Just take this whole matter off of me, Edward, and I
will be greatly obliged to you. I have a good many things on my mind,
that must receive close attention."

The young man offered no objection, although the service was far from
being agreeable. On his return, after the absence of an hour, Jasper
had, of course, many inquiries to make. Claire appeared serious. The
fact was, he had seen enough to touch his feelings deeply. The grief
of the orphaned child, as he was a witness thereto, had brought tears
upon his cheeks, in spite of every manly effort to restrain them. Her
extreme beauty struck him at the first glance, even obscured as it was
under a vail of sorrow and weeping.

"There were several persons in, you say?" remarked Jasper, after
Claire had related a number of particulars.

"Yes, three or four."

"Ladies, of course?"

"Yes."

"Did any of them propose to take the child home with them?"

"Not directly. One woman asked me a number of questions about the
little girl."

"Of what nature?"

"As to whether there were any relatives or particular friends who
would take charge of her?"

"And you told her there were none?"

"Yes; none of whom I had any knowledge."

"Well? What had she to say to that?"

"She wanted to know if there would be any thing for the child's
support. I said that there would, in all probability."

"Well?"

"Then she gave me to understand, that if no one took the child, she
might be induced to board her for a while, until other arrangements
were made."

"Did you give her to understand that this was practicable?"

"No, sir."

"Why not? She will have to be boarded, you know."

"I neither liked the woman's face, manner, nor appearance."

"Why not?"

"Oh, she was a vulgar, coarse, hard-looking creature to my eyes."

"Kind hearts often lie concealed under unpromising externals."

"True; but they lie not concealed under that exterior, be well
assured, Mr. Jasper. No, no. The child who has met with so sad a loss
as that of a mother, needs the tenderest guardianship. At best, the
case is hard enough."

Jasper did not respond to this humane sentiment, for there was no pity
in him. The waves of feeling, stirred so suddenly a few hours before,
had all subsided, and the surface of his heart bore no ripple of
emotion. He thought not of the child as an object claiming his regard,
but as a trouble and a hinderance thrown in his way, to be disposed of
as summarily as possible.

"I'm obliged to you, Edward, for the trouble you have taken in my
stead," he remarked, after a slight pause. "To-morrow, I may wish
you to call there again. Of course, the neighbours will give needful
attention until the funeral takes place. By that time, perhaps, the
child will have made a friend of some one of them, and secure, through
this means, a home for the present. It is, for us, a troublesome
business at best, though it will soon be over."

A person coming in at the moment, Claire left his employer to attend
at the counter. The new customer, it was quickly perceived by the
clerk, was one who might readily be deceived into buying the articles
for which she inquired, at a rate far in advance of their real value;
and he felt instantly tempted to ask her a very high price. Readily,
for it was but acting from habit, did he yield to this temptation. His
success was equal to his wishes. The woman, altogether unsuspicious
of the cheat practised upon her, paid for her purchases the sum of
ten dollars above their true value. She lingered a short time after
settling her bill, and made some observation upon a current topic
of the day. One or two casually-uttered sentiments did not fall like
refreshing dew upon the feelings of Claire, but rather stung him like
words of sharp rebuke, and made him half regret the wrong he had done
to her. He felt relieved when she retired.

It so happened that, while this customer was in, Jasper left the
store. Soon after, a clerk went to dinner. Only a lad remained with
Claire, and he was sent up-stairs to arrange some goods.
