and if Constable Cooke had not been unfit for a place of trust,
probably it would not have failed, either in whole or in part.

Mr. Fairfield was arrested, and at ten o'clock both he and Dock were
arraigned for examination. The old man was dreadfully alarmed. With the
arrest of Dock his fondest hopes had gone out in darkness. Not only was
the rich reward he had been promised forever lost, but his neighbor's
note for ten thousand dollars was not worth the paper on which it was
written. Though the conspirator did not yet believe that his plan had
failed, the old man did.

Dock was held on a complaint of kidnapping Bessie Watson, and an
attempt to extort money from her father. The evidence, including Dock's
letter and the absence of Bessie, was more than enough to hold him, and
he was committed for trial. The testimony was strong enough to hold Mr.
Fairfield, and he also was committed; but Mr. Watson, out of
consideration for the poor old man, procured bail for him. It was in
vain he protested that he had nothing to do with the affair, and knew
nothing about it. His midnight meeting with Dock Vincent condemned him.

The deputy sheriff bore Dock to the jail; for Mr. Gayles suggested that
Constable Cooke's fingers were slippery, though he did not know that
they had already been soiled by a bribe. Levi hastened on board of the
yacht as soon as the case had been disposed of, where his crew had made
every preparation for the intended cruise--how long it was to be they
knew not then. The wind was blowing a smashing breeze when she sailed,
and in forty hours she was off Sandy Hook. Mr. Watson and Mr. Gayles
arrived a day earlier, but did not deem it prudent to commence the
search till the next day, fearful that the Caribbee might slip away
before the yacht arrived; but they were not idle. They visited all the
small ports in the vicinity; but Captain Gauley kept the vessel away
from any harbor.

Constable Cooke could not settle his mind in regard to the letter in
his pocket, and he kept it there till the day after the examination.
Mr. Watson and Mr. Gayles had both neglected, and even snubbed him.
They did not ask his advice; they did not employ him to assist in the
search. They had gone off without him, and he saw no chance to make any
money with the information in his possession. If Mr. Watson wanted Mr.
Gayles to do his business for him, he might employ him. Mr. Cooke
enclosed the pencilled note, directed it, and then mailed it in
Gloucester.

Mr. Watson commenced his search in the steamer he had engaged for the
purpose. He went a dozen miles up North River, examining every vessel
in the stream, passed down the bay, through The Kills, up Newark Bay,
through Staten Island Sound to Amboy, scoured Raritan Bay and River,
without success, and thus used up the first day of the search. The next
day--that on which Mat Mogmore went to the city and brought off the
letter--she followed East River to Throg's Point; ran into Harlem
River, Flushing Bay, and all the inlets, examining the Long Island
shore as far as Rockaway, but with no better results than on the
preceding day. Off Coney Island she spoke The Starry Flag. The captain
of the steamer was confident that the Caribbee was not in the vicinity;
it was more probable that she had come through the Sound, and put into
Cow Bay, or some other waters beyond Throg's Point; and the steamer
returned to the city, to renew the search on the third day.

Captain Gauley changed his anchorage every day or two. On the first day
he had been behind Coney Island, but had moved over to a point south of
Staten Island that evening, and thus, by accident, escaped discovery.

Mat brought the letter to him, and the Caribbee went to sea instantly;
but it was only to encounter The Starry Flag, lying in wait for her.
The quick eye of Levi immediately recognized her, and his orders to
come about were given in sharp, quick tones. He was excited; Bessie was
almost within hail of him; indeed, he saw her standing on deck, with
Mrs. Vincent and the children. The wind was fresh, and the Caribbee had
spread every inch of her canvas. Levi arranged his plan to cut her off
while she was still nearly half a mile distant from him.




CHAPTER XXIV.

HALF ROUND THE WORLD.


The wind was fresh, and The Starry Flag was under easy sail when the
Caribbee was discovered. Though Levi immediately ordered the foresail
to be hoisted, he saw, with intense chagrin, that the advantage was
against him. He had hauled down the fly, and he hoped, as Dock Vincent
was not on board of the Caribbee, that her people would not recognize
the yacht. The wind was east, and the vessel was beating out, while The
Starry Flag had the wind on the beam.

Levi, trusting that his craft would not be identified, intended to
crowd the Caribbee so as to oblige her to tack, and then, while she was
in stays, to lay alongside, and board her. Mr. C. Augustus Eb√©nier
stood, with his revolver in his hand, ready to follow his "excellent
captain," who was similarly armed, to the deck of the chase. Three
other men were also detailed to join the party, though Levi did not
expect much, if any, resistance.

The young skipper kept out of sight himself, that he might not be
recognized before the decisive moment came. His heart bounded with
excitement. He saw Bessie standing on the deck with Dock's wife, and a
few moments more would restore her to him, and he should have the proud
satisfaction of sailing up New York Bay, and giving her back to her
father. The steward was ready to do greater wonders than ever before.
Thus far he had done all the hard fighting, and he was prepared to do
it unto the end.

The decisive moment did not come then. The quick eye of Mat Mogmore had
recognized the yacht, and the Caribbee suddenly tacked, and stood away
to the south-east. But Levi did not give up the chase. He had the
weather-gage, and his foresail was now drawing well. In spite of Dock's
brags about the speed of his vessel, the young skipper believed the
yacht would outsail her; but this was only a blind confidence.

The Caribbee was headed directly towards a shoal place called the "Oil
Spot," and as it was dead low tide, Levi thought she could not pass
over it. Farther to the southward was a ledge, with only nine feet of
water on it. But Captain Gauley knew all about the dangers of the
navigation on this part of the coast. He went just to the southward of
the Oil Spot; and, instead of gaining anything, Levi was obliged to
keep away, and lose the weather-gage, in order to avoid the shoal
himself.

He was disappointed and felt cheap after his failure. The Caribbee,
close-hauled, was standing off to the south-east, while The Starry Flag
was a quarter of a mile astern of her. Neither had the advantage, and
it was still an open question which could make the best time. Levi soon
found that the Caribbee was running away from him; but she carried a
main gaff-topsail and a staysail. Fortunately he had similar sails on
board, though he seldom used them. They were set when the two vessels
were about a mile apart.

The wind held fresh and steady, and Levi was happy when he realized
that the Caribbee was no longer gaining upon him. Hour after hour he
followed her, without any perceptible change in the distance between
them. It was plain now that the two vessels were about equally matched,
and day and night Levi held his course. On the third day out he spoke a
ship bound to New York. He knew what agony Mr. Watson was suffering,
and he wrote two letters to him, one directed to New York, and the
other to Rockport; "I shall follow the Caribbee round the world if
necessary, and I will not return without Bessie," he wrote. These
letters he sent on board of the ship, and in due time both were
received by Mr. Watson.

For weeks and weeks The Starry Flag followed the Caribbee; but the
voyage would be as tedious to the reader as it was to Bessie Watson.
From the summer time, the yacht went into the heat of the torrid zone,
and from that to the spring time of the south temperate. A week out
from New York she encountered a heavy gale, and lost sight of the
chase; but Levi, true to his promise, did not give up the pursuit,
though he did not see the Caribbee again for weeks. As the yacht was
getting short of water and provisions, he put in at the Island of St.
Helena for fresh supplies, and learned that the Caribbee had left the
port only the day before.

Again he made a harbor at Cape Town; but the chase had not been there.
With fresh provisions, he sailed again, not expecting to see the
Caribbee till he found her at Melbourne, the port for which she had
cleared; but as he went out of the harbor, he discovered her coming in.
The Caribbee went about, and stood on her course again to the eastward.
Levi was in high spirits now. He had outsailed his rival from St.
Helena. He had profited by an attentive study of the current chart, and
gained a day. Proud of this triumph over the skilful seaman who was in
charge of the chase, he persevered in the pursuit.

Bessie saw The Starry Flag from the deck of the Caribbee, and
understood why Captain Gauley put about. She was amazed at the
persistent devotion of Levi in following her so far, and hope
brightened and inspired her. Captain Gauley and Mat laughed at what
they called the folly of Levi, and assured Bessie he would never find
her.

Week after week both vessels held on their course, through sunshine and
tempest. Off the southern coast of Australia a fearful storm burst upon
them, and for the third time since leaving the Cape of Good Hope, they
parted company; but both of them weathered the tempest. One hundred and
seven days from New York, in the spring time of the southern
hemisphere, The Starry Flag was approaching Bass Straits. The
navigation was difficult and dangerous. Levi had read up his nautical
library, and carefully studied the charts he had obtained at Cape Town.
The wind was blowing a fresh gale from the southward and westward, and
the young commander was full of doubt and anxiety. The night was coming
on, with the promise of thick and heavy weather. Another day would
enable him to reach Melbourne; but it was hazardous to attempt to
thread his way among the rocks and coral reefs in the night and the
storm. Prudently, therefore, he put about, and stood away to the
southward, close-hauled, with the heavy seas washing his decks, for his
bulwarks had been stove in the tempest a week before.

"Sail, ho!" shouted the man on the lookout forward.

"Where away?" asked Levi.

"On the weather bow."

"It's the Caribbee!" exclaimed Levi to Bob Thomas, who had been made
first mate of the yacht.

"Ay, ay! It is," replied the mate.

"She went to the southward of Hammetts, while we went to the northward,
after the great storm. The southerly current has carried her off her
course, I should judge," added Levi.

The captain and the mate watched her with the most intense interest.
The Caribbee stood on her course, and it was evident that she intended
to enter the Straits, regardless of the perils before her. Levi could
not do less than follow, reckless as it seemed to him. He did follow;
but he took extraordinary precautions. He bent on his heavy anchor, and
made other preparations for trying events. But the Caribbee, instead of
entering the Straits in the darkness, stood away to the northward. All
night long the gale piped its angry notes, and The Starry Flag again
lost sight of the chase in the gloom.

The weather moderated in the morning, though the gale only partially
subsided. Again the Caribbee was discovered, hull down, in the south.
She was then entering the Straits, to the southward of King's Island,
where no prudent navigator would venture in bad weather. The yacht was
headed in that direction, and anxiously did Levi watch the chase. He
had no intention of following her through the intricacies of that
rock-bounded channel. Two hours later, the cry ran through the yacht
that the Caribbee had struck on a hidden reef!

The heart of the young skipper was in his mouth. Bessie was in great
peril, and he was almost distracted as he thought of her, perishing in
the angry waves, surrounded only by enemies. The yacht dashed madly on
towards the scene of the disaster. Trembling with anxiety, Levi went
below to consult his chart, which lay all the time on the cabin table.
He found the locality, and the ledge on which the Caribbee had struck.
There was no other peril very near it, and he stood on confidently till
The Starry Flag was within hail of the wreck, or would have been in
less tempestuous weather.

The foremast of the Caribbee had gone by the board, and the waves were
making a clean sweep over her decks. The life-boat, which swung at the
port davits of the yacht, had been cleared away, in readiness to be
lowered. Finding he had good holding-ground under him, Levi ordered the
men to let go the heavy anchor. Fortunately it brought her up; but the
other anchor was also thrown over. The sails were lowered, and the
yacht rode tolerably easy. The gale was abating, and Levi was satisfied
that the two anchors would hold her.

The life-boat was manned with four men, and Levi took his place in the
stern-sheets. It was no easy matter to board the wreck while the sea
was making a clean breach over her. She had struck her bow upon the
sharp rock, and stove in her bottom. She had filled, and her stern had
settled down, and the water was over her taffrail, while her stem
projected up into the air. Her hull had swung round a little, so that
there was a choice of sides in approaching her. The foremast had been
jammed up by the breaking of the keelson where it was set, and hung
over the side. To this the life-boat was made fast, and Levi, followed
by Bob Thomas, climbed on board.

Crouching under the lee of the camboose, the young skipper found
Bessie, Mrs. Vincent, and the two children, while the crew were
clinging to the rigging of the bowsprit to prevent being washed
overboard.

"O, Levi!" cried Bessie, when she saw the manly form of her true
friend.

In the blast and the spray, Levi clasped her hands, and both of them
wept. It was more than three months since they had parted in the house
of Mr. Watson. There was no time to think of the past, or even of the
future; the present absorbed all the energies of the young seaman. With
the assistance of Bob Thomas, Levi conveyed Bessie along the fallen
spar, and lowered her into the life-boat. Mrs. Vincent and her two
children were assisted into the boat in the same manner. Mat Mogmore
and two men--all that were left of the crew--were then permitted to
enter the boat, which pulled back to the yacht.

With much difficulty, and the exercise of no little skill, the
life-boat was kept right side up, and the rescued party were safely
placed on board of The Starry Flag, though the females had to be
hoisted up in slings over the stern.

"You are safe, Bessie," said Levi, as he conducted her to the cabin.

"Thanks to our Good Father, and to you, Levi, I am!"

"I have the inexpressible happiness of greeting you again," said Mr. C.
Augustus Eb√©nier, as he threw open the door of her state-room.

The gale rapidly subsided, and in the afternoon, after the wreck had
been boarded again, the yacht sailed for Melbourne.




CHAPTER XXV.

A HAPPY REUNION.


The sea in the Strait was comparatively smooth, and the yacht sped on
her way to Melbourne. Mrs. Vincent and her children had been installed
in Mr. Watson's state-room, while Bessie occupied her own. From her
Levi had obtained all the particulars of her voyage. She told him what
she had suffered, what she had feared, and what she had hoped.

"Who had charge of the Caribbee?" asked Levi, when, after Bessie and
Mrs. Vincent had been made comfortable, they gathered in the cabin.

"Captain Gauley," replied Bessie.

"Who was he?"

"He was a pilot on a steamer," replied Mrs. Vincent. "He and my husband
became acquainted while they were on a boat near New York. I never saw
him till just before we sailed from the Cape. He is a bad man."

"That is plain enough," added Levi; "but where is he now?"

"He and three other men were washed overboard when the vessel struck on
the rocks."

"And three of the men were saved?"

"Yes; Mat Mogmore, the steward, and another man."

"Why did you sail without your husband, Mrs. Vincent?" asked Levi.

"I don't know anything about this business. I hadn't anything to do
with it," replied the poor woman; and Levi and Bessie pitied her
because she was the wife of such a bad man.

"I am sure she had nothing to do with carrying me off, Levi,"
interposed Bessie. "She has been very kind to me from the moment I went
on board of the Caribbee, and would have assisted me to escape, if
there had been any chance."

"I am very glad indeed to know that," added Levi. "I don't see why this
Captain Gauley sailed without your husband."

"Captain Vincent sent a letter to him, saying that things were going
wrong with him, and ordered him to sail at once."

Levi wondered how Dock had sent the letter. When told that it was
written in pencil, and that the address on the envelope was not in her
husband's hand, he was satisfied that Constable Cooke had rendered him
this important service.

"My husband was to come to Australia by the steamer from England,"
added Mrs. Vincent. "Perhaps he is here now."

"I think not," replied Levi.

"Why so?"

"Because he was arrested, and committed to jail before I left the Cape.
Augustus caught him."

"I had that honor," said the steward, who was standing near the party;
and the incident was fully described.

"I suppose my poor father and mother do not know what has become of
me," continued Bessie, the tears starting to her eyes.

"Yes, they do. I sent two letters by a ship we spoke. If this vessel
reached New York, I am sure he knows where you are. I wrote him that I
should follow you round the world, if need be."

"How brave and noble you are, Levi!" she said, bestowing a glance of
admiration upon him. "And this Starry Flag has rendered me a greater
service than the other Starry Flag."

"She has indeed! She is the finest little craft that ever floated; and
I shall love her as long as I live. In that great gale a week ago, she
was under water half the time, I believe. We had to batten down
everything, and lash ourselves to the deck."

"That was a fearful storm. I hope I shall never see another such. How
grateful we ought to be for our preservation!"

"I trust we are grateful to God for his goodness and his mercy,"
replied Levi, devoutly.

On the following day the yacht took a pilot, and came to anchor in the
harbor of Melbourne. Mat Mogmore had kept out of sight since he came on
board, spending all his time in the forecastle; but when the anchor was
dropped he appeared on deck.

"I think I will go on shore now, Levi," said he, with an assumed
coolness.

"I think not," replied Levi, decidedly.

"What do you mean by that?" demanded the young villain.

"I mean that you shall not leave this vessel, unless you leave it in
irons. I shall state the case to the American consul; and I think you
will return to the United States as a prisoner."

"Why, what have I done?" asked Mat.

"What have you done!" exclaimed Levi, indignantly. "Besides being
guilty of meanness and treachery, you have committed a crime which will
send you to the state prison for the next ten years."

"Do you mean to say that I stole your uncle's money?"

"I didn't say anything of the kind. You and Dock Vincent conveyed Miss
Watson on board of the Caribbee. That's a state-prison offence, to say
nothing of stealing the money."

"Don't be hard on me, Levi."

"Hard on you! I'm not half so hard on you as you are on yourself. You
were employed as a hand on board of this vessel, and you used your
position to deceive Miss Watson, and get her on board of the Caribbee.
You then came to me, with your mouth full of lies, and told me she had
gone to Portland with her father, by railroad. I trusted you, and you
betrayed me. I can forgive you, but I can never respect you again,"
said Levi, warmly.

"Don't be too hard on me, Levi," pleaded Mat. "I got into a scrape, and
Dock helped me out; but he made me do everything he said after that."

"You needn't commit yourself to me. I don't ask you to make any
confessions. Dock Vincent is in jail now, and the whole truth will come
out in due time."

"What's the use!" exclaimed Mat, in despair. "I'm ruined now. If you'll
let me go ashore here, I'll try to be an honest man."

"It is not for me to let you go, though I have no doubt you were the
tool of Dock Vincent. I have no right to let you escape."

"I'll tell you all about it, Levi; and you will see what a bad scrape I
was in," said Mat, fixing his eyes on the planks of the deck. "Your
uncle borrowed a screw-driver in the shop----"

"Levi! Levi!" shouted Bessie Watson, who was in the standing-room,
looking at the shipping in the vicinity.

The young skipper sprang towards her, fearful that some terrible event
was about to happen; for Bessie was waving her handkerchief, and
dancing about the deck like an insane person. A boat, with two
gentlemen in the stern-sheets, was approaching the yacht, and at this
Bessie was gazing with intense earnestness.

"What is the matter, Bessie?" asked he, looking at her, rather than the
boat, to assure himself that her trials had not affected her reason.

"Why, don't you see, Levi?"

"I don't see anything. What is it?"

"My father! My father!" cried she, laughing, almost in hysterics.

Levi glanced at the boat. One of the gentlemen was certainly Mr.
Watson, though he was not quite willing to believe the evidence of his
own senses. The boat had approached near enough to enable him to be
sure of the fact.

"It is my father!" repeated Bessie, as the boat ran up to the
accommodation ladder, and Mr. Watson leaped on board of the yacht.

"My child! My child!" ejaculated the fond father, as he folded her in
his arms.

"O, father!" exclaimed she, as she hugged him in a transport of joy.

Twined in each other's arms, they wept and laughed, in the exuberance
of delight, at this happy reunion. Levi could hardly restrain his own
tears as he gazed upon the affecting scene, and in the depths of his
heart he thanked God, who had guided his little bark over the stormy
ocean, half round the world, and enabled him to save Bessie from the
hands of her grasping enemies.

"Levi!" said Mr. Watson, gently disengaging himself from his daughter's
embrace, and giving the young captain his hand.

"I am glad to see you, Mr. Watson," replied Levi, grasping the offered
hand.

"If Levi hadn't followed me, you would never have seen me again," added
Bessie, throwing herself upon her father's breast again.

"God bless you, Levi!" exclaimed the delighted father, wringing the
young man's hand again.

Mr. Watson seemed to be bewildered by the ecstasy of his joy. He
grasped the hand of Augustus, who was so pleased that he forgot to use
any high-flown speech. The gentleman who had come in the boat with
Bessie's father was introduced to the party as the American consul.

"We did not expect to see you, Mr. Watson," said Levi.

"I have been in Melbourne for three weeks," replied he. "This is the
port for which the Caribbee cleared at the Custom House. But where is
the Caribbee?"

"She struck on a rock to the southward of King's Island, in the gale,
yesterday morning. She has broken up before this time."

"And I was on board of her at the time," said Bessie.

"Though the Caribbee was twenty tons larger than The Starry Flag, we
were just a match for her in sailing," added Levi. "We lost her a week
out of New York, saw her again at the Cape of Good Hope, and then lost
sight of her three or four times; but we arrived at the entrance of
Bass Strait about the same time."

"I think I will not stop to hear the story now. Bessie, there is some
one on shore who wishes to see you," replied Mr. Watson.

"Who? O, I know, father! It is mother! Come, let us go on shore, this
minute!" exclaimed the bewildered girl, dancing about again, as this
new joy dawned upon her.

Levi informed the consul that one of the conspirators had been saved
from the wreck, and this gentleman promised to attend to the matter.
The life boat was lowered; and leaving his mate in charge of the
vessel, with strict injunctions not to let Mat Mogmore escape, Levi
went on shore with Bessie and her father.

"My mother in Australia!" exclaimed Bessie.

"And Mrs. McGilvery, too!" added Mr. Watson.

"Why, then the whole family are here! Only think of it! I didn't expect
to see you or mother for months yet."

"We could not do anything but come, for every hour seemed like an age
to us," replied Mr. Watson. "When I received Levi's letter, I saw that
nothing more could be done on our side of the world, and I decided to
follow you. Dock Vincent assured me I should never see my daughter
again; and I was satisfied by the confidence he exhibited, and the
persistency with which he urged me to pay his demand, that the Caribbee
had indeed sailed upon her long voyage. Levi's letter, written when he
had been three days at sea, with the Caribbee in sight, fully confirmed
my view. I was sorry Levi did not return to New York, instead of
following the vessel."

"Why so?" asked Levi, blushing under the implied censure.

"If I had known the result in season, I might have sent a steamer in
pursuit of the Caribbee. As it was, I did not get the letter till a
week after her departure."

"The chances of a steamer finding the Caribbee were not more than one
in fifty," replied Levi.

"I was sorry then, Levi; but I am not now. You have achieved almost a
miracle, and I am willing to believe now that your course was the best
and the safest. I decided at once to be in Melbourne when the Caribbee
arrived. I sailed for England in the steamer with your mother and your
aunt. We came from there by the way of Egypt, and landed here three
weeks ago. I have an agent in every principal port in Australia on the
lookout for the Caribbee. When any fore-and-aft vessel came into this
harbor I was informed of the fact, and you may judge my surprise when I
saw The Starry Flag. I will not tell you what I feared when I
recognized her, for all that passed away when I saw Bessie on the
deck;" and the devoted father clasped her in his arms again.

The party landed. In a few moments they reached the hotel, and Bessie
was folded in the embrace of her mother.




CHAPTER XXVI.

CONCLUSION.


Mrs. Watson wept tears of joy over her lost child, now restored to her.
Mrs. McGilvery declared that the pleasure of witnessing such a joyful
meeting was worth a voyage half round the world, or, indeed, all the
way round the world.

"Well, Levi, what shall we do next?" asked Mr. Watson, when the young
skipper had been thanked and extolled by the ladies till his cheeks
burned with blushes.

"Go home, I suppose, sir, unless the ladies desire to settle here,"
replied Levi.

"Doubtless we shall go home," added Mr. Watson; "but how shall we do
it? I think the ladies will not care to be kept on board of the yacht
for three months or more."

"I will do what I can to make them comfortable if they will return in
The Starry Flag; but that is saying only a little."

"You would arrive on the coast of the United States in the middle of
the winter, and you will see many heavy storms, and much bad weather,"
suggested Mr. Watson.

"Yes, sir; it was bad enough coming out here, especially after we left
the Cape of Good Hope; but it would be worse returning. I cannot
honestly advise them to go back in the yacht, glad as I should be of
their company;" and Levi glanced at Bessie. "I think they had better go
by the way you came."

"I am very clear of that," added Mr. Watson. "But, Levi, I can't bear
the idea of your knocking about for three or four months, perhaps six,
in such a small vessel."

"It won't hurt me any. I rather like it," laughed Levi. "I will have a
stove put up in the cabin for use when we get into the cold region, and
we shall be as comfortable as a bug in a rug."
