Standing by it on the wharf was an aged negro, misshapen, and almost
deformed. He was thin and bony, and his head and beard were grizzled
with age. He was black as night itself; and but for a glittering,
intellectual eye, he might have been taken for a big baboon,--the
missing link of Darwin. To him spoke the Professor, giving a punch with
his cane upon the well-packed, solid bale:--

"Why, this is splendid cotton! Where did it come from? Who raised it?"

"We raise it, sah,--me 'n' dis yer boy," pointing to a middle-aged
black man beside him: "we raise it."

"Where?"

"Oh! out he'yr a piece."

A lounging white man, never wanting on a wharf, here interposed:--

"Oh! this is old Cudjo. He lives up Julington. He's an honest old
fellow."

Now, we had heard of this settlement up Julington some two or three
years before. A party of negroes from South Carolina and Georgia had
been induced to come into Florida, and take up a tract of government
land. Some white man in whom they all put confidence had undertaken for
them the task of getting their respective allotments surveyed and
entered for them, so that they should have a solid basis of land to work
upon. Here, then, they settled down; and finding, accidentally, that a
small central lot was not enclosed in any of the allotments, they took
it as an indication that there was to be their church, and accordingly
erected there a prayer-booth, where they could hold those weekly
prayer-meetings which often seem with the negroes to take the place of
all other recreations. The neighboring farmers were not particularly
well disposed towards the little colony. The native Floridian farmer is
a quiet, peaceable being, not at all disposed to infringe the rights of
others, and mainly anxious for peace and quietness. But they supposed
that a stampede of negroes from Georgia and Carolina meant trouble for
them, meant depredations upon their cattle and poultry, and regarded it
with no friendly eye; yet, nevertheless, they made no demonstration
against it. Under these circumstances, the new colony had gone to work
with untiring industry. They had built log-cabins and barns; they had
split rails, and fenced in their land; they had planted orange-trees;
they had cleared acres of the scrub-palmetto: and any one that ever has
seen what it is to clear up an acre of scrub-palmetto will best
appreciate the meaning of that toil. Only those black men, with sinews
of steel and nerves of wire,--men who grow stronger and more vigorous
under those burning suns that wither the white men,--are competent to
the task.

But old Cudjo had at last brought his land from the wild embrace of the
snaky scrub-palmetto to the point of bearing a bale of cotton like the
one on the wharf. He had subdued the savage earth, brought her under,
and made her tributary to his will, and demonstrated what the soil of
East Florida might, could, and would do, the cotton-worm to the contrary
notwithstanding.

And yet this morning he stood by his cotton, drooping and dispossessed.
The white man that had engaged to take up land for these colonists had
done his work in such a slovenly, imperfect manner, that another
settler, a foreigner, had taken up a tract which passed right through
old Cudjo's farm, and taken the land on which he had spent four years of
hard work,--taken his log-cabin and barn and young trees, and the very
piece that he had just brought to bearing that bale of cotton. And there
he stood by it, mournful and patient. It was only a continuation of what
he had always experienced,--always oppressed, always robbed and cheated.
Old Cudjo was making the best of it in trying to ship his bale of
cotton, which was all that was left of four years' toil.

"What!" said the Professor to him, "are you the old man that has been
turned out by that foreigner?"

"Yes, sah!" he said, his little black eyes kindling, and quivering from
head to foot with excitement. "He take ebry t'ing, ebry t'ing,--my
house I built myself, my fences, and more'n t'ree t'ousand rails I split
myself: he take 'em all!"

There is always some bitter spot in a great loss that is sorer than the
rest. Those rails evidently cut Cudjo to the heart. The "t'ree t'ousand
rails" kept coming in in his narrative as the utter and unbearable
aggravation of injustice.

"I split 'em myself, sah; ebry one, t'ree t'ousand rails! and he take
'em all!"

"And won't he allow you any thing?"

"No, sah: he won't 'low me not'ing. He say, 'Get along wid you! don't
know not'ing 'bout you! dis yer land mine.' I tell him, 'You don't
know old Cudjo; but de Lord know him: and by'm by, when de angel Gabriel
come and put one foot on de sea, and t'odder on de land, and blow de
trumpet, he blow once for old Cudjo! You mind now!'"

This was not merely spoken, but acted. The old black kindled, and
stepped off in pantomime. He put, as it were, one foot on the sea, and
the other on the land; he raised his cane trumpetwise to his mouth. It
was all as vivid as reality to him.

None of the images of the Bible are more frequent, favorite, and
operative among the black race than this. You hear it over and over in
every prayer-meeting. It is sung in wild chorus in many a "spiritual."
The great angel Gabriel, the trumpet, the mighty pomp of a last
judgment, has been the appeal of thousands of wronged, crushed,
despairing hearts through ages of oppression. Faith in God's justice,
faith in a final triumph of right over wrong,--a practical faith,--such
had been the attainment of this poor, old, deformed black. That and his
bale of cotton were all he had to show for a life's labor. He had
learned two things in his world-lesson,--work and faith. He had learned
the power of practical industry in things possible to man: he had
learned the sublimer power of faith in God for things impossible.

       *       *       *       *       *

Well, of course we were indignant enough about poor old Cudjo: but we
feared that the distant appeal of the angel, and the last trump, was all
that remained to him; and, to our lesser faith, that seemed a long way
to look for justice.

But redress was nearer than we imagined. Old Cudjo's patient industry
and honest work had wrought favor among his white neighbors. He had
lived down the prejudice with which the settlement had first been
regarded; for among quiet, honest people like the Floridians, it is
quite possible to live down prejudice. A neighboring justice of the
peace happened to have an acquaintance in Washington from this very
district, acquainted with all the land and land-titles. He wrote to
this man an account of the case; and he interested himself for old
Cudjo. He went to the land-office to investigate the matter. He found,
that, in both cases, certain formalities necessary to constitute a legal
entrance had been omitted; and he fulfilled for old Cudjo these
formalities, thus settling his title; and, moreover, he sent legal
papers by which the sheriff of the county was enabled to do him justice:
and so old Cudjo was re-instated in his rights.

The Professor met him, sparkling and jubilant, on the wharf once more.

"Well, Cudjo, 'de angel' blew for you quicker than you expected."

He laughed all over. "Ye', haw, haw! Yes, massa." Then, with his usual
histrionic vigor, he acted over the scene. "De sheriff, he come down
dere. He tell dat man, 'You go right off he'yr. Don't you touch none dem
rails. Don't you take one chip,--not one chip. Don't you take'--Haw,
haw, haw!" Then he added,--

"He come to me, sah: he say, 'Cudjo, what you take for your land?' He
say he gib me two hunder dollars. I tell him, 'Dat too cheap; dat all
too cheap.' He say, 'Cudjo, what will you take?' I say, 'I take ten
t'ousand million dollars! dat's what I take.' Haw, haw, haw!"




  [Illustration]

THE LABORERS OF THE SOUTH.


Who shall do the work for us? is the inquiry in this new State, where
there are marshes to be drained, forests to be cut down, palmetto-plains
to be grubbed up, and all under the torrid heats of a tropical sun.

"Chinese," say some; "Swedes," say others; "Germans," others.

But let us look at the facts before our face and eyes.

The thermometer, for these three days past, has risen over ninety every
day. No white man that we know of dares stay in the fields later than
ten o'clock: then he retires under shade to take some other and
less-exposing work. The fine white sand is blistering hot: one might
fancy that an egg would cook, as on Mt. Vesuvius, by simply burying it
in the sand. Yet the black laborers whom we leave in the field pursue
their toil, if any thing, more actively, more cheerfully, than during
the cooler months. The sun awakes all their vigor and all their
boundless jollity. When their nooning time comes, they sit down, not in
the shade, but in some good hot place in the sand, and eat their lunch,
and then stretch out, hot and comfortable, to take their noon siesta
with the full glare of the sun upon them. Down in the swamp-land near
our house we have watched old Simon as from hour to hour he drove his
wheelbarrow, heavy with blocks of muck, up a steep bank, and deposited
it. "Why, Simon!" we say: "how can you work so this hot weather?"

The question provokes an explosion of laughter. "Yah, hah, ho, ho, ho,
misse! It be hot; dat so: ho, ho, ho!"

"How can you work so? I can't even think how you can do such hard work
under such a sun."

"Dat so: ho, ho! Ladies can't; no, dey can't, bless you, ma'am!" And
Simon trundles off with his barrow, chuckling in his might; comes up
with another load, throws it down, and chuckles again. A little laugh
goes a great way with Simon; for a boiling spring of animal content is
ever welling up within.

One tremendously hot day, we remember our steamer stopping at
Fernandina. Owing to the state of the tide, the wharf was eight or ten
feet above the boat; and the plank made a steep inclined plane, down
which a mountain of multifarious freight was to be shipped on our boat.
A gang of negroes, great, brawny, muscular fellows, seemed to make a
perfect frolic of this job, which, under such a sun, would have
threatened sunstroke to any white man. How they ran and shouted and
jabbered, and sweated their shirts through, as one after another
received on their shoulders great bags of cotton-seed, or boxes and
bales, and ran down the steep plane with them into the boat! At last a
low, squat giant of a fellow, with the limbs and muscles of a great
dray-horse, placed himself in front of a large truck, and made his
fellows pile it high with cotton-bags; then, holding back with a
prodigious force, he took the load steadily down the steep plane till
within a little of the bottom, when he dashed suddenly forward, and
landed it half across the boat. This feat of gigantic strength he
repeated again and again, running up each time apparently as fresh as
if nothing had happened, shouting, laughing, drinking quarts of water,
and sweating like a river-god. Never was harder work done in a more
jolly spirit.

Now, when one sees such sights as these, one may be pardoned for
thinking that the negro is the natural laborer of tropical regions. He
is immensely strong; he thrives and flourishes physically under a
temperature that exposes a white man to disease and death.

The malarial fevers that bear so hard on the white race have far less
effect on the negro: it is rare that they have what are called here the
"shakes;" and they increase and multiply, and bear healthy children, in
situations where the white race deteriorate and grow sickly.

On this point we had an interesting conversation with a captain employed
in the Government Coast Survey. The duties of this survey involve much
hard labor, exposure to the fiercest extremes of tropical temperature,
and sojourning and travelling in swamps and lagoons, often most deadly
to the white race. For this reason, he manned his vessel with a crew
composed entirely of negroes; and he informed us that the result had
been perfectly satisfactory. The negro constitution enabled them to
undergo with less suffering and danger the severe exposure and toils of
the enterprise; and the gayety and good nature which belonged to the
race made their toils seem to sit lighter upon them than upon a given
number of white men. He had known them, after a day of heavy exposure,
travelling through mud and swamps, and cutting saw-grass, which wounds
like a knife, to sit down at evening, and sing songs and play on the
banjo, laugh and tell stories, in the very best of spirits. He
furthermore valued them for their docility, and perfect subjection to
discipline. He announced strict rules, forbidding all drunkenness and
profanity; and he never found a difficulty in enforcing these rules:
their obedience and submission were perfect. When this gentleman was
laid up with an attack of fever in St. Augustine, his room was beset by
anxious negro mammies, relations of his men, bringing fruits, flowers,
and delicacies of their compounding for "the captain."

Those who understand and know how to treat the negroes seldom have
reason to complain of their ingratitude.

But it is said, by Northern men who come down with Northern habits of
labor, that the negro is inefficient as a laborer.

It is to be conceded that the influence of climate and constitution, and
the past benumbing influences of slavery, do make the habits of Southern
laborers very different from the habits of Northern men, accustomed, by
the shortness of summer and the length of winter, to set the utmost
value on their working-time.

In the South, where growth goes on all the year round, there really is
no need of that intense, driving energy and vigilance in the use of time
that are needed in the short summers of the North: an equal amount can
be done with less labor.

But the Northern man when he first arrives, before he has proved the
climate, looks with impatient scorn on what seems to him the slow,
shilly-shally style in which both black and white move on. It takes an
attack of malarial fever or two to teach him that he cannot labor the
day through under a tropical sun as he can in the mountains of New
Hampshire. After a shake or two of this kind, he comes to be thankful if
he can hire Cudjo or Pompey to plough and hoe in his fields through the
blazing hours, even though they do not plough and hoe with all the
alacrity of Northern farmers.

It is also well understood, that, in taking negro laborers, we have to
take men and women who have been educated under a system the very worst
possible for making good, efficient, careful, or honest laborers. Take
any set of white men, and put them for two or three generations under
the same system of work without wages, forbid them legal marriage and
secure family ties, and we will venture to predict that they would come
out of the ordeal a much worse set than the Southern laborers are.

We have had in our own personal experience pretty large opportunities of
observation. Immediately after the war, two young New-England men hired
the Mackintosh Plantation, opposite to Mandarin, on the west bank of the
St. John's River. It was, in old times, the model plantation of Florida,
employing seven hundred negroes, raising sugar, rice, Sea-Island cotton.
There was upon it a whole village of well-built, comfortable negro
houses,--as well built and comfortable as those of any of the white
small farmers around. There was a planter's house; a schoolhouse, with
chambers for the accommodation of a teacher, who was to instruct the
planter's children. There were barns, and a cotton-gin and storehouse, a
sugar-house, a milk and dairy house, an oven, and a kitchen; each
separate buildings. There were some two or three hundred acres of
cleared land, fit for the raising of cotton. This whole estate had been
hired by these young men on the principle of sharing half the profits
with the owner. After they had carried it on one year, some near
relatives became partners; and then we were frequent visitors there.
About thirty laboring families were employed upon the place. These were
from different, more northern States, who had drifted downward after the
Emancipation Act to try the new luxury of being free to choose their
own situation, and seek their own fortune. Some were from Georgia, some
from South and some from North Carolina, and some from New Orleans; in
fact, the débris of slavery, washed together in the tide of
emancipation. Such as they were, they were a fair specimen of the
Southern negro as slavery had made and left him.

The system pursued with them was not either patronizing or sentimental.
The object was to put them at once on the ground of free white men and
women, and to make their labor profitable to their employers. They were
taught the nature of a contract; and their agreements with their
employers were all drawn up in writing, and explained to them. The terms
were a certain monthly sum of money, rations for the month, rent of
cottage, and privileges of milk from the dairy. One of the most
efficient and intelligent was appointed to be foreman of the plantation;
and he performed the work of old performed by a driver. He divided the
hands into gangs; appointed their places in the field; settled any
difficulties between them; and, in fact, was an overseer of the detail.
Like all uneducated people, the negroes are great conservatives. They
clung to the old ways of working,--to the gang, the driver, and the old
field arrangements,--even where one would have thought another course
easier and wiser.

In the dim gray of the morning, Mose blew his horn; and all turned out
and worked their two or three hours without breakfast, and then came
back to their cabins to have corn-cake made, and pork fried, and
breakfast prepared. We suggested that the New-England manner of an early
breakfast would be more to the purpose; but were met by the difficulty,
nay, almost impossibility, of making the negroes work in any but the
routine to which they had been accustomed. But in this routine they
worked honestly, cheerfully, and with a will. They had the fruits of
their labors constantly in hand, in the form either of rations or wages;
and there appeared to be much sober content therewith.

On inquiry, it was found, that, though living in all respectability in
families, the parties were, many of them, not legally married; and an
attempt was made to induce them to enter into holy orders. But the men
seemed to regard this as the imposing of a yoke beyond what they could
bear. Mose said he had one wife in Virginny, and one in Carliny; and how
did he know which of 'em he should like best? Mandy, on the female side,
objected that she could not be married yet for want of a white lace
veil, which she seemed to consider essential to the ceremony. The survey
of Mandy in her stuff gown and cow-hide boots, with her man's hat on,
following the mule with the plough, brought rather ludicrous emotions in
connection with this want of a white veil.

Nevertheless, the legal marriages were few among them. They lived
faithfully in their respective family relations; and they did their
work, on the whole, effectively and cheerfully. Their only amusement,
after working all day, seemed to be getting together, and holding
singing and prayer meetings, which they often did to a late hour of the
night. We used to sit and hear them, after ten or eleven o'clock,
singing and praying and exhorting with the greatest apparent fervor.
There were one or two of what are called preachers among them,--men with
a natural talent for stringing words together, and with fine voices. As
a matter of curiosity, we once sat outside, when one of these meetings
was going on, to hear what it was like.

The exhortation seemed to consist in a string of solemn-sounding words
and phrases, images borrowed from Scripture, scraps of hymns, and now
and then a morsel that seemed like a Roman-Catholic tradition about the
Virgin Mary and Jesus. The most prominent image, however, was that of
the angel, and the blowing of the last trumpet. At intervals, amid the
flying cloud of images and words, came round something about Gabriel and
the last trump, somewhat as follows: "And He will say, 'Gabriel,
Gabriel, blow your trump: take it cool and easy, cool and easy, Gabriel:
dey's all bound for to come.'"

This idea of taking even the blowing of the last trump cool and easy
seemed to be so like the general negro style of attending to things,
that it struck me as quite refreshing. As to singing, the most doleful
words with the most lugubrious melodies seemed to be in favor.

      "Hark! from the tombs a doleful sound,"

was a special favorite. With eyes shut, and mouth open, they would pour
out a perfect storm of minor-keyed melody on poor old Dr. Watts's hymn,
mispronouncing every word, till the old doctor himself could not have
told whether they were singing English or Timbuctoo.

Yet all this was done with a fervor and earnest solemnity that seemed to
show that they found something in it, whether we could or not: who
shall say? A good old mammy we used to know found great refreshment in a
hymn, the chorus of which was,--

      "Bust the bonds of dust and thunder;
        Bring salvation from on high."

Undoubtedly the words suggested to her very different ideas from what
they did to us; for she obstinately refused to have them exchanged for
good English. But when the enlightened, wise, liberal, and refined for
generations have found edification and spiritual profit from a service
chanted in an unknown tongue, who shall say that the poor negroes of
our plantation did not derive real spiritual benefit from their night
services? It was at least an aspiration, a reaching and longing for
something above animal and physical good, a recognition of God and
immortality, and a future beyond this earth, vague and indefinite though
it were.

As to the women, they were all of the class born and bred as
field-hands. They were many of them as strong as men, could plough and
chop and cleave with the best, and were held to be among the best
field-laborers; but, in all household affairs, they were as rough and
unskilled as might be expected. To mix meal, water, and salt into a
hoe-cake, and to fry salt pork or ham or chicken, was the extent of
their knowledge of cooking; and as to sewing, it is a fortunate thing
that the mild climate requires very slight covering. All of them
practised, rudely, cutting, fitting, and making of garments to cover
their children; but we could see how hard was their task, after working
all day in the field, to come home and get the meals, and then, after
that, have the family sewing to do. In our view, woman never was made to
do the work which supports the family; and, if she do it, the family
suffers more for want of the mother's vitality expended in work than it
gains in the wages she receives. Some of the brightest and most
intelligent negro men begin to see this, and to remove their wives from
field-labor; but on the plantation, as we saw it, the absence of the
mother all day from home was the destruction of any home-life or
improvement.

Yet, with all this, the poor things, many of them, showed a most
affecting eagerness to be taught to read and write. We carried down and
distributed a stock of spelling-books among them, which they eagerly
accepted, and treasured with a sort of superstitious veneration; and
Sundays, and evenings after work, certain of them would appear with them
in hand, and earnestly beg to be taught. Alas! we never felt so truly
what the loss and wrong is of being deprived of early education as when
we saw how hard, how almost hopeless, is the task of acquisition in
mature life. When we saw the sweat start upon these black faces, as our
pupils puzzled and blundered over the strange cabalistic forms of the
letters, we felt a discouraged pity. What a dreadful piece of work the
reading of the English language is! Which of us would not be discouraged
beginning the alphabet at forty?

After we left, the same scholars were wont to surround one of the
remaining ladies. Sometimes the evening would be so hot and oppressive,
she would beg to be excused. "O misse, but two of us will fan you all
the time!" And "misse" could not but yield to the plea.

One of the most dreaded characters on the place was the dairy-woman and
cook Minnah. She had been a field-hand in North Carolina, and worked at
cutting down trees, grubbing land, and mauling rails. She was a tall,
lank, powerfully-built woman, with a pair of arms like windmill-sails,
and a tongue that never hesitated to speak her mind to high or low.
Democracy never assumes a more rampant form than in some of these old
negresses, who would say their screed to the king on his throne, if they
died for it the next minute. Accordingly, Minnah's back was all marked
and scored with the tyrant's answers to free speech. Her old master was
accustomed to reply to her unpleasant observations by stretching her
over a log, staking down her hands and feet, and flaying her alive, as a
most convincing style of argument. For all that, Minnah was neither
broken nor humbled: she still asserted her rights as a human being to
talk to any other human being as seemed to her good and proper; and many
an amusing specimen of this she gave us. Minnah had learned to do up
gentlemen's shirts passably, to iron and to cook after a certain
fashion, to make butter, and do some other household tasks: and so,
before the wives of the gentlemen arrived on the place, she had been
selected as a sort of general housekeeper and manager in doors; and, as
we arrived on the ground first, we found Minnah in full command,--the
only female presence in the house.

It was at the close of a day in May, corresponding to our August, that
Mrs. F---- and baby and myself, with sundry bales of furniture and
household stuff, arrived at the place. We dropped down in a lazy little
sail-boat which had lain half the day becalmed, with the blue, hazy
shores on either side melting into indefinite distance, and cast anchor
far out in the stream; and had to be rowed in a smaller boat to the
long wharf that stretched far out into the waters. Thence, in the
thickening twilight, we ascended, passed through the belt of
forest-trees that overhung the shore, and crossed the wide fields of
fine white sand devoted to the raising of cotton. The planter's house
was a one-story cottage, far in the distance, rising up under the
shelter of a lofty tuft of Spanish oaks.

Never shall we forget the impression of weird and almost ludicrous
dreariness which took possession of us as Mrs. F---- and myself sat down
in the wide veranda of the one-story cottage to wait for the gentlemen,
who had gone down to assist in landing our trunks and furniture. The
black laborers were coming up from the field; and, as one and another
passed by, they seemed blacker, stranger, and more dismal, than any
thing we had ever seen.

The women wore men's hats and boots, and had the gait and stride of
men; but now and then an old hooped petticoat, or some cast-off, thin,
bedraggled garment that had once been fine, told the tale of sex, and
had a wofully funny effect.

As we sat waiting, Minnah loomed up upon us in the twilight veranda like
a gaunt Libyan sibyl, walking round and round, surveying us with
apparent curiosity, and responding to all our inquiries as to who and
what she was by a peculiarly uncanny chuckle. It appeared to amuse her
extremely that Mr. F---- had gone off and left the pantry locked up, so
that she could not get us any supper; we being faint and almost famished
with our day's sail. The sight of a white baby dressed in delicate white
robes, with lace and embroidery, also appeared greatly to excite her;
and she stalked round and round with a curious simmer of giggle,
appearing and disappearing at uncertain intervals, like a black sprite,
during the mortal hour and a half that it cost our friends to land the
goods from the vessel.

After a while, some supper was got for us in a wide, desolate apartment,
fitted up with a small cooking-stove in the corner.

Never shall we forget the experience of endeavoring to improvise a
corn-cake the next morning for breakfast.

We went into the room, and found the table standing just as we had left
it the night before,--not a dish washed, not a thing done in the way of
clearing. On inquiry for Minnah, she was gone out to milking. It
appeared that there were sixteen cows to be milked before her return. A
little colored girl stood ready to wait on us with ample good nature.

"Lizzie," said we, "have you corn-meal?"

"Oh, yes'm!" and she brought it just as the corn had been ground, with
the bran unsifted.

"A sieve, Lizzie."

It was brought.

"A clean pan, Lizzie. Quick!"

"All right," said Lizzie: "let me get a pail of water." The water was to
be drawn from a deep well in the yard. That done, Lizzie took a pan,
went out the door, produced a small bit of rag, and rinsed the pan,
dashing the contents upon the sand.

"Lizzie, haven't you any dish-cloth?"

"No'm."

"No towels?"

"No'm."

"Do you always wash dishes this way?"

"Yes'm."

"Well, then, wash this spoon and these two bake-pans."

Lizzie, good-natured and zealous as the day is long, bent over her pail,
and slopped and scrubbed with her bit of rag.

"Now for a pan of sour milk," said we.

It was brought, with saleratus and other condiments; and the cake was
made.

But, on examination, the flues of the little cooking-stove were so
choked with the resinous soot of the "light-wood" which had been used in
it, that it would scarcely draw at all; and the baking did not progress
as in our nice Stuart stove in our Northern home. Still the whole
experience was so weirdly original, that, considering this was only a
picnic excursion, we rather enjoyed it.

When we came to unpack china and crockery and carpets, bureau and
bedsteads and dressing-glass, Minnah's excitement knew no bounds.
Evidently she considered these articles (cast-off remnants of our
Northern home) as the height of splendor.

When our upper chamber was matted, and furnished with white curtains and
shades, and bed, chairs, and dressing-glass, Minnah came in to look;
and her delight was boundless.

"Dear me! O Lord, O Lord!" she exclaimed, turning round and round. "Dese
yer Northern ladies--they hes every thing, and they does every thing!"

More especially was she taken with the pictures we hung on the walls.
Before one of these (Raphael's Madonna of the Veil) Minnah knelt down in
a kind of ecstatic trance, and thus delivered herself:--

"O good Lord! if there ain't de Good Man when he was a baby! How
harmless he lies there! so innocent! And here we be, we wicked sinners,
turning our backs on him, and going to the Old Boy. O Lord, O Lord! we
ought to be better than we be: we sartin ought."

This invocation came forth with streaming tears in the most natural way
in the world; and Minnah seemed, for the time being, perfectly subdued.
It is only one of many instances we have seen of the overpowering
influence of works of art on the impressible nervous system of the
negro.

But it is one thing to have an amusing and picturesque specimen of a
human being, as Minnah certainly was, and another to make one useful in
the traces of domestic life.

As the first white ladies upon the ground, Mrs. F---- and myself had the
task of organizing this barbaric household, and of bringing it into the
forms of civilized life. We commenced with the washing.

Before the time of our coming, it had been customary for the gentlemen
to give their washing into the hands of Minnah or Judy, to be done at
such times and in such form and manner as best suited them.

The manner which did suit them best was to put all the articles to
soak indefinitely, in soapsuds, till such time as to them seemed good.
On being pressed for some particular article, and roundly scolded by any
of the proprietors, they would get up a shirt, a pair of drawers, a
collar or two, with abundant promises for the rest when they had time.

The helpless male individuals of the establishments had no refuge from
the feminine ruses and expedients, and the fifty incontrovertible
