"Look out sharp for the helm, Mr. Bell," I shouted, so as to be heard
above the roar of the rushing waters and the clang of the engine.

I thought he did not respond to my movements with the wheel as promptly
as was necessary. I felt that the least turn to the right or the left
would be fatal to us, for by this time I realized that the situation
was vastly more perilous than when we went into the current before. The
least "wabble" might cause the current to strike her on the side, and
send her over on her beam ends in the vortex below us.

"Can't you crowd her a little more, Moses," I called through the
speaking-tube.

"Not much more," he promptly replied.

"We are not losing anything," said the pilot, holding his breath.

"Mind the helm," I replied, for I felt that I could not hold her alone.
"If we get the bow half a degree across the current, it is all up with
us."

"I can hold her alone, but you take the feeling off my hands," he
answered, warmly.

He meant that I began to move the wheel before he felt the pressure on
his hands, for one steers a vessel very much as he drives a horse, and
depends quite as much upon feeling as upon sight. My feeling was much
quicker than his, and I would not give up the helm to him, but told him
he must watch my movements.

"We have gained an inch!" exclaimed the pilot.

"What is an inch going through such a torrent as this?" I replied,
though I felt encouraged by the fact, if it was a fact, for I dared not
look to the right or the left, as he did.

It seemed to me that the steamer would soon go through the crevasse or
shake herself to pieces in the struggle. The jar and the quivering were
so much increased that I was sure Moses was doing something more than
he ordinarily considered his best. In a few minutes more we had worried
up the little fall, which indicated the difference between the height
of the water on either side of the levee. We had gained several yards,
but I don't think we made more than an inch a minute; and those minutes
seemed like hours.

Suddenly the Sylvania began to increase her speed through the water,
and I concluded that we had passed the swiftest part of the current.
Washburn informed me that the stern of the steamer was inside of the
cut, and I felt that the battle was won. Still I kept my eyes fixed on
the flagpole forward, in order to hold the vessel in the middle of the
gap.

"I think we shall fetch it," said Mr. Bell.

"No doubt of it, if we don't lose our chances by talking about them," I
replied.

The pilot said no more. I did not want him to abate his zeal until we
were outside of the levee, for it would have been the easiest thing in
the world to lose all we had gained by the struggle of the last hour.
We kept it up half an hour longer. When the bow was outside of the
levee, I was afraid Bell would think we were safe, while it was still
possible to be carried back. But the steamer increased her speed every
moment now, and we were soon out in the broad river. I kept her on her
course, and as soon as she was clear of the treacherous current, she
darted off at a furious speed.

"All right, Moses!" I shouted through the tube. The next instant I
heard the steam escaping furiously through the safety-valve. I had no
doubt that the chief-engineer felt an intense relief when he heard my
voice the last time, for no money or any consideration short of the
safety of the Sylvania would have permitted him to put on such a press
of steam.

"Excuse me, Mr. Bell, if I spoke sharply to you, or said anything that
hurt your feelings, for I meant nothing of the kind," I said to the
pilot, when we were in the middle of the river.

"Don't mention it, captain," he replied, warmly. "I can say, and I
reckon I know something about steamboats, I never saw a boat better
handled than this one has been from first to last. I thought I had only
a boy for a captain, but I find that you understand your business."

"Thank you, Mr. Bell; you are very kind to say so," I replied, with a
blush. "I think I know the feeling of this vessel's helm rather better
than any one in these parts, and I was a little afraid you might not
see the necessity of keeping her up, without any wabbling."

"You were right every time, captain. I never handled a craft of the
sort before, and it was quite right for you to trust her to no one but
yourself."

As soon as we were fairly out in the river, the people on the levees
set up a volley of cheers, which was taken up by the negroes on board.
I saw the Islander had made fast to a steamer a little below the
breach, and I asked the pilot to lay the Sylvania alongside of her.

"Young man, you are a brave boy," said Colonel Hungerford, the planter
who had first come on board of the steamer. "I was on the point of
telling you before you started back, that you could never get through
that hole; and I was going to tell you of a way by which you could have
got through the lakes and streams into the Bayou la Fourche, and up
that to the Mississippi. But I see you need no advice from me. We are
all very grateful to you."

"I beg you will not feel under any obligation to us, for we are sort of
sea-knights, roaming about in quest of adventures; and we were very
glad of the opportunity to render you and others any assistance. I
believe you and your family were in no particular danger."

"I don't know about that, my young captain," replied the planter,
shaking his head. "My mansion is surrounded with verandahs, and the
water was beginning to lift it off its foundations."

I took my glass and looked at the house. One end of it appeared to be
lifted up.

"I would not have staid in it two hours more for half the state. I have
been through three inundations before, and I know something about
them," replied the planter. "I hope I shall see more of you."

As we came up to the Islander, the passengers of both vessels, on board
of her, began to clap their hands. I was embarrassed by this
demonstration, and after asking Washburn to see that we were made fast
to our consort, I sat down in the pilot-house where they could not see
me.




CHAPTER XXVII.

THE PLANTER AND HIS FAMILY.


I was quite exhausted after my efforts and the strain put upon me, and
I was in no humor even to be praised. Some of the negroes our boats
picked up on planks and on their toppling houses might have been
drowned; but I did not believe the people in the mansion-houses were in
any great danger. However, I had never seen an inundation before, and I
may have been mistaken. My father was one of the first to visit me in
the pilot-house.

"You have done well, Alick," said he; and that was all he did say, for
he was not given to praising any one beyond his desert. "What are you
going to do with all these people?"

"We can land them, or put them on board of one of the steamers here," I
replied; and I had not thought of the matter before.

"Mrs. Shepard is very nervous indeed, and is anxious to get away from
this place," continued my father.

"The Islander might have gone on," I suggested.

"We could not leave until assured that you did not need the assistance
of the other steamer. We were about to send a line to you and attach it
to one of the steamers. The only trouble was to get a line long enough
and strong enough."

While we were talking Colonel Hungerford came into the pilot-house. I
introduced him to my father, and the planter indulged in more praise
which I do not care to repeat. He informed me that he had chartered one
of the river steamers to take his servants and those of the other
planters down to Carrollton, a few miles below.

"I am now going on board of another steamer to inquire if she is bound
up the river, for I have concluded to visit my brother at Baton Rouge.
But I suppose my mansion will not be fit to live in for some weeks to
come, if ever. I desire to know your address, Captain Alick,--excuse
me, but that is what I hear others call you,--that I may communicate
with you at some future time."

"Quite unnecessary," said my father, with a smile, as though he
suspected the object of the inquiry.

"But I desire to express my sense of obligation to your son for the
great service he has rendered me and my family," persisted the planter.

"You have done that already, sir, to my entire satisfaction," I added.

"You are very strange people, not to allow me to do something."

"We are decidedly averse to having anything done," replied my father,
laughing, not because anything was funny, but to prevent the southern
gentleman from taking offence at what he said. "My son owns and
commands this yacht, and I dare say he will be glad to have you take
passage in his steamer to Baton Rouge, or any other point on the river
in our route."

"I shall be most happy to accept your very kind invitation," replied
Colonel Hungerford, promptly.

By this time the steamer he had engaged to take his "people," as he
called them, like one of the patriarchs of old, came alongside. The
four planters had a consultation, as to what disposition should be made
of the servants, and the business manager of one of them was appointed
to take the entire charge of the party. The other planters were going
to New Orleans, and the same steamer was to convey them there.

In less than half an hour the boat started, and we restored things to
their former condition on board of the Sylvania and Islander. We lashed
boats again, and restored the bridge from one vessel to the other. All
hands were employed in cleaning up the Sylvania; and I asked Captain
Blastblow not to allow any of his passengers or crew to come on board
till this had been done. He complied with my request, and sent all his
crew on board to help.

We did not get under way until this was done, as Moses wanted to
overhaul the engine a little, for he declared that such a wrenching as
he had given the machine was enough to start half the nuts and bolts.
My father remained in the pilot-house talking with the planter. But the
subject of their conversation was the inundation. I lay upon the sofa,
resting myself, and rather dreading to meet the people on board the
Islander, for I had been praised enough, and this sort of thing was
becoming more embarrassing. As the hands were drowning the decks again,
Washburn brought the family of Colonel Hungerford into the pilot-house,
which was about the only place for them, unless they went into the
cabin.

The planter introduced his wife, son and daughter to my father and
myself. In the daughter I saw a very beautiful young lady; the son was
very affable and pleasant, and the father and mother were not less so.
All of them began to express their obligations to me, and I replied as
cheerfully as I could.

"We shall have a very pleasant party up to Baton Rouge, Colonel
Hungerford," I ventured to say, in order to turn the current of the
conversation.

"It's no use, Blanche," said the colonel to his daughter, who had been
the last to speak. "Captain Alick won't let you speak of any
obligation, and he won't even give me his address."

"I don't think he has any address in particular at present," interposed
my father, "unless it be on the high seas or the Great Lakes. I have
not yet made a home in America, as I intend to do. When we have one, we
shall be very glad to have you discharge whatever sense of obligation
you may feel by making us a visit; and we shall judge of the depth of
the obligation by the length of the visit."

"Upon my word, that would be an odd way to discharge an obligation; and
we should be obliged to stay with you all the year round," replied the
planter.

The young lady had snapping black eyes; and I saw that she wanted to
say something, but was restrained by the newness of the acquaintance.

"If we had got out on the river half an hour sooner, we might have
saved imposing ourselves upon your hospitality, for a large steamer
went up then," said Colonel Hungerford. "She stopped a little while at
the crevasse, I am told, but finding she could do no good, she went
on."

"I am glad she did, as otherwise she would have cheated us out of your
pleasant company," replied my father.

"You are very kind, Major Garningham," replied the colonel. "I confess
I am greatly interested in your steamer, for I never have seen one like
it before that I can remember."

Washburn reported that the engine was in order, and that the cleaning
process was finished. I directed the pilot to blow his whistle and go
ahead. In a few minutes we were again stemming the tide of the
Mississippi. The crowd on the levees and the steamers honored us with a
series of rousing cheers, to which the pilot replied with the steam
whistle.

As soon as we were fairly out of the vicinity of the late exciting
scene, the passengers of the Islander, including Mrs. Shepard, came on
board. They were all presented to the planter and his family, and of
course there was a great deal to say about the inundation, including
the details of the escape of the people on the knoll. I found that the
party were soon the best of friends, and I went into my room to lie
down. I was so tired that I dropped asleep.

I was awakened by Captain Blastblow coming into my room. He seemed to
be considerably excited; but I was sure he would not be where he was if
any accident had happened to either steamer.

"Sorry to disturb you, Captain Alick, but this has been a very exciting
time; and while we were all so busy, your two prisoners have taken to
themselves legs or wings, and cleared out," said he, with a lugubrious
gaze at me, as I sat upon the bed.

"Cleared out!" I exclaimed. "Where have they gone?"

"That's what bothers me. I kept my eye on them for a good while, but
they behaved so well that I soon forgot all about them as we became so
absorbed in the fate of the Sylvania," replied the captain, blankly. "I
know I ought to have kept an eye on them to the end, and I am to blame.
But it wasn't quite human to mind much about those rascals when we
expected every minute to see your steamer fall back and be swamped. I
had both boats ready to drop into the water."

"Gone, have they?" I repeated. "Haven't you any idea where they went?
Your steamer was not near the levee, and they would not have gone
ashore there, if it had been."

"I can only guess where they went. Not long before you got out of that
hole, a large passenger steamer came alongside, and held on at our
bowsprit-bitts awhile. She kept her wheels working all the time, while
I was telling the captain what had happened. I am inclined to think
that Cornwood and Boomsby stepped on board of her before she left. I
found just now that their baggage was gone; and they could easily have
got it out of the fore-cabin while I was talking to the captain. I am
sorry for it, and if it hadn't been for that break, and your running
into that hole, it would not have happened."

"How far ahead of us is that steamer?" I asked.

"She must be all of two hours ahead," replied Captain Blastblow.

"I am sorry we have lost them, but it can't be helped," I added, as I
led the way out into the pilot-house where the passengers were
assembled. I told my father of the escape of the robbers, and asked him
if the money was still safe, meaning the four thousand dollars.

"It must be, for it was in my trunk in the Sylvania all the time you
were inside of the levee," replied he. "But I will make sure of it." He
went down into the after cabin, and returned with the intelligence that
it was where he had put it. This was some relief; and we dropped the
matter because we could not do anything about the escape of the
rascals. I felt rather cheap about the matter, because I had not
delivered them to the police at New Orleans.

While I was asleep, my father and Mr. Tiffany had directed Cobbington
to remove their portmanteaus, as they called their trunks, from the
grand state-rooms. They reported to me, and I assigned one of them to
the planter and his wife, and the other to Miss Blanche. They were
delighted with the apartments. Owen insisted upon giving up his room to
Mr. Tiffany; and there were berths enough for my father and my cousin.
Our cabin was about full again.

I saw that my father was very much pleased with the planter and his
family; and I think one might have gone all over the country to find
people more agreeable.

Supper was ready by the time the passengers had taken possession of
their rooms and berths. I took the captain's place in the cabin for
this occasion, though I often did so while we were in the river and the
Sylvania was in charge of the pilot. Colonel Hungerford sat next to me
on one side, and I told him all about the robbery of the bank
messenger, and the escape of our prisoners.

He thought it very probable that they had taken the steamer bound up
the river.

"Donaldsonville is the next town of any importance; and there we can
telegraph to some place ahead of the steamer, and have the robbers
detained by the police. Does any one remember the name of the steamer?"
asked the colonel.

Miss Margie Tiffany remembered that it was the Queen of the South. Owen
was so reckless as to say he was glad the prisoners had got away, and
he hoped they would succeed in eluding the police. We were yachting on
the Mississippi, and we could not bother with arresting and holding
prisoners. We had the money they had stolen, and that was enough.

"We may find the Queen of the South at Donaldsonville when we get
there," continued Colonel Hungerford. "It is seventy-four miles from
St. Charles, which is the nearest post-office to my plantation. When
shall we get there?"

"Not until early in the morning," I replied. "We can't get along very
fast against this current."

"The Queen may be there, as she will arrive in the night, waiting for
freight or passengers," replied the planter. "If you will allow me, I
will take charge of the apprehension of those men, for I think I shall
understand it better than you, as I have had considerable experience in
such cases."

Colonel Hungerford looked slyly at his wife and daughter. I could not
understand the meaning of his expressive communication; but I was
entirely willing he should cause the arrest of the fugitives.




CHAPTER XXVIII.

A DISTINGUISHED PASSENGER.


The planter went on deck with me after supper, and we paid our first
visit to the Islander, where we were courteously received by the
Shepards. On our return we went on the hurricane deck to take a look at
the shores, as well as we could see them, for it was almost dark by
this time.

"Who is your father, Captain Garningham, or, if you will forgive me for
it, Captain Alick?" asked the Colonel.

"Major Garningham, formerly of the British army," I replied.

"Yes, yes, I know all that; but what is he?" persisted my new
passenger.

"I don't know that he is anything in particular just now," I answered,
perplexed by the earnestness of Colonel Hungerford. "He is certainly
neither a soldier nor a sailor, a tinker nor a tailor."

"Is he an American?"

"No, sir; he was born in England. His father was Sir Alexander
Garningham, and he is Sir Bent Garningham, Baronet, whose estates and
last residence were at Shalford, Essex."

"I see," said the passenger. "Then he is a baronet."

"He is; but he insists upon dropping his title in this country."

"In my intercourse with him I shall take pleasure in dropping it,"
added the planter. "But, Captain Alick,--excuse me if I am too
familiar."

"I am seldom called by any other name, and I have not the slightest
objection to the name," I interposed.

"As I was going to say, Captain Alick, I am not a little embarrassed by
the situation. You and your associates have rendered me an important
service, and it would afford me very great satisfaction to acknowledge
it. You are the captain of the steamer, and your father is a very
wealthy man."

"He is, sir," I replied; for I wished to leave no doubt in his mind on
this subject.

"Your mate was very efficient. What is he?"

"He is the son of a distinguished ex-governor of one of the States, and
the nephew of----"

"Precisely so; I know his uncle very well. I can do nothing for him.
And your two deckhands?" continued the planter.

"They are the sons of English gentlemen, over here on a vacation, and
their fathers have each an income of over ten thousand pounds a-year,"
I added, quietly.

"Your engineer, whose skill and pluck carried us through the crevasse,
is, I dare say, one of the sons of her Majesty, the Queen of England,"
added the passenger, laughing.

"On the contrary, he is a son of a Michigan farmer, now well to do in
the world," I replied.

"Of course, he is a millionaire!"

"O, no, sir, only in comfortable circumstances. He has known what
poverty is, but he has enough to live on now."

"By the way, Captain Alick, do you happen to have anybody on board who
is not 'well to do,' as you call it?" asked the planter.

"Ben Bowman, the assistant, who was in the boat that brought off your
family to the steamer, has been a lake sailor, cook and fireman all his
life; and I don't know that he has five hundred dollars in the world.
He sends most of his wages to his mother, and is one of the truest and
bravest men I ever saw."

I also told him the story of Cobbington and the two firemen. I judged
that he felt very grateful for the service the Sylvania had rendered to
him and "his people," and that he was thinking up some way to reward
her officers and crew for what they had done.

"The pilot is a Louisiana man, and says he was raised near St.
Charles," I added.

"His name is Billy Bell, and I know him very well," replied Colonel
Hungerford. "You have a very distinguished and wealthy ship's company,
Captain Alick. I wished to distribute a thousand dollars, more or less,
among them; but I see that such a proposition would be taken as an
insult by some of them."

"It would be taken as it was intended, not as an insult; but it would
be respectfully declined by the captain, the mate, the two deck-hands,
and perhaps by all the others; for I am sure that no one on board would
be willing to be paid for an act of common humanity," I replied.

"A strange ship and a strange crew," added Colonel Hungerford. "Perhaps
we shall find some way to get out of it."

I had just resolved not to assist him in his task, for it was a little
humiliating to have my crew paid for what they had done, when Miss
Blanche and Miss Margie came on the hurricane deck. They were already
fast friends. The English girl began to pour out a volley of questions
about the river and the steamers we saw, and I answered them as well as
I could; but Colonel Hungerford was better acquainted with the scene,
and he took the task upon himself of informing her, leaving Miss
Blanche to ply me with other interrogatories.

I told her all about the steamer, her going south, our adventures in
Florida, and our yachting on the Mississippi, which had thus far been a
series of adventures. Then she wanted to know who and what my father
was, and I told her all I had just related to her father.

"Then you will one day be Sir Alexander Garningham, and as a genuine
republican, I shall be under the necessity of hating you, Captain
Alick," said she, mirthfully.

"Then I promise never to allow myself to be called by that title," I
replied. "I have said as much to my father; and he does not like to be
called by anything but his military title, for he says he has earned
that fighting against the enemies of his queen. But I am a democrat,
and don't believe in any titles. Are you really a Republican, Miss
Hungerford?"

"I am a republican, but I am also a Democrat."

"I see! and I am a democrat and also a Republican."

"I don't think it will be safe for us to talk politics. You may do that
with father."

"I have told you my story, Miss Hungerford; and now it is no more than
fair that you should tell me yours," I added.

"I shall be very happy to give you my whole history from my birth to
the present day," replied the fair maiden, laughing. "I was born at St.
Charles, and lived there and in New Orleans until about a year ago,
since which time we have resided most of the time in Baton Rouge."

"Then your home is not at St. Charles?"

"Oh, yes! Our home is there, but we have one at the capital of the
state also," said the mischievous girl.

"I thought you were going to your uncle's in Baton Rouge to stay until
the mansion was repaired."

"I haven't any uncle in Baton Rouge, or anywhere else," chuckled Miss
Blanche.

"Your father certainly said he should stay at his brother's in Baton
Rouge," I added, puzzled by the statement.

"That was just as we girls used to say we were 'going to grandmother's'
when we went to the seminary."

"Who is your father, Miss Hungerford?" I asked, repeating the question
the planter had put to me.

"Colonel Hungerford," she answered, naïvely.

"Yes, I know; but what is he?"

"The Governor of Louisiana," replied Miss Blanche, with a merry laugh.

"The governor!" I exclaimed, appalled to think I had been talking so
familiarly to the chief magistrate of the state.

"But he won't let any one call him governor when he is not attending to
his official duties, if he can help it. He likes to be a plain citizen
when he is off duty," continued the young lady. "We went down to stay a
few days at the plantation."

Miss Margie's father called her, and thought it was too damp for her to
be out after dark. We all went below, and the colonel said he must
smoke his cigar. I conducted him to the pilot-house, where Owen and
Miss Edith were spending the evening. My father was there also; and I
took the occasion to introduce our distinguished guest to him again,
with his title in full.

"So you have found me out, Captain Alick," said his excellency, with a
pleasant laugh, which did much to restore the equilibrium between us.
"That puss of mine has been telling family secrets, and you must
promise not to tell anybody what you have discovered."

"No one not on board," I replied.

"Everybody else will know the secret, so that I shall gain nothing. But
we will not quarrel about trifles."

Everybody on board was tired enough to retire early, and before ten
o'clock we had the deck and pilot-house to ourselves. The watches
continued the same as before. Washburn gave up his berth in our room to
Billy Bell, as we learned to call him, for the captain and mate never
had their watch below at the same time, and we could both occupy the
same bed at different times. The river is a mile wide, and at the
present high stage of the water, there was no difficulty in steering,
under the instructions of the pilot.

We had a sort of panorama, or diagram of the river, which I had
obtained in New Orleans, arranged on the space between the windows of
the pilot-house, so that we could tell where we were at all times. Ben
Bowman had put the chart on rollers, and it could be wound up from one
end to the other. The only things that were likely to bother us were
the bayous and cut-offs; and the pilot was at hand at any moment he
might be needed.

We passed no place of importance during the night; and at five o'clock
in the morning we were at Donaldsonville. We made fast to the levee,
and as we were in no hurry, I did not call any of the passengers. I
told Gopher and Cobbington who the planter we had rescued was, that
they might have things in proper condition at the breakfast-table. I
inquired what boats had stopped at the place, and learned that the
Queen of the South had left two hours before. This showed that her
speed did not exceed that of our little fleet.
