her distorting imagination: “You see, mother, that the most advanced
thinkers among those ladies are not so very different, after all, from
you old-fashioned people. When they try to think of the greatest good
fortune that can befall an ideal woman, it is to have her married. The
only trouble is to find a man good enough; and if they can’t find one,
they’re apt to invent one. They have strong imaginations.”

“I should think they would make you sick, amongst them,” said his
mother. “Are you going to have anything more to eat?” she asked, with a
housekeeper’s latent impatience to get her table cleared away.

“Yes,” said Dr. Mulbridge; “I have n’t finished yet. And I’m in no hurry
this morning. Sit still, mother; I want you to hear something more about
my lady friends at Jocelyn’s. Dr. Breen’s mother and Miss Gleason don’t
feel alike about her. Her mother thinks she was weak in giving up Mrs.
Maynard’s case to me; but Miss Gleason told me about their discussion,
and she thinks it is the great heroic act of Dr. Breen’s life.”

“It showed some sense, at least,” Mrs. Mulbridge replied. She had
tacitly offered to release her son from telling her anything when she
had made her motion to rise; if he chose to go on now, it was his own
affair. She handed him the plate of biscuit, and he took one.

“It showed inspiration, Miss Gleason says. The tears came into her eyes;
I understood her to say it was godlike. ‘And only to think, doctor,’” he
continued, with a clumsy, but unmistakable suggestion of Miss Gleason’s
perfervid manner, “‘that such a girl should be dragged down by her own
mother to the level of petty, every-day cares and duties, and should
be blamed for the most beautiful act of self-sacrifice! Is n’t it too
bad?’”

“Rufus, Rufus!” cried his mother, “I can’t stun’ it! Stop!”

“Oh, Dr. Breen is n’t so bad--not half so divine as Miss Gleason thinks
her. And Mrs. Maynard does n’t consider her surrendering the case an act
of self-sacrifice at all.”

“I should hope not!” said Mrs. Mulbridge. “I guess she would n’t have
been alive to tell the tale, if it had n’t been for you.”

“Oh, you can’t be sure of that. You must n’t believe too much in
doctors, mother. Mrs. Maynard is pretty tough. And she’s had wonderfully
good nursing. You’ve only heard the Barlow side of the matter,” said
her sun, betraying now for the first time that he had been aware of any
knowledge of it on her part. That was their way: though they seldom told
each other anything, and went on as if they knew nothing of each other’s
affairs, yet when they recognized this knowledge it was without surprise
on either side. “I could tell you a different story. She’s a very
fine girl, mother; cool and careful under instruction, and perfectly
tractable and intelligent. She’s as different from those other women
you’ve seen as you are. You would like her!” He had suddenly grown
earnest, and crushing the crust of a biscuit in the strong left hand
which he rested on the table, he gazed keenly at her undemonstrative
face. “She’s no baby, either. She’s got a will and a temper of her own.
She’s the only one of them I ever saw that was worth her salt.”

“I thought you did n’t like self-willed women,” said his mother
impassively.

“She knows when to give up,” he answered, with unrelaxed scrutiny.

His mother did not lift her eyes, yet. “How long shall you have to visit
over there?”

“I’ve made my last professional visit.”

“Where are you going this morning?”

“To Jocelyn’s.”

Mrs. Mulbridge now looked up, and met her son’s eye. “What makes you
think she’ll have you?”

He did not shrink at her coming straight to the point the moment the way
was clear. He had intended it, and he liked it. But he frowned a little
as he said, “Because I want her to have me, for one thing.” His jaw
closed heavily, but his face lost a certain brutal look almost as
quickly as it had assumed it. “I guess,” he said, with a smile, “that
it’s the only reason I’ve got.”

“You no need to say that,” said his mother, resenting the implication
that any woman would not have him.

“Oh, I’m not pretty to look at, mother, and I’m not particularly young;
and for a while I thought there might be some one, else.”

“Who?”

“The young fellow that came with her, that day.”

“That whipper-snapper?”

Dr. Mulbridge assented by his silence. “But I guess I was mistaken. I
guess he’s tried and missed it. The field is ‘clear, for all I can see.
And she’s made a failure in one way, and then you know a woman is in
the humor to try it in another. She wants a good excuse for giving up.
That’s what I think.”

“Well,” said his mother, “I presume you know what you’re about, Rufus!”

She took up the coffee-pot on the lid of which she had been keeping her
hand, and went into the kitchen with it. She removed the dishes, and
left him sitting before the empty table-cloth. When she came for that,
he took hold of her hand, and looked up into her face, over which a
scarcely discernible tremor passed. “Well, mother?”

“It’s what I always knew I had got to come to, first or last. And I
suppose I ought to feel glad enough I did n’t have to come to it at
first.”

“No!” said her son. “I’m not a stripling any longer.” He laughed,
keeping his mother’s hand.

She freed it and taking up the table-cloth folded it lengthwise and then
across, and laid it neatly away in the cupboard. “I sha’n’t interfere
with you, nor any woman that you bring here to be your wife. I’ve had my
day, and I’m not one of the old fools that think they’re going to have
and to hold forever. You’ve always been a good boy to me, and I guess
you hain’t ever had to complain’ of your mother stan’in’ in your way. I
sha’n’t now. But I did think--”

She stopped and shut her lips firmly. “Speak up, mother!” he cried.

“I guess I better not,” she answered, setting her chair back against the
wall.

“I know what you mean. You mean about my laughing at women that try
to take men’s places in the world. Well, I did laugh at them. They’re
ridiculous. I don’t want to marry this girl because she’s a doctor.
That was the principal drawback, in my mind. But it does n’t make any
difference, and wouldn’t now, if she was a dozen doctors.”

His mother let down the leaves of the table, and pushed it against the
wall, and he rose from the chair in which he was left sitting in the
middle of the room. “I presume,” she said, with her back toward him, as
she straightened the table accurately against the mopboard, “that you
can let me have the little house at Grant’s Corner.”

“Why, mother!” he cried. “You don’t suppose I should ever let you be
turned out of house and home? You can stay here as long as you live. But
it has n’t come to that, yet. I don’t know that she cares anything about
me. But there are chances, and there are signs. The chances are that
she won’t have the courage to take up her plan of life again, and that
she’ll consider any other that’s pressed home upon her. And I take it
for a good sign that she’s sent that fellow adrift. If her mind had n’t
been set on some one else, she’d have taken him, in this broken-up state
of hers. Besides, she has formed the habit of doing what I say, and
there’s a great deal in mere continuity of habit. It will be easier for
her to say yes than to say no; it would be very hard for her to say no.”

While he eagerly pressed these arguments his mother listened stonily,
without apparent interest or sympathy. But at the end she asked, “How
are you going to support a wife? Your practice here won’t do it. Has she
got anything?”

“She has property, I believe,” replied her son. “She seems to have been
brought up in that way.”

“She won’t want to come and live here, then. She’ll have notions of her
own. If she’s like the rest of them, she’ll never have you.”

“If she were like the rest of them, I’d never have her. But she is n’t.
As far as I’m concerned, it’s nothing against her that she’s studied
medicine. She did n’t do it from vanity, or ambition, or any abnormal
love of it. She did it, so far so I can find out, because she wished
to do good that way. She’s been a little notional, she’s had her head
addled by women’s talk, and she’s in a queer freak; but it’s only a
girl’s freak after all: you can’t say anything worse of her. She’s
a splendid woman, and her property’s neither here nor there. I could
support her.”

“I presume,” replied his mother, “that she’s been used to ways that
ain’t like our ways. I’ve always stuck up for you, Rufus, stiff enough,
I guess; but I ain’t agoin’ to deny that you’re country born and bred. I
can see that, and she can see it, too. It makes a great difference with
girls. I don’t know as she’d call you what they call a gentleman.”

Dr. Mulbridge flushed angrily. Every American, of whatever standing or
breeding, thinks of himself as a gentleman, and nothing can gall him
more than the insinuation that he is less. “What do you mean, mother?”

“You hain’t ever been in such ladies’ society as hers in the same way.
I know that they all think the world of you, and flatter you up, and
they’re as biddable as you please when you’re doctorin’ ‘em; but I guess
it would be different if you was to set up for one of their own kind
amongst ‘em.”

“There is n’t one of them,” he retorted, “that I don’t believe I could
have for the turn of my hand, especially if it was doubled into a fist.
They like force.”

“Oh, you’ve only seen the sick married ones. I guess you’ll find a well
girl is another thing.”

“They’re all alike. And I think I should be something of a relief if I
was n’t like what she’s been used to hearing called a gentleman;
she’d prefer me on that account. But if you come to blood, I guess
the Mulbridges and Gardiner, can hold up their heads with the best,
anywhere.”

“Yes, like the Camfers and Rafllins.” These were people of ancestral
consequence and local history, who had gone up to Boston from Corbitant,
and had succeeded severally as green-grocers and retail dry-goods men,
with the naturally attendant social distinction.

“Pshaw!” cried her son. “If she cares for me at all, she won’t care for
the cut of my clothes, or my table manners.”

“Yes, that’s so. ‘T ain’t on my account that I want you should make sure
she doos care.”

He looked hard at her immovable face, with its fallen eyes, and then
went out of the room. He never quarrelled with his mother, because
his anger, like her own, was dumb, and silenced him as it mounted. Her
misgivings had stung him deeply, and at the bottom of his indolence and
indifference was a fiery pride, not easily kindled, but unquenchable.
He flung the harness upon his old unkempt horse, and tackled him to the
mud-encrusted buggy, for whose shabbiness he had never cared before.
He was tempted to go back into the house, and change his uncouth Canada
homespun coat for the broadcloth frock which he wore when he went to
Boston; but he scornfully resisted it, and drove off in his accustomed
figure.

His mother’s last words repeated themselves to him, and in that
dialogue, in which he continued to dramatize their different feelings,
he kept replying, “Well, the way to find out whether she cares is to ask
her.”




X.

During her convalescence Mrs. Maynard had the time and inclination to
give Grace some good advice. She said that she had thought a great deal
about it throughout her sickness, and she had come to the conclusion
that Grace was throwing away her life.

“You’re not fit to be a doctor, Grace,” she said. “You’re too nervous,
and you’re too conscientious. It is n’t merely your want of experience.
No matter how much experience you had, if you saw a case going wrong in
your hands, you’d want to call in some one else to set it right. Do you
suppose Dr. Mulbridge would have given me up to another doctor because
he was afraid he couldn’t cure me? No, indeed! He’d have let me die
first, and I should n’t have blamed him. Of course I know what pressure
I brought to bear upon you, but you had no business to mind me. You
oughtn’t to have minded my talk any more than the buzzing of a mosquito,
and no real doctor would. If he wants to be a success, he must be
hard-hearted; as hard-hearted as”--she paused for a comparison, and
failing any other added--“as all possessed.” To the like large-minded
and impartial effect, she, ran on at great length. “No, Grace,” she
concluded, “what you want to do is to get married. You would be a good
wife, and you would be a good mother. The only trouble is that I don’t
know any man worthy of you, or half worthy. No, I don’t!”

Now that her recovery was assured, Mrs. Maynard was very forgiving and
sweet and kind with every one. The ladies who came in to talk with her
said that she was a changed creature; she gave them all the best advice,
and she had absolutely no shame whatever for the inconsistency involved
by her reconciliation with her husband. She rather flaunted the
happiness of her reunion in the face of the public, and she vouchsafed
an explanation to no one. There had never been anything definite in her
charges against him, even to Grace, and her tacit withdrawal of them
succeeded perfectly well. The ladies, after some cynical tittering,
forgot them, and rejoiced in the spectacle of conjugal harmony afforded
them: women are generous creatures, and there is hardly any offence
which they are not willing another woman should forgive her husband,
when once they have said that they do not see how she could ever forgive
him.

Mrs. Maynard’s silence seemed insufficient to none but Mrs. Breen and
her own husband. The former vigorously denounced its want of logic to
Grace as all but criminal, though she had no objection to Mr. Maynard.
He, in fact, treated her with a filial respect which went far to efface
her preconceptions; and he did what he could to retrieve himself from
the disgrace of a separation in Grace’s eyes. Perhaps he thought that
the late situation was known to her alone, when he casually suggested,
one day, that Mrs. Maynard was peculiar.

“Yes,” said Grace mercifully; “but she has been out of health so long.
That makes a great difference. She’s going to be better now.”

“Oh, it’s going to come out all right in the end,” he said, with his
unbuoyant hopefulness, “and I reckon I’ve got to help it along. Why, I
suppose every man’s a trial at times, doctor?”

“I dare say. I know that every woman is,” said the girl.

“Is that so? Well, may be you’re partly right. But you don’t suppose but
what a man generally begins it, do you? There was Adam, you know. He did
n’t pull the apple; but he fell off into that sleep, and woke up
with one of his ribs dislocated, and that’s what really commenced the
trouble. If it had n’t been for Adam, there would n’t have been any
woman, you know; and you could n’t blame her for what happened after she
got going?” There was no gleam of insinuation in his melancholy eye, and
Grace listened without quite knowing what to make of it all. “And then
I suppose he was n’t punctual at meals, and stood round talking politics
at night, when he ought to have been at home with his family?”

“Who?” asked Grace.

“Adam,” replied Mr. Maynard lifelessly. “Well, they got along pretty
well outside,” he continued. “Some of the children didn’t turn out just
what you might have expected; but raising children is mighty uncertain
business. Yes, they got along.” He ended his parable with a sort of
weary sigh, as if oppressed by experience. Grace looked at his slovenly
figure, his smoky complexion, and the shaggy outline made by his
untrimmed hair and beard, and she wondered how Louise could marry him;
but she liked him, and she was willing to accept for all reason the
cause of unhappiness at which he further hinted. “You see, doctor, an
incompatibility is a pretty hard thing to manage. You can’t forgive it
like a real grievance. You have to try other things, and find out that
there are worse things, and then you come back to it and stand it. We’re
talking Wyoming and cattle range, now, and Mrs. Maynard is all for the
new deal; it’s going to make us healthy, wealthy, and wise. Well, I
suppose the air will be good for her, out there. You doctors are sending
lots of your patients our way, now.” The gravity with which he always
assumed that Grace was a physician in full and regular practice would
have had its edge of satire, coming from another; but from him, if it
was ironical, it was also caressing, and she did not resent it. “I’ve
had some talk with your colleague, here, Dr. Mulbridge, and he seems to
think it will be the best thing for her. I suppose you agree with him?”

“Oh, yes,” said Grace, “his opinion would be of great value. It wouldn’t
be at all essential that I should agree with him:’

“Well, I don’t know about that,” said Maynard. “I reckon he thinks a
good deal of your agreeing with him. I’ve been talking with him about
settling out our way. We’ve got a magnificent country, and there’s bound
to be plenty of sickness there, sooner or later. Why, doctor, it would
be a good opening for you! It ‘s just the place for you. You ‘re off
here in a corner, in New England, and you have n’t got any sort of
scope; but at Cheyenne you’d have the whole field to yourself; there is
n’t another lady doctor in Cheyenne. Now, you come out with us. Bring
your mother with you, and grow up with the country. Your mother
would like it. There’s enough moral obliquity in Cheyenne to keep her
conscience in a state of healthful activity all the time. Yes, you’d get
along out there.”

Grace laughed, and shook her head. It was part of the joke which life
seemed to be with Mr. Maynard that the inhabitants of New England were
all eager to escape from their native section, and that they ought to be
pitied and abetted in this desire. As soon as his wife’s convalescence
released him from constant attendance upon her, he began an inspection
of the region from the compassionate point of view; the small, frugal
husbandry appealed to his commiseration, and he professed to have found
the use of canvas caps upon the haycocks intolerably pathetic. “Why,
I’m told,” he said, “that they have to blanket the apple-trees while the
fruit is setting; and they kill off our Colorado bugs by turning them
loose, one at a time, on the potato-patches: the bug starves to death
in forty-eight hours. But you’ve got plenty of schoolhouses, doctor; it
does beat all, about the schoolhouses. And it’s an awful pity that there
are no children to go to school in them. Why, of course the people go
West as fast as they can, but they ought to be helped; the Government
ought to do something. They’re good people; make first-rate citizens
when you get them waked up, out there. But they ought all to be got
away, and let somebody run New England’ as a summer resort. It’s pretty,
and it’s cool and pleasant, and the fishing is excellent; milk, eggs,
and all kinds of berries and historical associations on the premises;
and it could be made very attractive three months of the year; but my
goodness! you oughtn’t to ask anybody to live here. You come out with
us, doctor, and see that country, and you’ll know what I mean.”

His boasts were always uttered with a wan, lack-lustre irony, as if
he were burlesquing the conventional Western brag and enjoying the
mystifications of his listener, whose feeble sense of humor often failed
to seize his intention, and to whom any depreciation of New England was
naturally unintelligible. She had not come to her final liking for him
without a season of serious misgiving, but after that she rested
in peace upon what every one knowing him felt to be his essential
neighborliness. Her wonder had then come to be how he could marry
Louise, when they sat together on the seaward piazza, and he poured out
his easy talk, unwearied and unwearying, while, with one long, lank leg
crossed upon the other, he swung his unblacked, thin-soled boot to and
fro.

“Well, he was this kind of a fellow: When we were in Switzerland, he was
always climbing some mountain or other. They could n’t have hired me to
climb one of their mountains if they’d given me all their scenery, and
thrown their goitres in. I used to tell him that the side of a house was
good enough for me. But nothing but the tallest mountains would do him;
and one day when he was up there on the comb of the roof somewhere, tied
with a rope round his waist to the guide and a Frenchman, the guide’s
foot slipped, and he commenced going down. The Frenchman was just going
to cut the rope and let the guide play it alone; but he knocked the
knife out of his hand with his long-handled axe, and when the jerk came
he was on the other side of the comb, where he could brace himself, and
brought them both up standing. Well, he’s got muscles like bunches of
steel wire. Did n’t he ever tell you about it?”

“No,” said Grace sadly.

“Well, somebody ought to expose Libby. I don’t suppose I should ever
have known about it myself, if I hadn’t happened to see the guide’s
friends and relations crying over him next day as if he was the guide’s
funeral. Hello! There’s the doctor.” He unlimbered his lank legs, and
rose with an effect of opening his person like a pocket-knife. “As I
understand it, this is an unprofessional visit, and the doctor is
here among us as a guest. I don’t know exactly what to do under the
circumstances, whether we ought to talk about Mrs. Maynard’s health or
the opera; but I reckon if we show our good intentions it will come out
all right in the end.”

He went forward to meet the doctor, who came up to shake hands with
Grace, and then followed him in-doors to see Mrs. Maynard. Grace
remained in her place, and she was still sitting there when Dr.
Mulbridge returned without him. He came directly to her, and said, “I
want to speak with you, Miss Breen. Can I see you alone?”

“Is--is Mrs. Maynard worse?” she asked, rising in a little trepidation.

“No; it has nothing to do with her. She’s practically well now; I
can remand the case to you. I wish to see you--about yourself.” She
hesitated at this peculiar summons, but some pressure was upon her to
obey Dr. Mulbridge, as there was upon most people where he wished to
obey him. “I want to talk with you,” he added, “about what you are going
to do,--about your future. Will you come?”

“Oh, yes,” she answered; and she suffered him to lead the way down from
the piazza, and out upon one of the sandy avenues toward the woods, in
which it presently lost itself. “But there will be very little to talk
about,” she continued, as they moved away, “if you confine yourself to
my future. I have none.”

“I don’t see how you’ve got rid of it,” he rejoined. “You’ve got a
future as much as you have a past, and there’s this advantage,--that you
can do something with your future.”

“Do you think so?” she asked, with a little bitterness. “That has n’t
been my experience.”

“It’s been mine,” he said, “and you can make it yours. Come, I want
to talk with you about your future, because I have been thinking very
seriously about my own. I want to ask your advice and to give you mine.
I’ll commence by asking yours. What do you think of me as a physician? I
know you are able to judge.”

She was flattered, in spite of herself. There were long arrears of cool
indifference to her own claims in that direction, which she might very
well have resented; but she did not. There was that flattery in his
question which the junior in any vocation feels in the appeal of his
senior; and there was the flattery which any woman feels in a man’s
recourse to her judgment. Still, she contrived to parry it with a little
thrust. “I don’t suppose the opinion of a mere homoeopathist can be of
any value to a regular practitioner.”

He laughed. “You have been a regular practitioner yourself for the last
three weeks. What do you think of my management of the case?”

“I have never abandoned my principles,” she began.

“Oh, I know all about that? What do you think of me as a doctor?” he
persisted.

“Of course I admire you. Why do you ask me that?”

“Because I wished to know. And because I wished to ask you something
else. You have been brought up in a city, and I have always lived here
in the country, except the two years I was out with the army. Do you
think I should succeed if I pulled up here, and settled in Boston?”

“I have not lived in Boston,” she answered. “My opinion wouldn’t be
worth much on that point.”

“Yes, it would. You know city people, and what they are. I have seen a
good deal of them in my practice at the hotels about here, and some of
the ladies--when they happened to feel more comfortable--have advised
me to come to Boston.” His derision seemed to throw contempt on all
her sex; but he turned to her, and asked again earnestly, “What do you
think? Some of the profession know me there. When I left the school,
some of the faculty urged me to try my chance in the city.”

She waited a moment before she answered. “You know that I must respect
your skill, and I believe that you could succeed anywhere. I judge
your fitness by my own deficiency. The first time I saw you with Mrs.
Maynard, I saw that you had everything that I hadn’t. I saw that I was
a failure, and why, and that it would be foolish for me to keep up the
struggle.”

“Do you mean that you have given it up?” he demanded, with a triumph in
which there was no sympathy.

“It has given me up. I never liked it,--I told you that before,--and I
never took it up from any ambitious motive. It seemed a shame for me to
be of no use in the world; and I hoped that I might do something in a
way that seemed natural for women. And I don’t give up because I’m
unfit as a woman. I might be a man, and still be impulsive and timid and
nervous, and everything that I thought I was not.”

“Yes, you might be all that, and be a man; but you’d be an exceptional
man, and I don’t think you’re an exceptional woman. If you’ve failed, it
is n’t your temperament that’s to blame.”

“I think it is. The wrong is somewhere in me individually. I know it
is.”

Dr. Mulbridge, walking beside her, with his hands clasped behind him,
threw up his head and laughed. “Well, have it your own way, Miss Breen.
Only I don’t agree with you. Why should you wish to spare your sex at
your own expense? But that’s the way with some ladies, I’ve noticed.
They approve of what women attempt because women attempt it, and they
believe the attempt reflects honor on them. It’s tremendous to think
what men could accomplish for their sex, if they only hung together as
women do. But they can’t. They haven’t the generosity.”

“I think you don’t understand me,” said Grace, with a severity that
amused him. “I wished to regard myself, in taking up this profession,
entirely as I believed a man would have regarded himself.”

“And were you able to do it?”

“No,” she unintentionally replied to this unexpected question.

“Haw, haw, haw!” laughed Dr. Mulbridge at her helpless candor. “And are
you sure that you give it up as a man would?”

“I don’t know how you mean,” she said, vexed and bewildered.

“Do you do it fairly and squarely because you believe that you’re a
failure, or because you partly feel that you have n’t been fairly dealt
with?”

“I believe that if Mrs. Maynard had had the same confidence in me that
she would have had in any man I should not have failed. But every
woman physician has a double disadvantage that I hadn’t the strength to
overcome,--her own inexperience and the distrust of other women.”

“Well, whose fault is that?”

“Not the men’s. It is the men alone who give women any chance. They are
kind and generous and liberal-minded. I have no blame for them, and I
have no patience with women who want to treat them as the enemies of
women’s advancement. Women can’t move a step forwards without their
sufferance and help. Dr. Mulbridge,” she cried, “I wish to apologize
for the hasty and silly words I used to you the day I came to ask you to
consult with me. I ought to have been grateful to you for consenting at
first, and when you took back your consent I ought to have considered
your position. You were entirely right. We had no common ground to meet
on, and I behaved like a petulant, foolish, vulgar girl!”

“No, no,” he protested, laughing in recollection of the scene. “You were
all right, and I was in a fix; and if your own fears had n’t come to the
rescue, I don’t know how I should have got out of it. It would have been
disgraceful, wouldn’t it, to refuse a lady’s request. You don’t know how
near I was to giving way. I can tell you, now that it’s all over. I had
never seen a lady of our profession before,” he added hastily, “and
my curiosity was up. I always had my doubts about the thoroughness
of women’s study, and I should have liked to see where your training
failed. I must say I found it very good,--I’ve told you that. You
wouldn’t fail individually: you would fail because you are a woman.”

“I don’t believe that,” said Grace.

“Well, then, because your patients are women. It’s all one. What will
you do?”

“I shall not do anything. I shall give it all up.”

“But what shall you do then?”

“I--don’t know.”

“What are you going to be? A fashionable woman? Or are you going to
Europe, and settle down there with the other American failures? I’ve
heard about them,--in Rome and Florence and Paris. Are you going to
throw away the study you’ve put into this profession? You took it up
because you wanted to do good. Don’t you want to do good any more? Has
the human race turned out unworthy?”

She cowered at this arraignment, in which she could not separate the
mocking from the justice. “What do you advise me to do? Do you think I
could ever succeed?”

“You could never succeed alone.”

“Yes, I know that; I felt that from the first. But I have planned to
unite with a woman physician older than myself.”

“And double your deficiency. Sit down here,” he said; “I wish to
talk business.” They had entered the border of the woods encompassing
Jocelyn’s, and he painted to a stump, beside which lay the fallen tree.
She obeyed mechanically, and he remained standing near her, with one
foot lifted to the log; he leaned forward over her, and seemed to seize
a physical advantage in the posture. “From your own point of view, you
would have no right to give up your undertaking if there was a chance of
success in it. You would have no more right to give up than a woman who
had gone out as a missionary.”

“I don’t pretend to compare myself with such a woman; but I should have
no more right to give up,” she answered, helpless against the logic of
her fate, which he had somehow divined.

“Well, then, listen to me. I can give you this chance. Are you satisfied
that with my advice you could have succeeded in Mrs. Maynard’s case?”

“Yes, I think so. But what”--

“I think so, too. Don’t rise!”

His will overcame the impulse that had betrayed itself, and she sank
