own mistake."

"Voil√†!" said Roland, suddenly calmed. He paused a second, and after
eying the polish of his finger-nails, affected to flick a speck of dust
from his sleeve. "Your cousin is mad," he added.

"He is sane as--" and Justine hesitated for a simile.

"His mother, you mean. Were you never aware that insanity is hereditary?
If his sister--presupposing that the accusation which he formulates
against me was originally advanced by her--if his sister--whom, by the
way, I never saw but once--if his sister accused me of complicity, then
she suffered from the hereditary taint as well. If I was guilty of what
your cousin charges, why was I not arrested, tried, and sentenced? But
are you such a dolt you cannot see that Guy is mad--mad not only by
nature, but crazed by jealousy as well. You say you know he loves you.
You have even the candor to admit that you love him! Now ask yourself
what would any impartial hearer deduce from statements such as yours?"

"My father was an impartial hearer, and he--"

"But how is it possible to be so blind? Can you not see that your cousin
has prejudiced him against me? I said, impartial hearer. But let the
matter drop. I tell you the charge is false; believe it or not, as you
prefer. There is, however, just this in the matter: if the charge is
made again, I will have your cousin under arrest. You forget that there
is such a thing as libel still."

Again he paused, and strove to collect himself; there was a design in
the carpet which appeared to interest him very much, but presently he
looked up again.

"Now tell me," he said, "what did your father say?"

"Nothing, save what he said before."

"Nothing?"

"Nothing that you would care to hear." Her eyes roamed from the
neighbourly ceiling over to him and back again. "He said," she added,
"that if I persisted in living with you his money would go to my child,
if I had one; if I had none, then to Guy."

"Were you alone with him when he said this, or was Guy, as you call him,
there?"

"No, I was alone with him; Guy came later."

"And is he aware of this provision?"

For all response Justine shrugged her shoulders.

"Does he know it, I ask you?"

"He does not," she answered. "Father told me that he never would, until
the will was read."

"H'm." And for a moment Mistrial mused. Then presently he smiled--yet
was it a smile?--a look that an hallucinated monk in a medieval abbey
might have seen on that imaginary demon who, flitting by him, the
forefinger outstretched, whispered as he vanished through the wall,
"Thou art damned, dear friend! thou art damned!" "H'm," he repeated;
"and in view of the provisions of your father's will, will you tell me
why is it that you are without a child?"

As he spoke he had arisen, and, smiling still, though now as were he
questioning her in regard to the state of the weather, he looked into
her eyes. She had drawn yet further back into the chair in which she
sat; a deadly sickness overcame her; to her head there mounted the
nausea of each one of his many misdeeds. The memory of the blow of the
week before, one which, despite her seeming forbearance, had not ceased
to rankle, returned to her; and with it, one after another in swift
succession, she rememorated the offences of the past. But soon she too
was on her feet and fronted him. "Why is it I am without a child?" she
repeated. Her voice was low and clear, and between each word she
permitted a little pause to intervene. "Why is it?"

The subtlety of his reproach battening on nerves already overwrought was
exciting her as nothing had done before. "It is you," she cried, "who
are to blame. What have you done with your youth? What have you done
with your manhood? Look at me, Roland Mistrial! If I have borne you no
child it is because monsters never engender." As she spoke, with one
gesture she tore her bodice down. Her breast, palpitant with health and
anger too, heaving at the sheer injustice of his reproach, confronted
and confuted him. "It is there that women have their strength; tell me,
if you can, what have you done with yours?"

And thereat, with a look a princess might give to a lackey who had dared
to question her, she turned and left him where he stood.

The next day he tried to make his peace with her. In this he succeeded,
or flattered himself he had, for subsequently she consented to accompany
him to the play. And as she sat in the stalls it was of these things
that she thought.




II.


The information which Mistrial gleaned concerning the provisions of his
father-in-law's will was bitter in his mouth. On the morrow he gave some
time to thought--he read too a little. The taunt which Justine had flung
at him, bit; and with the idea of dulling the hurt and of ministering
also to his own refreshment, he consulted a book which treated of
certain conditions of the nervous system, and a work on medical
jurisprudence as well. But literature of that kind is notoriously
unsatisfactory. It may suggest, yet the questions which it prompts
remain unanswered. Roland put the volumes down: they were productions of
genius, no doubt, but to him they were nothing more. From the pursuit of
exact knowledge he turned and looked out into the street.

The hour then was midway in one of those green afternoons which we are
apt to fancy the adjunct of lands we never see, and as he looked he saw
astride a bay hunter a man ambling cautiously over the stones. From the
roofs opposite a breath of lilacs came, and a breeze that was neither
cool nor warm loitered on its way from the river beyond. Mistrial let
the breeze, the fragrance, the fulfilment of spring, pass unnoticed. The
bay hunter had caught his eye: it seemed to him that an argument with an
imperative horse was just the thing he needed most, and a little later
he secured a cob from a stable on the street above.

The cob was docile enough, affecting once only to regard a sewer-grating
in the bridle-path as a strange, unhallowed thing which it was needful
to avoid. But the initial shy was the last. The spur gave him such a nip
that during the remainder of the ride, whatever distasteful object he
may have encountered, he gave no outward evidence of abhorrence. He had
an easy canter, a long and swinging trot; and now on one, now on the
other, they passed through and out of the Park, and on beyond the
brand-new edifices that line Seventh Avenue, to that scantier outlying
district where the Harlem begins and the city ends. And here as he was
about to turn he noticed a gig such as physicians affect. In it was a
negro driving, and at his side sat Justine's cousin, Guy.

"H'm!" mused Mistrial; "judging by the locality, his patients must be
the last people in the city." At the moment the feebleness of the jest
pleasured him; then simultaneously the unforgotten hatred crackled in
his breast. At each one of the important epochs of his life that man had
stood in his way. It was he that had forced him from college at the
moment when honors were within his reach. It was he that had kept him
from his father's side at the time when he might have saved his father's
estate. It was he that had come between Dunellen and himself at the
hour when he could have persuaded Justine's father to give him Justine's
hand. It was he that had forced him to elope with her. It was because of
him that he was now enjoying the small miseries of the shabby genteel.
It was he, unless Providence now intervened, who would inherit the
wealth he had toiled to make his own. And it was he who the day before
had again crossed and halted in his path.

These premises, however colored, were logical enough in this--the
natural deduction sprang out and greeted the eye. And, as they flashed
before him, Mistrial saw himself rinsing out each one in blood squeezed
from Thorold's throat. In the fury which suddenly beset him he could
have found the strength, the courage it may be, to have torn him from
the gig in which he sat, to have trampled on him with horse's hoofs,
bent over and beat him as he writhed on the ground, and exulted and
jubilated in the doing of it. Then indeed, though he swung for it, the
ultimate victory would be his. If he stamped Thorold out of existence,
though his own went with it, he would not have suffered wholly in vain;
in facing the gallows he would have the joy of knowing that even were he
prevented from bathing in the Dunellen millions, so was Thorold too.

But when he looked out from himself his enemy had disappeared. A woman
in an open landau passed and bowed. Mechanically Mistrial raised his
hat. To every intent and purpose he was self-possessed--occupied, if at
all, but with those threads of fancy that float in and out the mind. As
he raised his hat, he smiled; the woman might have thought herself the
one it gave him the greatest pleasure to salute. Her carriage had not
advanced the jump of a cat before he had forgotten that she lived. But
no one can turn his brain into a stage, create for it, and feel a drama
such as he had without some outward manifestation, be it merely a
strangled oath. On the horse he rode his knees had tightened, he gave a
dig with the spur, and went careering down the street. In that part of
New York you are at liberty to cover a mile in two minutes. Roland
covered thirty squares at breakneck speed.

Presently he drew the animal in and suffered him to walk. During the run
he had had no time to think; he had been occupied only in keeping the
horse he rode out of the way of vehicles, and in preventing that
possible cropper which comes when we expect it least. But as the cob
began to walk, the present returned to him with a rush. About the
animal's neck the fretting of the reins had produced a lather; the
breeze had died away. Mistrial felt overheated too, and he drew out a
handkerchief and wiped his face. Even while he drew it from his pocket
an idea came to him, fluttered for a second as ideas will, and before he
got the handkerchief back it had gone, leaving him just a trifled
dazed. But in a moment he called to it, and at his bidding it returned.
It was minute, barely fledged as yet; but as the horse jogged on, little
by little it expanded, and to such an extent that before he reached the
park its pinions stretched from earth to sky. Whoso is visited with
inspirations knows with what diabolical swiftness they can enlarge and
grow. When Mistrial put the horse back in the stable the idea which at
first he had but dimly intercepted possessed him utterly. It succeeded
even in detaining his step: he walked up the street instead of down; at
a crossing he hesitated; night had come, and as he loitered there,
suddenly the whole avenue was bright as day. The vengeance which not an
hour before he could have wreaked on Thorold seemed now remote and
paltry too. There need be no shedding of blood, no scandal, no newspaper
notoriety, no police, no coroner to sit upon a corpse, no jury to bring
a verdict in. There need be nothing of this: a revenge of that order
was in bad taste, ill-judged as well. To make a man really suffer,
sudden death was as a balm in comparison to some subtle torment that
should gnaw at the springs of life, retreat a moment, and then returning
make them ache again, and still again, forever his whole life through.
The French woman is not so ill-advised when she pitches a cup of vitriol
in her betrayer's face. In Spain, in Italy even, they stab; the deed is
done; the culprit has had no chance to experience anger, pain even, or
remorse. He is dead. The curtain falls. But a revenge that blasts and
corrodes, one that leaves the victim living, sound in body and in limb,
and yet consumed by an inextinguishable regret, burning with tortures
from which he can never escape--a thing like that is the work, not of an
apprentice, but of a master in crime. Yet when the victim receives that
cup of vitriol, not from another's hands, but from his own; when he has
been lured into devastating his own self;--it is no longer a question of
either apprentice or of master: it is the artist that has been at work.
To gain the Dunellen millions was to Mistrial a matter of paramount
importance; but to gain them through the instrumentality of the man whom
he hated as no one ever hates to-day, particularly when that man was the
one to whom those millions were provisionally bequeathed, when he was
one whom Mistrial--justly or unjustly, it matters not--fancied and
believed was plotting for them; to gain them, not only through him, but
through his unwitting, unintentional agency, through an act which, so
soon as he learned its purport, all his life through he would regret and
curse;--no, that were indeed a revenge and a reparation too. And as he
thought of it there entered his eyes a look perplexing and
enervating--that look which demons share with sphinxes and the damned.




III.


During the two years which Mistrial had passed in the society of his
wife, opportunities of studying her there had been in plenty. He knew
her to be docile and headstrong; weak, if at all, but with that weakness
that comes of lassitude; violent when provoked, prone to forgive,
sensitive, impulsive, yet obdurate; in brief, the type of woman that may
be entreated, but never coerced. He knew her faults so well he could
have enumerated them one after the other on his finger-tips: her
qualities, however, had impressed him less; it may be that he had
accepted them as a matter of course. He was aware that she was honest;
he had noticed that she was capable of much self-sacrifice; of other
characteristics he had given little heed. It goes without the telling,
that in regard to what is known as jealousy he had not suffered even an
evanescent disquietude. And that night and during the morning that
followed, as he occupied himself in nursing the idea which had visited
him on horseback, that particular fact occurred to him more than once.
But one does not need to be a conspirator to understand that the
steadiest virtue is as susceptible of vice as iron is of rust.

Justine had announced that her cousin was still in love with her; she
had announced with equal distinctness that she recognized her own
mistake; while for himself he was convinced that she no longer cared. To
these things he added certain deductions which his experience of men and
women permitted him to draw; and had the result they presented been made
to order, it could not have fitted more perfectly into the scheme which
he had devised.

It was then high noon. Through the window came the irresistible breath
of a rose in bloom. As he left the house it surrounded him in the
street. He smiled a greeting at it. "I have spring in my favor," he
mused, and presently boarded a car.

The principles of successful enterprise may be summarized as consisting
of a minute regard for details, and an apparent absence of zeal.
Mistrial's many mistakes had taught him the one and trained him in the
other. When the car he had taken reached the Gilsey House, he alighted,
hailed a four-wheeler, stationed it in such a manner that it commanded a
view of the adjacent street, coached the driver in regard to a signal he
might give, entered the cab, lit a cigarette, and prepared to wait.

In that neighborhood there are four or five basement houses of the style
that is affectioned by milliners, dentists, and physicians. One of these
particularly claimed Mistrial's attention. He saw a woman in gray enter
it, and almost simultaneously a woman come out; then a man leading a
child went in; and in a little while the first woman reappeared.
Mistrial glanced at his watch; it lacked a minute of one. "He has a
larger practice than I thought," he reflected. The woman in gray had now
nearly reached the cab in which he sat, and from sheer force of habit he
was preparing to scrutinize her as she passed, when the door of the
house reopened and Thorold appeared on the step. He looked up the
street, then down. He had his hat on, and his every-day air. In a second
Mistrial had drawn the curtain and was peering through the opening at
the side. He saw Thorold leave the step and turn toward Fifth Avenue; he
signalled to the driver, and the cab moved on.

At the corner Thorold turned again, the cab at his heels, and Mistrial
saw that the physician was moving in the direction of Madison Square. It
occurred to him that Thorold might be going to Mr. Dunellen's, and on
the block below, as the latter crossed the asphalt, he made sure of it.
But opposite the Brunswick the cab stopped; Thorold was entering the
restaurant.

Cold chicken looks attractive in print. A minute or two later, as
Mistrial examined the bill of fare, he ordered some for himself; he
ordered also a Demidorf salad,--a compound of artichokes' hearts and
truffles, familiarly known as Half-Mourning,--and until the waiter
returned hid himself behind a paper. Thorold meanwhile, who was seated
at an adjoining table, must have ordered something which required longer
preparation, for Mistrial finished the salad before the physician was
served. But Mistrial was in no hurry; he had a pint of claret brought
him, and sipped it leisurely. Now and then he glanced over at Thorold,
and twice he caught his eye. At last Thorold called for his bill.
Mistrial paid his own, and presently followed him out into the street.
When both reached the sidewalk, Mistrial, who was a trifle in the rear,
touched him on the arm.

"Thorold," he said; and the physician turned, but there was nothing
engaging in his attitude: he held his head to one side, about his lips
was a compression, a contraction in his eyes; one arm was pendent, the
other pressed to his waistcoat, and the shoulder of that arm was
slightly raised. He looked querulous and annoyed--a trifle startled,
too.

"Thorold," Mistrial repeated, "give me a moment, will you?"

The physician raised the arm that he had pressed against his waistcoat,
and, with four fingers straightened and the fifth askew, stroked an
imaginary whisker.

"It is about Justine," Mistrial continued. "She is out of sorts; I want
you to see her."

"Ah!" And Thorold looked down and away.

"Yes, I had intended to speak to Dr. McMasters; but when by the merest
chance I saw you in there I told myself that, whatever our differences
might be, there was no one who would understand the case more readily
than you."

As Mistrial spoke he imitated the discretion of his enemy; he looked
down and away. The next moment, however, both were gazing into each
other's face.

"H'm." Thorold, as he stared, seemed to muse. "I saw her the other day,"
he said, at last; "she looked well enough then."

"But can't a person look well and yet be out of sorts?"

Mistrial was becoming angry, and he showed it. It was evident, however,
that his irritation was caused less by the man to whom he spoke than by
the physician whom he was seeking to consult. This Thorold seemed to
grasp, for he answered perplexedly:

"After what has happened I don't see very well how I can go to your
house."

"Look here, Thorold: the past is over and done with--ill done, you will
say, and I admit it. Be that as it may, it has gone. At the same time
there is no reason why any shadow of it should fall on Justine. She is
really in need of some one's advice. Can you not give it to her?"

"Certainly," Thorold answered, "I can do that;" and he looked very
sturdy as he said it. "Only--"

"Only what? If you can't go as a friend, at least you might go as a
physician."

Thorold's hand had slid from his cheek to his chin, and he nibbled
reflectively at a finger-nail.

"Very good," he said; "I will go to her. Is she to be at home this
afternoon?"

"The evening would be better, I think. Unless, of course--" and Mistrial
made a gesture as though to imply that, if Thorold's evening were
engaged, a visit in the afternoon might be attempted.

But the suggestion presumably was acceptable. Thorold drew out a
note-book, at which he glanced.

"And I say," Mistrial continued, "I wish--you see, it is a delicate
matter; Justine is very sensitive--I wish you wouldn't say you met me.
Just act as though--"

"Give yourself no uneasiness, sir." Thorold had replaced the note-book
and looked up again in Mistrial's face. "I never mention your name." And
thereat, with a toss of the head, he dodged an omnibus and crossed the
street.

For a moment Mistrial gazed after him, then he turned, and presently he
was ordering a glass of brandy at the Brunswick bar.

It was late that night when he reached his home. During the days that
followed he had no fixed hours at all. Several times he entered the
apartment with the smallest amount of noise that was possible, and
listened at the sitting-room door. At last he must have heard something
that pleased him, for as he sought his own room he smiled. "Maintenant,
mon cher, je te tiens."

The next day he surprised Justine by informing her that he intended to
pay a visit to a relative. He was gone a week.




IV.


That night the stars, dim and distant, were scattered like specks of
frost on some wide, blue window-pane. At intervals a shiver of wheels
crunching the resistant snow stirred the lethargy of the street, and at
times a rumble accentuated by the chill of winter mounted gradually, and
passed on in diminishing vibrations. Within, a single light, burning
scantily, diffused through the room the drowsiness of a spell. In the
bed was Justine, her eyes dilated, her face attenuated and pinched. One
hand that lay on the coverlid was clinched so tightly that the nails
must have entered the flesh. Presently she moaned, and a trim little
woman issued from a corner with the noiseless wariness of a rat. As she
passed before the night-light, the silhouette of a giantess, fabulously
obese, jumped out and vanished from the wall. For a moment she
scrutinized her charge, burrowing into her, as it were, with shrewd yet
kindly eyes. Again a moan escaped the sufferer, the wail of one whose
agony is lancinating--one that ascended in crescendos and terminated in
a cry of such utter helplessness, and therewith of such insistent pain,
that the nurse caught the hand that lay on the coverlid, and unlocking
the fingers stroked and held it in her own. "There, dear heart--there, I
know."

Ah, yes, she knew very well. She had not passed ten years of her
existence tending women in travail for the fun of it. And as she took
Justine's hand and stroked it, she knew that in a little while the
agony, acuter still, would lower her charge into that vestibule of death
where Life appears. Whether or not Justine was to cross that silent
threshold, whether happily she would find it barred, whether it would
greet and keep her and hold her there, whether indeed it would let the
child go free, an hour would tell, or two at most.

But there were preparations to be made. The nurse left the bed and moved
out into the hall. In a room near by, Mistrial, occupied with some
advertisements in the Post, sat companioned by a physician who was
reading a book which he had written himself. At the footfall of the
nurse the latter left the room. Presently he returned. "Everything is
going nicely," he announced, and placidly resumed his seat.

It was the fourth time in two hours that he had made that same remark.
Mistrial said nothing. He was gazing through the paper he held at the
wall opposite, and out of it into the future beyond.

Since that day, the previous spring, on which he had set out to visit a
relative, many things had happened, yet but few that were of importance
to him. On his return from the trip, during one fleeting second, for the
first time since he had known Justine, it seemed to him that she avoided
his eyes. To this, in other circumstances, he would have given no
thought whatever; as matters were, it made him feel that his excursion
should not be regarded as time ill-spent. Whether it had been wholly
serviceable to his project, he could not at the time decide. He waited,
however, very patiently, but he seldom waited within the apartment
walls. At that period he developed a curious facility for renewing
relations with former friends. Once he took a run to Chicago with an
Englishman he had known in Japan; and once, with the brother of a lady
who had married into the Baxter branch of the house of Mistrial, he went
on a fishing trip to Canada. These people he did not bring to call on
his wife. He seemed to act as though solitude were grateful to her. Save
Mrs. Metuchen, Thorold at that time was her only visitor, and the visits
of that gentleman Mistrial encouraged in every way that he could devise.
Through meetings that, parenthetically, were more frequent on the stair
or in the hallway than anywhere else, the two men, through sheer force
of circumstances, dropped into an exchange of salutations--remarks about
the weather, reciprocal inquiries on the subject of each other's health,
which, wholly formal on Thorold's part, were from Mistrial always civil
and aptly put. After all, was he not the host? and was it not for him to
show particular courtesy to anyone whom his wife received?

To her, meanwhile, his attitude was little short of perfection itself.
He was considerate, foresighted, and unobtrusive--a course of conduct
which frightened her a little. Two or three months after he had struck
her in the face she made--√† propos of nothing at all--an announcement
which brought a trace of color to her cheeks.

The following afternoon he happened to be entering the house as Dr.
Thorold was leaving it. Instead of greeting him in the nice and amiable
fashion which he had adopted, and which Thorold had ended by accepting
as a matter of course, he halted and looked at the physician through
half-closed eyes. Thorold nodded, cavalierly enough it is true, and was
about to pass on; but this Mistrial prevented. He planted himself
squarely in his way, and stuck his hands in his pockets.

"Mrs. Mistrial has no further need of you," he said. "Send your bill to
me."

He spoke from the tips of his lips, with the air and manner of one
dismissing a lackey. At the moment nothing pertinent could have occurred
to Thorold. He stared at Mistrial, dumbly perplexed, and plucked at his
cuff. Mistrial nodded as who should say, "Put that in your pipe;" and
before Thorold recovered his self-possession he had passed up the stairs
and on and out of sight.

It was then that season in which July has come and is going. The city
was hot; torrid at noonday, sultry and enervating at night. Fifth Avenue
and the adjacent precincts were empty. Each one of the brown-stone
houses had a Leah-like air of desertion. The neighborhood of Madison
and of Union Squares was peopled by men with large eyes and small feet,
by women so deftly painted that, like Correggio, they could have
exclaimed, "Anch' io son pittore." In brief, the Southern invasion had
begun, and New York had ceased to be habitable.

But Newport has charms of its own; and to that lovely city by the water
Mistrial induced his wife; and there, until summer had departed, and
autumn too, they rested and waited. During those months he was careful
of her: so pleasantly so, so studious of what she did and of what she
ate, that for the first time since the honeymoon she might have, had she
tried, felt at ease with him again. But there were things that prevented
this--faith destroyed and the regret of it. Oh, indeed she had regrets
in plenty; some even for her father; and, unknown to Mistrial, once or
twice she wrote him such letters as a daughter may write. She had never
been in sympathy with him; as a child he had coerced her needlessly;
when she was older he had preached; later, divining that lack of
sympathy, he had striven through kindlier ways to counteract it. But he
had failed; and Justine, aiding in the endeavor, had failed as well.
When father and child do not stand hand-in-hand a fibre is wanting that
should be there.

In December Mistrial and his wife returned to town. A date was
approaching, and there was the layette to be prepared. Hour after hour
Justine's fingers sped. The apartment became a magazine of
swaddling-clothes. One costume in particular, a worsted sack that was
not much larger than a coachman's glove, duplicated and repeated itself
in varying and tender hues. Occasionally Mistrial would pick one up and
examine it furtively. To his vagabond fancy it suggested a bag in which
gold would be.

But now the hour was reached. And as Mistrial sat staring into the
future, the goal to which he had striven kept looming nearer and ever
nearer yet. Only the day before he had learned that Dunellen was
failing. And what a luxury it would be to him when the old man died and
the will was read! Such a luxury did it appear, that unconsciously he
manifested his contentment by that sound the glutton makes at the
mention of delicious food.

His companion--the physician--turned and nodded. "I know what you are
thinking about," he announced; and with the rapt expression of a seer,
half to Mistrial, half to the ceiling, "It is always the case," he
continued; "I never knew a father yet that did not wonder what the child
would be; and the mothers, oh! the mothers! Some of them know all about
it beforehand: they want a girl, and a girl it will be; or they want a
boy, and a boy they are to have. I remember one dear, good soul who was
so positive she was to have a boy that she had all the linen marked with
the name she had chosen for him. H'm. It turned out to be twins--both
girls. And I remember--"

But Mistrial had ceased to listen. He was off again discounting the
inheritance in advance--discounting, too, the diabolism of his revenge.
The latter, indeed, was unique, and withal so grateful, that now the
consummation was at hand it fluttered his pulse like wine. He had
ravened when first he learned the tenour of the will, and his soul had
been bitter; but no sooner had this thing occurred to him than it
resolved itself into a delight. To his disordered fancy its provisions
held both vitriol and opopanax--the one for Thorold, the other for
himself.

The doctor meanwhile was running on as doctors do. "Yes," Mistrial heard
him say, "she was most unhappy; no woman likes a rival, and when that
rival is her own maid, matters are not improved. For my part, the moment
I saw how delicate she was, I thought, though I didn't dare to say so, I
thought her husband had acted with great forethought. The maid was
strong as an ox, and in putting her in the same condition as his wife he
had simply and solely supplied her with a wet-nurse. But then, at this
time particularly, women are so unreasonable. Not your good lady--a
sweeter disposition--"

Whatever encomium he intended to make remained unfinished. From the room
beyond a cry filtered; he turned hastily and disappeared. The cry
subsided; but presently, as though in the interval the sufferer had
found new strength or new torture, it rose more stridently than before.
And as the rumor of it augmented and increased, a phrase of the
physician's returned to Mistrial. "Everything is going very nicely," he
told himself, and began to pace the floor.

A fraction of an hour passed, a second, and a third. The cry now had
changed singularly; it had lost its penetrating volume, it had sunk into
the rasping moan of one dreaming in a fever. Suddenly that ceased, the
silence was complete, and Mistrial, a trifle puzzled, moved out into the
hall. There he caught again the murmur of her voice. This time she was
talking very rapidly, in a continuous flow of words. From where he stood
Mistrial could not hear what she was saying, and he groped on tip-toe
down the hall. As he reached the door of the room in which she was, the
sweet and heavy odor of chloroform came out and met him there; but still
the flow of words continued uninterruptedly, one after the other, with
the incoherence of a nightmare monologuing in a corpse. Then, without
transition, in the very middle of a word, a cry of the supremest agony
rang out, drowning another, which was but a vague complaint.

"It's a boy," the nurse exclaimed.

And Justine through a rift of consciousness caught and detained the
speech. "So much the better," she moaned; "he will never give birth."




V.


"We brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry
nothing out. The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away: blessed be the
name of the Lord."

