her for you?"

"I have been under the berth in this stateroom, a hiding-place which was
suggested to me by one of your people who used it as such, and was
caught, as I was not."

"No one thought you would hide in the captain's cabin."

"That is the very reason why I chose this place. I have had the pleasure
of listening to all your conversations with Mr. Galvinne, and I knew
your plans from beginning to end."

"You have been under this berth since the steamer left the flag-ship!"
exclaimed Corny, apparently amazed at the fact.

"I have; but I have no more time to enlighten you. I can only say that
with the assistance of the only loyal officer left on board, and the
loyal seamen, I have recaptured the vessel, and now we are on our way to
St. Andrew's to obey the orders which the flag-officer delivered to you
when you were a rebel in disguise. Now Dave will help you out of the
berth."

"No, he won't! If I was to be captured at all, Corny, you insulted me
when you set a nigger to do the job," said the prisoner angrily.

"You are playing a farce now, cousin; but I cannot stay to fool with
you. Take him out of the berth, Dave."

"Will you set a nigger upon me again, Christy?" using the commander's
proper name for the first time.

"If you will get out of the berth yourself, I will allow you to do so,"
added Christy.

"I will," replied the prisoner.

He made the attempt to do so, but he would have fallen to the floor,
with his hands fastened behind him, if Christy and Dave had not received
him in their arms. The steward hugged him like a brother, perhaps
maliciously, and carried him to a divan in the cabin. Corny had
apparently abandoned his cause, and his cousin gave him a berth in
the ward room for the rest of the night.




CHAPTER XVI

THE DISPOSAL OF THE PRISONERS


Before Christy could begin his report he was called to the deck by the
first lieutenant, though everything had appeared to be quiet and orderly
there. Ralph Pennant had been at work among the crew, and was unable to
discover that any of the men were disloyal; but the commander had
better information obtained by his own investigations. Ralph was in
consultation with Mr. Flint when Christy went on deck.

"I think the men are all right, and, so far as I can ascertain, not a
man is a rebel," said Ralph in answer to a question of the executive
officer.

"You have the names of the four men that I sent to you by the steward,
have you not?" asked Christy.

"I have, captain; Rockton and Warton took part with Mr. Galvinne, but
Sayles and Nichols did nothing, and they seem to be as in earnest on the
right side as the other two were on the wrong side," replied Ralph.

"I should not be willing to trust them. I know they were the intimate
associates of Rockton and Warton, for they were in council together on
board of the Vernon. In carrying out our orders, we may have a fight
either with a battery or with some vessel, and we must not have any
black sheep in the crew,--one who might speak a word or make a sign that
would ruin all our calculations," added Christy.

"Of course I can't say that Sayles and Nichols are not rebels; but they
have done nothing that is suspicious, and one of our men has pumped them
both," answered Ralph.

"Have them closely watched, or they may play us some trick when we least
suspect it, and in some critical moment," said the commander.

"But I wished to see you in regard to the prisoners," interposed Mr.
Flint. "We have four of them here made fast to the rail, and Galvinne
complains of his treatment; he says he is cold."

"I should think he might be, for the night air is very chilly," replied
Christy. "I should have preferred to get rid of these men before we went
into any enterprise, for they are dangerous persons to us."

"With their arms locked together behind them, they are not in condition
to do any harm," added Mr. Flint.

"I will go below and see what can be done with them. I desire to make
them as comfortable as possible, though I do not believe they will be
satisfied with any location to which I may assign them."

"I think you need not be too particular about them; they have made their
own nest, and now they must live in it," said the first lieutenant.

"You may come with me, Ralph," added Christy, as he descended the
companion-way.

The commander found Dave keeping close watch over Corny Passford, though
he was fast asleep in his berth. Passing through the ward room and
steerage, Dave unlocked the door that led into the quarters of the crew.
Next to the bulkhead, or partition, was space enough for the prisoners,
and the steward was required to bring five berth sacks, which were
placed on the deck.

"The only objection I have to this as prison quarters is that Sayles and
Nichols will be too near them; but I shall keep a sentry over them all
the time," said Christy.

"I should think they would be safe with a guard," added Ralph.

"Now, Dave, you will wake your prisoner, and I will relieve you of all
responsibility in regard to him. He is dressed, is he not?" continued
the commander when they reached the ward room.

"He is, Captain Passford, for he did not undress when he turned in last
night," replied the steward.

"What is the matter now?" asked the prisoner in the ward room, after he
had rubbed his eyes for a time.

"Nothing is the matter now on our side of the house, but I must put you
with the other prisoners," replied Christy. "You may unbuckle the strap,
Dave, so that he can get out of the berth."

"Who are the other prisoners?" demanded Corny, as though he had a right
to know.

"They are your confederates in the plot, Corny. Who do you suppose they
are? Jeff Davis is not one of them. The most important one, not even
excepting yourself, cousin, is Mr. Galvinne, late first lieutenant of
the Bronx."

"Is he a prisoner?" asked Corny, as he got out of the berth.

"Of course he is. Do you think I should let him lie around loose on
deck? The next one is the man-servant at Bonnydale by your appointment,
formerly Walsh, but now Byron. He is a very good actor, but he has
played out his r√¥le."

"He was by profession an actor in Mobile," added Corny.

"I should think he might have been. By the way, Corny, where is my
commission that you and he stole from my pocket at Bonnydale?"

"That is my commission," replied Corny, putting his hand involuntarily
on his left breast, where he had carried his papers on board of the
Vernon.

"You stole it, cousin, and you must give it back to me," added Christy,
very decidedly.

"I shall not," replied Corny, with quite as much firmness.

"Take it from him," said the commander.

The hands of the impostor were now free, and he placed himself in a
defensive attitude; but Ralph Pennant, who was rather above the average
stature, threw his arms around him, and he was pinned as tightly as
though he had been put into a strait jacket. Corny was probably stiff in
his arms from their confinement, and he was unable to make a very
spirited defence. While the seaman held him, Christy took the envelope
from his breast pocket, and transferred it to his own. But there was
considerable noise made in the brief scuffle, which waked some of the
sleepers. From one of the staterooms an officer rushed out, and demanded
the cause of the disturbance. The person proved to be the surgeon.

"We are putting things to rights on board," replied Christy, who had not
seen the doctor before, for he had retired early to his room.

"I don't quite understand this matter," said the surgeon. "What are you
doing, Mr. Passford?"

"Captain Passford, if you please, Dr. Connelly, for I have the honor to
be in command of the Bronx at the present moment. This is Mr. Passford,"
added Christy, pointing to his cousin.

"Then you have reversed the decision of Captain Battleton?"

"For sufficient reasons, I have; with the assistance of the loyal
members of the ship's company, I have taken possession of the
vessel, and we are now on our way to carry out the orders of the
flag-officer.--Conduct the prisoner to his future quarters," said
Christy, in a very business-like manner.

During this conversation, Ralph, still holding his prisoner, had sent
the steward on deck for a pair of handcuffs, which the seaman proceeded
to apply to the wrists of Corny.

"What are you about?" demanded the prisoner, attempting to shake off his
captor when he felt the cold iron.

"Just giving you a pair of bracelets," replied Ralph, as he grappled
again with his victim, and asked Christy to adjust the handcuffs. "Just
for ornament, you know."

In the grasp of such a powerful man as Ralph Pennant, Corny was
powerless, and he was compelled to submit, though his opposition
appeared to be merely a matter of form with him, for he could not help
realizing that it was utterly useless; but he had not been in the affray
on deck, and he had not learned the full lesson from experience. The
irons were locked upon his wrists, and the seaman was directed to
conduct him to the place assigned to all the prisoners.

"This is mean of you, Christy, to put me in irons," said Corny
reproachfully as he turned to his cousin; "I might have asked Captain
Battleton to put you in irons on board of the Vernon; but I did not."

"If he had done so, I should not have complained. I have been a prisoner
of war, and I had to take my chances. We may be in action for aught I
know in a few hours, and I do not mean to have half a dozen rebels at my
heels to trip me up if I can help it. The circumstances are entirely
different from those on board of the Vernon."

"I don't think so," muttered Corny. "You treat your own flesh and blood
as though blood was nothing but water with you."

"I stand by the Union, and those on the other side must keep out from
under. When I was in a Confederate prison, my uncle Homer, your father,
did not do a single thing for me. Lead on, Ralph."

Dr. Connelly was so much astonished at the proceedings that he did not
turn in, but completed his toilet, and came out into the ward room
again. He looked troubled, for he had heard nothing of the struggle on
the quarter-deck, and the situation was a revelation to him. He looked
and talked as though he thought that Christy and his associates who had
captured the vessel were simply mutineers. The captain sent the steward
for Boxie, and, giving him a pair of pistols and a cutlass, informed
him that he was to stand guard over the five prisoners until he was
relieved. The old man, who had been one of the seamen on board of
the Bellevite when she was a yacht, took his place forward of the
berth-sacks, and began his march athwartship.

"You know me, don't you, Boxie?" said Corny as he recognized the old
salt, who was the sheet-anchorsman of the crew, and who was generally
their spokesman.

"You will hold no conversation with the prisoner, Boxie; but you may
let them talk among themselves, and note what they say if it is of any
importance. You will be relieved with the first watch."

Ralph Pennant and three seamen conducted the other prisoners to their
quarters. They were supplied with blankets, in which those from the deck
wrapped themselves up. Corny and Galvin began to compare notes at once;
but Boxie kept his ears open as he marched up and down within two feet
of his charge.

"I hope you have not committed any rash act, Mr. Passford," said Dr.
Connelly as the party passed through the ward room.

"I do not stand on mere forms, Dr. Connelly; but if you continue to call
me simply 'mister,' I shall understand from it that you do not recognize
me as the rightful commander of the Bronx," replied Christy, as he
invited the surgeon with a gesture to enter the captain's cabin.

"I beg your pardon, Captain Passford; I used the title of 'mister' from
habit, and not as meaning anything," replied the surgeon. "I was forced
by the evidence, and quite as much by the lack of evidence, to concur
with Captain Battleton in his decision."

"I find no fault with you on that account, doctor," added Christy.

"You made no protest to the flag-officer, but suddenly disappeared.
When I went to my stateroom in the evening, your cousin was in command,
and had sailed to execute the orders given him. You can judge of my
astonishment when I learned just now that the captain and his officers
were prisoners," the surgeon explained.

"I do not propose to submit to another investigation by you, or any one
but the flag-officer; but for your information I am willing to give you
the facts," said Christy with dignity, of which he had a full supply
whenever it was needed. "As long as the officers in charge of the
Bronx continued to obey the orders of the commodore to proceed to
the eastward, I did nothing; but when they headed the steamer to the
westward, which they did as soon as it was dark, I understood very well
that they were disobeying their orders, and intended to run the Bronx
into Pensacola Bay, and deliver her to the Confederate authorities. Then
I carried out my plan and captured the vessel."

The surgeon was satisfied with this evidence.




CHAPTER XVII

THE SECOND AND THIRD LIEUTENANTS


The surgeon went on deck with Christy, where he was presented in due
form to Mr. Flint, though he had been introduced to him before in his
former position as second lieutenant. The commander went forward to the
bridge and pilot-house, and consulting the log slate, found that the
last entry gave seventy-eight knots from the station. But it was foggy,
as Mr. Galvinne had predicted that it would be, and the quartermaster
conning the wheel said it was as "dark as a stack of black cats."
Nothing could be seen in any direction, and the commander decided that
it was not prudent to proceed any farther.

The leadsman was ordered to sound, as the screw was stopped, and he
reported sixteen fathoms with the deep-sea lead. Christy ordered the
quartermaster to go ahead again, and keep the hand-line going all the
time. Mr. Flint came forward, and took his place on the bridge, where
the officer of the deck was usually stationed on board of the Bronx.

The reports of the leadsman were satisfactory, and the steamer went
ahead for an hour. Then they began to give a diminution of the depth of
water, indicating, as Christy stated it, that the vessel was approaching
the land. He looked over the log slate, and found that the course had
been due east till the order had been given to head her in the opposite
direction. She had sailed rather more than an hour on that tack, during
which the recapture of the steamer had been made.

"Mark under water twelve!" shouted the man with the hand lead.

"We are coming up with the shore," said Mr. Flint, as Christy joined him
on the bridge.

"Yes; but you will get four or five fathoms almost up to the beaches.
When I was here, the Bellevite was anchored outside, and we went gunning
and fishing in St. Andrew's Bay. The bay is about thirty miles long; but
it is as crooked as a ram's horn, and there is no town on it, though
there are some scattered houses," added Christy. "We shot fat ducks, and
caught plenty of red snappers and pompana there."

"And a half ten!" shouted the leadsman, as though he meant to have his
figures understood, as they indicated the shoaling of the depth.

But Christy gave no order to reduce the speed of the vessel, and seemed
to feel so thoroughly at home that Mr. Flint began to be a little
nervous. The young commander had carefully studied the chart of the
coast with the practical knowledge he had of the locality.

"Can you form any idea where we are, Captain Passford?" asked the
lieutenant.

"I figured up the course a while ago, and I think we are off St.
Andrew's Bay. If they had not put her about and run for an hour or more
to the westward, I should be satisfied in regard to my position; as it
is, I am not quite clear in regard to it," replied the commander.

"Quarter less ten!" shouted the leadsman, with even more vigor than
before.

"That will do; stop her and anchor, Mr. Flint," said Christy, as he
looked about him in an endeavor to penetrate the fog in which the vessel
was buried.

Then he listened for any sounds that might come to him from the
direction of the shore; but all was as still as the tomb itself. The
screw stopped in obedience to the order of the executive officer, who
went down to the deck to supervise the anchoring of the steamer, as he
had no inferior officer to attend to this duty.

"Mr. Flint, drop a drift lead, and station a hand to observe it," said
Christy, hailing the first lieutenant.

"A drift lead, sir," replied Mr. Flint.

This was a lead weighing twenty pounds, which is dropped on the bottom
by men-of-war to determine if the anchor holds, or if the vessel is
drifting.

"Station a strong lookout, Mr. Flint, and send a man aloft on the
foremast and another on the mainmast," continued Christy when the other
orders had been obeyed.

This completed the preparation for the night. The captain consulted his
repeater, and ascertained that it was twenty minutes past twelve. The
Bronx was in position to learn the fact if any vessel attempted to run
out of St. Andrew's Bay, provided his calculations in regard to the
locality of the Bronx were correct. Christy went down to the deck, and
walked aft with Mr. Flint.

"I think some of us need a little sleep to-night," said the commander.

"Then you had better turn in, Captain Passford," said the executive
officer. "We can do nothing more to-night except to keep a sharp
lookout."

"You are the only officer on board except myself," replied Christy. "We
are still in the dark as to what we have to do here. We may have to send
off a boat expedition, as we did at Cedar Keys, and we are in absolute
need of more officers."

"We have plenty of material out of which to make them, and we can do
as we did after the fight with the Scotian and the Arran, when we made
them," replied Mr. Flint. "We have men of good education in the crew,
who have either commanded coasters, or been mates on steamers."

"If you will name one, I will name another," added Christy.

"Quartermaster Camden. He commanded a three-masted schooner in the coal
trade. He is not college educated, but he is a remarkably well-informed
man who shipped in the navy to learn the details of duty on board of a
man-of-war."

"I appoint him acting second lieutenant," added Christy.

"I am sure he will get a commission as soon as he applies for it,
captain," added the first lieutenant, pleased with the prompt decision.
"Now, who is your man?"

"Ralph Pennant. I had my eye on him while I was aboard of the Vernon,
where he became a sort of oracle among the seamen on account of his
abundant information on general subjects. He talks like a man with a
good education, and he has been mate of a steamer of good size. But I
know very little concerning him, and am afraid he has one out."

"What is that, captain?"

"I am afraid he is fond of whiskey, though I do not know that he is."

"He can't get any whiskey here unless it is served out to him; so that
habit, if it is his habit, will do him no harm," argued Mr. Flint.

"I appoint him third lieutenant temporarily."

"That will amount to their being made ensigns when you go north again if
they prove to be worthy of promotion," added the executive officer, with
a chuckle. "That was what happened to Baskirk and Amden."

"If they are worthy, I shall certainly do the best I can for them,"
added Christy, gaping.

Camden was called aft and formally appointed second lieutenant, but
Ralph was in the watch below, and was in his hammock. The commander
retired to his stateroom, and, letting his report wait till another day,
he was soon sound asleep.

In accordance with the directions he had left with the first lieutenant,
Christy was called with the watch at four o'clock in the morning. Though
the first lieutenant is not a watch officer, he may be required to do
duty as such when the number of commissioned officers is reduced below
three, and Mr. Flint had remained in charge of the mid-watch, which had
been called to the deck at midnight. The captain relieved him and
Camden, and both of them went below, the new appointee taking the
stateroom of the second lieutenant.

"Pass the word for Ralph Pennant," said Christy, as soon as he reached
the quarter-deck.

"I have had considerable talk with Camden, and I am satisfied that he
will make a capital officer," said the executive officer, as he moved
towards the companion-way. "I suppose you have sent for Pennant with the
intention of appointing him third lieutenant."

"That is my purpose; and here he comes."

"On deck, sir," reported Ralph, touching his cap to the commander,
as Mr. Flint descended the steps to the ward room.

"I think you told me that you had had some experience on board of
steamers, Pennant," replied Christy.

"I told you that I had been the mate of a steamer," answered the seaman.

"What is your age?"

"Twenty-eight years."

"Then you are older than you appear to be," continued Christy; and he
proceeded to question the seaman in regard to his education and
experience as a seaman.

He had not been mistaken in his estimate of the man, so far as he could
judge from his answers. Pennant had taken a steamer home to New York
from Havana after the captain had died there of yellow fever. He had
expected to be given the command of the vessel; and when he failed to
obtain the position he resigned his place as mate, but secured the same
position in another and larger steamer.

"Do you ever drink whiskey, Pennant?" asked Christy abruptly.

"At present, no, sir," replied the seaman decidedly. "I learned a few
months ago that I failed to obtain the command of the steamer I brought
home from Havana because it was said I took too much whiskey. I knocked
off then, and have not drank a drop since."

"That was a sensible thing to do. You are aware that we are short of
officers, I suppose," said the commander.

"Yes, sir; and since I came on deck, I heard that Phil Camden had been
appointed acting second lieutenant," replied Pennant.

"That is true; and now I am going to appoint you acting third
lieutenant. You will call the watch aft."

"I am very much obliged to you, Captain Passford, for this favor; and I
know you would not give me the place if you did not think me worthy of
it," replied the seaman as he went forward and called the watch to the
mainmast.

"My men, I have just appointed Ralph Pennant acting third lieutenant;
and you will obey and respect him as such," said Christy, addressing the
watch, and then dismissing them.

The men gave three hearty cheers as they were dismissed, proving to
the commander that Pennant was a popular man among them, as Camden had
also been proved to be when his appointment had been announced to the
starboard watch. As in politics, legislation, war, and business, the
masses of the people soon ascertain who are their natural leaders, the
crew of the Bronx, or that portion who had come from New York in the
Vernon, had been prompt in discovering the abilities of the two men now
promoted.

"Now, Mr. Pennant, you may remove your bag to the ward room, and the
third stateroom on the starboard side, counting from the forward one,
is yours for the present," continued Christy.

"But I have no uniform, Captain Passford," suggested the appointee.

"I have one in my stateroom; but it is altogether too small for you,"
replied the commander, glancing in the gloom of the night at the
stalwart form of the third lieutenant, lacking not more than an inch of
six feet, and his weight could not have been less than one hundred and
eighty. "We will see what can be done in the morning."

"The crew all know me, and I dare say I can get along without a uniform
till we get back to the station, where I could get one from the
store-ship; but it is not likely that I shall need one then."

"I cannot say as to that. When you go forward take a look at the
prisoners, and report to me," added Christy, as Mr. Pennant went below.

In a few minutes he reported that the prisoners were all fast asleep.
Boxie had been relieved as guard, and another seaman was marching back
and forth by their couches. It was still dark and foggy, and a hail came
from the mast-head forward.




CHAPTER XVIII

A BATTLE ON A SMALL SCALE


"On deck!" shouted the lookout at the foremast head. "Light on the
starboard bow!"

"Silence, all!" cried the commander, as soon as he heard the hail from
aloft. "Go forward, Mr. Pennant, silence the hands, and direct the
lookout to hail in lower tones."

The third lieutenant sprang forward to obey the order, and Christy
followed him at a more moderate pace, consistent with his dignity as
the officer highest in rank on board. It was not so much a question
of dignity, however, with him as it was the intention to preserve his
self-possession. A light had been reported on the starboard bow; but
Christy had no more means of knowing what it meant than any other person
on deck. It suggested a blockade runner, a battery, or a house near the
shore where he did not expect to find one.

The captain went on the bridge; but he could not see the light. He
descended to the deck, and then mounted the fore-rigging. The lookout
saw him, and said he could not see the light any longer; it had been in
sight a couple of minutes, and then had disappeared. It was useless to
look for it if gone, and Christy returned to the bridge, where Mr.
Pennant was attentively studying the compass.

"In what direction is the head of the steamer pointed, Mr. Pennant?"
he asked as he joined the lieutenant.

"Exactly north-east, sir," replied Mr. Pennant.

"Then the report of the light on the starboard bow places it directly to
the eastward of us," added Christy. "That is about where the entrance to
St. Andrew's Bay ought to be, if my calculations were correct. We have
been running to the eastward since we left the blockaders' station off
Pensacola Bay. My ruler on the chart gave me that course, and Mr.
Galvinne followed it while he was in charge. We could not have got more
than half a mile off the course in coming about twice. The shoaling of
the water also indicates that we are all right."

The body of the fog evidently lay near the water, and the lookout had
probably seen the light over the top of the bank, as it could not be
made out on the bridge. Christy expressed his belief that the sun would
burn the fog off soon after it rose. No variation of the drift lead had
been reported, and the Bronx was not even swinging at her anchor. For an
hour longer entire silence was preserved on the deck, and the lookout
made no further report.

"There is some sort of commotion among the men on the top-gallant
forecastle," said Mr. Pennant, while Christy was still studying the
situation, and one of the men was seen in the act of hurrying aft.

"I heard men's voices off to the eastward," said this man, when he had
mounted the bridge, and touched his hat to the officers there; and he
spoke in a whisper, in conformity with the orders given.

"Could you hear any slapping of a paddle wheel, or other noises that
sound like a steamer?" asked Christy in the same low tone.

