
"All right. Go on as quickly as possible. I will keep you in view."

All this took a little time.

Talbot, whose conscience was uneasy, and with good cause, awaited Dan's
arrival very anxiously.

"What made you so long?" he asked.

"A man tried to rob me."

"Did he succeed?" asked Talbot, quickly.

"No; he was recognized by a policeman, who arrested him as he was on the
point of attacking me."

Talbot asked no further questions, considerably to Dan's relief, for he
did not wish to mention the detective if it could be avoided.

The book-keeper contented himself with saying, in a preoccupied tone, as
he received the money:

"You can't be too careful when you have much money about you. I am
almost sorry I sent for this money," he proceeded. "I don't think I
shall need to use it to-day."

"Shall I take it back to the bank, sir?" asked Dan.

"No; I shall put it in the safe over night. I don't care to risk you or
the money again to-day."

"That's a blind," thought Dan. "He won't put it in the safe."




CHAPTER XXII.

TALBOT'S SCHEME FAILS.


Talbot went into the office where he was alone. But the partition walls
were of glass, and Dan managed to put himself in a position where he
could see all that passed within.

The book-keeper opened the package of bills, and divided them into two
parcels. One he replaced in the original paper and labeled it "$12,000."

The other he put into another paper, and put into his own pocket. Dan
saw it all, but could not distinguish the denominations of the bills
assigned to the different packages. He had no doubt, however, that the
smaller bills were placed in the package intended to be deposited in the
safe, so that, though of apparently equal value, it really contained
only about one-tenth of the money drawn from the bank.

Talbot was not conscious of observation. Indeed, he was not observed,
except by Dan, whose business it was to watch him.

The division being made, he opened the safe and placed the package
therein.

"Not quite smart enough, Mr. Talbot," thought Dan. "You will need more
watching."

He was anxious to communicate his discovery to the detective outside,
but for some time had no opportunity.

About an hour later he was sent out on an errand. He looked about him in
a guarded manner till he attracted the attention of the outside
detective. The latter, in answer to a slight nod, approached him
carelessly.

"Well," he asked, "have you any news?"

"Yes," answered Dan. "Mr. Talbot has divided the money into two
packages, and one of them he has put into his own pocket."

"What has he done with the other?"

"Put it into the safe."

"As I expected. He means to appropriate the greater part to his own
use."

"Is there anything more for me to do?" asked Dan.

"I don't know. Keep your eyes open. Does the book-keeper suspect that he
is watched?"

"I am sure that he doesn't."

"That is well."

"I am afraid he will get away with the money," said Dan, anxiously.

"I am not. Do you know whether there's any woman in the case?"

"He visits a young lady on Lexington avenue."

"Do you know the number?"

"No."

"That is important. It is probably on her account that he wishes to
become suddenly rich."

This supposition was a correct one, as we know. It did not, however,
argue unusual shrewdness on the part of the detective, since no motive
is more common in such cases.

Dan returned to the office promptly, and nothing of importance occurred
during the remainder of the day.

When Mr. Talbot was preparing to leave, he called in the janitor.

"You may lock the safe," he said.

"Very well, sir."

"By the way, you may use the word 'Hartford' for the combination."

"Very well, sir."

"Be particularly careful, as the safe contains a package of
money--twelve thousand dollars."

"Wouldn't it have been better to deposit it in the bank, Mr. Talbot?"

"Yes, but it was not till the bank closed that I decided not to use it
to-day. However, it is secure in the safe," he added, carelessly.

"I have no doubt of that, Mr. Talbot."

Mr. Talbot put on his coat and departed.

In turning a street corner, he brushed against a rough-looking man who
was leaning against a lamp-post.

"I beg your pardon," said the book-keeper, politely.

"What did you say?" growled Bill.

"Hartford," said Talbot, in a low tone.

"All right, sir. If you apologize it's all correct."

"They've got the word," said Talbot to himself. "Now the responsibility
rests with them. Now I will go and see Virginia."

His face flushed, and his eyes lighted up with joy, as he uttered her
name. He was deeply in love, and he felt that at last he was in a
position to win the consent of the object of his passion. He knew, or,
rather, he suspected her to be coldly selfish, but he was infatuated. It
was enough that he had fulfilled the conditions imposed upon him. In a
few days he would be on his way to Europe with the lady of his love.
Matters were so arranged that the loss of the twelve thousand dollars
would be credited to the burglars. He would escape suspicion. If his
European journey should excite a shadow of suspicion, nothing could be
proved, and he could represent that he had been lucky in stock
speculations, as even now he intended to represent to Miss Conway.

He was not afraid that she would be deeply shocked by his method of
obtaining money, but he felt that it would be better not to trust her
with a secret, which, if divulged, would compromise his safety.

"Is Miss Conway at home?" he inquired.

Yes, Miss Conway was at home, and she soon entered the room, smiling
upon him inquiringly.

"Well," she said, "have you any news to tell me?"

"Virginia, are you ready to fulfill your promise?" asked Talbot,
eagerly.

"What promise?"

"You know, surely."

"I make so many promises, you know," she said, fencing.

"Your promise to marry me."

"But there were conditions to that."

"Suppose that the conditions are fulfilled, Virginia?"

"Do you really mean so?" she asked, betraying strong interest now. "Have
you been lucky in stocks?"

"I took your advice, Virginia. I dared everything, and I have
succeeded."

"As you might have done before, had you listened to me. How much did you
make?"

"Ten thousand dollars--the amount you required."

The girl's eyes sparkled.

"And you will take me to Europe?" she said. "We will make the grand
tour?"

"As soon as you please."

"Then you deserve a reward."

She stooped and pressed a kiss lightly upon his cheek.

It was a mercenary kiss, but he was so much in love that he felt repaid
for the wrong and wickedness he had done. It would not always be so,
even if he should never be detected, but for the moment he was happy.

"Now let us form our plans," he said. "Will you marry me to-morrow
evening?"

"But that gives me no time."

"You need no time. We will call on a clergyman, quietly, to-morrow
evening, and in fifteen minutes we shall be man and wife. On Saturday a
steamer leaves for Europe. We will start then."

"Oh, that will be nice. I can hardly believe that I shall so soon
realize the dreams of years. I want to go to Paris first."

"Anywhere you please. Your wish shall be my law."

"How can you be spared from your business?" asked Virginia, after a
pause.

"I will plead ill health--anything. There will be no difficulty about
that."

"Shall I tell my aunt?"

"No; not till you are almost ready to start."

"Why not?"

"It is better that there should be no gossip about it. Besides, your
aunt would probably be scandalized by our hasty marriage, and insist
upon delay. That's something we should neither of us be willing to
consent to."

"No, for it would interfere with our European trip."

"You consent, then, to my plans?"

"Yes; I will give you your own way this time," said Virginia, smiling.

"And you will insist on having your own way ever after?"

"Of course," she said; "isn't that right?"

"I am afraid I must consent, at any rate; but, since you are to rule,
you must not be a tyrant, my darling."

Talbot agreed to stay to dinner; indeed, it had been his intention from
the first. He remained till the city clocks struck eleven, and then took
leave of Miss Conway at the door.

He set out for his boarding-place, his mind filled with thoughts of his
coming happiness, when a hand was laid on his arm.

He wheeled suddenly, and his glance fell on a quiet man--the detective.

"What's wanted?" he asked, not dreaming of the truth.

"You must come with me, Mr. Talbot," was the reply. "You are suspected
of robbing the firm that employs you."

"This is absurd nonsense!" exclaimed Talbot, putting on a bold face,
though his heart sank within him.

"I hope so; but you must accompany me, and submit to a search. If my
suspicions are unfounded, I will apologize."

"Hands off, fellow! I believe you intend to rob me. I will give you into
custody."

The detective put a whistle to his mouth, and his summons brought a
policeman.

"Take this man into custody," he said.

"This is an outrage!" exclaimed Talbot; but he was very pale.

"You will be searched at the station-house, Mr. Talbot," said the
detective. "I hope nothing will be found to criminate you. If not, you
shall go free."

Talbot, with a swift motion, drew something from his pocket, and hurled
it into the darkness. But he was observed.

The detective darted after it, and brought it back.

"This is what I wanted," he said. "Policeman, you will bear witness
that it was in Mr. Talbot's possession. I fear we shall have to detain
you a considerable time, sir."

Talbot did not utter a word. Fate had turned against him, and he was
sullen and desperate.

"How did they suspect?" he asked himself; but no answer suggested
itself.




CHAPTER XXIII.

THE CALM BEFORE THE STORM.


In the house on Houston street, Bill wasted little regret on the absence
of his wife and child. Neither did he trouble himself to speculate as to
where she had gone.

"I'm better without her," he said to his confederate, Mike. "She's
always a-whinin' and complainin', Nance is. It makes me sick to see her.
If I speak a rough word to her, and it stands to reason a chap can't
always be soft-spoken, she begins to cry. I like to see a woman have
some spirit, I do."

"They may have too much," said Mike, shrugging his shoulders. "My missus
ain't much like yours. She don't cry, she don't. If I speak rough to
her, she ups with something and flings it at my head. That's her style."

"And what do you do?" asked Bill, in some curiosity.

"Oh, I just leave her to get over it; that's the best way."

"Is it?" said Bill, grimly. "Why, you're not half a man, you ain't. Do
you want to know what I'd do if a woman raised her hand against me?"

"Well, what would you do?"

"I'd beat her till she couldn't see!" said Bill, fiercely; and he looked
as if he was quite capable of it.

"I don't know," said Mike. "You haven't got a wife like mine."

"I just wish I had. I'd tame her."

"She ain't easy to tame."

"Just you take me round there some time, Mike. If she has a tantrum,
turn her over to me."

Mike did not answer. He was not as great a ruffian as Bill, and the
proposal did not strike him favorably.

His wife was certainly a virago, and though strong above the average, he
was her superior in physical strength, but something hindered him from
using it to subdue her. So he was often overmatched by the shrill-voiced
vixen, who knew very well that he would not proceed to extremities. Had
she been Bill's wife, she would have had to yield, or there would have
been bloodshed.

"I say, Bill," said Mike, suddenly, "how much did your wife hear of our
plans last night?"

"Nothing."

"She might."

"If she had she would not dare to say a word," said Bill, carelessly.

"You don't know. Women like to use their tongues."

"She knows I'd kill her if she betrayed me," said Bill. "There ain't no
use considerin' that."

"Well, I'm glad you think so. It would be awkward if the police got wind
of it."

"They won't."

"What do you think of that chap that's puttin' us up to it?"

"I don't like him, but I like his money."

"Five hundred dollars a-piece ain't much for the risk we run."

"We'll have more."

"How?"

"If we don't find more in the safe, we'll bleed him when all's over.
He'll be in our power."

"Well, Bill, you know best. You've got a better head nor me."

"And a stouter heart, man. You're always afeared of something."

It was true that Bill was the leading spirit. He was reckless and
desperate, while Mike was apt to count the cost, and dwell upon the
danger incurred.

They had been associated more than once in unlawful undertakings; and
though both had served a short term of imprisonment, they had in
general escaped scot-free.

It was Bill who hung round the store, and who received from Talbot at
the close of the afternoon the "combination," which was to make the
opening of the safe comparatively easy.

"It's a good thing to have a friend inside," he said to his confederate.
"Our money is as good as made."

"There'll be the janitor to dispose of," suggested Mike.

"Leave him to me. I'll knock him on the head."

"Don't kill him if you can help it, Bill. Murder has an ugly look, and
they'll look out twice as sharp for a murderer as for a burglar.
Besides, swingin' ain't pleasant."

"Never you mind. I'll only stun him a little. He can wake up when we're
gone, but we'll tie him so he can't give the alarm."

"How cool you take things, Bill!"

"Do I? Well, it's my business. You just leave everything to me. Obey
orders, and I'll bring you out all right."

So the day passed, and darkness came on. It was the calm before the
storm.




CHAPTER XXIV.

OLD JACK, THE JANITOR.


The janitor, or watchman, was a sturdy old man, who in early life had
been a sailor. Some accident had made him lame, and this incapacitated
him for his early vocation. It had not, however, impaired his physical
strength, which was very great, and Mr. Rogers was glad to employ him in
his present capacity. Of his fidelity there was no question.

When Jack Green--Jack was the name he generally went by--heard of the
contemplated burglary, he was excited and pleased. It was becoming
rather tame to him to watch night after night without interruption, and
he fancied he should like a little scrimmage. He even wanted to
withstand the burglars single-handed.

"What's the use of callin' in the police?" he urged. "It's only two men,
and old Jack is a match for two."

"You're a strong man, Jack," said Dan, "but one of the burglars is as
strong as you are. I have seen him, you know. He's broad-shouldered and
big-chested."

"I ain't afraid of him," said Jack, defiantly.

"Perhaps not, but there's another man, too. You couldn't overcome both."

"I don't know about that."

But Jack finally yielded, though reluctantly, and three policemen were
admitted about eight o'clock, and carefully secreted, to act when
necessary. Jack pleaded for the privilege of meeting the burglars first,
and the privilege was granted, partly in order that they might be taken
in the act. Old Jack was instructed how to act, and though it was a part
not wholly in accordance with his fearless spirit, he finally agreed to
do as he was told.

It is not necessary to explain how the burglars effected their entrance.
This was effected about twelve o'clock, and by the light of a
dark-lantern Bill and Mike advanced cautiously toward the safe.

At this point old Jack made his appearance, putting on an air of alarm
and dismay.

"Who are you?" he demanded, in a tone which he partially succeeded in
making tremulous.

Bill took up the reply.

"Are you the janitor?" he asked.

"Yes, gentlemen. What do you want?"

"Keep quiet, and we will do you no harm. We want you to open the safe."

"I can't do that, gentlemen. I can't betray my trust."

"All right; I'll do it myself. Give us the key. What's the combination?"

"Hartford."

Bill glanced at Mike significantly. The word agreed with the information
they had received from Talbot. It served to convince them that the
janitor had indeed succumbed, and could be relied upon. There was no
suspicion in the mind of either that there was any one else in the
establishment, and they felt moderately secure from interruption.

"Here, old fellow, hold the lantern while we go to work. Just behave
yourself, and we'll give you ten dollars--shall we, Mike?"

"Yes," answered Mike; "I'm agreed."

"It'll look as if I was helpin' to rob my master," objected Jack.

"Oh, never mind about that; he won't know it. When all is over we'll tie
you up, so that it will look as if you couldn't help yourself. What do
you say?"

Jack felt like making a violent assault upon the man who was offering
him a bribe, but he controlled his impulse, and answered:

"I'm a poor man, and ten dollars will come handy."

"All right," said Bill, convinced by this time that Jack's fidelity was
very cheaply purchased. He plumed himself on his success in converting
the janitor into an ally, and felt that the way was clear before him.

"Mike, give the lantern to this old man, and come here and help me."

Old Jack took the lantern, laughing in his sleeve at the ease with which
he had gulled the burglars, while they kneeled before the safe.

It was then that, looking over his shoulder, he noticed the stealthy
approach of the policemen, accompanied by Dan. He could content himself
no longer. Setting down the lantern, he sprang upon the back of Bill as
he was crouching before him, exclaiming:

"Now, you villain, I have you!"




CHAPTER XXV.

THE BURGLARY.


The attack was so sudden and unexpected that Bill, powerful as he was,
was prostrated, and for an instant interposed no resistance. But this
was not for long.

"You'll repent this, you old idiot!" he hissed between his closed teeth,
and, in spite of old Jack's efforts to keep him down, he forced his way
up.

At the same moment Mike, who had been momentarily dazed by the sudden
attack, seized the janitor, and, between them both, old Jack's life was
likely to be of a very brief tenure. But here the reinforcements
appeared, and changed the aspect of the battle.

One burly policeman seized Bill by the collar, while Mike was taken in
hand by another, and their heavy clubs fell with merciless force on the
heads of the two captives.

In the new surprise Jack found himself a free man, and, holding up the
lantern, cried, exultingly:

"If I am an old idiot, I've got the better of you, you scoundrels!
You'll open the safe, will you?"

Bill looked about him doggedly. It was hard for him to give in, but the
fight was too unequal.

"Mike," said he, "this is a plant. I wish I had that cursed book-keeper
here; he led us into this."

"Is it Mr. Talbot you mean?" asked the janitor.

"Yes," answered Bill; "he put us up to this. Curse him!"

"No need to curse him," said Jack, dryly; "he meant you to succeed."

"Didn't he tell you we were coming to-night?"

"Not he."

"How did you find it out, then?" asked Bill, quickly.

"Not through him. He was watched, for we suspected him. What did he
promise you?"

"Five hundred dollars apiece."

"Was that all?"

"It wasn't enough; but we should have got more out of him."

"Before you go away with your prisoners," said Jack to the policeman, "I
wish to open the safe before you, to see if I am right in my suspicions.
Mr. Talbot drew over ten thousand dollars from the bank to-day, and led
us to think that he deposited it in the safe. I wish to ascertain, in
the presence of witnesses, how much he placed there, and how much he
carried away."

"Go ahead," said the oldest policeman.

