but for the awful coldness of it! It froze the roof of her mouth and
made an ache in the middle of her forehead. Steve told her people
sometimes warmed it, and she ran out to the stove with her saucer.

"The land alive! What are you going to do with that cream?" almost
shrieked Martha, who was washing dishes at the sink.

"Warm it," replied the little girl. "It's so cold."

Martha almost fell into a chair with the dish-cloth in her hand, and
laughed as if she would have a fit. There was a suspicious sound from
the dining-room as well, and the fair little face grew very red.

Steve came out.

"Here, Nannie, is mine that the weather has warmed, and I'll trade it
for your peak of Greenland." He took the chunk out of her saucer, and
poured the soft in.

"It is nicer," she said. "And you needn't laugh, Martha. When I am a big
woman and make ice-cream I shall just boil it," and she walked back with
grave dignity.

She took the Odell girls to Mrs. Dean's, and some other children flocked
around the stoop. They had torpedoes and lady-crackers, that two
children pulled, when they went off with a loud explosion in the middle
and made you jump. There were real fire-crackers that the boys had, and
pin-wheels and various simple fireworks. But the great thing would be
going down to City Hall in the evening and seeing the fireworks there.

The Odells could not stay, to their sorrow. Mr. Underhill proposed to
take the business wagon and put three seats in it, and ask the Deans to
go with them. Mrs. Dean was very glad to accept for herself and the
children. There was a young lady next door, Miss Weir, that Margaret
liked very much, and she accompanied them. John had promised to take
charge of the boys. Steve had dressed himself in his new light summer
suit and gone off.

The little girl thought the display beyond any words at her command.
Such mysterious rockets falling to pieces in stars of every color. There
was a great dome of stars, and rays that presently shot up into heaven;
there was a ship on fire, which really frightened her. And, oh! the
noise and the people, the shouting and hurrahing, the houses trimmed
with flags, the brass band that played all the patriotic songs, and the
endless confusion! The little girl clung closely to her mother, glad
she was not down on the sidewalk, for the people would surely have
trodden on her.

They came home very tired. But the little girl had added to her stock of
historical knowledge and knew what Fourth of July stood for. It was a
very great day, the beginning of the Republic.

The boys were out early the next morning finding "cissers," crackers
that had failed to burn out entirely, and still had a little explosive
merit when touched by a piece of lighted punk. There was no school that
day, and Steve took them up to West Farms to expend the rest of their
hilarity. The little girl was pale and languid. Mrs. Underhill was quite
troubled at times when friends said:

"Isn't Hanny very small of her age? Is she real strong? She looks so
delicate."

This was why she had thought it best not to send her to school this
summer. She read aloud to her mother and said one column in a speller
and definer, and Margaret taught her a little geography and arithmetic.
She could hem very nicely now. She had learned to knit lace, and do some
fancy work that was then called lap stitching. You pulled out some
threads one way of the cloth, then took three and just lapped them over
the next three, drawing your needle and thread through. Now a machine
does it beautifully.

There was another fashion, "fads" we should call them nowadays. A
school-bag--they didn't call them satchels then--was made of a piece of
blue and white bed-ticking, folded at the bottom. Every white stripe you
worked with zephyr worsted in briar stitch or herring-bone or feather
stitch. You could use one color or several. And now the old work and the
bed-ticking has come back again and ladies make the old-fashioned bags
with tinsel thread.

Margaret had made one, and the little girl had taken it up. She was
quite an expert with her needle. She had found several delightful new
books to read. The Deans had some wonderful fairy stories. She was
enraptured with the "Lady of the Lake," and some of Mrs. Howitt's
stories and poems. She had learned her way about, and could go out to
the Bowery to do an errand for her mother. She knew some more little
girls, and with her sewing, helping her mother, studying and reading and
play, the days seemed too short.

Vacation did not begin until the 1st of August. The boys were to go up
to Yonkers and help George and Uncle Faid. They were quite ready for new
ventures.

When Margaret came home the last day of school with a really fine
report, her mother felt quite proud of her. The little girl, with large
eyes and a mysterious expression, begged her to come into the parlor and
see something. She smiled and took Hanny's small hand in hers. The
furniture had been moved about a little. And oh, what was this? The
little girl's eyes were stars of joy.

"It's your piano and mine," she said. "Yours till you get married and go
away, and then mine forever and ever. Joe gave fifty dollars of his
prize money toward it. Wasn't he lovely? And oh, Margaret, such
beautiful music as it makes!"

The little girl with one small finger struck a key. The sound seemed to
fascinate her. Margaret caught her in her arms and kissed the enraptured
face.

"We shall be too happy, I'm afraid. I shouldn't have had the courage to
ask for a piano, but it's the one thing above all others that I have
wanted. Oh, it's just too delightful!"

Mrs. Underhill said: "It's a great piece of wastefulness, but the boys
would have it. I'm sure I don't see where you're going to get time to
learn everything. And you'll never know anything about housekeeping. I
should be ashamed to have any one marry you."

People didn't hustle off to the country the day school closed. Indeed,
some didn't go at all. The children played on the shady side of the
street. The little girls had "Ring around a rosy," that I think Eve's
grandchildren must have invented. Then there was "London Bridge is
falling down," "Open the gates as high as the sky," and

    "Here come two lords quite out of Spain
    A-courting for your daughter faire,"

and after a great deal of disputing and beseeching they obtained
"daughter faire," and averted war. And "Tag" never failed with its "Ana
mana mona mike." You find children playing them all yet, but I think the
wonderful zest has gone out of them.

In the evening a throng of the First Street children who had pennies to
spend used to go up to the corner of Second Street and Avenue A. An old
colored woman sat there, with a gay Madras turban, and a little table
before her, that had a mysterious spring drawer. On one side she had an
earthen jar, on the other a great pail with a white cloth over it, that
emitted a steamy fragrance. And she sang in a sort of chanting tone:

"H-o-t corn, hot corn. Here's your nice hot corn, s-m-okin' h-o-t.
B-a-ked pears, baked pears--Get away, chillen,' get away, 'les you've
got a penny. Stop crowdin'."

They had enough to eat at home, but the corn was tempting. One night one
boy would treat and break the ear of corn in two and divide. And the
baked pears were simply delicious. The old woman fished them out with a
fork and put them on a bit of paper. Wooden plates had not been
invented. And the high art was to lift up your pear by the stem and eat
it. Sometimes a mischievous companion would joggle your arm and the stem
would come out--and oh, the pear would drop in a "mash" on the sidewalk.
You could not divide the pear very well, though children did sometimes
pass a "bite" around. But we lived in happy innocence and safety, for
the deadly bacillus had not been invented and ignorance was bliss.




CHAPTER VI

MISS DOLLY BEEKMAN


It seemed curiously still after the boys went away. Margaret took two
music lessons a week and gave the little girl half a one. And one day
Stephen came in and said:

    "Go dress yourself, Dinah, in gorgeous array,
    And I'll take you a-drivin' so galliant and gay."

"Both of us?" asked the little girl.

"Yes--both of us. I have my new buggy and silver-mounted harness. You
must go out and christen it for good luck. Hurry, Peggy, and put on your
white dress."

Miss Blackfan had been again and made them two white frocks apiece. The
little girl had "wings" over her shoulders and they made her less slim.
She wore a pink sash and her hair was tied with pink. Her stockings were
as white as "the driven snow," and her slippers looked like dolls' wear.
They were bronze and laced across the top several times with narrow
ribbon tied in a bow at her instep. She had a new hat, too, a leghorn
flat with pale pink roses on it. It cost a good deal, but then it would
"do up" every summer and last years and years. Fashions didn't change
every three months then. Margaret had a pretty gipsy hat, with a big
light-blue satin bow on the top, and the strings tied under her chin,
and it made quite a picture of her. Her sleeves came a little below the
elbow, and both wore black silk "openwork" mitts that came half-way up
the arm.

There had been a shower the night before and the dust was laid. They
went over Second Street to the East River, where one or two blocks were
quite given over to colored people. There was an African M. E. church,
that the little girl was very curious to see. Folks said in revival
times they danced for joy. Crowds used to go to hear the singing.

"But do they dance?" asked the little girl wonderingly. She couldn't
quite reconcile it with the gravity of worship.

"They simply march up and down the aisles keeping time to the tunes.
Well--the Shakers dance in the same fashion." Stephen had been up to
Lebanon.

Then a little farther on was another Methodist church, where several
notable lights had preached. Nearer the river were some queer old
houses, and at almost every corner a store. Saloons were a rarity. Over
yonder was Williamsburg, up a little farther Astoria, just a place of
country greenery. There were a few boats going up and down, and the
ferry-boats crossing.

The houses were no longer in rows. There were some vegetable gardens,
and German women were weeding in them; then tracts of rather rocky land,
wild and unimproved. After a while it began to grow more diversified and
beautiful--country residences and well-kept grounds full of shrubbery at
the front and vegetables in the rear, with barns and stables, betraying
a rural aspect. The air was so sweet and fresh.

"Oh!" exclaimed Margaret, "Annette Beekman must live somewhere about
here. I promised her we would come up some day."

Stephen turned into a country road. There were many grand old elms,
hemlocks, pines, and fruit-trees as well. A table stood under one, and
some ladies were sitting there sewing and chatting, while several
children ran about. And while they were glancing at them a girl in a
pretty blue muslin sprang up and ran down to the wide-open gate.

"Oh, Margaret!" cried Annette Beekman. "Why, this is lovely of you,
Stephen! Can't you turn in and stop a while with us?"

"I'm showing Margaret New York," said Steve, with his pleasant laugh.
"She has begun to think straight down to Rutgers Institute comprised
every bit there was of it."

"Oh, Stephen!" deprecatingly.

Some one else came out; a fair, tall girl with great braids of flaxen
hair and a silver comb in the top to make her look taller still. She
smiled very sweetly.

"Oh, Mr. Underhill!" she exclaimed.

"This is my big sister and this is my little one," explained Stephen.
"And this," to Margaret, "is Miss Dolly Beekman."

A warm color rose in Margaret's cheeks as a half-suspicion stole over
her.

"You must get out and rest a while after this long ride," said Miss
Dolly with winsome cordiality. "The rain last evening was delightful,
but the day is warm. We are all living out-of-doors, as you see. And
this, I suppose, is your little sister? Drive up and help the girls out,
and then go round to the barn. You will find some one there."

Stephen wound slowly up the driveway, nodding to the group of ladies.
Dolly walked along the grassy path. She wore a white dotted suisse gown
with a "baby waist," and had a blue satin sash with ends that fell
nearly to the bottom of the skirt. Her sleeves came to the elbow and
were composed of three rather deep ruffles edged with lace. Round her
pretty white neck she had an inch-wide black velvet, fastened with a
tiny diamond that Stephen had brought her a week ago. She looked like a
picture, Margaret thought, and later her portrait in costume was
exhibited at the Academy of Design.

Stephen lifted his sisters down. Dolly took Margaret's arm and the
little girl's hand and introduced them to almost as many sisters and
cousins and aunts as there were in "Pinafore." The small person was not
quite comfortable. She had a feeling that the back of her nice frock was
dreadfully crushed. Margaret was a little confused. Stephen seemed so at
home among them all. Annette had spoken so familiarly of him, yet she
had not suspected. How blind she had been!

There was young Mrs. Beekman, thirty or so, already getting stout, and
with the fifth Beekman boy that she would gladly have changed for a
girl; Mrs. Bond, the next sister, with a boy and a girl; Aunt Gitty
Beekman, some Vandewater cousins, and some Gessler cousins from Nyack.

They had rush-bottomed and splint chairs, several rockers, some rustic
benches, and two or three tables standing about, with work-baskets and
piles of sewing and knitting, for people had not outgrown industry in
those days, and still taught their children the verses about the busy
bee.

Dolly put Margaret in a rocker, untied her bonnet, and took off her soft
white mull scarf--long shawls they were called, and the elder ladies
wore them of black silk and handsome black lace. They were held up on
the arms and sometimes tied carelessly, and the richer you were, the
more handsomely you trimmed them at the ends. Then for cooler weather
there were Paisley and India long shawls.

Hanny kept close to her sister and leaned against her knee. She felt
strange and timid with the eyes of so many grown people upon her. But
they all took up their work and talked, asking Margaret various
questions in sociable fashion.

There were three Beekman boys and one little Bond running about. The
girl was very shy and would sit on her mother's lap. The Beekmans were
fat and chubby, with their hair cut quite close, but not in the modern
extreme. They wore long trousers and roundabouts, and low shoes with
light gray stockings, though their Sunday best were white. We should say
now they looked very queer, and unmistakably Dutch. You sometimes see
this attire among the new immigrants. But there were no little
Fauntleroy boys at that period with their velvet jackets and
knickerbockers, flowing curls and collars.

The boys tried to inveigle Hanny among them. Pety offered her the small
wooden bench he was carrying round. Paulus asked her "to come and see
Molly who had great big horns and went this way," brandishing his head
so fiercely that the little girl shuddered and grasped Margaret's hand.

"Don't tease her, boys," entreated their mother. "She'll get acquainted
by and by. I suppose she isn't much used to children, being the
youngest?"

"No, ma'am," answered Margaret.

The boys scampered off. Annette knelt down on the short grass, and
presently won a smile from the little girl, who was revolving a
perplexity as to whether big boys were not a great deal nicer than
little boys. Then Stephen came back and Mr. Paulus Beekman, who was
stout and dark, and favored his mother's side of the family. The ladies
were very jolly, teasing one another, telling bits of fun, comparing
work, and exchanging cooking recipes. Miss Gitty asked Margaret about
her mother's family, the Vermilyeas. A Miss Vermilye, sixty or seventy
years ago, had married a Conklin and come over to Closter. She seemed to
have all her family genealogy at her tongue's end, and knew all the
relations to the third and fourth generation. But she had a rather sweet
face with fine wrinkles and blue veins, and wore her hair in long
ringlets at the sides, fastened with shell combs that had been her
mother's, and were very dear to her. She wore a light changeable silk,
and it still had big sleeves, such as we are wearing to-day. But they
had mostly gone out. And the elder ladies were combing their hair down
over their ears. There were no crimping-pins, so they had to braid it up
at night in "tails" to make it wave, unless one had curly hair. Most of
the young girls brushed it straight above their ears for ordinary wear,
and braided or twisted it in a great coil at the back, though it was
often elaborately dressed for parties.

Aunt Gitty was netting a shawl out of white zephyr. It was tied in the
same manner that one makes fish-nets, and you used a little shuttle on
which your thread was wound. It was very light and fleecy. Aunt Gitty
had made one of silk for a cousin who was going abroad, and it had been
very much admired. The little girl was greatly interested in this, and
ventured on an attempt at friendliness.

Dolly took them away presently to show them the flower-beds. Mr. Beekman
had ten acres of ground. There were vegetables, corn and potato fields
and a pasture lot, beside the great lawn and flower-garden. Old Mr.
Beekman was out there. He was past seventy now, hale and hearty to be
sure, with a round, wrinkled face, and thick white hair, and he was
passionately fond of his grandchildren. He had not married until he was
forty and his wife was much younger.

There were long walks of dahlias of every color and kind. They were a
favorite autumn flower. A great round bed of "Robin-run-away," bergamot,
that scented the air and attracted the humming-birds. All manner of
old-fashioned flowers that are coming around again, and you could see
where there had been magnificent beds of peonies. In the early season
people drove out here to see Peter Beekman's tulip-beds.

There were borders of artemisias, as they were called, that diffused a
pungent fragrance. We had not shaken hands so neighborly with Japan
then, nor learned how she evolved her wonderful chrysanthemums.

The little girl grew quite talkative with Mr. Beekman. You see, in those
days there was a theory about children being seen and not heard, and no
one expected a little six-year-old to entertain or disturb a room full
of company. The repression made them rather diffident, to be sure. But
Mr. Beekman gathered her a nosegay of spice pinks, carnations now, and
took her to see his beautiful ducks, snowy white, in a little pond, and
another pair of Muscovy ducks, then some rare Mandarin ducks from China.
She told him about the ducks and chickens at Yonkers and how sorry she
was to leave them.

And then came the handsome white Angora cat with its long fur and
curious eyes that were almost blue, and when she said "mie-e-o-u" in a
rather delighted tone, it seemed as if she meant "O master, where have
you been? I'm so glad to see you!"

He stood and patted her and they held quite a conversation as she arched
her neck, rubbed against his leg, and turned back and forth. Then she
stretched way up on him and gave him her paw, which was very cunningly
done.

"This is a nice little girl who has come to see me," he said, as she
seemed to look inquiringly at Hanny. "She's fond of everything, kitties
especially."

Kitty looked rather uncertain. Hanny was a little afraid of such a
curious creature. But presently she came and rubbed against her with a
soft little mew, and Hanny ventured to touch her.

"She likes you," declared old Mr. Beekman, much pleased. "She doesn't
often take fancies. She loves Dolly, and she won't have anything to do
with Annette, though I think the girl teases her. Nice Katschina," said
her master, patting her. "Shall we buy this little girl?"

Perhaps you won't believe it, but Katschina really said "yes," and
smiled. It was very different from the grin of the "Chessy cat" that
Alice saw in Wonderland.

Some one came flying down the path.

"Father," exclaimed Dolly, "come and have a cup of tea or a glass of
beer. Stephen and his sister think they can't stay to supper. But may be
they'll leave the little girl--you seem to have taken such a notion to
her."

Hanny didn't want to be impolite and she really did like Mr. Beekman,
but as for staying--her heart was up in her throat.

Dolly picked up Katschina and carried her in triumph. Two white paws lay
over Dolly's shoulder.

There was a table with a shining copper tea-kettle, a pewter tankard of
home-brewed ale, bread and butter, cold chicken and ham, a great dish of
curd cheese, pound cake, soft and yellow, fruit cake, a heaping dish of
doughnuts and various cookies and seed cakes. Scipio, a young colored
lad, passed the eatables. Young Mrs. Beekman poured the tea. The mother
sat near her. She was short and fat and wore her hair in a high
Pompadour roll, and she laughed a good deal, showing her fine white
teeth of which she was very proud.

Katschina sat in her master's lap, and the little girl was beside him.
The boys were given their hands full and sent away. It was a very pretty
picture and the little girl felt as if she was reading an entertaining
story. One of the Gessler cousins had been knitting lace, double
oak-leaf with a heading of insertion. It looked marvellous to the little
girl. She said she was making it to trim a visite. This was a Frenchy
sort of garment lately come into vogue, though the little girl did not
know what it was, and was too well trained to ask questions. But the
lace might be the desire of one's heart.

They sipped their tea or raspberry shrub, or enjoyed a glass of ale.
They were all very merry. The little girl wondered how Dolly dared to be
so saucy with Stephen when she only knew him such a little. Mrs. Beekman
could hardly accept the fact that they would not stay to supper, and
said they must come soon and spend the day, and have Stephen drive up
for them, and that she hoped soon to see Mrs. Underhill. "It is quite
delightful and we are all well satisfied," she added, nodding rather
mysteriously.

Dolly put on the little girl's hat and kissed her, giving her a
breathless squeeze. Miss Gitty kissed her as well and told her she was a
"very pretty behaved child." The buggy came round and Stephen put them
in amid a chorus of good-bys.

"The little one looks delicate," commented the younger Mrs. Beekman when
they had driven away. "I'm afraid she doesn't run and play enough. But
she's beautifully behaved. And what a fancy father took to her!"

"Miss Underhill doesn't seem like a real country girl," said another.

"The Underhills are a good family all through, English descent from some
Lord Underhill. They were staunch Royalists at one time."

"And the Vermilyeas are good stock," said Aunt Gitty. "There's nothing
like being particular as to family. It tells in the long run."

"Well, Dolly, we think he will do," said Mrs. Beekman laughingly, as
Dolly, having said her good-bys, sauntered back to the circle. "He might
be richer, of course. There's a large family and they can't have much
apiece."

"Stephen Underhill's got the making of a good substantial man in him,"
grunted father Beekman. "If he'd been a poor shoat he wouldn't have hung
around here very long, would he, Katschina? We'd 'a put a flea in his
ear, wouldn't we."

Katschina arched her back. Dolly laughed and blushed. Stephen was her
own true-love anyway, but she was glad to have them all like him. With
the insistence of youth she felt she never could have loved any other
man.

Stephen clicked to Prince, who was rested and full of spirits. They
drove almost straight across the city, about at the end of our first
hundred numbered streets. But the road wound around to get out of a low
marshy place, a pond in the rainy season, and some rocks that seemed
tumbled up on end. They struck a bit of the old Boston Post Road, and
that caused the little girl to stop her prattle and think of the old
ladies they had never visited. She must "jog" her father's memory. That
was what her mother always said when she recalled half-forgotten things.

Stephen and Margaret had only spoken in answer to the little girl. He
had a young man's awkwardness concerning a subject so dear to his heart.
Margaret was awed by the mystery of love, captivated by Dolly's
friendliness, and puzzled to decide what her mother would think of it.
Stephen married! Any of them married for that matter. How strange it
would seem! And yet she had sometimes said, "When I am married."

The place was wild enough. You would hardly think so now when hollows
have been filled and hills levelled, and rocks blasted away. After they
turned a little stream wound in and out through the trees and bushes.
Amid a tangled mass the little girl espied some wild roses.

"Oh, Steve!" she cried, "may I get out and pick some?"

"I will." He handed the reins over to Margaret and sprang down, running
across a little bridge, and soon gathered a great handful.

"Oh, thank you," and her eyes shone. "What a funny little bridge."

"That's Kissing Bridge."

"Who do you have to kiss?" asked the little girl mirthfully.

"Well, a long while ago, in Van Twiller's time, I guess," with a twinkle
in his eye, "there wasn't any bridge. The lovers used to carry their
sweethearts over, and the charge was a kiss."

"But there wasn't any kissing bridge then," she said shrewdly.

"When the bridge was built they stopped and kissed out of remembrance."

"Was it really so, Margaret?"

"It has been called that ever since I can remember."

"You unkind girl, not to believe me!" exclaimed Stephen, with an air of
offended dignity. "And I am ever so much older than Margaret."

"You didn't carry me over, but you carried the roses, so you shall
have the kiss all the same," and as she reached up to his cheek they
both smiled.

Then they came down Broadway to Bleecker Street, and over home. Father
Underhill was sitting on the stoop reading his paper. Jim begged to take
the horse round to the stable. Margaret went up-stairs to pull off her
best dress and put on her pink gingham. She had just finished and was
calling for Hanny, when Stephen caught her in his arms.

"Dear Peggy--you must have guessed."

"Oh, Stephen! It seems so strange. Is it really so? I never dreamed----"

"I fell in love with Dolly months ago. There were so many caring for her
that I hardly hoped myself. But there's some mysterious sense about it,
and I began to see presently that she preferred me. Though I didn't
really ask her until Sunday night. And they all consented. We are
regularly engaged now."

"Oh, Stephen! To lose you!"

That is the first natural thought of the household.

"You are not going to lose me. We shall be engaged a long while; a year
surely."

"But, father--and our coming here."

"That is all right. It can't make any difference. Only you will have a
new sister. Oh, Peggy, try to love her," persuasively, yet knowing she
could not resist her.

"She is very sweet."

"Sweet! She's just cream and roses and all the sweetest things of life
put together! I tell you, Peggy, I'm a lucky fellow. Of course it will
seem a little strange at first. But some day you'll have your romance,
only I don't believe you can ever understand how glad the other fellow
will be to get you. Girls can't. And you'll try to make things smooth
with mother if she feels a little put out at first? Dolly wants to love
you all. She's admired Joe so much, and they are all proud of him."

The supper bell rang impatiently. Stephen kissed his sister and gave her
a rapturous hug.

Hanny came up-stairs and Margaret hurried through her change of attire.

"I thought you never were coming," began their mother tartly. "'Milyer,
you're the worst of the lot when you get your nose buried in a
newspaper. Boys, do keep still, though I suppose you're half starved,"
with a reproachful look at those who had delayed the meal.

The little girl had eaten so many of the delicious cookies that she
wasn't a bit hungry. So she entertained her father with the miles of
dahlias and the wonderful cat, so soft and furry and different from
theirs, and with truly blue eyes, and who could understand everything
you said to her. And Mr. Beekman was very nice, but not as nice as
father. The little boys were so short and so funny. "And I don't believe
I like little boys. Jim and Benny, Frank and all of you are nicer.
Perhaps it is the bigness."

They all laughed at that.

She sat in her father's lap afterward and went on with her quaint story,
until her mother came and routed her out and said, "I do believe,
'Milyer, you'd keep that child up all night."

Afterward Mr. Underhill went out on the front stoop, where he and
Stephen had a long talk, while Margaret sat at the piano making up for
her afternoon's dissipation, but in the soft, vague light she could see
Dolly Beekman with her laughing eyes and crown of shining hair, and was
sure she would make a delightful sister. Mrs. Underhill sat and darned
stockings and sighed a little. Yet she was secretly proud of Margaret,
even if she did study French and music. Whether they would ever help her
to keep house was a question. Where would she have found time for such
things?




CHAPTER VII
