It was true that when after their return from Ricks they tried to
lighten the ship, the great embarrassment was still immutably there, the
odiousness of sacrificing the exquisite things one wouldn't take to the
exquisite things one would. This immediately made the things one
wouldn't take the very things one ought to, and, as Mrs. Gereth said,
condemned one, in the whole business, to an eternal vicious circle. In
such a circle, for days, she had been tormentedly moving, prowling up
and down, comparing incomparables. It was for that one had to cling to
them and their faces of supplication. Fleda herself could judge of these
faces, so conscious of their race and their danger, and she had little
enough to say when her companion asked her if the whole place,
perversely fair on October afternoons, looked like a place to give up.
It looked, to begin with, through some effect of season and light,
larger than ever, immense, and it was filled with the hush of sorrow,
which in turn was all charged with memories. Everything was in the
air--every history of every find, every circumstance of every struggle.
Mrs. Gereth had drawn back every curtain and removed every cover; she
prolonged the vistas, opened wide the whole house, gave it an appearance
of awaiting a royal visit. The shimmer of wrought substances spent
itself in the brightness; the old golds and brasses, old ivories and
bronzes, the fresh old tapestries and deep old damasks threw out a
radiance in which the poor woman saw in solution all her old loves and
patiences, all her old tricks and triumphs.

Fleda had a depressed sense of not, after all, helping her much: this
was lightened indeed by the fact that Mrs. Gereth, letting her off
easily, didn't now seem to expect it. Her sympathy, her interest, her
feeling for everything for which Mrs. Gereth felt, were a force that
really worked to prolong the deadlock. "I only wish I bored you and my
possessions bored you," that lady, with some humor, declared; "then
you'd make short work with me, bundle me off, tell me just to pile
certain things into a cart and have done." Fleda's sharpest difficulty
was in having to act up to the character of thinking Owen a brute, or at
least to carry off the inconsistency of seeing him when he came down. By
good fortune it was her duty, her function, as well as a protection to
Mrs. Gereth. She thought of him perpetually, and her eyes had come to
rejoice in his manly magnificence more even than they rejoiced in the
royal cabinets of the red saloon. She wondered, very faintly at first,
why he came so often; but of course she knew nothing about the business
he had in hand, over which, with men red-faced and leather-legged, he
was sometimes closeted for an hour in a room of his own that was the one
monstrosity of Poynton: all tobacco-pots and bootjacks, his mother had
said--such an array of arms of aggression and castigation that he
himself had confessed to eighteen rifles and forty whips. He was
arranging for settlements on his wife, he was doing things that would
meet the views of the Brigstocks. Considering the house was his own,
Fleda thought it nice of him to keep himself in the background while his
mother remained; making his visits, at some cost of ingenuity about
trains from town, only between meals, doing everything to let it press
lightly upon her that he was there. This was rather a stoppage to her
meeting Mrs. Gereth on the ground of his being a brute; the most she
really at last could do was not to contradict her when she repeated that
he was watching--just insultingly watching. He was watching, no doubt;
but he watched somehow with his head turned away. He knew that Fleda
knew at present what he wanted of her, so that it would be gross of him
to say it over and over. It existed as a confidence between them, and
made him sometimes, with his wandering stare, meet her eyes as if a
silence so pleasant could only unite them the more. He had no great flow
of speech, certainly, and at first the girl took for granted that this
was all there was to be said about the matter. Little by little she
speculated as to whether, with a person who, like herself, could put
him, after all, at a sort of domestic ease, it was not supposable that
he would have more conversation if he were not keeping some of it back
for Mona.

From the moment she suspected he might be thinking what Mona would say
to his chattering so to an underhand "companion," who was all but paid,
this young lady's repressed emotion began to require still more
repression. She grew impatient of her situation at Poynton; she
privately pronounced it false and horrid. She said to herself that she
had let Owen know that she had, to the best of her power, directed his
mother in the general sense he desired; that he quite understood it and
that he also understood how unworthy it was of either of them to stand
over the good lady with a notebook and a lash. Wasn't this practical
unanimity just practical success? Fleda became aware of a sudden desire,
as well as of pressing reasons, to bring her stay at Poynton to a close.
She had not, on the one hand, like a minion of the law, undertaken to
see Mrs. Gereth down to the train and locked, in sign of her abdication,
into a compartment; neither had she on the other committed herself to
hold Owen indefinitely in dalliance while his mother gained time or dug
a counter-mine. Besides, people were saying that she fastened like a
leech on other people--people who had houses where something was to be
picked up: this revelation was frankly made her by her sister, now
distinctly doomed to the curate and in view of whose nuptials she had
almost finished, as a present, a wonderful piece of embroidery,
suggested, at Poynton, by an old Spanish altar-cloth. She would have to
exert herself still further for the intended recipient of this offering,
turn her out for her marriage with more than that drapery. She would go
up to town, in short, to dress Maggie; and their father, in lodgings at
West Kensington, would stretch a point and take them in. He, to do him
justice, never reproached her with profitable devotions; so far as they
existed he consciously profited by them. Mrs. Gereth gave her up as
heroically as if she had been a great bargain, and Fleda knew that she
wouldn't at present miss any visit of Owen's, for Owen was shooting at
Waterbath. Owen shooting was Owen lost, and there was scant sport at
Poynton.

The first news she had from Mrs. Gereth was news of that lady's having
accomplished, in form at least, her migration. The letter was dated from
Ricks, to which place she had been transported by an impulse apparently
as sudden as the inspiration she had obeyed before. "Yes, I've literally
come," she wrote, "with a bandbox and a kitchen-maid; I've crossed the
Rubicon, I've taken possession. It has been like plumping into cold
water: I saw the only thing was to do it, not to stand shivering. I
shall have warmed the place a little by simply being here for a week;
when I come back the ice will have been broken. I didn't write to you to
meet me on my way through town, because I know how busy you are and
because, besides, I'm too savage and odious to be fit company even for
you. You'd say I really go too far, and there's no doubt whatever I do.
I'm here, at any rate, just to look round once more, to see that certain
things are done before I enter in force. I shall probably be at Poynton
all next week. There's more room than I quite measured the other day,
and a rather good set of old Worcester. But what are space and time,
what's even old Worcester, to your wretched and affectionate A. G.?"

The day after Fleda received this letter she had occasion to go into a
big shop in Oxford Street--a journey that she achieved circuitously,
first on foot and then by the aid of two omnibuses. The second of these
vehicles put her down on the side of the street opposite her shop, and
while, on the curbstone, she humbly waited, with a parcel, an umbrella,
and a tucked-up frock, to cross in security, she became aware that,
close beside her, a hansom had pulled up short, in obedience to the
brandished stick of a demonstrative occupant. This occupant was Owen
Gereth, who had caught sight of her as he rattled along and who, with an
exhibition of white teeth that, from under the hood of the cab, had
almost flashed through the fog, now alighted to ask her if he couldn't
give her a lift. On finding that her destination was only over the way
he dismissed his vehicle and joined her, not only piloting her to the
shop, but taking her in; with the assurance that his errands didn't
matter, that it amused him to be concerned with hers. She told him she
had come to buy a trimming for her sister's frock, and he expressed an
hilarious interest in the purchase. His hilarity was almost always out
of proportion to the case, but it struck her at present as more so than
ever; especially when she had suggested that he might find it a good
time to buy a garnishment of some sort for Mona. After wondering an
instant whether he gave the full satiric meaning, such as it was, to
this remark, Fleda dismissed the possibility as inconceivable. He
stammered out that it was for her he would like to buy something,
something "ripping," and that she must give him the pleasure of telling
him what would best please her: he couldn't have a better opportunity
for making her a present--the present, in recognition of all she had
done for Mummy, that he had had in his head for weeks.

Fleda had more than one small errand in the big bazaar, and he went up
and down with her, pointedly patient, pretending to be interested in
questions of tape and of change. She had now not the least hesitation in
wondering what Mona would think of such proceedings. But they were not
her doing--they were Owen's; and Owen, inconsequent and even
extravagant, was unlike anything she had ever seen him before. He broke
off, he came back, he repeated questions without heeding answers, he
made vague, abrupt remarks about the resemblances of shopgirls and the
uses of chiffon. He unduly prolonged their business together, giving
Fleda a sense that he was putting off something particular that he had
to face. If she had ever dreamed of Owen Gereth as nervous she would
have seen him with some such manner as this. But why should he be
nervous? Even at the height of the crisis his mother hadn't made him so,
and at present he was satisfied about his mother. The one idea he stuck
to was that Fleda should mention something she would let him give her:
there was everything in the world in the wonderful place, and he made
her incongruous offers--a traveling-rug, a massive clock, a table for
breakfast in bed, and above all, in a resplendent binding, a set of
somebody's "works." His notion was a testimonial, a tribute, and the
"works" would be a graceful intimation that it was her cleverness he
wished above all to commemorate. He was immensely in earnest, but the
articles he pressed upon her betrayed a delicacy that went to her heart:
what he would really have liked, as he saw them tumbled about, was one
of the splendid stuffs for a gown--a choice proscribed by his fear of
seeming to patronize her, to refer to her small means and her
deficiencies. Fleda found it easy to chaff him about his exaggeration of
her deserts; she gave the just measure of them in consenting to accept a
small pin-cushion, costing sixpence, in which the letter F was marked
out with pins. A sense of loyalty to Mona was not needed to enforce this
discretion, and after that first allusion to her she never sounded her
name. She noticed on this occasion more things in Owen Gereth than she
had ever noticed before, but what she noticed most was that he said no
word of his intended. She asked herself what he had done, in so long a
parenthesis, with his loyalty or at least his "form;" and then reflected
that even if he had done something very good with them the situation in
which such a question could come up was already a little strange. Of
course he wasn't doing anything so vulgar as making love to her; but
there was a kind of punctilio for a man who was engaged.

That punctilio didn't prevent Owen from remaining with her after they
had left the shop, from hoping she had a lot more to do, and from
pressing her to look with him, for a possible glimpse of something she
might really let him give her, into the windows of other establishments.
There was a moment when, under this pressure, she made up her mind that
his tribute would be, if analyzed, a tribute to her insignificance. But
all the same he wanted her to come somewhere and have luncheon with him:
what was that a tribute to? She must have counted very little if she
didn't count too much for a romp in a restaurant. She had to get home
with her trimming, and the most, in his company, she was amenable to was
a retracing of her steps to the Marble Arch and then, after a discussion
when they had reached it, a walk with him across the Park. She knew Mona
would have considered that she ought to take the omnibus again; but she
had now to think for Owen as well as for herself--she couldn't think for
Mona. Even in the Park the autumn air was thick, and as they moved
westward over the grass, which was what Owen preferred, the cool
grayness made their words soft, made them at last rare and everything
else dim. He wanted to stay with her--he wanted not to leave her: he had
dropped into complete silence, but that was what his silence said. What
was it he had postponed? What was it he wanted still to postpone? She
grew a little scared as they strolled together and she thought. It was
too confused to be believed, but it was as if somehow he felt
differently. Fleda Vetch didn't suspect him at first of feeling
differently to her, but only of feeling differently to Mona; yet she
was not unconscious that this latter difference would have had something
to do with his being on the grass beside her. She had read in novels
about gentlemen who on the eve of marriage, winding up the past, had
surrendered themselves for the occasion to the influence of a former
tie; and there was something in Owen's behavior now, something in his
very face, that suggested a resemblance to one of those gentlemen. But
whom and what, in that case, would Fleda herself resemble? She wasn't a
former tie, she wasn't any tie at all; she was only a deep little person
for whom happiness was a kind of pearl-diving plunge. It was down at the
very bottom of all that had lately happened; for all that had lately
happened was that Owen Gereth had come and gone at Poynton. That was the
small sum of her experience, and what it had made for her was her own
affair, quite consistent with her not having dreamed it had made a
tie--at least what she called one--for Owen. The old one, at any rate,
was Mona--Mona whom he had known so very much longer.

They walked far, to the southwest corner of the great Gardens, where, by
the old round pond and the old red palace, when she had put out her hand
to him in farewell, declaring that from the gate she must positively
take a conveyance, it seemed suddenly to rise between them that this was
a real separation. She was on his mother's side, she belonged to his
mother's life, and his mother, in the future, would never come to
Poynton. After what had passed she wouldn't even be at his wedding, and
it was not possible now that Mrs. Gereth should mention that ceremony to
the girl, much less express a wish that the girl should be present at
it. Mona, from decorum and with reference less to the bridegroom than to
the bridegroom's mother, would of course not invite any such girl as
Fleda. Everything therefore was ended; they would go their different
ways; this was the last time they would stand face to face. They looked
at each other with the fuller sense of it and, on Owen's part, with an
expression of dumb trouble, the intensification of his usual appeal to
any interlocutor to add the right thing to what he said. To Fleda, at
this moment, it appeared that the right thing might easily be the wrong.
He only said, at any rate: "I want you to understand, you know--I want
you to understand."

What did he want her to understand? He seemed unable to bring it out,
and this understanding was moreover exactly what she wished not to
arrive at. Bewildered as she was, she had already taken in as much as
she should know what to do with; the blood also was rushing into her
face. He liked her--it was stupefying--more than he really ought: that
was what was the matter with him and what he desired her to assimilate;
so that she was suddenly as frightened as some thoughtless girl who
finds herself the object of an overture from a married man.

"Good-bye, Mr. Gereth--I must get on!" she declared with a
cheerfulness that she felt to be an unnatural grimace. She broke away
from him sharply, smiling, backing across the grass and then turning
altogether and moving as fast as she could. "Good-bye, good-bye!" she
threw off again as she went, wondering if he would overtake her before
she reached the gate; conscious with a red disgust that her movement was
almost a run; conscious too of just the confused, handsome face with
which he would look after her. She felt as if she had answered a
kindness with a great flouncing snub, but at any rate she had got away,
though the distance to the gate, her ugly gallop down the Broad Walk,
every graceless jerk of which hurt her, seemed endless. She signed from
afar to a cab on the stand in the Kensington Road and scrambled into it,
glad of the encompassment of the four-wheeler that had officiously
obeyed her summons and that, at the end of twenty yards, when she had
violently pulled up a glass, permitted her to recognize the fact that
she was on the point of bursting into tears.




VII


As soon as her sister was married she went down to Mrs. Gereth at
Ricks--a promise to this effect having been promptly exacted and given;
and her inner vision was much more fixed on the alterations there,
complete now, as she understood, than on the success of her plotting and
pinching for Maggie's happiness. Her imagination, in the interval, had
indeed had plenty to do and numerous scenes to visit; for when on the
summons just mentioned it had taken a flight from West Kensington to
Ricks, it had hung but an hour over the terrace of painted pots and then
yielded to a current of the upper air that swept it straight off to
Poynton and to Waterbath. Not a sound had reached her of any supreme
clash, and Mrs. Gereth had communicated next to nothing; giving out
that, as was easily conceivable, she was too busy, too bitter, and too
tired for vain civilities. All she had written was that she had got the
new place well in hand and that Fleda would be surprised at the way it
was turning out. Everything was even yet upside down; nevertheless, in
the sense of having passed the threshold of Poynton for the last time,
the amputation, as she called it, had been performed. Her leg had come
off--she had now begun to stump along with the lovely wooden substitute;
she would stump for life, and what her young friend was to come and
admire was the beauty of her movement and the noise she made about the
house. The reserve of Poynton and Waterbath had been matched by the
austerity of Fleda's own secret, under the discipline of which she had
repeated to herself a hundred times a day that she rejoiced at having
cares that excluded all thought of it. She had lavished herself, in act,
on Maggie and the curate, and had opposed to her father's selfishness a
sweetness quite ecstatic. The young couple wondered why they had waited
so long, since everything was after all so easy. She had thought of
everything, even to how the "quietness" of the wedding should be
relieved by champagne and her father kept brilliant on a single bottle.
Fleda knew, in short, and liked the knowledge, that for several weeks
she had appeared exemplary in every relation of life.

She had been perfectly prepared to be surprised at Ricks, for Mrs.
Gereth was a wonder-working wizard, with a command, when all was said,
of good material; but the impression in wait for her on the threshold
made her catch her breath and falter. Dusk had fallen when she arrived,
and in the plain square hall, one of the few good features, the glow of
a Venetian lamp just showed, on either wall, the richness of an
admirable tapestry. This instant perception that the place had been
dressed at the expense of Poynton was a shock: it was as if she had
abruptly seen herself in the light of an accomplice. The next moment,
folded in Mrs. Gereth's arms, her eyes were diverted; but she had
already had, in a flash, the vision of the great gaps in the other
house. The two tapestries, not the largest, but those most splendidly
toned by time, had been on the whole its most uplifted pride. When she
could really see again she was on a sofa in the drawing-room, staring
with intensity at an object soon distinct as the great Italian cabinet
that, at Poynton, had been in the red saloon. Without looking, she was
sure the room was occupied with other objects like it, stuffed with as
many as it could hold of the trophies of her friend's struggle. By this
time the very fingers of her glove, resting on the seat of the sofa, had
thrilled at the touch of an old velvet brocade, a wondrous texture that
she could recognize, would have recognized among a thousand, without
dropping her eyes on it. They stuck to the cabinet with a kind of
dissimulated dread, while she painfully asked herself whether she should
notice it, notice everything, or just pretend not to be affected. How
could she pretend not to be affected, with the very pendants of the
lustres tinkling at her and with Mrs. Gereth, beside her and staring at
her even as she herself stared at the cabinet, hunching up a back like
Atlas under his globe? She was appalled at this image of what Mrs.
Gereth had on her shoulders. That lady was waiting and watching her,
bracing herself, and preparing the same face of confession and defiance
she had shown the day, at Poynton, she had been surprised in the
corridor. It was farcical not to speak; and yet to exclaim, to
participate, would give one a bad sense of being mixed up with a theft.
This ugly word sounded, for herself, in Fleda's silence, and the very
violence of it jarred her into a scared glance, as of a creature
detected, to right and left. But what again the full picture most showed
her was the far-away empty sockets, a scandal of nakedness in high, bare
walls. She at last uttered something formal and incoherent--she didn't
know what: it had no relation to either house. Then she felt Mrs.
Gereth's hand once more on her arm. "I've arranged a charming room for
you--it's really lovely. You'll be very happy there." This was spoken
with extraordinary sweetness and with a smile that meant, "Oh, I know
what you're thinking; but what does it matter when you're so loyally on
my side?" It had come indeed to a question of "sides," Fleda thought,
for the whole place was in battle array. In the soft lamplight, with one
fine feature after another looming up into sombre richness, it defied
her not to pronounce it a triumph of taste. Her passion for beauty
leaped back into life; and was not what now most appealed to it a
certain gorgeous audacity? Mrs. Gereth's high hand was, as mere great
effect, the climax of the impression.

"It's too wonderful, what you've done with the house!"--the visitor met
her friend's eyes. They lighted up with joy--that friend herself so
pleased with what she had done. This was not at all, in its accidental
air of enthusiasm, what Fleda wanted to have said: it offered her as
stupidly announcing from the first minute on whose side she was. Such
was clearly the way Mrs. Gereth took it: she threw herself upon the
delightful girl and tenderly embraced her again; so that Fleda soon went
on, with a studied difference and a cooler inspection: "Why, you brought
away absolutely everything!"

"Oh no, not everything; I saw how little I could get into this scrap of
a house. I only brought away what I required."

Fleda had got up; she took a turn round the room. "You 'required' the
very best pieces--the morceaux de musée, the individual gems!"

"I certainly didn't want the rubbish, if that's what you mean." Mrs.
Gereth, on the sofa, followed the direction of her companion's eyes;
with the light of her satisfaction still in her face, she slowly rubbed
her large, handsome hands. Wherever she was, she was herself the great
piece in the gallery. It was the first Fleda had heard of there being
"rubbish" at Poynton, but she didn't for the moment take up this
insincerity; she only, from where she stood in the room, called out, one
after the other, as if she had had a list in her hand, the pieces that
in the great house had been scattered and that now, if they had a fault,
were too much like a minuet danced on a hearth-rug. She knew them each,
in every chink and charm--knew them by the personal name their
distinctive sign or story had given them; and a second time she felt
how, against her intention, this uttered knowledge struck her hostess as
so much free approval. Mrs. Gereth was never indifferent to approval,
and there was nothing she could so love you for as for doing justice to
her deep morality. There was a particular gleam in her eyes when Fleda
exclaimed at last, dazzled by the display: "And even the Maltese cross!"
That description, though technically incorrect, had always been applied,
at Poynton, to a small but marvelous crucifix of ivory, a masterpiece of
delicacy, of expression, and of the great Spanish period, the existence
and precarious accessibility of which she had heard of at Malta, years
before, by an odd and romantic chance--a clue followed through mazes of
secrecy till the treasure was at last unearthed.

"'Even' the Maltese cross?" Mrs. Gereth rose as she sharply echoed the
words. "My dear child, you don't suppose I'd have sacrificed that! For
what in the world would you have taken me?"

"A bibelot the more or the less," Fleda said, "could have made little
difference in this grand general view of you. I take you simply for the
greatest of all conjurers. You've operated with a quickness--and with a
quietness!" Her voice trembled a little as she spoke, for the plain
meaning of her words was that what her friend had achieved belonged to
the class of operation essentially involving the protection of darkness.
Fleda felt she really could say nothing at all if she couldn't say that
she knew what the danger had been. She completed her thought by a
resolute and perfectly candid question: "How in the world did you get
off with them?"

Mrs. Gereth confessed to the fact of danger with a cynicism that
surprised the girl. "By calculating, by choosing my time. I was quiet,
and I was quick. I manoeuvred; then at the last rushed!" Fleda drew
a long breath: she saw in the poor woman something much better than
sophistical ease, a crude elation that was a comparatively simple state
to deal with. Her elation, it was true, was not so much from what she
had done as from the way she had done it--by as brilliant a stroke as
any commemorated in the annals of crime. "I succeeded because I had
thought it all out and left nothing to chance: the whole process was
organized in advance, so that the mere carrying it into effect took but
a few hours. It was largely a matter of money: oh, I was horribly
extravagant--I had to turn on so many people. But they were all to be
had--a little army of workers, the packers, the porters, the helpers of
every sort, the men with the mighty vans. It was a question of arranging
in Tottenham Court Road and of paying the price. I haven't paid it yet;
there'll be a horrid bill; but at least the thing's done! Expedition
pure and simple was the essence of the bargain. 'I can give you two
days,' I said; 'I can't give you another second.' They undertook the
job, and the two days saw them through. The people came down on a
Tuesday morning; they were off on the Thursday. I admit that some of
them worked all Wednesday night. I had thought it all out; I stood over
them; I showed them how. Yes, I coaxed them, I made love to them. Oh, I
was inspired--they found me wonderful. I neither ate nor slept, but I
was as calm as I am now. I didn't know what was in me; it was worth
finding out. I'm very remarkable, my dear: I lifted tons with my own
arms. I'm tired, very, very tired; but there's neither a scratch nor a
nick, there isn't a teacup missing." Magnificent both in her exhaustion
and in her triumph, Mrs. Gereth sank on the sofa again, the sweep of her
eyes a rich synthesis and the restless friction of her hands a clear
betrayal. "Upon my word," she laughed, "they really look better here!"

Fleda had listened in awe. "And no one at Poynton said anything? There
was no alarm?"

"What alarm should there have been? Owen left me almost defiantly alone:
I had taken a time that I had reason to believe was safe from a
descent." Fleda had another wonder, which she hesitated to express: it
would scarcely do to ask Mrs. Gereth if she hadn't stood in fear of her
servants. She knew, moreover, some of the secrets of her humorous
household rule, all made up of shocks to shyness and provocations to
curiosity--a diplomacy so artful that several of the maids quite yearned
to accompany her to Ricks. Mrs. Gereth, reading sharply the whole of her
visitor's thought, caught it up with fine frankness. "You mean that I
was watched--that he had his myrmidons, pledged to wire him if they
should see what I was 'up to'? Precisely. I know the three persons you
have in mind: I had them in mind myself. Well, I took a line with
them--I settled them."

Fleda had had no one in particular in mind; she had never believed in
the myrmidons; but the tone in which Mrs. Gereth spoke added to her
suspense. "What did you do to them?"

"I took hold of them hard--I put them in the forefront. I made them
work."

"To move the furniture?"

"To help, and to help so as to please me. That was the way to take them;
it was what they had least expected. I marched up to them and looked
each straight in the eye, giving him the chance to choose if he'd
gratify me or gratify my son. He gratified me. They were too stupid!"

Mrs. Gereth massed herself there more and more as an immoral woman, but
Fleda had to recognize that she too would have been stupid and she too
would have gratified her. "And when did all this take place?"

"Only last week; it seems a hundred years. We've worked here as fast as
we worked there, but I'm not settled yet: you'll see in the rest of the
house. However, the worst is over."

"Do you really think so?" Fleda presently inquired. "I mean, does he,
after the fact, as it were, accept it?"

"Owen--what I've done? I haven't the least idea," said Mrs. Gereth.

"Does Mona?"

"You mean that she'll be the soul of the row?"

"I hardly see Mona as the 'soul' of anything," the girl replied. "But
have they made no sound? Have you heard nothing at all?"

"Not a whisper, not a step, in all the eight days. Perhaps they don't
know. Perhaps they're crouching for a leap."

"But wouldn't they have gone down as soon as you left?"

"They may not have known of my leaving." Fleda wondered afresh; it
struck her as scarcely supposable that some sign shouldn't have flashed
from Poynton to London. If the storm was taking this term of silence to
gather, even in Mona's breast, it would probably discharge itself in
some startling form. The great hush of every one concerned was strange;
but when she pressed Mrs. Gereth for some explanation of it, that lady
only replied, with her brave irony: "Oh, I took their breath away!" She
had no illusions, however; she was still prepared to fight. What indeed
was her spoliation of Poynton but the first engagement of a campaign?

All this was exciting, but Fleda's spirit dropped, at bedtime, in the
chamber embellished for her pleasure, where she found several of the
objects that in her earlier room she had most admired. These had been
reinforced by other pieces from other rooms, so that the quiet air of it
was a harmony without a break, the finished picture of a maiden's bower.
It was the sweetest Louis Seize, all assorted and combined--old
chastened, figured, faded France. Fleda was impressed anew with her
friend's genius for composition. She could say to herself that no girl
in England, that night, went to rest with so picked a guard; but there
was no joy for her in her privilege, no sleep even for the tired hours
that made the place, in the embers of the fire and the winter dawn, look
gray, somehow, and loveless. She couldn't care for such things when they
came to her in such ways; there was a wrong about them all that turned
them to ugliness. In the watches of the night she saw Poynton
dishonored; she had cared for it as a happy whole, she reasoned, and the
parts of it now around her seemed to suffer like chopped limbs. Before
going to bed she had walked about with Mrs. Gereth and seen at whose
expense the whole house had been furnished. At poor Owen's, from top to
bottom--there wasn't a chair he hadn't sat upon. The maiden aunt had
been exterminated--no trace of her to tell her tale. Fleda tried to
think of some of the things at Poynton still unappropriated, but her
memory was a blank about them, and in trying to focus the old
combinations she saw again nothing but gaps and scars, a vacancy that
gathered at moments into something worse. This concrete image was her
greatest trouble, for it was Owen Gereth's face, his sad, strange eyes,
fixed upon her now as they had never been. They stared at her out of the
darkness, and their expression was more than she could bear: it seemed
to say that he was in pain and that it was somehow her fault. He had
looked to her to help him, and this was what her help had been. He had
done her the honor to ask her to exert herself in his interest,
confiding to her a task of difficulty, but of the highest delicacy.
Hadn't that been exactly the sort of service she longed to render him?
Well, her way of rendering it had been simply to betray him and hand him
over to his enemy. Shame, pity, resentment oppressed her in turn; in the
last of these feelings the others were quickly submerged. Mrs. Gereth
had imprisoned her in that torment of taste; but it was clear to her for
an hour at least that she might hate Mrs. Gereth.

Something else, however, when morning came, was even more intensely
definite: the most odious thing in the world for her would be ever again
to meet Owen. She took on the spot a resolve to neglect no precaution
that could lead to her going through life without that accident. After
this, while she dressed, she took still another. Her position had
become, in a few hours, intolerably false; in as few more hours as
possible she would therefore put an end to it. The way to put an end to
it would be to inform Mrs. Gereth that, to her great regret, she
couldn't be with her now, couldn't cleave to her to the point that
everything about her so plainly urged. She dressed with a sort of
violence, a symbol of the manner in which this purpose was precipitated.
The more they parted company the less likely she was to come across
Owen; for Owen would be drawn closer to his mother now by the very
necessity of bringing her down. Fleda, in the inconsequence of distress,
wished to have nothing to do with her fall; she had had too much to do
with everything. She was well aware of the importance, before breakfast
and in view of any light they might shed on the question of motive, of
not suffering her invidious expression of a difference to be accompanied
by the traces of tears; but it none the less came to pass, downstairs,
that after she had subtly put her back to the window, to make a mystery
of the state of her eyes, she stupidly let a rich sob escape her before
she could properly meet the consequences of being asked if she wasn't
delighted with her room. This accident struck her on the spot as so
grave that she felt the only refuge to be instant hypocrisy, some
graceful impulse that would charge her emotion to the quickened sense of
her friend's generosity--a demonstration entailing a flutter round the
table and a renewed embrace, and not so successfully improvised but that
Fleda fancied Mrs. Gereth to have been only half reassured. She had been
startled, at any rate, and she might remain suspicious: this reflection
interposed by the time, after breakfast, the girl had recovered
sufficiently to say what was in her heart. She accordingly didn't say it
that morning at all: she had absurdly veered about; she had encountered
the shock of the fear that Mrs. Gereth, with sharpened eyes, might
wonder why the deuce (she often wondered in that phrase) she had grown
so warm about Owen's rights. She would doubtless, at a pinch, be able to
defend them on abstract grounds, but that would involve a discussion,
and the idea of a discussion made her nervous for her secret. Until in
some way Poynton should return the blow and give her a cue, she must
keep nervousness down; and she called herself a fool for having
forgotten, however briefly, that her one safety was in silence.

Directly after luncheon Mrs. Gereth took her into the garden for a
glimpse of the revolution--or at least, said the mistress of Ricks, of
the great row--that had been decreed there; but the ladies had scarcely
placed themselves for this view before the younger one found herself
embracing a prospect that opened in quite another quarter. Her attention
was called to it, oddly, by the streamers of the parlor-maid's cap,
which, flying straight behind the neat young woman who unexpectedly
burst from the house and showed a long red face as she ambled over the
grass, seemed to articulate in their flutter the name that Fleda lived
at present only to catch. "Poynton--Poynton!" said the morsels of
muslin; so that the parlor-maid became on the instant an actress in the
drama, and Fleda, assuming pusillanimously that she herself was only a
