"Who are you?" inquired Dick, for it was he, with provoking nonchalance.

"Who am I? I'll let you know!" retorted Nicholas, now very angry.

"I wish you would. That's what I just asked you."

"I'm the owner of this place, and I warn you off."

"Oh, you're the owner of this place!" said the stranger, laughing. "Do
you own the road, too?"

"Yes," said Nicholas, "I own the road in front of my place."

Dick laughed again.

"You're a young man, ain't you, to be a landed proprietor. How about
your mother? Doesn't she own anything?"

"What do you know about my mother?" demanded Nicholas, a little
nonplussed.

"More than you think for, young man," said Dick. "She used to go to
school with me."

"Did she? Well, I suppose she couldn't help it if there were low persons
in the school with her."

"That's good!" said the stranger, laughing heartily. "So I am a low
person, am I?"

"You look like it," said Nicholas, insolently.

He expected the man would be angry, but instead he laughed more heartily
than before.

Nicholas began to think he was crazy.

"Well, boy," he said, after a pause, "just remember that appearances are
sometimes deceitful."

"I don't think they are so in this case," said Nicholas, "but I can't
waste anymore time with you. There's my horse coming around. I'm going
to ride."

"Is that your team? It's very neat, 'pon my word."

"That's nothing to you."

"Won't you give me a seat? I've never been in this town before, and I
should like to take a drive."

"Look here, fellow, you've got cheek!" exclaimed Nicholas.

"Have I?"

"Do you think I would be seen in such low company?"

"Why not? I'm a gentleman. If you are a gentleman, then I am, too."

"What do you mean? What have I to do with you?"

"A good deal," said the stranger. "I am your uncle!"

Nicholas gasped for breath. What! this low, common person his uncle? He
would not credit it.

"That's a lie!" he said. "You are trying to humbug me."

"Not so fast, nephew Nicholas," said Dick. "You can't alter facts. I'm
your mother's brother. Didn't she ever tell you of your Uncle Dick?"

Uncle Dick! Nicholas did remember that his mother had named such a
person, and the uncomfortable apprehension dawned upon him that the
stranger's claim was well founded, after all. He kept silent, but flared
at the stranger in a state of mental disturbance.

"I see you've heard of me," said Dick, with a short laugh. "Is your
mother at home?"

"I believe so," said Nicholas, sullenly.

"I've come a long way to see her. Will you go in and tell her I am
here?"

Nicholas was not overwilling to obey the person whom he had just called
low, but he felt considerable curiosity as to whether the man was really
his uncle, and this decided him to comply with his request.

"I will speak to my mother," he said. "She will know whether you are
what you claim to be."

"Yes, she will know. I don't believe she has forgotten brother Dick."

Nicholas sought and found his mother.

"What, Nicholas, back so soon?" she said, looking up from her sewing.

"No, mother, I haven't started yet. There's a person down stairs who
says he is my Uncle Dick, and he wants to see you."

"Good heavens! is he here?" exclaimed Mrs. Kent, in a tone of vexation.
"How in the world did he find me out?"

"Then it is he? He is a very common-looking person."

"He's kept low associates. Where is he?"

"Down on the lawn."

"Tell him to come in. I suppose I shall have to see him."

"It may not be your brother after all," said Nicholas.

"I am afraid it is. I can tell soon as I see him."

Nicholas went down stairs in no very pleasant mood.

"You're to come in," he said, ungraciously. "My mother will see you."

"I thought so," said Dick, smiling complacently.




CHAPTER XXXII.

A COLD RECEPTION.


Richard Varley followed Nicholas into the presence of Mrs. Kent. The
latter looked scrutinizingly at him as he approached, hoping that it
might be an impostor. But, no! there was no mistaking his appearance. It
was, indeed, her brother.

"How d'ye do, Helen," said Dick, with ostentatious cordiality.

"Very well, Richard," she answered coldly, slipping her hand out of his
grasp as quickly as she could.

"The old girl ain't very glad to see me," thought Dick. "Just as I
thought."

"How did you find me out?" asked Mrs. Kent.

"There was a man from this way told me of your good luck."

"Where were you, then?"

"In Missouri, near St. Louis."

"Indeed? Have you just come from there?"

"Yes."

"Did you have any business this way? I suppose you must, or you wouldn't
have come so far."

"I came on purpose to see you, Helen," said Dick, trying to look like an
affectionate brother, and signally failing.

"You are certainly very kind," said Mrs. Kent in a cold tone, evincing
not the slightest pleasure at his devotion. "I am afraid you must have
put yourself to a good deal of inconvenience on my account."

"Why, yes, I have," answered her brother, perceiving at once that he
might urge this as a claim upon her; "but what of that? Ain't you my
only sister, and hasn't it been years since we met?"

"Really, Richard," said Mrs. Kent, with a little quiet sarcasm, "I was
hardly prepared to expect from you so great an interest in me. I wonder
you didn't come before. It's a good many years since we met."

"Well, Helen, you see I couldn't afford it before. I wanted to see you,
but I couldn't raise the money to come East."

"You've raised it now, it seems."

"Yes; I had a little stroke of luck."

"You're doing well, then?" asked his sister, with a slight show of
interest.

If this were so, she was ready to welcome him.

"I said a little show of luck. I got together money enough to come
East."

"Oh, indeed!" returned Mrs. Kent, her manner becoming chilly again.

Dick got nettled. He didn't relish his reception.

"It seems to me you ain't very glad to see me," said he, bluntly.

"I never was very demonstrative," said his sister. "Did you expect me to
fall on your neck and embrace you?"

"No; but--well, you know what I mean. You are as cold as an icicle."

"It's my way, I suppose. Is your wife living?"

"Yes."

"Is she with you?" asked Mrs. Kent, rather apprehensively.

"No; it was too expensive for me to bring two. I hear you are rich,
Helen."

"Is that what brought you on?"

"Don't be so suspicious. It's only natural I should congratulate you."

Before this Nicholas had left the room to go out on his proposed drive.

"I've got enough to live on economically," she answered, with reserve.
"I am not rich."

"Your son, Nicholas, acts as if you were."

"How is that?"

Dick laughed.

"He puts on as many heirs as a prince."

"He has considerable spirit," said Mrs. Kent, proudly.

"There's no doubt of that. He ordered me off with the air of a young
lord."

"That was before he knew who you were."

"Yes, he didn't know I was his uncle. By the way, you've got a step-son,
haven't you?"

"Yes; two-thirds of this property belongs to him."

"Where is he?"

"He is absent just now," answered Mrs. Kent, in a tone of reserve.

Dick laughed.

"Oh, you're good at keeping secrets, Helen," he said; "but you can't
deceive me."

"What do you mean?" inquired his sister, with some indignation.

"I know all about his going away, Helen."

"Who told you--the neighbors? Have you been questioning them about my
affairs?"

"No, no. You're on the wrong scent this time. He told me himself."

"What! has he got back again?" demanded Mrs. Kent, in surprise and
dismay.

"No; I met him in Missouri. He told me there."

"How did he know you were related to me?"

"He heard me and my wife talking about you, and then he told me."

"What did he tell you?"

"That you and he couldn't agree, and so he left home."

"He was insubordinate. He disobeyed me, and I wouldn't stand it."

"Oh, well, you two can settle your own affairs. I don't care to
interfere, only I thought you would like to hear from him."

"What's he doing?" asked Mrs. Kent.

"He was in St. Louis when I left, looking out for a situation."

"I wash my hands of him. He might live easily enough if he would submit
to me. If not, he will probably have to submit to a great many
privations."

"He is a pretty smart boy; he'll get along."

"I consider my Nicholas smarter," said Mrs. Kent, coldly.

"Perhaps so," answered her brother, dubiously. "I don't know much about
Nicholas."

"Where are you staying?" asked his sister.

"Why," said Dick, rather taken aback, "I calculated you would invite me
to stay here awhile, seeing I've come so far to see you."

Mrs. Kent bit her lips in vexation.

"You can stay a day or two, if you like," she said, "but we live very
quietly, Nicholas and I. I don't think it will suit one so active as you
are."

"I'll take the risk, sister Helen. It seems good to be in my own
sister's house after so many years. Besides, I should like to ride out
with my nephew behind that gay horse of his."

"You can speak to him about it," said

Mrs. Kent. "I believe he prefers to be alone."

"Oh, he'll be willing to treat his uncle to a ride. I'll give him a few
hints about driving."

Mrs. Kent winced. She was proud, and she did not fancy exhibiting Dick
to the village people as her brother. But there seemed no way of
avoiding it. She privately determined to get rid of him as soon as
possible.

"I must leave you now," she said, gathering up her work. "I will ask the
servant to show you your room."

"All right, Helen. Don't trouble yourself about me. I'll make myself at
home."

"I'm afraid you will," thought his sister.




CHAPTER XXXIII.

DICK PUNISHES NICHOLAS.


"Is that man going to stay here?" asked Nicholas, in a tone of
dissatisfaction.

"Yes."

"What made you invite him?"

"I couldn't help it, Nicholas. He is my brother."

"I'm ashamed of the relationship."

"I am not proud of it myself, but I can't help paying him a little
attention."

"How long is he going to stay?"

"A day or two."

"He'll stay a week or two if you let him."

"I can prevent that."

"How?"

"You'll see."

The manner of Nicholas toward his uncle was far from agreeable. In fact,
it was almost insolent. Dick retained his temper out of policy, but he
said to himself:

"Some time or other, my fine nephew, I'll pay off old scores. See if I
don't."

"Are you going to ride this morning?" he asked the next day.

"I may," answered Nicholas.

"I should like to ride with you."

"I prefer riding by myself."

"Oh, come, nephew. I shan't stay here long. Don't refuse such a small
favor."

In consequence probably of the first part of this answer, Mrs. Kent
said:

"Nicholas, you'd better take your uncle out this morning and show him a
little of the village."

Nicholas grumblingly assented.

So about ten o'clock they started out.

"You've got a good horse here," said Dick.

"He ought to be. Mother paid four hundred dollars for him."

"Did she, though? You ought to have got me to send you one from the
West. For half the money I'd have sent you a better one."

"I don't believe it."

"Because you don't know. I do."

"It takes a good driver to drive this horse," said Nicholas.

"Does it? I could drive this horse blindfolded."

He spoke contemptuously, and Nicholas was nettled. He prided himself
upon his driving ability, and now his uncle underestimated it.

"The horse is not as easy to drive as you think," he said. "If you don't
believe it, take the reins and see."

"All right."

This was what Dick wanted, for he had a plan for revenging himself on
his upstart nephew. He drove on till he got to a place where there was a
muddy and miry puddle beside the road. Then by a dexterous manoeuver,
for he understood driving thoroughly, he managed to overturn the wagon,
and Nicholas was thrown headlong into the puddle. Dick leaped out just
at the right time, retaining his hold on the reins.

Bespattered with mud and drenched with mire, Nicholas arose from the
puddle a sorry figure.

"What did you do that for?" he demanded, wrathfully, surveying himself
with disgust.

"I'm afraid I can't manage your horse," said Dick, with hypocritical
meekness. "He was too much for me."

"Didn't I tell you so?" said Nicholas, triumphing in spite of his woful
condition.

"I'm sorry you fell into the puddle. Why didn't you jump, as I did?"

"I didn't have time," said Nicholas, ruefully. "What a figure I am!"

"I suppose we may as well go home."

"Yes," said Nicholas, sullenly. "That comes of giving you the reins."

"You are right," said Dick. "You'd better drive home yourself."

Nicholas took the reins, but it mortified him not a little to see the
looks of wonder and amusement which he attracted as he passed through
the village.

Dick laughed to himself.

"I rather think, my proud nephew, we're about even," he said to himself.

In the course of the next day Dick ventured to suggest to his sister
that a temporary loan would be very acceptable.

"A loan!" she repeated, curling her lip. "Why not say 'gift' at once?"

"I'm willing to put it on that ground," said Dick, unabashed. "Still,
I'll give you my note for the amount, if you say so."

"What good would that do?"

"Why, I've got some plans in view which, if successful, will enable me
to repay you the money, with interest."

"I have small faith in the success of your plans, Richard."

"I haven't been as lucky as you, sister Helen, I admit; but where would
you have been but for your lucky marriage?"

"As to that, I have always taken care of myself," said his sister,
coldly.

"May be so. There are some born to good luck."

"How much money do you expect me to give you?" asked Mrs. Kent.

Dick looked at his sister's face attentively. He wished to judge how
much there was a chance of getting out of her. His survey was not
particularly encouraging. She didn't appear to be a woman easily
wheedled out of her money. Still, he spoke up boldly, and said:

"A loan of five hundred dollars, Helen, would be a great lift to me."

"I have no doubt it would," said Mrs. Kent, quietly; "but if you have
any expectation of getting that sum from me you know very little of me.
I should be a fool to throw away such a sum of money."

"You would be generous."

"I have no ambition to be considered generous," she answered, coldly. "A
fool and his money are soon parted. You appear to take me for a fool,
but I beg to assure you that you are entirely mistaken."

"How much will you lend me, then?" asked Dick, rather sullenly.

"Don't use that ridiculous word 'lend,' when you know there's no
probability of your ever repaying it, even if you should be able."

"Have your own way, Helen."

"I will give you fifty dollars, though in justice to my boy I ought not
to do so."

"Fifty dollars!" repeated Dick, chagrined. "Why, that don't pay me for
coming East."

"You are right. You would have done better to stay where you were."

"You don't seem to consider, Helen, that we hadn't met for years, and I
wanted to see my only sister."

"Suppose I had had no money, would you have come then?" asked Mrs. Kent,
with contemptuous incredulity.

"No; I couldn't have afforded it. But, Helen, fifty dollars is nothing
at all. You might say a hundred."

"I might say a hundred, but there is no chance that I shall. Are you not
ashamed--a great, strong man, as you are--not to be able to support
yourself and wife without help from me?"

"Luck's been agin me," said Dick, sullenly. "I could have got ahead but
for that."

"How has it been against you?"

"I owned a mining claim in California--it didn't pay anything--and I
sold it for ten dollars. The man I sold it to kept working till he
struck a vein. He cleared ten thousand dollars."

"As you might have done if you hadn't despaired too quickly."

"Oh, well, it's easy enough to criticise, Helen. You've struck a vein,
and you're in luck. No more hard work for you."

"There would be if I gave away my money, five hundred dollars at a time.
You needn't complain of my good fortune. I have had my share of work to
do. Now I am comfortable, and I mean to keep so."

"No matter what becomes of your poor brother?" whined Dick.

"My poor brother must work as I have done, and he won't starve. Do you
think, if I were a man," she said, disdainfully, "that I would stoop to
ask help of a woman!"

"Well, let me have the money, then," said Dick, gloomily.

Mrs. Kent drew from her pocket-book five ten-dollar bills and placed
them in his hand.

"Don't expect any further help," she said. "In justice to my son I must
refuse it."

Dick left the house with an execration.

"Was there ever a more selfish, cold-hearted woman?" he muttered. "It's
all for her son, is it? I'd like to choke the whelp!"

With this sentiment the affectionate uncle left his sister's house.




CHAPTER XXXIV.

AN IMPORTANT COMMISSION.


It was nearly a year later, and Jasper Kent still remained in St. Louis,
and in the employ of Herman Fitch. He had won his way to the favor of
his employer, not alone on account of his personal good qualities, but
because in the way of business he manifested an unusual aptitude. For
this reason he had already had his pay raised to fifteen dollars a week
and was thoroughly trusted, even in matters of importance.

Of this he was about to receive an additional proof.

"Jasper," said Mr. Fitch one day, as our hero entered his counting-room,
"how would you like a little journey?"

Jasper's eyes brightened.

"I would like nothing better," he answered, promptly.

"So I supposed. Young men of your age generally like to travel."

"To what place do you wish me to go, may I ask, sir?"

"To Kansas--a small town named Plattville."

"Very well, sir, I will go."

"The business is this: A firm in that town, Watts & Duncan, are
considerably indebted to me, and I have doubts as their solvency. In the
event of their failure I want to realize as much as possible of my
claim. I don't want the other creditors to forestall me."

"Yes, sir; I see."

"It is rather a delicate commission, you perceive. You are to go there
and quietly find out what you can of their affairs, and report to me by
mail. Then I shall send you instructions how to proceed."

"Very well, sir."

"Some might blame me for sending so young a messenger, but I have two
objects in view. A boy of your age will not excite suspicion, and again,
