"No; she has been dead for five years."

"You are not alone in the world?"

"No, thank Heaven! I don't know how I could bear to feel myself
alone. I have a sick sister and a little brother."

"And does the whole burden of their support fall on you?" asked Miss
Wilmot, in a tone of sympathy.

"Not quite. My little brother Harry earns two dollars a week as a
cash-boy."

"That is not much help."

"It is nearly as much as I earn myself. There is not much to be
earned at making vests at thirty-five cents each."

"Thirty-five!" repeated Miss Wilmot, indignantly. "Who pays you such
a wretched price?"

"Walton & Co."

"No wonder they prosper, if they pay so little for having their work
done. How many vests can you make in a week?"

"One vest a day is about as much as I can make, but I have made
seven in a week."

"And you consider that a good week's work?" asked Miss Wilmot.

"Yes, but I cannot average that."

"That makes--let me see--two dollars and forty-five cents. You
don't mean to say, child, that your united incomes amount to only
four dollars and forty-five cents?"

"It generally amounts to less, for I cannot average seven vests a
week."

"Well, well, what are we coming to?" ejaculated Miss Wilmot,
pityingly. "You don't look, child, as if you had always been so
miserably poor."

"I have not. My grandfather was rich, but he took offense at
mother's marriage to father and he left all his property to my
cousin."

"The old wretch! Excuse me, child, I forgot that he was your
grandfather. So you were wholly left out of the will?"

"If my cousin should die, the whole property would come to us."

"He should have left the property between you. But I fancy you think
I am a curious old woman, with my questions."

"I don't think you an old woman at all, madam."

Miss Wilmot smiled. Though she was a spinster of over forty she was
not wholly without appreciation of a compliment, and the reply of
Rose pleased her.

"At any rate, I am old enough to be your mother, my dear," she said.
"But that is neither here nor there. How much did you expect to get
for that ring?"

"I hoped that I might get three dollars," said Rose, hesitatingly.
"I owe Mrs. Flanagan--she is my landlady--a dollar and a half, and I
could pay that and have a little fund left to fall back upon."

"A little fund--a dollar and a half!" said Miss Wilmot, pityingly.

"I suppose I would not get so much at a pawnbroker's?" continued
Rose.

"My child, I am not a pawnbroker, but I think it will be better for
me to lend you something on the ring."

"If you only would, madam! I feel timid about going to a pawnshop."

"Where they would offer some ridiculous trifle for it, no doubt.
Here, child, give me the ring."

Rose drew it from her finger and handed it to Miss Wilmot.

The latter drew a purse from her pocket and slipped the ring into
it.

"It is too small for me to wear," she said. "It will be safe in my
purse."

She drew out two five-dollar bills and handed them to Rose.

"Ten dollars!" exclaimed Rose, in surprise.

"I don't do business on the regular terms," said Miss Wilmot,
smiling. "I am sure the ring is worth more than ten dollars to you.
Some day you may be able to redeem it."

"I am afraid not, madam; but this money seems like a small fortune
to me."

"You don't know what future luck is in store for you. I will keep
the ring for you. You should know who has it. I am Miss Jane Wilmot,
of 300 Madison avenue. I am called a strong-minded woman; I hope
that won't prejudice you against me."

"It would be hard for me to become prejudiced against you after your
liberality, Miss Wilmot. I wish there were more strong-minded woman
like you."

"Now for your name, my child."

"I am Rose Beaufort; my sister's name is Adeline, and my little
brother, twelve years old, is Harry."

"I have a great mind to go home with you, if you won't consider it
an intrusion," said Miss Wilmot.

"Far from it, Miss Wilmot--that is, if you won't mind our humble
quarters."

"If you can endure them week after week, I can get along for half an
hour," said the spinster. "Lead the way, my dear. Is it far? If so,
we will take a horse-car."

"It is less than half a mile, I should think," said Rose.

"Then we will walk."

They soon reached the poor tenement-house.

"You see it is a poor place," said Rose, apologetically.

"Poor enough!" said Miss Wilmot, plainly.

"You may not care to come up."

"There is nothing delicate about me, my child. Go on, I will follow."

Rose entered the poor room in advance of her visitor.

"Home again, Rose?" said Adeline, whose head was turned away from
the door, and who therefore did not see Miss Wilmot.

"Yes, Addie."

"Did you get any money? Did they pay you for the vests?"

"No; but I met a good friend, who has come home with me. Miss
Wilmot, this is my sister, Addie."

"I am glad to make your acquaintance, my dear," said the spinster,
and her face, plain as it was, looked positively attractive from
very kindness.

"You look good!" said Addie, whose instincts were rapid. "I am sure
you are a friend."

"I will be," said Miss Wilmot, emphatically.

The weakness of the younger sister appealed to her even more
strongly than the beauty of the elder.

Just then a knock was heard at the door. Mrs. Flanagan had heard
the step of Rose upon the stairs, and had come up to see if she had
brought money for the rent.

"It is my landlady, Mrs. Flanagan," said Rose.

"I want to see what sort of a woman she is. Ask for delay, and let
me go into this inner room," said Miss Wilmot, rapidly.

When Mrs. Flanagan entered the room there was no sign of a visitor.

"Well," said the landlady, entering upon her business at once, "have
you got my money for me?"

But for Miss Wilmot's admonition, Rose would have produced the money
without delay, but she thought it necessary to follow the directions
of her new friend.

"They would not pay me for the two vests I had made," she said. "I
must wait till all are finished."

"Just what I expected," said the landlady, placing her arms akimbo.
"I saw how it would turn out. You needn't think I am going to be put
off like this. Pay me my rent, or out you go, bag and baggage!"

"Would you turn my poor sister into the street, Mrs. Flanagan?"

"I am not going to keep you here for nothing, you may rely upon
that."

"Won't you wait till next week?"

"When another week's rent will be due? No, I won't, and I hope that
you understand it."

"Then you ought to be ashamed of yourself, woman!" said a strong,
decided voice, and Miss Wilmot strode out of the bedroom.

Mrs. Flanagan stared at her with mingled surprise and indignation.

"I am no more a woman than you are," she retorted.

"That's true enough," rejoined Miss Wilmot, "nor half as much.
There's nothing womanly about you."

"Do you think I can let my rooms for nothing?" said the landlady,
sullenly. She saw that Miss Wilmot was richly dressed, and she had a
respect for such evidence of wealth.

"How much do the young ladies owe you?"

"A dollar and a half."

"What is the rent of these rooms?"

"Two dollars a week."

"Then, three dollars and a half will pay to the end of the present
week?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"Here is the money. They will move out at the end of the week."

"I shall be glad to have them stay," said the landlady, now anxious
to retain them.

"I shall find them a better home. Good-morning."

Mrs. Flanagan went down stairs feeling that she was worsted in the
contest. She was a bold woman, but she was rather afraid of Miss
Wilmot.

"Now, my dears," said the spinster, "let us talk business."




                           CHAPTER XIX.

                        BRIGHTER PROSPECTS.


"You must know, my dear," said Miss Wilmot, "that I am a rich
woman, and own considerable more than my share of worldly goods.
Among other items of property, I own a French flat house on West
Twenty-fifth street. It isn't one of the costly flats, but is
intended for people with moderate incomes. I learned yesterday that
one of the flats was just vacated. The family occupying it is about
to move to the West, and desired me, as a matter of convenience to
them, to purchase their furniture, and let it furnished. I intended
to decline, but now I shall accept, having found a tenant that suits
me."

"Who is it?" asked Rose, not quite understanding her own connection
with the matter.

"Her name is Rose Beaufort," said Miss Wilmot, smiling.

"But, Miss Wilmot, I am afraid it will be beyond my means. What rent
shall you ask?"

"I don't think thirty dollars a month will be too much, considering
that there are five well-furnished rooms. There is even a piano."

"Thirty dollars a month!" exclaimed Rose, in dismay. "Why, that will
be more than all of us together can earn. Mrs. Flanagan only asks us
two dollars a week, and that we've hardly been able to meet."

"I think that can be made easy for you," said the spinster. "I shall
let you pay in work."

"But I couldn't do enough to pay the rent alone."

"Not at making vests at thirty-five cents apiece, I admit. My
work will be better paid for. I shall want some writing done,
account-books straightened, and--by the way, do you play on the
piano?"

"Oh, yes, madam."

"Well?"

"I believe I have a taste for it."

"Do you consider yourself competent to teach the piano?"

"Yes, I think so."

"Why, then, did you not seek pupils, instead of trying to make a
living by sewing?"

"So I did, but I had no one to recommend me, and I could not afford
to advertise."

"Do you also play, my dear?" asked Miss Wilmot, turning to Adeline.

"But very little," answered the young girl, humbly.

"Addie draws and paints," said Rose. "I have no talent for either."

"Why, that is well. I may be able to obtain pupils for her, too.
However, we can wait and see."

"Miss Wilmot," said Rose, gratefully, "you came to us like a good
angel. I was almost despairing when I met you. Now, I am full of
courage."

"Never despair!" said Miss Wilmot, kindly. "The sun is often behind
the clouds. But I must be going. You will hear from me in a day or
two."

The good spinster rose as she spoke, and going out of the humble
room, descended the dirty staircase, leaving behind her joy where
she had found sorrow.

"It seems almost too good to be true, Rose," said Addie.

"So it does, Addie."

"A nice furnished flat and a piano! I shall not believe it until I
see it."

"We can rely upon whatever Miss Wilmot promises. Has she not paid
our rent, and given us ten dollars besides?"

"How glad Harry will be when he hears it!"

"Yes, poor boy. It hasn't been a very pleasant home for him. Do you
know, Addie, I feel inclined to be extravagant?"

"In what way, Rose?"

"I am going to order a nice dinner from a restaurant--roast turkey
and vegetables; and I will make some coffee, and we will have
everything ready by the time Harry arrives."

"But it will cost a great deal, Rose," said Adeline, in alarm.

"Never mind, for once. This ought to be a Thanksgiving Day for
us. Let us celebrate it as such. Besides," added Rose, the frugal
instinct coming in, "if I order two plates it will be enough for
three of us. I know of a restaurant where we can get all I want for,
say, seventy-five cents. We won't mind about money to-night."

"It will seem good to have a nice dinner once more," said Adeline,
thoughtfully. "It is a long time since we had anything but the
plainest food."

Rose postponed her feast until six o'clock, the hour when Harry
usually got home. There was a restaurant near by, where she gave the
order, directing it to be sent in at ten minutes to six.

Mrs. Flanagan was considerably surprised when a colored waiter made
his appearance at her door with a large covered dish.

"Who is this for? Haven't you made a mistake?" she asked.

"No, ma'am. It's for a young lady--Miss Beaufort. Doesn't she live
here?"

"Yes. What have you got there?" asked the landlady, curiously.

"Roast turkey."

"Bless my soul!" thought Mrs. Flanagan. "She must have come into a
fortune. It's all right!" and she directed the waiter to the room of
the Beauforts.

When Harry arrived the little table was set out with its usual
neatness, and on it there was a display such as made him start back
with surprise.

"Where did all this come from?" he asked, bewildered.

"Explanations postponed till after supper," said Rose. "Sit down and
we will begin."

"All right; I've no objection," said Harry. "Yes, Rose, you may give
me some of the dressing. I say, ain't it good, though? I wish we
could live like this every day."

A great fuss to make over a very ordinary dinner, some of my young
readers may think; but let them put themselves in the place of this
family, and judge whether they would not hail with joy such a meal
after a long course of the most frugal fare.

They were in the midst of their enjoyment when a knock was heard at
the door--a subdued knock, not like the authoritative knock of their
landlady. So there was general surprise when Mrs. Flanagan opened
the door. The fact was she could not repress the impulse to gratify
her curiosity, which had been excited by the remarkably lavish
dinner of her tenants.

"So I've caught you at dinner," she remarked, apologetically. "You
must excuse me; it didn't occur to me that I might be intruding."

"It's of no consequence, Mrs. Flanagan," said Rose, not sorry,
perhaps, that her old enemy should witness such an indication of
prosperity. "I would invite you to dinner, but I am afraid there is
no more of the turkey left."

"Roast turkey, upon my word! Well, here's luxury!" said Mrs.
Flanagan. "I've had my supper, so I could not accept if you did
invite me."

"We don't have turkey every day, Mrs. Flanagan," said Adeline. "We
thought we would have it to-day by way of variety."

"They must have come into some money," thought Mrs. Flanagan.
"Perhaps that old lady was their aunt."

"I'm sure I'm glad you're doin' so well," she said. "I hope you'll
stay with me, in spite of all that's past and gone. You see I am
that worried sometimes to get money to pay my rent that I may speak
kind of cross like, but I don't mean anything--as is well-known to
you."

"Didn't you mean anything this morning when you were going to put
us out of the house because I could not pay the whole of the rent?"
asked Rose.

"I didn't mean it. They were only hasty words," said the landlady,
stoutly. "I hope you'll stay with me, for it wouldn't look natural
to see anybody else goin' in and comin' out of these rooms."

"I cannot tell yet what we may do," said Rose. "I am glad you didn't
mean what you said this morning," she added, quietly, "for it made
us feel very sober. I thought you meant to put us into the street."

"I'm sure I'm very sorry. I was cross, and I didn't know what I
said. Well, I must be goin' down and gettin' Mike's supper, for he
always comes home late."

"It's the way of the world, Rose," said Adeline, as the landlady
disappeared.

"What does it all mean?" asked Harry, puzzled. "What has made that
old cat so good-natured all at once?"

"Roast turkey," answered Rose, dryly. "She thinks we are prospering,
and will be good tenants."

"You are going to stay, ain't you?"

Then the new prospects of the family were explained to Harry, who
was much exhilarated by the account.

"Can't I give lessons in something?" he asked.

"You might give lessons in whistling," said Addie, who didn't
enjoy her brother's performance in that line; "but I hope you won't
receive pupils at home."




                            CHAPTER XX.

                           THE NEW HOME.


Two days later Rose Beaufort received another call from Miss Jane
Wilmot.

"My dear," said the spinster, "your new rooms are ready for you, and
you can move in at once."

"Our rent is paid here till Saturday," suggested Rose.

"Give your landlady the benefit of the balance of the week. Is this
furniture all yours?"

"Such as it is."

"You won't want it. Any articles that you do not value you had
better send to an auction store to sell. The flat is already well
furnished."

"A tenant on the floor below has offered to buy the furniture," said
Rose.

"Does he make you a fair offer?"

"He offers thirty-five dollars."

"A low price, but it will save you trouble to accept it. When that
matter is arranged I will send my carriage, and take you and your
sister right over to your new home."

Without dwelling upon details, it is sufficient to say that before
sunset the two sisters found themselves installed in a pretty
and cosey home in a much better part of the city. There was a
parlor, fronting on the street, a kitchen, and there were three
sleeping-rooms, so that each of the little family could have one.
The parlor contained a piano, a bookcase, well filled--this had
not belonged to the recent tenants, but was supplied, without the
knowledge of Rose, by Miss Wilmot.

Adeline uttered a cry of delight as she went from room to room.

"It is delightful!" she said.

"Here is an easy-chair for you," said Miss Wilmot. "It will be more
comfortable than a rocking-chair, even."

This, too, had been added by the thoughtful spinster.

"Now open the piano and let me hear you play," said Miss Wilmot.

While Rose was playing, her benevolent friend nodded approvingly
more than once.

"You'll do," she said. "I confess I had some doubts about your
qualifications as a teacher, but I can see that you are a brilliant
performer."

"If I can obtain pupils, I hope to suit," said Rose, modestly.

"I have some in view. An acquaintance of mine, Mrs. Tilton, of West
Forty-second street, is in want of a music-teacher for her two
girls. I will send you there, with a note, to-morrow. But first I
must give you a hint. How much were you intending to charge for a
lesson?"

"I had not thought," said Rose, hesitating. "How would fifty cents
do?"

"Fifty cents!" repeated Miss Wilmot, with a rising inflection. "If
you undervalue yourself to that extent, no one will think you know
how to teach. You must charge two dollars per lesson."

"But will anybody pay me so much?" asked Rose, amazed. "To one who
has only been earning thirty-five cents a day at vest-making, fifty
cents an hour seems very large pay."

"My dear child, be guided by me. I know the world, and the world
will set very much the same value upon you that you set on yourself.
Ask Mrs. Tilton two dollars an hour."

"But if she objects to pay it?"

"Say that you are sorry that you cannot make any arrangements."

"I am afraid I can't keep a straight face when I ask such a price,
Miss Wilmot."

"Oh, yes, you will! Don't feel nervous. If you lose the pupils,
I will see that you don't suffer by it. By the way, put on your
best dress, for it is desirable that you make a favorable first
impression."

"I will follow your advice, Miss Wilmot," said Rose.

"You can't do better."

The next day Rose rang the bell at the door of a fine brown-stone
house on West Forty-second street.

"Is Mrs. Tilton at home?" she asked.

"Yes, miss. Who shall I say wishes to see her?"

"The music-teacher."

Rose was shown into the drawing-room, and presently Mrs. Tilton
entered. She was a tall, blonde lady of fashionable appearance,
thoroughly worldly, and influenced by externals to a large extent.

"I believe Miss Wilmot has written you in reference to the subject
of my call," said Rose.

"Yes, Miss Beaufort. You are a music-teacher?"

Rose bowed.

"My two little girls have made a beginning, but have only taken two
quarters each. I wish them to have every advantage."

Rose bowed again.

"Of course, any one recommended by Miss Wilmot can hardly fail to be
competent. May I ask, Miss Beaufort, where you live?"

"At the Wilmot Flats, in West Twenty-fifth street."

"Then you are a tenant of Miss Wilmot?"

"Yes, madam. My brother and sister and myself live together."

"Of course you have a piano at home?"

"Yes, madam," answered Rose, glad to answer the question in the
affirmative.

"I asked because it might at times be more convenient--when we were
