
"I'm worried to death to have him over there all by himself," said she.
"S'pose he should be sick in the night!"

"You'd go over," answered the schoolmaster easily.

"Well, s'pose he couldn't git me no word?"

"Oh, you'd know it! You're that sort."

Miss Susan laughed softly, and so seemed to put away her recurrent
anxiety. She came back to her knitting.

"How long has his wife been dead?" asked the schoolmaster.

"Two year. He an' Jenny got along real well together, but sence
September, when she went away, I guess he's found it pretty dull
pickin'. I do all I can, but land! 't ain't like havin' a woman in the
house from sunrise to set."

"There's nothing like that," agreed the wise young schoolmaster. "Now
let's play some more. Let's plan what we'd like to do to-morrow for all
the folks we know, and let's not give them a thing they need, but just
the ones they'd like."

Miss Susan put down her knitting again. She never could talk to the
schoolmaster and keep at work. It made her dreamy, exactly as it did to
sit in the hot summer sunshine, with the droning of bees in the air.

"Well," said she, "there's old Ann Wheeler that lives over on the
turnpike. She don't want for nothin', but she keeps her things packed
away up garret, an' lives like a pig."

"'Sold her bed and lay in the straw.'"

"That's it, on'y she won't sell nuthin'. I'd give her a house all
winders, so 't she couldn't help lookin' out, an' velvet carpets 't
she'd got to walk on."

"Well, there's Cap'n Ben. The boys say he's out of his head a good deal
now; he fancies himself at sea and in foreign countries."

"Yes, so they say. Well, I'd let him set down a spell in Solomon's
temple an' look round him. My sake! do you remember about the temple?
Why, the nails was all gold. Don't you wish we'd lived in them times?
Jest think about the wood they had--cedars o' Lebanon an' fir-trees. You
know how he set folks to workin' in the mountains. I've al'ays thought
I'd like to ben up on them mountains an' heard the axes ringin' an'
listened to the talk. An' then there was pomegranates an' cherubim, an'
as for silver an' gold, they were as common as dirt. When I was a little
girl, I learnt them chapters, an' sometimes now, when I'm settin' by the
fire, I say over that verse about the 'man of Tyre, skillful to work in
gold, and in silver, in brass, in iron, in stone, and in timber, in
purple, in blue, and in fine linen, and in crimson.' My! ain't it rich?"

She drew a long breath of surfeited enjoyment. The schoolmaster's eyes
burned under his heavy brows.

"Then things smelt so good in them days," continued Miss Susan. "They
had myrrh an' frankincense, an' I dunno what all. I never make my
mincemeat 'thout snuffin' at the spice-box to freshen up my mind. No
matter where I start, some way or another I al'ays git back to Solomon.
Well, if Cap'n Ben wants to see foreign countries, I guess he'd be glad
to set a spell in the temple. Le's have on another stick--that big one
there by you. My! it's the night afore Christmas, ain't it? Seems if I
couldn't git a big enough blaze. Pile it on. I guess I'd as soon set the
chimbly afire as not!"

There was something overflowing and heady in her enjoyment. It
exhilarated the schoolmaster, and he lavished stick after stick on the
ravening flames. The maple hardened into coals brighter than its own
panoply of autumn; the delicate bark of the birch flared up and
perished.

"Miss Susan," said he, "don't you want to see all the people in the
world?"

"Oh, I dunno! I'd full as lieves set here an' think about 'em. I can fix
'em up full as well in my mind, an' perhaps they suit me better'n if I
could see 'em. Sometimes I set 'em walkin' through this kitchen, kings
an' queens an' all. My! how they do shine, all over precious stones. I
never see a di'mond, but I guess I know pretty well how 't would look."

"Suppose we could give a Christmas dinner,--what should we have?"

"We'd have oxen roasted whole, an' honey--an'--but that's as fur as I
can git."

The schoolmaster had a treasury of which she had never learned, and he
said musically:--

... "'a heap Of candied apple, quince, and plum, and gourd; With jellies
soother than the creamy curd, And lucid syrops, tinct with cinnamon;
Manna and dates, in argosy transferr'd From Fez; and spic√©d dainties,
every one, From silken Samarcand to cedar'd Lebanon.'"

"Yes, that has a real nice sound. It ain't like the Bible, but it's
nice."

They sat and dreamed and the fire flared up into living arabesques and
burnt blue in corners. A stick parted and fell into ash, and Miss Susan
came awake. She had the air of rousing herself with vigor.

"There!" said she, "sometimes I think it's most sinful to make believe,
it's so hard to wake yourself up. Arter all this, I dunno but when Solon
comes for the pigs' kittle to-morrer, I shall ketch myself sayin',
'Here's the frankincense!'"

They laughed together, and the schoolmaster rose to light his lamp. He
paused on his way to the stairs, and came back to set it down again.

"There are lots of people we haven't provided for," he said. "We haven't
even thought what we'd give Jenny."

"I guess Jenny's got her heart's desire." Miss Susan nodded sagely.
"I've sent her a box, with a fruit-cake an' pickles and cheese. She's
all fixed out."

The schoolmaster hesitated, and turned the lamp-wick up and down. Then
he spoke, somewhat timidly, "What should you like to give her father?"

Miss Susan's face clouded with that dreamy look which sometimes settled
upon her eyes like haze.

"Well," said she, "I guess whatever I should give him 'd only make him
laugh."

"Flowers--and velvet--and honey--and myrrh?"

"Yes," answered Miss Susan with gravity. "Perhaps it's jest as well some
things ain't to be had at the shops."

The schoolmaster took up his lamp again and walked to the door.

"We never can tell," he said. "It may be people want things awfully
without knowing it. And suppose they do laugh! They'd better laugh than
cry. I should give all I could. Good-night."

Miss Susan banked up the fire and set her rising of dough on the hearth,
after a discriminating peep to see whether it was getting on too fast.
After that, she covered her plants by the window and blew out the light,
so that the moon should have its way. She lingered for a moment, looking
out into a glittering world. Not a breath stirred. The visible universe
lay asleep, and only beauty waked. She was aching with a tumultuous
emotion--the sense that life might be very fair and shining, if we only
dared to shape it as it seems to us in dreams. The loveliness and
repose of the earth appealed to her like a challenge; they alone made it
seem possible for her also to dare.

Next morning, she rose earlier than usual, while the schoolmaster was
still fast bound in sleep. She stayed only to start her kitchen fire,
and then stood motionless a moment for a last decision. The great white
day was beginning outside with slow, unconscious royalty. The pale
winter dawn yielded to a flush of rose; nothing in the aspect of the
heavens contradicted the promise of the night before. It seemed to her a
wonderful day, dramatic, visible in peace, because, on that morning, all
the world was thinking of the world and not of individual desires. She
went to the bureau drawer in the sitting-room and looked, a little
scornfully, at two packages hidden there. Handkerchiefs for the
schoolmaster, stockings and gloves for Solon! Shutting the drawer, she
hurried out into the kitchen, snatching her scissors from the
work-basket by the way. She gave herself no time to think, but went up
to her flower-stand and began to cut the geranium blossoms and the rose.
The fuchsias hung in flaunting grace. They were dearer to her than all.
She snipped them recklessly, and because the bunch seemed meagre still,
broke the top from her sweet-scented geranium and disposed the flowers
hastily in the midst. Her posy was sweet-smelling and good; it spoke to
the heart. Putting a shawl over her head, she rolled the flowers in her
apron from the frost, and stepped out into the brilliant day. The little
cross-track between her house and the other was snowed up; but she took
the road and, hurrying between banks of carven whiteness, went up
Solon's path to the side door. She walked in upon him where he was
standing over the kitchen stove, warming his hands at the first blaze.
Susan's cheeks were red with the challenge of the stinging air, but she
had the look of one who, living by a larger law, has banished the
foolishness of fear. She walked straight up to him and proffered him her
flowers.

"Here, Solon," she said, "it's Christmas. I brought you these."

Solon looked at her and at them, in slow surprise. He put out both hands
and took them awkwardly.

"Well!" he said. "Well!"

Susan was smiling at him. It seemed to her at that moment that the world
was a very rich place, because you may take all you want and give all
you choose, while nobody is the wiser.

"Well," remarked Solon again, "I guess I'll put 'em into water." He laid
them down on a chair. "Susan, do you remember that time I walked over to
Pine Hill to pick you some mayflowers, when you was gittin' over the
lung fever?"

She nodded.

"Susan," said he desperately, "what if I should ask you to forgit old
scores an' begin all over?"

"I ain't laid up anything," answered Susan, looking him full in the face
with her brilliant smile.

"There's suthin' I've wanted to tell ye, this two year. I never s'posed
you knew, but that night I kissed your sister in the entry an' asked
her, I thought 'twas you."

"Yes, I knew that well enough. I was in the buttery and heard it all.
There, le's not talk about it."

Solon came a step nearer.

"But will you, Susan?" he persisted. "Will you? I know Jenny'd like it."

"I guess she would, too," said Susan. "There! we don't need to talk no
further! You come over to breakfast, won't you? I'm goin' to fry
chicken. It's Christmas mornin'." She nodded at him and went out,
walking perhaps more proudly than usual down the shining path. Solon,
regardless of his cooling kitchen, stood at the door and watched her.
Solon never said very much, but he felt as if life were beginning all
over again, just as he had wished to make it at the very start. He
forgot his gray hair and furrowed face, just as he forgot the cold and
snow. It was the spring of the year.

When Miss Susan entered her kitchen, the schoolmaster had come down and
was putting a stick of wood into the stove.

"Merry Christmas!" he called, "and here's something for you."

A long white package lay on the table at the end where her plate was
always set. She opened it with delicate touches, it seemed so precious.

"My sake!" said she. "It's a fan!" She lifted it out, and the fragrance
of an Eastern wood filled all the room. She swept open the feathers.
They were white and wonderful.

"It was never used except by one very beautiful woman," said the
schoolmaster, without looking at her. "She was a good deal older than I;
but somehow she seemed to belong to me. She died, and I thought I should
like to have you keep this."

Susan was waving it back and forth before her face, stirring the air to
fragrance. Her eyes were full of dreams. "My! ain't it rich!" she
murmured. "The Queen o' Sheba never had no better. An' Solon's comin'
over to breakfast."




A SECOND MARRIAGE


Amelia Porter sat by her great open fireplace, where the round,
consequential black kettle hung from the crane, and breathed out a
steamy cloud to be at once licked up and absorbed by the heat from a
snatching flame below. It was exactly a year and a day since her
husband's death, and she had packed herself away in his own corner of
the settle, her hands clasped across her knees, and her red-brown eyes
brooding on the nearer embers. She was not definitely speculating on her
future, nor had she any heart for retracing the dull and gentle past.
She had simply relaxed hold on her mind; and so, escaping her, it had
gone wandering off into shadowy prophecies of the immediate years. For,
as Amelia had been telling herself for the last three months, since she
had begun to outgrow the habit of a dual life, she was not old. Whenever
she looked in the glass, she could not help noting how free from
wrinkles her swarthy face had been kept, and that the line of her mouth
was still scarlet over white, even teeth. Her crisp black hair, curling
in those tight fine rolls which a bashful admirer had once commended as
"full of little jerks," showed not a trace of gray. All this evidence
of her senses read her a fair tale of the possibilities of the morrow;
and without once saying, "I will take up a new life," she did tacitly
acknowledge that life was not over.

It was a "snapping cold" night of early spring, so misplaced as to bring
with it a certain dramatic excitement. The roads were frozen hard, and
shone like silver in the ruts. All day sleds had gone creaking past, set
to that fine groaning which belongs to the music of the year. The
drivers' breath ascended in steam, the while they stamped down the
probability of freezing, and yelled to Buck and Broad until that inner
fervor raised them one degree in warmth. The smoking cattle held their
noses low, and swayed beneath the yoke.

Amelia, shut snugly in her winter-tight house, had felt the power of the
day without sharing its discomforts; and her eyes deepened and burned
with a sense of the movement and warmth of living. To-night, under the
spell of some vague expectancy, she had sat still for a long time, her
sewing laid aside and her room scrupulously in order. She was waiting
for what was not to be acknowledged even to her own intimate self. But
as the clock struck nine, she roused herself, and shook off her mood in
impatience and a disappointment which she would not own. She looked
about the room, as she often had of late, and began to enumerate its
possibilities in case she should desire to have it changed. Amelia never
went so far as to say that change should be; she only felt that she had
still a right to speculate upon it, as she had done for many years, as a
form of harmless enjoyment. While every other house in the neighborhood
had gone from the consistently good to the prosperously bad in the
matter of refurnishing, John Porter had kept his precisely as his
grandfather had left it to him. Amelia had never once complained; she
had observed toward her husband an unfailing deference, due, she felt,
to his twenty years' seniority; perhaps, also, it stood in her own mind
as the only amends she could offer him for having married him without
love. It was her father who made the match; and Amelia had succumbed,
not through the obedience claimed by parents of an elder day, but from
hot jealousy and the pique inevitably born of it. Laurie Morse had kept
the singing-school that winter. He had loved Amelia; he had bound
himself to her by all the most holy vows sworn from aforetime, and then,
in some wanton exhibit of power--gone home with another girl. And for
Amelia's responsive throb of feminine anger, she had spent fifteen years
of sober country living with a man who had wrapped her about with the
quiet tenderness of a strong nature, but who was not of her own
generation either in mind or in habit; and Laurie had kept a
music-store in Saltash, seven miles away, and remained unmarried.

Now Amelia looked about the room, and mentally displaced the furniture,
as she had done so many times while she and her husband sat there
together. The settle could be taken to the attic. She had not the heart
to carry out one secret resolve indulged in moments of impatient
bitterness,--to split it up for firewood. But it could at least be
exiled. She would have a good cook-stove, and the great fireplace should
be walled up. The tin kitchen, sitting now beside the hearth in shining
quaintness, should also go into the attic. The old clock--But at that
instant the clash of bells shivered the frosty air, and Amelia threw her
vain imaginings aside like a garment, and sprang to her feet. She
clasped her hands in a spontaneous gesture of rapt attention; and when
the sound paused at her gate, with one or two sweet, lingering clingles,
"I knew it!" she said aloud. Yet she did not go to the window to look
into the moonlit night. Standing there in the middle of the room, she
awaited the knock which was not long in coming. It was imperative,
insistent. Amelia, who had a spirit responsive to the dramatic
exigencies of life, felt a little flush spring into her face, so hot
that, on the way to the door, she involuntarily put her hand to her
cheek and held it there. The door came open grumblingly. It sagged upon
the hinges, but, well-used to its vagaries, she overcame it with a
regardless haste.

"Come in," she said, at once, to the man on the step. "It's cold. Oh,
come in!"

He stepped inside the entry, removing his fur cap, and disclosing a
youthful face charged with that radiance which made him, at thirty-five,
almost the counterpart of his former self. It may have come only from
the combination of curly brown hair, blue eyes, and an aspiring lift of
the chin, but it always seemed to mean a great deal more. In the
kitchen, he threw off his heavy coat, while Amelia, bright-eyed and
breathing quickly, stood by, quite silent. Then he looked at her.

"You expected me, didn't you?" he asked.

A warmer color surged into her cheeks. "I didn't know," she said
perversely.

"I guess you did. It's one day over a year. You knew I'd wait a year."

"It ain't a year over the services," said Amelia, trying to keep the
note of vital expectancy out of her voice. "It won't be that till
Friday."

"Well, Saturday I'll come again." He went over to the fire and stretched
out his hands to the blaze. "Come here," he said imperatively, "while I
talk to you."

Amelia stepped forward obediently, like a good little child. The old
fascination was still as dominant as at its birth, sixteen years ago.
She realized, with a strong, splendid sense of the eternity of things,
that always, even while it would have been treason to recognize it, she
had known how ready it was to rise and live again. All through her
married years, she had sternly drugged it and kept it sleeping. Now it
had a right to breathe, and she gloried in it.

"I said to myself I wouldn't come to-day," went on Laurie, without
looking at her. A new and excited note had come into his voice,
responsive to her own. He gazed down at the fire, musing the while he
spoke. "Then I found I couldn't help it. That's why I'm so late. I
stayed in the shop till seven, and some fellows come in and wanted me to
play. I took up the fiddle, and begun. But I hadn't more'n drew a note
before I laid it down and put for the door. 'Dick, you keep shop,' says
I. And I harnessed up, and drove like the devil."

Amelia felt warm with life and hope; she was taking up her youth just
where the story ended.

"You ain't stopped swearin' yet!" she remarked, with a little excited
laugh. Then, from an undercurrent of exhilaration, it occurred to her
that she had never laughed so in all these years.

"Well," said Laurie abruptly, turning upon her, "how am I goin' to start
out? Shall we hark back to old scores? I know what come between us. So
do you. Have we got to talk it out, or can we begin now?"

"Begin now," replied Amelia faintly. Her breath choked her. He stretched
out his arms to her in sudden passion. His hands touched her sleeves
and, with an answering rapidity of motion, she drew back. She shrank
within herself, and her face gathered a look of fright. "No! no! no!"
she cried strenuously.

His arms fell at his sides, and he looked at her in amazement.

"What's the matter?" he demanded.

Amelia had retreated, until she stood now with one hand on the table.
She could not look at him, and when she answered, her voice shook.

"There's nothin' the matter," she answered. "Only you mustn't--yet."

A shade of relief passed over his face, and he smiled.

"There, there!" he said, "never you mind. I understand. But if I come
over the last of the week, I guess it will be different. Won't it be
different, Milly?"

"Yes," she owned, with a little sob in her throat, "it will be
different."

Thrown out of his niche of easy friendliness with circumstance, he stood
there in irritated consciousness that here was some subtile barrier
which he had not foreseen. Ever since John Porter's death, there had
been strengthening in him a joyous sense that Milly's life and his own
must have been running parallel all this time, and that it needed only a
little widening of channels to make them join. His was no crass
certainty of finding her ready to drop into his hand; it was rather a
childlike, warm-hearted faith in the permanence of her affection for
him, and perhaps, too, a shrewd estimate of his own lingering youth
compared with John Porter's furrowed face and his fifty-five years. But
now, with this new whiffling of the wind, he could only stand rebuffed
and recognize his own perplexity.

"You do care, don't you, Milly?" he asked, with a boy's frank ardor.
"You want me to come again?"

All her own delight in youth and the warm naturalness of life had rushed
back upon her.

"Yes," she answered eagerly. "I'll tell you the truth. I always did tell
you the truth. I do want you to come."

"But you don't want me to-night!" He lifted his brows, pursing his lips
whimsically; and Amelia laughed.

"No," said she, with a little defiant movement of her own crisp head, "I
don't know as I do want you to-night!"

Laurie shook himself into his coat. "Well," he said, on his way to the
door, "I'll be round Saturday, whether or no. And Milly," he added
significantly, his hand on the latch, "you've got to like me then!"

Amelia laughed. "I guess there won't be no trouble!" she called after
him daringly.

She stood there in the biting wind, while he uncovered the horse and
drove away. Then she went shaking back to her fire; but it was not
altogether from cold. The sense of the consistency of love and youth,
the fine justice with which nature was paying an old debt, had raised
her to a stature above her own. She stood there under the mantel, and
held by it while she trembled. For the first time, her husband had gone
utterly out of her life. It was as though he had not been.

"Saturday!" she said to herself. "Saturday! Three days till then!"

Next morning, the spring asserted itself,--there came a whiff of wind
from the south and a feeling of thaw. The sled-runners began to cut
through to the frozen ground, and about the tree-trunks, where thin
crusts of ice were sparkling, came a faint musical sound of trickling
drops. The sun was regnant, and little brown birds flew cheerily over
the snow and talked of nests.

Amelia finished her housework by nine o'clock, and then sat down in her
low rocker by the south window, sewing in thrifty haste. The sun fell
hotly through the panes, and when she looked up, the glare met her eyes.
She seemed to be sitting in a golden shower, and she liked it. No
sunlight ever made her blink, or screw her face into wrinkles. She
throve in it like a rose-tree. At ten o'clock, one of the slow-moving
sleds, out that day in premonition of a "spell o' weather," swung
laboriously into her yard and ground its way up to the side-door. The
sled was empty, save for a rocking-chair where sat an enormous woman
enveloped in shawls, her broad face surrounded by a pumpkin hood. Her
dark brown front came low over her forehead, and she wore spectacles
with wide bows, which gave her an added expression of benevolence. She
waved a mittened hand to Amelia when their eyes met, and her heavy face
broke up into smiles.

"Here I be!" she called in a thick, gurgling voice, as Amelia hastened
out, her apron thrown over her head. "Didn't expect me, did ye? Nobody
looks for an old rheumatic creatur'. She's more out o' the runnin' 'n a
last year's bird's-nest."

"Why, aunt Ann!" cried Amelia, in unmistakable joy. "I'm tickled to
death to see you. Here, Amos, I'll help get her out."

The driver, a short, thick-set man of neutral, ashy tints and a
sprinkling of hair and beard, trudged round the oxen and drew the
rocking-chair forward without a word. He never once looked in Amelia's
direction, and she seemed not to expect it; but he had scarcely laid
hold of the chair when aunt Ann broke forth:--

"Now, Amos, ain't you goin' to take no notice of 'Melia, no more'n if
she wa'n't here? She ain't a bump on a log, nor you a born fool."

Amos at once relinquished his sway over the chair, and stood looking
abstractedly at the oxen, who, with their heads low, had already fallen
into that species of day-dream whereby they compensate themselves for
human tyranny. They were waiting for Amos, and Amos, in obedience to
some inward resolve, waited for commotion to cease.

"If ever I was ashamed, I be now!" continued aunt Ann, still with an
expression of settled good-nature, and in a voice all jollity though
raised conscientiously to a scolding pitch. "To think I should bring
such a creatur' into the world, an' set by to see him treat his own
relations like the dirt under his feet!"

Amelia laughed. She was exhilarated by the prospect of company, and this
domestic whirlpool had amused her from of old.

"Law, aunt Ann," she said, "you let Amos alone. He and I are old
cronies. We understand one another. Here, Amos, catch hold! We shall all
get our deaths out here, if we don't do nothin' but stand still and
squabble."

The immovable Amos had only been awaiting his cue. He lifted the laden
chair with perfect ease to one of the piazza steps, and then to another;
when it had reached the topmost level, he dragged it over the sill into
the kitchen, and, leaving his mother sitting in colossal triumph by the
fire, turned about and took his silent way to the outer world.

"Amos," called aunt Ann, "do you mean to say you're goin' to walk out o'
this house without speakin' a civil word to anybody? Do you mean to say
that?"

"I don't mean to say nothin'," confided Amos to his worsted muffler, as
he took up his goad, and began backing the oxen round.

Undisturbed and not at all daunted by a reply for which she had not even
listened, aunt Ann raised her voice in cheerful response: "Well, you be
along 'tween three an' four, an' you'll find me ready."

"Mercy, aunt Ann!" said Amelia, beginning to unwind the visitor's wraps,
"what makes you keep houndin' Amos that way? If he hasn't spoke for
thirty-five years, it ain't likely he's goin' to begin now."

Aunt Ann was looking about her with an expression of beaming delight in
unfamiliar surroundings. She laughed a rich, unctuous laugh, and
stretched her hands to the blaze.

"Law," she said contentedly, "of course it ain't goin' to do no good.
Who ever thought 't would? But I've been at that boy all these years to
make him like other folks, an' I ain't goin' to stop now. He never shall
say his own mother didn't know her duty towards him. Well, 'Melia, you
air kind o' snug here, arter all! Here, you hand me my bag, an' I'll
knit a stitch. I ain't a mite cold."

Amelia was bustling about the fire, her mind full of the possibilities
of a company dinner.

"How's your limbs?" she asked, while aunt Ann drew out a long stocking,
and began to knit with an amazing rapidity of which her fat fingers gave
no promise.

"Well, I ain't allowed to forgit 'em very often," she replied
comfortably. "Rheumatiz is my cross, an' I've got to bear it. Sometimes
I wish 't had gone into my hands ruther 'n my feet, an' I could ha' got
round. But there! if 't ain't one thing, it's another. Mis' Eben Smith's
got eight young ones down with the whoopin'-cough. Amos dragged me over
there yisterday; an' when I heerd 'em tryin' to see which could bark the
loudest, I says, 'Give me the peace o' Jerusalem in my own house, even
if I don't stir a step for the next five year no more'n I have for the
last.' I dunno what 't would be if I hadn't a darter. I've been greatly
blessed."

The talk went on in pleasant ripples, while Amelia moved back and forth
from pantry to table. She brought out the mixing-board, and began to put
her bread in the pans, while the tin kitchen stood in readiness by the
hearth. The sunshine flooded all the room, and lay insolently on the
paling fire; the Maltese cat sat in the broadest shaft of all, and,
having lunched from her full saucer in the corner, made her second
toilet for the day.

"'Melia," said aunt Ann suddenly, looking down over her glasses at the
tin kitchen, "ain't it a real cross to bake in that thing?"

"I always had it in mind to buy me a range," answered Amelia reservedly,
"but somehow we never got to it."

"That's the only thing I ever had ag'inst John. He was as grand a man as
ever was, but he did set everything by such truck. Don't turn out the
old things, I say, no more'n the old folks; but when it comes to makin'
a woman stan' quiddlin' round doin' work back side foremost, that beats
me."

"He'd have got me a stove in a minute," burst forth Amelia in haste,
"only he never knew I wanted it!"

"More fool you not to ha' said so!" commented aunt Ann, unwinding her
ball. "Well, I s'pose he would. John wa'n't like the common run o' men.
Great strong creatur' he was, but there was suthin' about him as soft as
a woman. His mother used to say his eyes 'd fill full o' tears when he
broke up a settin' hen. He was a good husband to you,--a good provider
an' a good friend."

Amelia was putting down her bread for its last rising, and her face
flushed.

"Yes," she said gently, "he was good."
