are willing to tackle Ben?”

“Yes.”

“Ho, ho! this is rich!” said the old man with an irresistible guffaw.
“You; oh jeminy!” and he nearly doubled up in a paroxysm of mirth.

“You seem amused,” said the tourist, rather provoked at the old man’s
estimate of his fighting ability.

“Excuse me, stranger! You’re the pluckiest man I’ve met in many a long
day. It does seem redikilus your standing up against Ben!”

“I won’t hurt him much, dad!” said Ben, opening his mouth in a
good-natured grin.

“Of course it’s all in fun,” rejoined Noel Brooke smiling.

“Sartin! But you’d best consider what you’re a undertakin’ before you
begin.”

“I have done that.”

“It’s like a boy standin’ up against me.”

“So I am a boy, am I?” asked Brooke with a smile at Gerald.

“You ain’t much bigger’n a boy, that’s a fact. My Ben was as big as you
when he was only fifteen years old. Wasn’t you, Ben?”

“I was as big as him when I was fourteen, dad.”

“That’s so. You see, stranger, we’re a big race—we Peterses. Ben takes
after the old man. When I was fifteen year old I could do a man’s work.”

“So could I, dad.”

“So you could, Ben. Do you want to feel Ben’s muscle, stranger?”

“No,” answered Noel Brooke smiling. “I would rather not. It might
frighten me in advance, you know, and I want to start fair.”

“I guess you’re right. Well, boys, you can begin if you’re ready. I
wouldn’t have missed this for ten dollars.”

He sat back and looked on with an air of intense interest, while the
two ill-matched antagonists prepared for the trial.




CHAPTER XIX

SCIENCE VERSUS STRENGTH.


EVEN Gerald felt rather alarmed when he saw the two contestants facing
each other. Ben, who reached a height of six feet one, towered above
his small antagonist as the spire of Trinity Church towers above
surrounding buildings. A difference of six inches makes the difference
between a tall man and a short one. Why is it that a man of six feet
looks double the size of a man of five, though in reality only one
fifth larger? It is an ocular deception which affects every one, but is
not readily explained.

“If you want to back out, you kin do so,” said Ben good-naturedly.

“What, an’ spoil our fun?” demanded the old man. “No, stranger, it
won’t do to back out now.”

“I have no intention of backing out, Mr. Peters,” said Noel Brooke
firmly.

“That’s right! I like your pluck,” said the old man in a tone of
relief, for he feared he would lose a spectacle which he expected to
enjoy. He would have felt as badly disappointed, as the visitors to
Jerome Park if the races should be postponed.

Noel Brooke had taken stock of his long-limbed adversary, and the
result was that he felt encouraged. Ben had long arms, very long
arms, but his figure, though muscular, was loose-jointed, and his
motion indicated that he was slow. Now rapidity of movement is a very
important thing in a contest such as was to take place between these
two.

“Mr. Peters,” said the Englishman, “may I trouble you to give the
signal by saying ‘Ready.’”

“Ready!” shouted the old man eagerly.

Ben began to move his arms in a flail-like way common to those who
are untrained in the art of fighting, and advanced with the utmost
confidence to the fray. If he had hit straight out his blows would have
gone above the head of his antagonist, which was rather a disadvantage,
though not so great perhaps as that under which Noel Brooke labored in
being so short. It seemed to Ben, therefore, that he had better throw
his long arms around his puny opponent, and, fairly lifting him off
the ground, hold him helpless at his mercy.

“I won’t hurt him!” thought Ben magnanimously.

But somehow his plan miscarried. Noel Brooke skilfully evaded the close
embrace which would have settled the fight then and there in favor of
Ben, and skipping, first to one side, then to the other, rained in a
shower of blows upon Ben, one of which took effect in his jaw, and
drove him staggering back discomfited.

It may safely be said that never were three men more amazed than Mr.
Peters and his two sons.

There stood Ben, actually staggering as if on the point of falling,
while the Englishman, calm and unruffled, stood in an easy position
watching for the next move.

Old Mr. Peters rose from the ground in his excitement.

“Pitch into him, Ben!” he shouted. “Ain’t you ashamed of bein’ beaten
back by a little chap like that! Where’s your pluck? Are you goin’ to
let a little undersized Britisher do you up afore your own father and
brother?”

“No, dad, I’ll be eternally walloped if I will. Look out, there! I’m
goin’ to smash yer. Look out I say! Here I come.”

“All right! I’ll look out,” said Noel Brooke calmly.

Ben stood a poorer chance now than before, for his unexpected defeat,
and the raillery of his father, made him angry and reckless of
consequences. He rushed at Brooke in an impetuous pell-mell manner
which was utterly reckless and exposed him to attack, and which would
have given his opponent a great advantage even if he had been less
skilful.

Ben was excited, and Noel Brooke was not. Moreover, the tourist now
thoroughly understood his advantage, and awaited the onslaught in calm
confidence. Again he succeeded in avoiding the close hug by which Ben
intended to paralyze and render him powerless, and took the opportunity
to get in a couple of sledge-hammer blows, one of which took effect on
Ben’s chin.

It was too much for him.

Like a tall poplar he swayed for a moment, and then, falling backward,
measured his length upon the ground.

“Why, Ben!” exclaimed his father in angry amazement, “what’s got into
yer? Hev you been drinkin’? Why, you can’t fight more’n an old cow! To
be floored by a little chap like that!”

Ben rose from the ground slowly, looking dazed and bewildered.

“He knows how to fight, he does!” he said.

“Why, he ain’t half as big as you, Ben! Ain’t you ashamed of yourself?”

“No, I ain’t,” said Ben in a sulky tone. “If you think it’s so easy to
tackle him do it yourself. He’s a reg’lar steam ingine, he is!”

“Will you try it again, Ben?” asked Brooke in a friendly tone.

“No, I won’t. I’ve had enough.”

His father was carried away by his angry excitement.

“I didn’t think one of my boys would disgrace me,” he said bitterly.
“You’ve told me to tackle him myself, and I’ll be whipped if I don’t do
it.”

“You’ll be whipped if you do, dad,” said Ben. “If I can’t lick him you
can’t.”

“We’ll see,” said the old man, gritting his teeth. “Stranger, I’m goin’
for yer!”

“Wait a minute, sir,” said Brooke quietly. “I don’t mean to fight you.”

“You’re afraid, be you?” sneered the old man.

“You may put it that way if you like, but I’m not going to raise my
hand against a man old enough to be my father.”

“I don’t ask no odds on account of my age. You’ll find me young enough
for you.”

“Perhaps you are right, for I couldn’t fight with any spirit against
you.”

“You’ve only licked Ben. Now you want to crawl off.”

“No; if your other son cares to meet me I’ll have a set-to with him.”

“Come, Abe, there’s your chance,” said the old man, addressing his
eldest son. “Just stand up to the Britisher, and let him see that he
can’t lick the whole Peters family.”

“All right, dad!” said Abe, rising and standing up a full inch taller
than his younger brother. “The stranger’s a good fighter, but I reckon
he can’t down me.”

He was tall, muscular, and with no superfluous flesh. It looked to
Gerald as if his friend would find it a hard job to vanquish this
backwoods giant.

“Wal, stranger, how do you feel about it?” asked Abe, as he saw Brooke
apparently taking stock of his thews and sinews.

“I don’t know,” answered the tourist. “I had a hard job with your
brother, but I think I’ll find it harder to tackle you.”

“Ho, ho! I think so too. Wal, dad, give the signal.”

Ben and his father seated themselves as spectators of the coming
encounter. It may seem strange, but Ben’s good wishes were in favor of
the stranger. He had been defeated, and if Abe were victorious he knew
that he would never hear the last of it. But if Abe, too, were worsted
he would have a very good excuse for his own failure. The father,
however, felt eager to have the presumptuous Briton bite the dust under
the triumphant blows of his eldest son.

Abe was not as impetuous or reckless as Ben. Indeed, had he been so
naturally, Ben’s defeat would have made him careful.

He approached cautiously, and at the proper time he tried to overwhelm
Brooke with what he called a “sockdolager.” But Noel Brooke had a quick
eye, and drawing back evaded the onslaught which fell on the empty air.
Before Abe could recover from the recoil the tourist dealt him a heavy
blow beneath his left ear which nearly staggered him.

Ben laughed gleefully, and rubbed his hands.

“Now you see how ’tis yourself, Abe!” he cried.

“Shut up!” growled his father. “Don’t you go to crowin’ over your
brother. He’s all right. Just wait!”

Abe’s rather sluggish temperament was angered by his brother’s
derisive laugh, and he too lost his head. From this time he fought
after Ben’s reckless fashion, of course laying himself open to
attack—an opportunity of which the tourist availed himself.

When five minutes later Abe measured his length on the turf, Ben got up
and bending over his prostrate brother said with a grin: “How did it
happen, Abe? An accident, wasn’t it!”

“No,” answered Abe manfully. “I reckon the stranger’s too much for
either of us.”

“Try it again, Abe!” said the old man in excitement.

“No, I’ve had enough, dad. I shan’t laugh at Ben any more. I can’t best
the Englishman. I might try the boy.”

“No, thank you,” said Gerald laughing. “You could fight me with one
hand.”

This modest confession helped to restore Abe’s good humor, and he shook
hands with his adversary.

“You’re a smart ’un!” he said. “I didn’t think you had it in you, I
didn’t by gum. But there’s one thing I can beat you in—and that’s
shootin’.”




CHAPTER XX.

HITTING THE BULL’S-EYE.


“I HAVE no doubt of it—you can beat me at shooting,” said the
Englishman. “I can aim pretty fairly, but I don’t believe I can equal
you.”

“Let us try!” proposed Ben eagerly.

“Very well,” rejoined Brooke, “if you’ll lend me a rifle. Mine is not a
good one.”

“All right; I’ll lend you mine,” said Ben.

A board was placed in position, and with a piece of chalk a circular
disc was roughly outlined with a bull’s-eye in the center.

“Now,” said Ben, handing his weapon to Noel Brooke, “lemme see what you
can do!”

Brooke fired, striking the disc about two inches from the bull’s-eye.

“That’s good!” cried Ben. “Now I’ll show what I can do.”

He raised the rifle carelessly and struck the disc an inch nearer the
bull’s-eye than the tourist.

“I’ve beat you,” he said gleefully.

“And I’ll beat you, Ben,” added Abe.

He raised the rifle, took careful aim, and struck the bull’s-eye.

“That’s the way Americans shoot,” said he. “We don’t give in to anybody
in shootin’.”

“You’ve both beaten me,” said Brooke good-naturedly, “and I expected
you would.”

“You shoot pretty well for an Englishman,” said Abe magnanimously. “I
reckon you’d be called a crack shot in England?”

“Well, I have a pretty fair reputation there.”

“Don’t you want to shoot, kid?” asked Ben, turning to Gerald.

“I wouldn’t mind,” said Gerald with alacrity.

“Kin he shoot?” asked Abe, turning to the tourist.

“I don’t know. I never saw him try it,” answered Brooke.

Indeed, Noel Brooke awaited the result with considerable curiosity. He
had never heard Gerald speak of his rifle practise, and had no idea
whether he was skilful or not. The fact is, however, that in the three
years Gerald had lived with his father in Colorado he had had large
experience in hunting, for it was upon this that the two depended
largely for their supplies of food. Gerald had a quick eye, and steady
hand, and he had practised a good deal by himself, being ambitious to
gain skill with the rifle. He had succeeded so well that as soon as the
second contest was proposed he was anxious to enter, but felt rather
bashful about suggesting it himself. When, however, Ben mentioned it he
accepted at once.

“You kin use the rifle, kid, can you?” asked Abe a little doubtfully.

“Yes, a little.”

“We can’t expect too much of a boy like you, but you’ll learn after a
while.”

Gerald smiled inwardly, and determined to give the brothers a little
surprise.

He raised the rifle to his shoulder, and when quite ready he let fly.

The bullet struck the bull’s-eye, a little more exactly, if possible,
than Abe’s.

There was a shout of surprise.

“Why, he’s hit the bull’s-eye!” exclaimed Ben, running forward to
examine the target.

“So he has!” cried Noel Brooke joyfully, for he was delighted by his
young companion’s unexpected success.

“It’s an accident!” said Abe jealously. “He couldn’t do it again?”

“Can you?” asked Brooke, turning to Gerald.

“I don’t know. I think so.”

“Then have a second trial.”

The board was reversed, a second disc was drawn, and the three marksmen
prepared to repeat their shots.

“Shoot first, kid!” said Ben.

“No, I’m the youngest, I would rather follow.”

“I won’t shoot this time,” said the tourist. “It’s no use. You can all
beat me.”

The shooting took place in the same order. Ben did about as well as
before, but Abe, though coming nearer, failed this time to hit the
bull’s-eye.

“Now it’s your turn, boy!” he said.

A minute after there was another shout of surprise.

A second time Gerald had hit the bull’s-eye, thus making the best
record.

“You ain’t a Britisher, be you?” asked Abe, mortified.

“No, I am a native-born American, and proud of it,” returned Gerald.

“You’ll do, then! Hurrah for the stars and stripes!” shouted Abe. “The
Amerikins kin shoot, you must admit, stranger.”

“Yes, I am willing to admit it,” said Noel Brooke with a smile,
“especially as it is my friend Gerald who has come out first.”

Later on Mrs. Peters and Bess, who had completed their housework, came
out and joined them.

Mrs. Peters was astonished when she heard that the Englishman, who was
two inches shorter than herself, had defeated both her tall sons.

“Why,” she said, “I didn’t think you could handle me.”

“I don’t believe I can, Mrs. Peters,” said Noel Brooke modestly.

“I’m with you there!” put in her husband. “There ain’t many men that’s
as tough and gritty as Sal Peters.”

Mrs. Peters listened to this high encomium with complacency.

“And the boy there beat Abe and Ben in shooting,” continued Mr. Peters.

“I reckon he couldn’t beat me!” said Mrs. Peters.

“The fact is the old woman is the best marksman in the lot of us,”
explained Mr. Peters. “She’s got a sharp, keen eye, even if she is
forty-nine years old.”

“Does Miss Peters take after her mother?” inquired the tourist.

“Miss Peters? Oh, you mean Bess. No, she’ll never make the woman her
mother is.”

“I should hope not if I were going to marry her,” thought Brooke.

Before ten o’clock all the inmates of the cabin were asleep. It may
readily be supposed that first-class accommodations were not provided.
Gerald and his friend were shown to a bed in one corner, where they
threw themselves down without undressing. But neither of them were
inclined to be fastidious. They were thoroughly fatigued, and were soon
oblivious to all that passed around them.

Noel Brooke, though a sound sleeper, was easily aroused. About midnight
he started suddenly, and lifted his head as a noise was heard outside.
It was a whinny from one of the horses, that were tethered to a tree at
the rear part of the cabin. The horse was evidently frightened.

“Gerald!” exclaimed Brooke, shaking his companion energetically.

Gerald opened his eyes and asked drowsily, “What’s the matter?”

“The horses! Some one is meddling with them. Get up at once!”

Gerald comprehended instantly, and sprang to his feet. Both he and the
tourist were out of doors like a flash, and ran to the rear of the
cabin.

Two cowboys wearing large flapping sombreros, had untied the horses,
and were leading them away.

“Hold on there!” exclaimed the Englishman. “Leave that horse alone!”

The cowboy who had sprung upon the horse turned and greeted him with
derisive laughter.

“Mind your business, stranger, and get back to your bed!” he answered.
“I’ve got use for this horse.”

The other, who had Gerald’s horse by the bridle, also sprang upon his
back.

“That’s my horse!” called out Gerald angrily.

“It’s mine now!”

“I wish I had my rifle!” said Brooke in excitement, “I would soon stop
these thieves!”

This incautious speech betrayed the fact that he was unarmed, and made
the two thieves feel secure.

“Good-by, strangers!” said the first cowboy. “Your horses will be taken
care of. You ain’t no cause to worry.”

They turned the horses’ heads and prepared to gallop away, though the
poor animals, recognizing the voices of their real masters, seemed
reluctant to go.

“If Mr. Peters and the boys were only awake,”

said the tourist, “they would manage these fellow.”

[Illustration: “You just get off them animals, or I’ll shoot!” cried a
stern voice.—Page 163.]

But help was near at hand after all.

“You just get off them animals, or I’ll shoot!” cried a stern voice.

The two cowboys turned quickly, expecting to encounter a man, but
instead saw only a tall, gaunt woman in a white night-dress, with her
long, disheveled hair hanging down her back.

“Go back to bed, you old witch!” shouted the thief contemptuously.

If he had known Mrs. Peters better he would have hesitated before
speaking in this strain, and above all he would have felt it prudent to
get out of the way.

She took no time to parley, but raising a rifle which she carried at
her side, aimed at the foremost ruffian, and an instant later a sharp
pain in his shoulder told him he had been hit. With an imprecation
he dropped to the ground, and his companion, striking Gerald’s horse
sharply, prepared to seek safety in flight, leaving his companion to
his fate. But Mrs. Peters was ready for him, too. A second shot struck
him in the leg, and he slid off the horse.

By this time Peters and his two boys showed themselves, roused by the
sound of firing.

“What’s up?” asked the old man.

“Two hoss thieves are down!” answered Mrs. Peters.

“Hoss thieves?”

“Yes; they was makin’ off with the strangers’ hosses. I’ve given ’em a
hint not to come round here agin.”

The groans uttered by the two fallen men confirmed her statement.




CHAPTER XXI.

ON THE STEAMER ROCK ISLAND.


THE horse thieves struggled to their feet, and stood apprehensively,
but defiant, facing the old man who eyed them with stern and
threatening glances. They were too much disabled to think of escaping.

“Why, you poor contemptible hoss thieves!” ejaculated Peters, “what
have you got to say for yourselves?”

The two men looked at each other, but the right words did not seem to
occur to them, for they remained silent.

“Serves you right to be tripped up by a woman! You ain’t men, you’re
sneaks!”

The thieves turned their eyes toward Mrs. Peters, who, tall and gaunt,
stood looking on with her thin gray hair floating down her back.

“She ain’t a woman! She’s a witch!” said one of them bitterly.

“You’ll have to answer for that to me!” cried Ben, and with a stride
he struck the man with his huge fist, and prostrated him.

“Dad, shall we string ’em up?” he asked, turning to his father. “He’s
insulted mother.”

What Mr. Peters would have said is problematical, but Noel Brooke
interposed earnestly, “No, no, Mr. Peters, let them go! They’re both
wounded, and that will be punishment sufficient.”

“Just as you say, stranger! It’s your hosses they tried to steal.”

“But they insulted mother,” insisted Ben.

“Let ’em go!” said Mrs. Peters contemptuously. “They’ll remember the
old witch for some time, I reckon!”

The men looked as if they would like to strangle her, but they were
prudent enough to keep their mouths shut.

“Now scoot!” exclaimed Peters, in a threatening tone. “If I ever catch
either of you within a mile of my cabin, I’ll shoot you down like dogs.”

The two thieves waited for no further hint, but, helping each other as
best they could, struck into the woods.

“Mrs. Peters,” said the tourist, turning to his hostess, “I feel very
much indebted to you for your prompt action. But for you Gerald and I
would be forced to walk till we could secure fresh horses.”

“You’re welcome, strangers,” responded Mrs. Peters, coolly reloading
her rifle. “I ain’t enjoyed myself so much for six months.”

And indeed the old woman appeared to be in high spirits. The adventure,
which would have terrified most women, only exhilarated her.

“I reckon we’d better be gettin’ back to bed!” said Peters. “Gettin’ up
at midnight is too early risin’ for me.”

His feeling was shared not only by members of his family, but by
his guests, and all betook themselves to bed again, and in half an
hour were sleeping peacefully. The rest of the night passed without
adventure, and at seven o’clock the next morning they sat down to
breakfast.

As they were about to start on their journey Noel Brooke tendered a
ten-dollar bill to his hostess.

“Mrs. Peters,” he said, “allow me to offer you a slight gift in
acknowledgment of your kindness and of the signal service you did us
last night.”

“I don’t understand all your high words, stranger,” said the old lady,
as with a look of satisfaction she pocketed the money, “but I’ll be
glad to see you again any time. You’re one of the right sort.”
