
"Will you come this evening and tell us what the lawyer says?" Cecilia
asked.

"Yes, if I may."

"Pray do," said the Countess. "We should so much like to know. Poor
Guido! Good-bye!" Lamberti left the room.




                                   CHAPTER XXVI


When Lamberti reached the Palazzo Farnese at eight o'clock he had all
Guido's receipts for the Princess's money in his pocket. He had
difficulty in getting the lawyer to see him on business so late in the
afternoon, and when he succeeded at last he did not find it easy to
carry matters with a high hand; but he had come prepared to go to any
length, for he was in no gentle humour, and if he could not get the
papers by persuasion, he fully intended to take them by force, though
that might be the end of his career as an officer, and might even bring
him into court for something very like robbery.

The lawyer was obdurate at first. He of course denied all knowledge of
the article in the Figaro, but he said that he was the Princess's
legal representative, that the case had been formally placed in his
hands, and that he should use all his professional energy in her
interests.

"After all," said Lamberti at last, "you have nothing but a few informal
bits of writing to base your case upon. They have no legal value."

"They are stamped receipts," answered the lawyer.

"They are not stamped," Lamberti replied.

"They are!"

"They are not!"

"You are giving me the lie, sir," said the lawyer, angrily.

"I say that they are not stamped," retorted Lamberti. "You dare not show
them to me."

The lawyer was human, after all. He opened his safe, in a rage, found
the receipts, and showed one of them to Lamberti triumphantly.

"There!" he cried. "Are they stamped or not? Is the signature written
across the stamp or not?"

Lamberti had the advantage of knowing positively that when Guido had
given the acknowledgments to his aunt, there had been no stamps on them.
He did not know how they had got them now, but he was sure that some
fraud had been committed. It was broad daylight still, and he examined
the signature carefully while the lawyer held the half sheet of note
paper before his eyes. The paper was certainly the Princess's, and the
writing was Guido's beyond doubt. The Princess always used violet ink,
and Guido had written with it. It struck Lamberti suddenly that it had
turned black where the signature crossed the stamp, but had remained
violet everywhere else. Now violet ink sometimes turns black altogether,
but it does not change colour in parts. As he looked nearer, he saw that
the letters formed on the stamp were a little tremulous. Though he had
never heard of such a thing, it now occurred to him that the stamp had
been simply stuck upon the middle of the signature, and that the part of
the latter that had been covered by it had been cleverly forged over it.

"The stamp makes very much less difference in law than you seem to
suppose," said the lawyer, enjoying his triumph.

"It will make a considerable difference in law," answered Lamberti, "if
I prove to you that the stamp was put on over the first writing, and
part of the signature forged upon it. It has not even been done with the
same ink! The one is black and the other is violet. Do you know that
this is forgery, and that you may lose your reputation if you try to
found an action at law upon a forged document?"

The lawyer was now scrutinising the signatures of the notes one by one
in the strong evening light. His anger had disappeared and there were
drops of perspiration on his forehead.

"There is only one way of proving it to you," Lamberti said quietly.
"Moisten one of the stamps and raise it. If the signature runs
underneath it in violet ink, I am right, and the wisest thing you can do
is to hand me those pieces of paper and say nothing more about them. You
can write to Monsieur Leroy that you have done so. I even believe that
he would pay a considerable sum for them."

It was as he said, and the lawyer was soon convinced that he had been
imposed upon, and had narrowly escaped being laughed at as a dupe, or
prosecuted as a party accessory to a fraud. He was glad to be out of the
whole affair so easily. Therefore, when Lamberti reached his friend's
door, he had the receipts in his pocket and he now meant to tell Guido
what had happened, after first giving them back to him. Guido would
laugh at Monsieur Leroy's stupid attempt to hurt him. But some one had
been before Lamberti.

"He is very ill," said the servant, gravely, as he admitted him. "The
doctor is there and has sent for a nurse. I telephoned for him."

Lamberti asked him what had happened, fearing the truth. Guido had felt
a little better in the afternoon and had asked for his letters and
papers. Half an hour later his servant had gone in with his tea and had
found him raving in delirium. That was all, but Lamberti knew what it
meant. Guido did not take the Figaro, but some one had sent the
article to him and he had read it. He had brain fever, and Lamberti was
not surprised, for he had suffered as much on that day as would have
killed some men, and might have driven some men mad.

Lamberti did not wish to frighten Cecilia or her mother, but he sent
them word that he would not leave Guido that night, nor till he was
better, and that he had seen the lawyer and had recovered a number of
forged papers.

After that there was nothing to be done but to watch and wait, and hear
the broken phrases that fell from the sick man's lips, now high, now
low, now laughing, now despairing, as if a host of mad spirits were
sporting with his helpless brain and body and mocking each other with
his voice.

So it went on, hour after hour, and all the next day, till his strength
seemed almost spent. Lamberti listened, because he could not help it
when he was in the room, and again and again Cecilia's name rang out,
and the first passionate words of speeches that ran into incoherent
sounds and were drowned in a groan.

Lamberti had nursed men who were ill and had seen them die in several
ways, but he had never taken care of one who was very near to him. It
was bad enough, but it was worse to know that he had an unwilling share
in causing his friend's suffering, and to feel that if Guido lived he
must some day be told that Lamberti had taken his place. It was
strangest of all to hear the name of the woman he loved so constantly on
another's lips. When the two men talked of her she had always been "the
Contessina," while she had been "Cecilia" in the hearts of both.

There was something in the thought of not having told Guido all before
the delirium seized him, that still offended Lamberti's scrupulous
loyalty. It would be almost horrible if Guido should die without knowing
the truth. Somehow, his consent still seemed needful to Lamberti's love,
and it seemed so to Cecilia, too, and there was no denying that he was
now in danger of his life. If he was to die, there would probably be a
lucid hour before death, but what right would his best friend have to
embitter those final moments for one who would certainly go out of this
world with no hope of the next? Yet, when he was gone at last, would it
be no slur on the memory of such true friendship to do what would have
hurt him, if he could have known of it? Lamberti was not sure. Like some
strong men of rough temperament, he had hidden delicacies of feeling
that many a girl would have thought foolish and exaggerated, and they
were the more sensitive because they were so secret, and he never
suffered outward things to come in contact with them, nor spoke of them,
even to Guido.

Some people said that Guido was Quixotic, and he was certainly the
personification of honour. If the papers Lamberti had safe in his pocket
had come into Guido's possession as they had come into Lamberti's own,
Guido would have sent them back to Princess Anatolie, quite sure that
she had a right to them, whether they were partly forged or not, because
he had originally given them to her and nothing could induce him to take
them back. The reason why Guido's illness had turned into brain fever
was simply that he believed his honourable reputation among men to have
been gravely damaged by an article in a newspaper. Honour was his god,
his religion, and his rule of life; it was all he had beyond the
material world, and it was sacred. He had not that something else,
simple but undefinable, and as sensitive as an uncovered nerve, that lay
under his friend's rougher character and sturdier heart. Nature would
never have chosen him to be one instrument in that mysterious harmony of
two sleeping beings which had linked Cecilia and Lamberti in their
dreams. It was not the melancholy and intellectual Cassius who trembled
before CÃ¦sar's ghost at Philippi; it was rough Brutus, the believer in
himself and the man of action.

The illness ran its course. While it continued Lamberti went every other
day to the Palazzo Massimo and told the two ladies of Guido's state. He
and Cecilia looked at each other silently, but she never showed that she
wished to be alone with him, and he made no attempt to see her except in
her mother's presence. Both felt that Guido was dying, and knew that
they had some share in his sufferings. As soon as the Countess learned
that the danger was real she gave up all thought of leaving Rome, and
there was no discussion about it between her and her daughter. She was
worldly and often foolish, but she was not unkind, and she had grown
really fond of Guido since the spring. So they waited for the turn of
the illness, or for its sudden end, and the days dragged on painfully.
Lamberti was as lean as a man trained for a race, and the cords stood
out on his throat when he spoke, but nothing seemed to tire him. The
good Countess lost her fresh colour and grew listless, but she
complained only of the heat and the solitude of Rome in summer, and if
she felt any impatience she never showed it. Cecilia was as slender and
pale as one of the lilies of the Annunciation, but her eyes were full of
light. In the early morning she often used to go with her maid to the
distant church of Santa Croce, and late in the afternoons she went for
long drives with her mother in the Campagna. Twice Lamberti came to
luncheon, and the three were silent and subdued when they were together.

Then the news came that Princess Anatolie had died suddenly at her place
in Styria, and one of the secretaries of the Austrian embassy, who was
obliged to stay in town, came to the Palazzo Massimo the same afternoon
and told the Countess some details of the old lady's death. There was
certainly something mysterious about it, but no one regretted her
translation to a better world, though it put a number of high and mighty
persons into mourning for a little while.

She died in the drawing-room after dinner, almost with her coffee cup in
her hand. It was the heart, of course, said the young secretary. Two or
three of her relations were staying in the house, and one of them was
the man who had been at her dinner-party given for the engaged couple,
and who resembled Guido but was older. The Countess remembered his name
very well. It had leaked out that he was exceedingly angry at the
article in the Figaro and had said one or two sharp things to the
Princess, when Monsieur Leroy had come in unexpectedly, though the
Princess had sent him away for a few days. No one knew exactly what
followed, but Monsieur Leroy was an insolent person and the Princess's
cousin was not patient of impertinence nor of anything like an attack on
Guido d'Este. It was said that Monsieur Leroy had left the room hastily
and that the other had followed him at once, in a very bad temper, and
that the Princess, who thought Monsieur Leroy was going to be badly
hurt, if not killed, had died of fright, without uttering a word or a
cry. She had always been unaccountably attached to Monsieur Leroy. The
secretary glanced at Cecilia, asked for another cup of tea, and
discreetly changed the subject, fearing that he had already said a
little too much.

"I believe Guido may recover, now that she is dead," Lamberti said, when
he heard the story.

The change in Guido's state came one night about eleven o'clock, when
Lamberti and the French nun were standing beside the bed, looking into
his face and wondering whether he would open his eyes before he died. He
had been lying motionless for many hours, turned a little on one side,
and his breathing was very faint. There seemed to be hardly any life
left in the wasted body.

"I think he will die about midnight," Lamberti whispered to the nurse.

The good nun, who thought so too, bent down and spoke gently close to
the sick man's ear. She could not bear to let him go out of life without
a Christian word, though Lamberti had told her again and again that his
friend believed in nothing beyond death.

"You are dying," she said, softly and clearly. "Think of God! Try to
think of God, Signor d'Este!"

That was all she could find to say, for she was a simple soul and not
eloquent; but perhaps it might do some good. She knelt down then, by the
bedside.

"Look!" cried Lamberti in a low voice, bending forwards.

Guido had opened his eyes, and they were wide and grave.

"Thank you," he said, after a few seconds, faintly but distinctly. "You
are very kind. But I am not going to die."

The quiet eyes closed, and the mystery of life went on in silence. That
was all he had to say. The nun knelt down again and folded her hands,
but in less than a minute she rose and busied herself noiselessly,
preparing something in a glass. It would be the last time that anything
would pass his lips, she thought, and it might be quite useless to give
it to him, but it must be ready. Many and many a time she had heard the
dying declare quietly that they were out of danger. Lamberti stood
motionless by the bedside, thinking much the same things and feeling as
if his own heart were slowly turning into lead.

He stood there a long time, convinced that it was useless to send for
the doctor, who always came about midnight, for Guido would probably be
dead before he came. He would stop breathing presently, and that would
be the end. The lids would open a little, but the eyes would not see,
there would be a little white froth on the parted lips, and that would
be the end. Guido would know the great secret then.

But the breathing did not cease, and the eyes did not open again; on the
contrary, at the end of half an hour Lamberti was almost sure that the
lids were more tightly closed than before, and that the breath came and
went with a fuller sound. In ten minutes more he was sure that the sick
man was peacefully sleeping, and not likely to die that night. He turned
away with a deep sigh of relief.

The doctor came soon after midnight. He would not disturb Guido; he
looked at him a long time and listened to his breathing, and nodded with
evident satisfaction.

"You may begin to hope now," he said quietly to Lamberti, not even
whispering, for he knew how deep such sleep was sure to be. "He may not
wake before to-morrow afternoon. Do not be anxious. I will come early in
the morning."

"Very well," answered Lamberti. "By the bye, a near relation of his has
died suddenly while he has been delirious. Shall I tell him if he wakes
quite conscious?"

"If it will give him great satisfaction to know of his relative's death,
tell him of it by all means," answered the doctor, his quiet eye
twinkling a little, for he had often heard of the Princess Anatolie, and
knew that she was dead.

"I do not think the news will cause him pain," said Lamberti, with
perfect gravity.

The doctor gave the nurse a few directions and went away, evidently
convinced that Guido was out of all immediate danger. Then Lamberti
rested at last, for the nun slept in the daytime and was fresh for the
night's watching. He stretched himself upon Guido's long chair in the
drawing-room, leaving the door open, and one light burning, so that the
nurse could call him at once. He had earned his rest, and as he shut his
eyes his only wish was that he could have let Cecilia know of the change
before he went to sleep. A moment later he was sitting beside her on the
bench in the Villa Madama, by the fountain, telling her that Guido was
safe at last.

When he awoke the sun had risen an hour.




                              CHAPTER XXVII


"I am like Dante," said Guido to Lamberti, when he was recovering. "I
have been in Hell, and now I am in Purgatory. But I shall not reach the
earthly Paradise at the top, much less the Heaven beyond."

He smiled sadly and looked at his friend.

"Who knows?" Lamberti asked, by way of answer.

"Beatrice will not lead me further."

Guido closed his eyes, and wondered why he had come back to life, out of
so much suffering, only to be tormented again in the same way, perhaps
when the end really came. His memories of his serious illness were vague
and indistinct, but they were all horrible. He only recalled the
beginning very clearly, how he had glanced through the newspaper article
and had dropped it in sudden and overwhelming despair; and then, how he
had roused himself and had felt in the drawer for his revolver; not
finding it, he had lost consciousness just as he realised that even that
means of escape from life had been taken from him. He remembered having
felt as if something broke in his brain, though he knew that he was not
dying.

After that, fragments of his ravings came back to him with the still
vivid recollection of awful pain, of monstrous darkness, of lurid
lights, of hideous beings glaring and gnashing their jagged teeth at
him, and of a continual discordant noise of voices that had run all
through his delirium like the crying out and moaning of many creatures
in agony. It was no wonder that he compared what he remembered of his
sufferings to hell itself.

And now that he was alive, of what use was life to him? His honour was
cleared, indeed, for Lamberti had taken care of that. Lamberti had
burned the papers before his eyes after telling him how Princess
Anatolie had died, and had read him the paragraph which Baron Goldbirn
had caused to be inserted in the Figaro. The Princess was dead, and
Monsieur Leroy would probably never trouble any one again. When he had
squandered what she had left him, he would probably get a living as a
medium in Vienna. Guido knew the secret of the tie that bound him to the
Princess, but was quite sure that the proud old woman had never let him
guess it himself, in spite of her doting affection for him. Those of her
family who knew it would not tell him, of all people, and if Monsieur
Leroy ever begged money of Guido he would not present himself as an
unfortunate cousin.

Guido foresaw no difficulties in the future, but he anticipated no
happiness, and his life stretched before him, colourless, blank, and
idle.

Since his delirium had ceased, he had not once spoken of Cecilia, and
Lamberti began to fear that he would not allude to her for a long time.
That did not make it easier to tell him the story he must hear, and the
time had come when he must hear it, come what might, lest he should ever
think that he had been intentionally kept in ignorance of the truth.
Lamberti was glad when he spoke of Cecilia as a Beatrice who would never
appear to lead him further, and knew at once that the opportunity must
not be lost.

It was the hardest moment in Lamberti's life. It had been far easier to
hide what he felt, so long as he had not guessed that Cecilia loved him,
than it was to speak out now; it had cost him much less to be steadfast
in his silence with her while Guido's illness lasted. To make Guido
understand all, it would be necessary to tell all from the beginning,
even to explaining that what he had taken for mutual aversion at first,
had been an attraction so irresistible that it had frightened Cecilia
and had made Lamberti compare it with a possession of the devil and a
haunting spirit.

The two men were sitting on the brick steps of the miniature Roman
theatre close to the oak which is still called Tasso's, a few yards from
the new road that leads over the Janiculum through what was once the
Villa Corsini. It was shady there, and Rome lay at their feet in the
still afternoon. The waiting carriage was out of sight, and there was no
sound but the rustling of leaves stirred by the summer breeze. It was
nearly the middle of August.

"They are still in Rome," Lamberti said, after a moment's pause, during
which he had decided to speak at last.

"Are they?" asked Guido, coldly.

"Yes. Neither the Countess nor her daughter would go away till you were
well."

"I am well now."

He was painfully thin and his eyes were hollow. The doctor had ordered
mountain air and he was going to stay with one of his relatives in the
Austrian Tyrol as soon as he could bear the journey without too much
fatigue.

"They wish to see you," Lamberti said, glancing sideways at his face.

"I cannot refuse, but I would rather not see them. They ought to
understand that, I think."

He was offended by what seemed very like an intrusion on the privacy of
a suffering that was still keen. Why could they not leave him alone?

"They would not have gone away in any case till you recovered," Lamberti
answered, "but the Contessina would not have the bad taste to wish for a
meeting just now, unless there were a reason which you do not know, and
which I must explain to you, cost what it may."

Guido looked at Lamberti in surprise and then laughed a little
scornfully.

"Is she going to be married?" he asked.

"Perhaps."

"Already!"

His tone was sad, and pitying, and slightly contemptuous. His lips
closed after the single word and he drew his eyelids together, as he
looked steadily out over the deep city towards the hills to eastward.

"Then it was true that she cared for another man," he said, in a low
voice.

"Yes. It was quite true."

"She wrote me in that letter that he did not know it."

"That was true also."

"And that he was not in the least in love with her."

"She thought so."

"But she was mistaken, you mean to say. He loved her, but did not show
it."

"Precisely. He loved her, but he was careful not to show it because he
understood that her mother and the Princess wished to marry her to you,
and because he happened to know that you were in earnest."

"That was decent of him, at all events," Guido said wearily. "Some men
would have behaved differently."

"I daresay," Lamberti answered.

"Is he a man I know?"

"Yes. You know him very well."

"And now she has asked you to tell me his name. I suppose that is why
you begin this conversation. You are trying to break it gently to me."
He smiled contemptuously.

"Yes!"

The word was spoken as if it cost an effort. Lamberti held his stout
stick with both hands over his crossed knee and leaned back, so that it
bent a little with the strain.

"My dear fellow," said Guido, with a little impatience, "it seems to me
that you need not take so much trouble to spare my feelings! If you do
not tell me who the man is, some one else will."

"No one else can," Lamberti answered, with emphasis.

"Why not? I would rather speak of her with you, if I must speak of her
at all, of course. But some obliging person is sure to tell me, or write
to me about it, as soon as the engagement is announced. 'My dear d'Este,
do you remember that girl you were engaged to last spring?' And so on.
Remember her!"

"There is no engagement," Lamberti said. "No one will write to you about
it, and no one knows who the man is, except the Contessina and the man
himself."

"And you," corrected Guido. "You may as well keep the secret, so far as
I am concerned. I have no curiosity about it. There will be time enough
to tell me when the engagement is announced."

"I do not think that there can be any engagement until you know."

"Oh, this is absurd! The Contessina was frank. She did not love me, she
told me so, and we agreed that our engagement should end. What possible
claim have I to know whom she wishes to marry now?"

"You have the strongest claim that any man can have, though not on her.
The man is your friend."

"Nonsense!" exclaimed Guido, becoming impatient. "A dozen men I like
might be called friends of mine, I suppose, but you know very well that
you are the only intimate friend I have."

"Yes, I know."

"Well? I can hardly fancy that you mean yourself, can I?"

Lamberti did not move, but as Guido looked at him for an answer, he saw
that he could not speak just then, and that he was clenching his teeth.
Guido stared at him a moment and then started.

"Lamberti!" he cried sharply.

Lamberti slowly turned his head and gazed into Guido's eyes without
speaking. Then they both looked out at the distant hills in silence for
a long time.

"The Contessina was very loyal to you, Guido," Lamberti said at last, in
a low tone. "She could not tell you that it was I, and I did not know
it."

Again there was a silence for a time.

"When did you know it?" Guido asked slowly.

"After she had been to see you. It was my fault, then."

"What was your fault?"

"When we went downstairs, I thought I should never see her again, and I
never meant to. How could I know what she felt? She never betrayed
herself by a glance or a tone of her voice. I loved her with all my
heart, and when you had both told me that everything was quite over
between you, I wanted her to know that I did. Was that disloyal to you,
since you had definitely given up the hope of marrying her, and since I
did not expect to see her again for years and thought she was quite
indifferent?"

"No," Guido answered, after a moment's thought. "But you should have
told me at once."

"When I came upstairs the Countess was still there, and you were quite
worn out. I put you to bed, meaning to tell you that same evening, after
you had rested. When I came back you had brain fever, and did not know
me. So I have had to wait until to-day."

"And you have seen each other constantly while I have been ill, of
course," said Guido, with some bitterness. "It was natural, I suppose."

"Since that day when we spoke on the staircase we have only been alone
together once, for a moment. I asked her then if I should tell her
mother, and she said 'Not yet.' Excepting that, we have never exchanged
a word that you and her mother might not have heard, nor a glance that
you might not have seen. We both knew that we were waiting for you to
get well, and we have waited."

Guido looked at him with a sort of wonder.

"That was like you," he said quietly.

"You understand, now," Lamberti continued. "You and I met her on the
same day at your aunt's, and when I saw her, I felt as if I had always
known her and loved her. No one can explain such things. Then by a
strange coincidence we dreamt the same dream, on the same night."

"Was it she whom you met in the Forum, and who ran away from you?" asked
Guido, in astonishment.

"Yes. That is the reason why we always avoided each other, and why I
would not go to their house till you almost forced me to. We had never
spoken alone together till the garden party. It was then that we found
out that our dreams were alike, and after that I kept away from her more
than ever, but I dreamt of her every night."

"So that was your secret, that afternoon!"

"Yes. We had dreamt of each other and we had met in the Forum in the
place we had dreamt of, and she ran away without speaking to me. That
was the whole secret. She was afraid of me, and I loved her, and was
beginning to know it. I thought there was something wrong with my head
and went to see a doctor. He talked to me about telepathy, but seemed
inclined to consider that it might possibly be a mere train of
coincidences. I think I have told you everything."

For a long time they sat side by side in silence, each thinking his own
thoughts.

"Is there anything you do not understand?" Lamberti asked at last.

"No," Guido answered thoughtfully. "I understand it all. It was rather a
shock at first, but I am glad you have told me. Perhaps I do not quite
understand why she wishes to see me."

"We both wish to be sure that you bear us no ill-will. I am sure she
does, and I know that I do."

There was a pause again.
