distance.

She did not answer; I fished out my watch, regarding it in silence,
listening to the hum of the approaching train, which ought presently
to bear her away into the North, where nothing could menace her except
the brilliant pitfalls of a Christian civilization. But I stood
there, temporizing, unable to utter a word as her train shot by us
with a rush, slower, slower, and finally stopped, with a long-drawn
sigh from the air-brakes.

At that instant the telegraph-operator appeared, carrying a dog by the
scruff of the neck--a sad-eyed, ewe-necked dog, from the four corners
of which dangled enormous, cushion-like paws. He yelped when he beheld
me. Miss Barrison leaned down from the car-platform and took the
animal into her arms, uttering a suppressed exclamation of pity as she
lifted him.

"You have your hands full," she said to me; "I'll take him into the
car for you."

She mounted the steps; I followed with the valises, striving to get a
good view of my acquisition over her shoulder.

"That isn't the kind of dog I wanted!" I repeated again and again,
inspecting the animal as it sprawled on the floor of the car at the
edge of Miss Barrison's skirt. "That dog is all voice and feet and
emotion! What makes it stick up its paws like that? I don't want that
dog and I'm not going to identify myself with it! Where's the
operator--"

I turned towards the car-window; the operator's bald head was visible
on a line with the sill, and I made motions at him. He bowed with
courtly grace, as though I were thanking him.

"I'm not!" I cried, shaking my head. "I wanted a dog with points--not
the kind of points that stick up all over this dog. Take him away!"

The operator's head appeared to be gliding out of my range of vision;
then the windows of the north-bound train slid past, faster and
faster. A melancholy grace-note from the dog, a jolt, and I turned
around, appalled.

"This train is going," I stammered, "and you are on it!"

Miss Barrison sprang up and started towards the door, and I sped after
her.

"I can jump," she said, breathlessly, edging out to the platform;
"please let me! There is time yet--if you only wouldn't hold me--so
tight--"

A few moments later we walked slowly back together through the car and
took seats facing one another.

Between us sat the hound-dog, a prey to melancholy unutterable.




XV


It was on Sunday when I awoke to the realization that I had quitted
civilization and was afloat on an unfamiliar body of water in an open
boat containing--

    One light steel cage,
    One rifle and ammunition,
    One stenographer,
    Three ounces rosium oxide,
    One hound-dog,
    Two valises.

A playful wave slopped over the bow and I lost count; but the pretty
stenographer made the inventory, while I resumed the oars, and the dog
punctured the primeval silence with staccato yelps.

A few minutes later everything and everybody was accounted for; the
sky was blue and the palms waved, and several species of dicky-birds
tuned up as I pulled with powerful strokes out into the sunny waters
of Little Sprite Lake, now within a few miles of my journey's end.

From ponds hidden in the marshes herons rose in lazily laborious
flight, flapping low across the water; high in the cypress yellow-eyed
ospreys bent crested heads to watch our progress; sun-baked
alligators, lying heavily in the shoreward sedge, slid open, glassy
eyes as we passed.

"Even the 'gators make eyes at you," I said, resting on my oars.

We were on terms of badinage.

"Who was it who shed crocodile tears at the prospect of shipping me
North?" she inquired.

"Speaking of tears," I observed, "somebody is likely to shed a number
when Professor Farrago is picked up."

"Pooh!" she said, and snapped her pretty, sun-tanned fingers; and I
resumed the oars in time to avoid shipwreck on a large mud-bar.

She reclined in the stern, serenely occupied with the view, now and
then caressing the discouraged dog, now and then patting her hair
where the wind had loosened a bright strand.

"If Professor Farrago didn't expect a woman stenographer," she said,
abruptly, "why did he instruct you to bring a complete outfit of
woman's clothing?"

"I don't know," I said, tartly.

"But you bought them. Are they for a young woman or an old woman?"

"I don't know; I sent a messenger to a department store. I don't know
what he bought."

"Didn't you look them over?"

"No. Why? I should have been no wiser. I fancy they're all right,
because the bill was eighteen hundred dollars--"

The pretty stenographer sat up abruptly.

"Is that much?" I asked, uneasily. "I've always heard women's clothing
was expensive. Wasn't it enough? I told the boy to order the
best;--Professor Farrago always requires the very best scientific
instruments, and--I listed the clothes as scientific accessories--that
being the object of this expedition--What are you laughing at?"

When it pleased her to recover her gravity she announced her desire to
inspect and repack the clothing; but I refused.

"They're for Professor Farrago," I said. "I don't know what he wants
of them. I don't suppose he intends to wear 'em and caper about the
jungle, but they're his. I got them because he told me to. I bought a
cage, too, to fit myself, but I don't suppose he means to put me in
it. Perhaps," I added, "he may invite you into it."

"Let me refold the gowns," she pleaded, persuasively. "What does a
clumsy man know about packing such clothing as that? If you don't,
they'll be ruined. It's a shame to drag those boxes about through mud
and water!"

So we made a landing, and lifted out and unlocked the boxes. All I
could see inside were mounds of lace and ribbons, and with a vague
idea that Miss Barrison needed no assistance I returned to the boat
and sat down to smoke until she was ready.

When she summoned me her face was flushed and her eyes bright.

"Those are certainly the most beautiful things!" she said, softly.
"Why, it is like a bride's trousseau--absolutely complete--all except
the bridal gown--"

"Isn't there a dress there?" I exclaimed, in alarm.

"No--not a day-dress."

"Night-dresses!" I shrieked. "He doesn't want women's night-dresses!
He's a bachelor! Good Heavens! I've done it this time!"

"But--but who is to wear them?" she asked.

"How do I know? I don't know anything; I can only presume that he
doesn't intend to open a department store in the Everglades. And if
any lady is to wear garments in his vicinity, I assume that those
garments are to be anything except diaphanous!... Please take your
seat in the boat, Miss Barrison. I want to row and think."

I had had my fill of exercise and thought when, about four o'clock in
the afternoon, Miss Barrison directed my attention to a point of palms
jutting out into the water about a mile to the southward.

"That's Farrago!" I exclaimed, catching sight of a United States flag
floating majestically from a bamboo-pole. "Give me the megaphone, if
you please."

She handed me the instrument; I hailed the shore; and presently a man
appeared under the palms at the water's edge.

"Hello!" I roared, trying to inject cheerfulness into the hollow
bellow. "How are you, professor?"

The answer came distinctly across the water:

"Who is that with you?"

My lips were buried in the megaphone; I strove to speak; I only
produced a ghastly, chuckling sound.

"Of course you expect to tell the truth," observed the pretty
stenographer, quietly.

I removed my lips from the megaphone and looked around at her. She
returned my gaze with a disturbing smile.

"I want to mitigate the blow," I said, hoarsely. "Tell me how."

"I'm sure I don't know," she said, sweetly.

"Well, I do!" I fairly barked, and seizing the megaphone again, I
set it to my lips and roared, "My fianc√©e!"

"Good gracious!" exclaimed Miss Barrison, in consternation, "I thought
you were going to tell the truth!"

"Don't do that or you'll upset us," I snapped--"I'm telling the truth;
I've engaged myself to you; I did it mentally before I bellowed."

"But--"

"You know as well as I do what engagements mean," I said, picking up
the oars and digging them deep in the blue water.

She assented uncertainly.

A few minutes more of vigorous rowing brought us to a muddy landing
under a cluster of tall palmettos, where a gasoline launch lay.
Professor Farrago came down to the shore as I landed, and I walked
ahead to meet him. He was the maddest man I ever saw. But I was his
match, for I was desperate.

"What the devil--" he began, under his breath.

"Nonsense!" I said, deliberately. "An engaged woman is practically
married already, because marriages are made in heaven."

"Good Lord!" he gasped, "are you mad, Gilland? I sent for a
stenographer--"

"Miss Barrison is a stenographer," I said, calmly; and before he could
recover I had presented him, and left them face to face, washing my
hands of the whole affair.

Unloading the boat and carrying the luggage up under the palms, I
heard her saying:

"No, I am not in the least afraid of snakes, and I am quite ready to
begin my duties."

And he: "Mr. Gilland is a young man who--er--lacks practical
experience."

And she: "Mr. Gilland has been most thoughtful for my comfort. The
journey has been perfectly heavenly."

And he, clumsily: "Ahem!--the--er--celestial aspect of your journey
has--er--doubtless been colored by--er--the prospect of
your--er--approaching nuptials--"

She, hastily: "Oh, I do not think so, professor."

"Idiot!" I muttered, dragging the dog to the shore, where his yelps
brought the professor hurrying.

"Is that the dog?" he inquired, adjusting his spectacles.

"That's the dog," I said. "He's full of points, you see?"

"Oh," mused the professor; "I thought he was full of--" He hesitated,
inspecting the animal, who, nose to the ground, stood investigating a
smell of some sort.

"See," I said, with enthusiasm, "he's found a scent; he's trailing it
already! Now he's rolling on it!"

"He's rolling on one of our concentrated food lozenges," said the
professor, dryly. "Tie him up, Mr. Gilland, and ask Mrs. Gilland to
come up to camp. Your room is ready."

"Rooms," I corrected; "she isn't Mrs. Gilland yet," I added, with a
forced smile.

"But you're practically married," observed the professor, "as you
pointed out to me. And if she's practically Mrs. Gilland, why not say
so?"

"Don't, all the same," I snarled.

"But marriages are made in--"

I cast a desperate eye upon him.

From that moment, whenever we were alone together, he made a target of
me. I never had supposed him humorously vindictive; he was, and his
apparently innocent mistakes almost turned my hair gray.

But to Miss Barrison he was kind and courteous, and for a time
over-serious. Observing him, I could never detect the slightest
symptom of dislike for her sex--a failing which common rumor had
always credited him with to the verge of absolute rudeness.

On the contrary, it was perfectly plain to anybody that he liked her.
There was in his manner towards her a mixture of business formality
and the deferential attitude of a gentleman.

We were seated, just before sunset, outside of the hut built of
palmetto logs, when Professor Farrago, addressing us both, began the
explanation of our future duties.

Miss Barrison, it appeared, was to note everything said by himself,
making several shorthand copies by evening. In other words, she was to
report every scrap of conversation she heard while in the Everglades.
And she nodded intelligently as he finished, and drew pad and pencil
from the pocket of her walking-skirt, jotting down his instructions as
a beginning. I could see that he was pleased.

"The reason I do this," he said, "is because I do not wish to hide
anything that transpires while we are on this expedition. Only the
most scrupulously minute record can satisfy me; no details are too
small to merit record; I demand and I court from my fellow-scientists
and from the public the fullest investigation."

He smiled slightly, turning towards me.

"You know, Mr. Gilland, how dangerous to the reputation of a
scientific man is any line of investigation into the unusual. If a man
once is even suspected of charlatanism, of sensationalism, of turning
his attention to any phenomena not strictly within the proper pale of
scientific investigation, that man is doomed to ridicule; his
profession disowns him; he becomes a man without honor, without
authority. Is it not so?"

"Yes," I said.

"Therefore," he resumed, thoughtfully, "as I do most firmly believe in
the course I am now pursuing, whether I succeed or fail I desire a
true and minute record made, hiding nothing of what may be said or
done. A stenographer alone can give this to the world, while I can
only supplement it with a description of events--if I live to
transcribe them."

Sunk in profound reverie he sat there silent under the great, smooth
palm-tree--a venerable figure in his yellow dressing-gown and carpet
slippers. Seated side by side, we waited, a trifle awed. I could hear
the soft breathing of the pretty stenographer beside me.

"First of all," said Professor Farrago, looking up, "I must be able to
trust those who are here to aid me."

"I--I will be faithful," said the girl, in a low voice.

"I do not doubt you, my child," he said; "nor you, Gilland. And so I
am going to tell you this much now--more, I hope, later."

And he sat up straight, lifting an impressive forefinger.

"Mr. Rowan, lately an officer of our Coast Survey, wrote me a letter
from the Holland House in New York--a letter so strange that, on
reading it, I immediately repaired to his hotel, where for hours we
talked together.

"The result of that conference is this expedition.

"I have now been here two months, and I am satisfied of certain facts.
First, there do exist in this unexplored wilderness certain forms of
life which are solid and palpable, but transparent and practically
invisible. Second, these living creatures belong to the animal
kingdom, are warm-blooded vertebrates, possess powers of locomotion,
but whether that of flight I am not certain. Third, they appear to
possess such senses as we enjoy--smell, touch, sight, hearing, and no
doubt the sense of taste. Fourth, their skin is smooth to the touch,
and the temperature of the epidermis appears to approximate that of a
normal human being. Fifth and last, whether bipeds or quadrupeds I do
not know, though all evidence appears to confirm my theory that they
walk erect. One pair of their limbs appear to terminate in a sort of
foot--like a delicately shaped human foot, except that there appear to
be no toes. The other pair of limbs terminate in something that, from
the single instance I experienced, seemed to resemble soft but firm
antenn√¶ or, perhaps, digitated palpi--"

"Feelers!" I blurted out.

"I don't know, but I think so. Once, when I was standing in the
forest, perfectly aware that creatures I could not see had stealthily
surrounded me, the tension was brought to a crisis when over my face,
from cheek to chin, stole a soft something, brushing the skin as
delicately as a child's fingers might brush it."

"Good Lord!" I breathed.

A care-worn smile crept into his eyes. "A test for nerves, you think,
Mr. Gilland? I agree with you. Nobody fears what anybody can see."

There came the slightest movement beside me.

"Are you trembling?" I asked, turning.

"I was writing," she replied, steadily. "Did my elbow touch you?"

"By-the-way," said Professor Farrago, "I fear I forgot to congratulate
you upon your choice of a stenographer, Mr. Gilland."

A rosy light stole over her pale face.

"Am I to record that too?" she asked, raising her blue eyes.

"Certainly," he replied, gravely.

"But, professor," I began, a prey to increasing excitement, "do you
propose to attempt the capture of one of these animals?"

"That is what the cage is for," he said. "I supposed you had guessed
that."

"I had," murmured the pretty stenographer.

"I do not doubt it," said Professor Farrago, gravely.

"What are the chemicals for--and the tank and hose attachment?"

"Think, Mr. Gilland."

"I can't; I'm almost stunned by what you tell me."

He laughed. "The rosium oxide and salts of strontium are to be dumped
into the tank together. They'll effervesce, of course."

"Of course," I muttered.

"And I can throw a rose-colored spray over any object by the hose
attachment, can't I?"

"Yes."

"Well, I tried it on a transparent jelly-fish and it became perfectly
visible and of a beautiful rose-color: and I tried it on rock-crystal,
and on glass, and on pure gelatine, and all became suffused with a
delicate pink glow, which lasted for hours or minutes according to the
substance.... Now you understand, don't you?"

"Yes; you want to see what sort of creature you have to deal with."

"Exactly; so when I've trapped it I am going to spray it." He turned
half humorously towards the stenographer: "I fancy you understood long
before Mr. Gilland did."

"I don't think so," she said, with a sidelong lifting of the heavy
lashes; and I caught the color of her eyes for a second.

"You see how Miss Barrison spares your feelings," observed Professor
Farrago, dryly. "She owes you little gratitude for bringing her here,
yet she proves a generous victim."

"Oh, I am very grateful for this rarest of chances!" she said, shyly.
"To be among the first in the world to discover such wonders ought to
make me very grateful to the man who gave me the opportunity."

"Do you mean Mr. Gilland?" asked the professor, laughing.

I had never before seen Professor Farrago laugh such a care-free
laugh; I had never suspected him of harboring even an embryo of the
social graces. Dry as dust, sapless as steel, precise as the magnetic
needle, he had hitherto been to me the mummified embodiment of science
militant. Now, in the guise of a perfectly human and genial old
gentleman, I scarcely recognized my superior of the Bronx Park
society. And as a woman-hater he was a miserable failure.

"Heavens," I thought to myself, "am I becoming jealous of my revered
professor's social success with a stray stenographer?" I felt mean,
and I probably looked it, and I was glad that telepathy did not permit
Miss Barrison to record my secret and unworthy ruminations.

The professor was saying: "These transparent creatures break off
berries and fruits and branches; I have seen a flower, too, plucked
from its stem by invisible digits and borne swiftly through the
forest--only the flower visible, apparently speeding through the air
and out of sight among the thickets.

"I have found the footprints that I described to you, usually on the
edge of a stream or in the soft loam along some forest lake or lost
lagoon.

"Again and again I have been conscious in the forest that unseen eyes
were fixed on me, that unseen shapes were following me. Never but that
one time did these invisible creatures close in around me and venture
to touch me.

"They may be weak; their structure may be frail, and they may be
incapable of violence or harm, but the depth of the footprints
indicates a weight of at least one hundred and thirty pounds, and it
certainly requires some muscular strength to break off a branch of
wild guavas."

He bent his noble head, thoughtfully regarding the design on his
slippers.

"What was the rifle for?" I asked.

"Defence, not aggression," he said, simply.

"And the camera?"

"A camera record is necessary in these days of bad artists."

I hesitated, glancing at Miss Barrison. She was still writing, her
pretty head bent over the pad in her lap.

"And the clothing?" I asked, carelessly.

"Did you get it?" he demanded.

"Of course--" I glanced at Miss Barrison. "There's no use writing down
everything, is there?"

"Everything must be recorded," said Professor Farrago, inflexibly.
"What clothing did you buy?"

"I forgot the gown," I said, getting red about the ears.

"Forgot the gown!" he repeated.

"Yes--one kind of gown--the day kind. I--I got the other kind."

He was annoyed; so was I. After a moment he got up, and crossing to
the log cabin, opened one of the boxes of apparel.

"Is it what you wanted?" I inquired.

"Y-es, I presume so," he replied, visibly perplexed.

"It's the best to be had," said I.

"That's quite right," he said, musingly. "We use only the best of
everything at Bronx Park. It is traditional with us, you know."

Curiosity pushed me. "Well, what on earth is it for?" I broke out.

He looked at me gravely over the tops of his spectacles--a striking
and inspiring figure in his yellow flannel dressing-gown and
slippers.

"I shall tell you some day--perhaps," he said, mildly. "Good-night,
Miss Barrison; good-night, Mr. Gilland. You will find extra blankets
on your bunk--"

"What!" I cried.

"Bunks," he said, and shut the door.




XVI


"There is something weird about this whole proceeding," I observed to
the pretty stenographer next morning.

"These pies will be weird if you don't stop talking to me," she said,
opening the doors of Professor Farrago's portable camping-oven and
peeping in at the fragrant pastry.

The professor had gone off somewhere into the woods early that
morning. As he was not in the habit of talking to himself, the
services of Miss Barrison were not required. Before he started,
however, he came to her with a request for a dozen pies, the
construction of which he asked if she understood. She had been to
cooking-school in more prosperous days, and she mentioned it; so at
his earnest solicitation she undertook to bake for him twelve
apple-pies; and she was now attempting it, assisted by advice from me.

"Are they burned?" I asked, sniffing the air.

"No, they are not burned, Mr. Gilland, but my finger is," she
retorted, stepping back to examine the damage.

I offered sympathy and witch-hazel, but she would have none of my
offerings, and presently returned to her pies.

"We can't eat all that pastry," I protested.

"Professor Farrago said they were not for us to eat," she said,
dusting each pie with powdered sugar.

"Well, what are they for? The dog? Or are they simply objets d'art to
adorn the shanty--"

"You annoy me," she said.

"The pies annoy me; won't you tell me what they're for?"

"I have a pretty fair idea what they're for," she observed, tossing
her head. "Haven't you?"

"No. What?"

"These pies are for bait."

"To bait hooks with?" I exclaimed.

"Hooks! No, you silly man. They're for baiting the cage. He means to
trap these transparent creatures in a cage baited with pie."

She laughed scornfully; inserted the burned tip of her finger in her
mouth and stood looking at me defiantly like a flushed and bright-eyed
school-girl.

"You think you're teasing me," she said; "but you do not realize what
a singularly slow-minded young man you are."
