he folded the sheet again, placed it in an envelope, which he
sealed and addressed to the ‘Reverend Father Bonaventura of the
Capuchins.’

He got into his uniform again, and having placed the envelope in
the inner pocket of his tunic, he went to see his colonel, to
whom he had telephoned before going to Via Belsiana, asking to be
received on urgent business at three in the afternoon. The great
clock in the hall rang the Westminster chimes as he entered; it
was a remembrance of the time when Casalmaggiore had been military
attaché at the Italian Embassy in London.

He gave Castiglione an enormous Havana as they sat down by the
fire, and he lit one himself and offered to have Turkish coffee
made. Castiglione had forgotten to eat anything since he had come
in from riding in the morning, and he accepted gladly.

‘Is it about that mare?’ asked the Duca when he had rung and given
the order.

‘No, not this time.’ Castiglione laughed. ‘I have come for advice
in an affair of honour.’

‘Oh!’ The Colonel seemed annoyed. ‘What a nuisance!’ he observed
with some emphasis. ‘Wait till the man has brought the coffee.
Meanwhile, about that other matter--you have heard of my last
offer?’

The Count of Montalto’s Andalusian mare happened to be the only
thing, animate or inanimate, which the Duca di Casalmaggiore wanted
and could not get; for he did not even hanker after promotion.
There was not an officer in his regiment, old or young, whom he
had not employed in some piece of diplomacy in the hope of getting
possession of the coveted animal, and he began talking about her at
once, showing little inclination to listen to Castiglione’s story,
even when the servant had come and gone and they were drinking
their coffee. He quite ignored the fact that Castiglione and
Montalto were not on speaking terms, or he pretended to do so, for
which the younger man was, on the whole, grateful to him.

‘I am very sorry to change the subject,’ said the Captain, at last,
‘but this affair of mine is rather urgent.’

‘I had quite forgotten it! Pray excuse me and tell me what the
matter is.’

The Colonel settled himself with a bored expression and listened.
He greatly disliked duelling in his regiment, and invariably
hindered an encounter if he could. In his young days a great
misfortune had happened to him; in a senseless quarrel he had
severely wounded a brother officer, who had become consumptive in
consequence and had died two years later.

He listened patiently to Castiglione’s story, and then delivered
himself of a general prediction.

‘That infernal cousin of mine will be the death of one of us yet!’
He sent an inch of heavy ash from his cigar into the fire with a
vicious flick. ‘Why the devil did you go to see her?’ he asked,
very unreasonably.

Castiglione smiled but said nothing. He knew well enough that
Teresa Crescenzi had tried to marry Casalmaggiore, and that the
latter had been forced to make a regular defence.

‘There’s only one way to deal with such women,’ he observed. ‘Marry
them and separate within six months. Then you need never see them
again! What are you going to do?’

‘That is precisely what I have come to ask you, as my chief. The
honour of the regiment is the only question that matters to me. I
shall do whatever you advise. De Maurienne expects to hear from me
after five o’clock. As for the cause of the quarrel, Donna Teresa
must be quite mad.’

‘Mad?’ Casalmaggiore laughed. ‘You don’t know her! Don’t you see
that it is all a trick to make de Maurienne compromise her by
fighting a duel for her, and that he will be forced to marry her
afterwards, for decency’s sake?’

Castiglione looked at his colonel with sincere admiration, for
such tortuous reasoning could never have taken shape in his own
rather simple brain, though he now saw that no other explanation
of Teresa’s conduct was possible. The Duca smiled and pushed his
delicate grey moustaches from his lips with the dry tip of his
cigar, which he never by any chance placed between them. He seemed
able to draw in the smoke by some mysterious means without even
touching the tobacco, for in smoking, as in everything else, he
was a thorough epicure.

‘I hope,’ he said, his words following the fresh cloud he blew,
‘that de Maurienne will at least have the sense to act as I
suggested just now. In France he can do better. He can be divorced
without difficulty. Fancy the satisfaction of divorcing Teresa!
Can you see her expression? And she would be “a defenceless woman”
again in no time. Of all the offensive forms of defencelessness!’

He laughed softly to himself.

‘Meanwhile,’ said Castiglione, trying to bring him back to the
subject in hand, ‘I am afraid something very disagreeable may
happen.’

‘What is that?’ asked the Colonel, following his own amusing
thoughts and still smiling.

‘You see, I have never fought a duel, and as I am not inclined to
let de Maurienne run me through, I might kill him. There would
be very serious trouble if an Italian officer killed a French
diplomatist, I suppose, not to mention the fact that I should have
to spend a couple of years in a fortress.’

‘You are afraid you might upset the European concert, are you?’ The
Colonel seemed much amused at the idea. ‘But it is all nonsense,
Castiglione. There is not going to be any fight.’

‘But the man called me a coward to my face, Colonel! What am I to
do?’

‘Go home and go to bed. It’s the only safe place when Teresa is on
the war-path. If you want an excuse, I’ll put you under arrest in
your rooms, but that seems useless. Go home and go to bed, I tell
you!’

‘It’s rather early,’ objected Castiglione, smiling. ‘And meanwhile
Monsieur de Maurienne will be sitting up waiting for my friends.’

‘Dear Captain,’ said Casalmaggiore, ‘I have not the least idea what
Monsieur de Maurienne will do. If I say that I will be responsible
for your honour as for my own, and for that of the Piedmont
Lancers, and if I tell you that there will be no duel, Monsieur de
Maurienne may sit up all night, for weeks and weeks, so far as you
are concerned.’

‘That is a very different matter,’ answered Castiglione gravely. ‘I
have nothing more to say. If my honour can be safer anywhere than
in my own keeping, it will be so in your hands. Do you really wish
me to stay at home this evening?’

‘Yes, unless you want a couple of days’ leave, though we have a
general order from headquarters not to allow officers or men leave
to go further than three hours by railway. Trouble is expected
owing to these strikes, and we shall probably be doing patrol duty
next week! You may have two days if you like.’

‘Thank you, no. I’ll go home.’

Castiglione made a movement to get up.

‘No, no!’ objected Casalmaggiore. ‘I have not told you everything
about that mare yet. Stay a little longer.’

‘Certainly; with pleasure. But first, if it’s not indiscreet, may I
ask how in the world you are going to settle my affair?’

‘You may ask, Castiglione,’ replied the Colonel with great gravity,
‘but it is beyond my power to answer you; for I give you my word of
honour that I have not the slightest idea. Montalto knows perfectly
well,’ he continued without a break and in precisely the same tone
of voice, ‘that I will pay twenty thousand francs for the mare
whenever he likes, and that’s a large price in Italy.’

After that Castiglione made no further attempt to talk about de
Maurienne, and his colonel kept him till after four o’clock.




CHAPTER XXI


Maria was silent and preoccupied throughout the day, and did not
attempt to rouse Montalto from his apathy. He made no reference
to the letters, though he gave some thought to the subject in the
privacy of his study, and practically decided to consult the police
on the morrow, since no other course suggested itself to his not
very active imagination.

One of Giuliana Parenzo’s horses was lame, and another had a bad
cold, and she telephoned to ask if Maria would take her for a
drive and make a few visits with her. Having no ready excuse,
Maria agreed to the proposal on condition that Giuliana should not
object to waiting for her a few minutes outside the Church of the
Capuchins. She had ascertained from her maid, who was a Roman, that
twenty-three-and-a-half o’clock meant sunset at all times of the
year, which seemed to her a clumsy way of reckoning, the more so as
she had to make further inquiries in order to ascertain the hour
at which the sun actually went down. It turned out to be about a
quarter before five, but as she was not quite sure, she thought it
best to go at half-past four. If Padre Bonaventura had not come in
she could wait for him. Giuliana probably had some visit to make at
one of the modern hotels in the vicinity, for she and her husband
necessarily knew many foreigners.

Accordingly, at half-past four, when the brown front of the old
church was just beginning to glow in the evening light, the
Countess’s carriage stopped before the steps. Giuliana had said
that she preferred to wait, as she had nothing to do in the
neighbourhood, but, to Maria’s surprise, she now also got out.

‘It is a long time since I was here,’ she explained, ‘so I have
changed my mind. I shall not be in your way if I stay near the
door.’

‘In the way? How absurd!’ Maria laughed a little as she went up the
steps.

They parted just inside the door; Giuliana knelt down by a straw
chair on the right, while Maria went up the church diagonally
towards the left, in the direction of the confessional which Padre
Bonaventura usually occupied.

She found him in the last chapel on the left, by the door of the
sacristy, in the act of shaking hands with Castiglione, who was
evidently taking leave of him. Coming upon them so suddenly when
the evening glow through the upper windows made the church very
light, it was out of the question to draw back into the shadow. The
monk saw her first, but Castiglione turned his head a second later,
and the three were standing together.

Maria drew herself up very straight in the effort to check a cry
of surprise, and Castiglione made rather a stiff military bow;
but she saw his eyes in the rosy light, and he saw hers. A moment
later he was gone, and her ears followed the musical little jingle
of his spurs as he went down the nave towards the door, near which
Giuliana Parenzo was kneeling.

But while she listened she was looking into the monk’s face, and
her own was pale and had a frightened expression.

‘It could not be helped,’ he said in a low voice. ‘I did not know
he was coming, and you are here early. If there is any fault it is
mine.’

Maria listened in silence. He held out the sealed envelope
Castiglione had brought him, and she saw the well-known writing.

‘This is addressed to me,’ continued Padre Bonaventura, ‘but I give
it to you unopened. It contains a document which will relieve you
of all anxiety about your letters.’

‘Already!’

‘Yes. He has lost no time. He is a man of action.’

The monk could not withhold a word of admiration, and Maria felt
the warmth in her cheeks.

‘Indeed he is!’ she answered in a low voice. ‘Thank him for me!’

‘I have thanked him. That is enough, and we may never meet again.’

‘I may at least be grateful to you,’ Maria said.

‘My share has been small. I must leave you now, for there is some
one waiting to confess.’

He left the chapel, but Maria remained a few moments longer. When
she was sure that no one could see her she slipped the sealed
envelope inside her frock, for she did not like to trust it to
the little bag in which she carried her cards, her handkerchief,
and her money. She had almost forgotten Giuliana till she met her
standing by the door, and saw the look of surprise and reproach in
her eyes.

They went down the steps side by side in silence, and neither spoke
till the carriage was moving again.

‘I really think you might choose some other place in which to
meet,’ said Giuliana at last.

Maria had expected something of the sort from her impeccable friend.

‘We met by accident, and we did not speak,’ she answered quietly,
for she knew that appearances were against her.

‘I did not know that he ever entered a church,’ returned Giuliana,
who was well acquainted with Castiglione’s opinions in matters of
religion.

‘Very rarely--at least, when I knew him.’

Maria was not inclined to say more, and Giuliana thought the
explanation anything but sufficient. Maria had always been very
truthful, but when unassailable virtue is suspicious it always goes
to extremes, and tells us that the devil is everywhere, whereas,
since he is usually described as an individual, and by no means
as divine, it is hard to see how he can be in two places at once.
Maria was aware of her friend’s state of mind, but was too much
occupied with her own thoughts to pay any more attention to it
after having told the truth. The sealed envelope that came from
Castiglione’s hand lay inside her frock, upon her neck, somewhat to
the left, and it was burning her and sending furious little thrills
through her; yet it would have to lie there at least another hour
while she made visits with Giuliana.

She left the latter at her home at last, and they had never parted
so coldly in the course of their long friendship. When Maria was
alone in her carriage, in the dark, she opened her frock again
and took out the envelope and put it into her bag, for she could
not bear to let it touch her any longer, and the recollection of
Castiglione’s eyes had not faded yet.

To drive the vision of him away she thought of Giuliana, and
reflected upon the extreme foolishness of her friend’s suspicions.
If the two had meant to meet in the chapel, though only for an
instant, it would have been easy to warn Castiglione that Giuliana
was in the church, and that he must wait for her to go away before
showing himself.

The carriage descended the Via Nazionale on the way home, and had
gone a hundred yards further when it stopped short, to Maria’s
surprise, and at the same moment she saw a villainous face almost
flattened against the glass. Telemaco turned the horses suddenly to
the right and drove quickly along the Piazza dei Santi Apostoli,
which was almost deserted. The Countess dropped the front window of
the brougham and asked what was the matter.

‘There is a riot in Piazza di Venezia, Excellency. They are
throwing stones.’

Maria raised the glass again. It was only another strike, she
thought, or an anarchist’s funeral, and the carriage would go round
by another way. Such disturbances were frequent that winter, but
never seemed to have any serious consequences.

When she was at last alone in her boudoir she cut the envelope and
spread out the sheet it contained. It was strange to be reading
something written in Castiglione’s handwriting, and to feel that it
was her duty to read it.

This was what she read:--

‘I, the undersigned, proprietor of a gambling-house in Via
Belsiana, and representing Orlando Schmidt, the absconding steward
of the Count of Montalto, and my accomplices calling themselves
Carlo Pozzi of Palermo and Paolo Pizzuti of Messina, do hereby
declare and confess that the photographs of seven letters, more
or less, purporting to be written by Her Excellency the Countess
of Montalto, by means of which I, and my aforesaid accomplices,
have criminally attempted to extort money from her, are reproduced
from forgeries executed by the aforesaid Orlando Schmidt, who
had surreptitiously obtained specimens of Her Excellency’s
handwriting. Rome, this eleventh day of January 1906.

                                                   ‘RODOLFO BLOSSE.

  ‘Witness: BALDASSARE DEL CASTIGLIONE,
                   ‘Piedmont Lancers.’

Castiglione had not hesitated to force the blackmailer to declare
the letters to be forgeries. Maria guessed why he had done that,
as she sat reading the paper a second time. He had suspected
Schmidt of having really forged such words as she would never have
written, she thought; and he had in some way extracted the truth
from the man who signed the paper. In that case her danger had
been even greater than she had imagined. What abominations might
not have been forged in her handwriting! Yes, Castiglione was a
man of action, indeed, as the monk had said. Poor Montalto had
hesitated and done nothing for days, and in a little while some
vile newspaper would have scattered broadcast a scandal from which
no recovery would have been possible. But within twenty-four hours
after she had spoken to Padre Bonaventura the man who loved her
had found the chief criminal and had made him sign a document, on
the strength of which no judge would hesitate to send the whole
gang to penal servitude. ‘Witness, Baldassare del Castiglione’; the
well-loved name rang in her ears, the name of a man on whose honour
there was no slur before the world, nor any in her inmost thoughts
now; a name after which every officer and non-commissioned officer
in the regiment would write his own blindfold, if need were,
because they all knew him and trusted him.

She folded the paper slowly, letting her fingers linger where his
had touched it last, and she put it back into the cut envelope
and looked at the seal. It was the same he had used long ago, in
the dark ages of her life--a plain, old-fashioned shield with his
simple arms and the motto in Latin: Si omnes ego non.

Maria knew whence it was taken, with but a slight change. There was
a mark in the margin of her old missal at the Gospel for Wednesday
in Holy Week opposite the words, and the whole line read, ‘Though
all forsake Thee, I will not forsake Thee.’ She had never had the
courage to erase that mark, not even in the years when she had
deceived herself. Year after year, when the day came round, she had
read the noble words; and many times she had read them bitterly,
thinking of what followed afterwards and of him who, having spoken
them, denied not once but thrice, and with an oath. She read them
now on the dark wax, under the bright light, and after a little
while she pressed the seal gently to her lips, the seal that held
the motto she loved, not the paper he had touched.

‘In all honour,’ she said gravely, under her breath.




CHAPTER XXII


Soon after five o’clock the Duca di Casalmaggiore sent in his card
to Monsieur de Maurienne. The diplomatist was engaged in examining
an etching by Robetta with a huge lens, under a strong light, and
was too much interested to desist until the Colonel was actually
in the room. He received his visitor, whom he knew very well, with
that formal courtesy which is considered becoming when an affair of
honour is to be discussed. He had expected a couple of officers of
Castiglione’s rank, and had asked two of his own friends to hold
themselves in readiness if he telephoned for them. He was surprised
that only one representative should appear for his adversary, and
that he should be no less a personage than the Colonel of the
regiment.

Casalmaggiore did not even seem inclined to behave with the solemn
gravity required on such an occasion. He sat down on a comfortable
chair and laid his laced cap unceremoniously upon a little table he
found at his elbow, instead of holding it in his hand and sitting
bolt upright with his sabre between his knees. De Maurienne thought
that Italians took duelling in much too free and easy a way, and he
stiffened a little and sat very straight. He was not prepared for
what was coming. Casalmaggiore spoke in French.

‘I shall begin by making a little apology,’ he said, leaning back
and folding his gloved hands.

De Maurienne’s eyebrows went up, high above the gold rims of his
glasses, and he spoke in a politely icy tone.

‘Indeed! I cannot see how any can be required from your side, under
the circumstances!’

‘Not from our friend Castiglione,’ answered the Colonel, ‘but on my
own behalf. I must really beg your pardon beforehand for what I am
going to say--always placing myself entirely at your disposal if I
should unintentionally offend you. Is that quite clear?’

‘Perfectly.’

‘Thank you. You are the victim of an unworthy trick, my dear de
Maurienne. I am going to take the liberty of explaining exactly
what has happened to you, by giving you the details of what
had just occurred when you entered Donna Teresa Crescenzi’s
drawing-room.’

De Maurienne looked at his visitor in surprise, and not without
some suspicion.

‘Donna Teresa is a connection of mine,’ observed Casalmaggiore,
‘and I know her extremely well. What I have to say about her should
not offend you. Castiglione came to me this afternoon and told me
the story. I know him to be a perfectly truthful and honourable
man, and I know that he is incapable of fear. Indeed, he does not
know what fear is.’

‘Allow me to say,’ said de Maurienne, ‘that with us, in France,
matters of this kind are discussed between the friends of the
principals. Is the practice different in your country?’

‘Not at all. But this is quite another sort of affair. I,
personally, give you my word that what I am going to tell you is
what really happened. You will understand that if I, as colonel,
give my word for that of one of my officers, I am fully aware of
the responsibility I undertake.’

‘This changes the aspect of things, I admit,’ said de Maurienne
gravely, but less coldly.

He had never been placed in such a position, nor had he ever heard
of just such a case.

‘Practically,’ continued the Colonel, ‘it transfers all the
responsibility to me. I know Castiglione to be a man of accurate
memory, and as soon as he was gone I wrote down precisely what he
had told me. Here it is.’

He took out his note-book, found the place, and read aloud a
precise account of what had passed between Teresa Crescenzi and
Castiglione up to the moment when de Maurienne had entered the
room. De Maurienne listened attentively.

‘My cousin--her father was my mother’s cousin--is a very ingenious
woman,’ concluded Casalmaggiore with a smile, and pocketing his
notes again. ‘I am sorry to say that I have known her to exhibit
her ingenuity in even more surprising ways than this.’

‘She told me that Castiglione had accused her of meeting me in an
equivocal place,’ said de Maurienne.

‘No doubt. We are rather afraid of her in Rome, and very much so in
the family.’

‘What is her object in all this?’

‘I hope I do not offend you by saying that my good cousin has
determined to marry you,’ answered Casalmaggiore, still smiling
faintly. ‘I should not expect you to share her enthusiasm on that
point. It would not be precisely tactful of me to ask if I am
right, but I shall be so free as to take it for granted. That being
the case, you cannot fail to see that if she led you into a duel on
her account, she would thereby be forcing you to compromise her to
such an extent that many persons would think you ought to marry her
as a matter of honour. If a man even distantly related to her, such
as I myself, for instance, took up a quarrel for her, there would
be at least the excuse of relationship, but there is not the shadow
of a reason why you should do such a thing, even if there were
any cause! That is all I have to say. I repeat that I am at your
disposal, if I have said anything to offend you.’

Monsieur de Maurienne was perfectly brave, and though he was no
duellist, and not even a good fencer, he would have faced the first
swordsman in Europe without turning a hair; it is therefore no
aspersion on his courage to say that he was afraid to marry Teresa
Crescenzi, though he thought her very pretty and amusing, if a
little vivid. The point explained by the Colonel had not escaped
him either, and he had spent a very unpleasant afternoon.

He considered the matter for a few moments before he spoke.

‘You have done me a great service,’ he said. ‘I have known
Castiglione several months, and, without any disrespect to Donna
Teresa, I must say that I was not fully persuaded of the exactness
of what she told me. I thought your cousin’s manner a little
strained--let us put it in that way.’

‘It is impossible to speak of a lady with greater consideration,’
said Casalmaggiore.

‘But I was placed in a difficult position, and very suddenly. Such
things happen now and then. Perhaps, in the same situation, you
yourself, or Castiglione, would have acted as hastily as I did.’

‘Quite so. Even more hastily, perhaps.’

The Colonel was thinking that under the circumstances he would have
told Donna Teresa exactly what he thought of her, taking advantage
of relationship to be extremely plain.

‘Castiglione,’ continued de Maurienne, ‘behaved in the most
honourable and forbearing way. I take great pleasure in saying that
I sincerely regret the offensive expressions I used, and that I
entertain the highest respect for him. Will you permit me? I will
write him a short note, by your kindness.’

‘Thank you. It will be much appreciated.’

A quarter of an hour later Castiglione’s orderly received another
shock to his nerves. When he answered the bell and saw his colonel
on the landing, resplendent in a perfectly new uniform, the trooper
flattened himself at attention against the open door with such
precision and violence that the back of his head struck the panel
with a crack like a pistol shot, his eyes almost started out of his
head, and he was completely speechless.

The Captain was in his sitting-room, poring over a new German book
on the functions of cavalry in war, and a well-worn dictionary lay
at his elbow. He started to his feet in surprise.

‘I think you will find this satisfactory,’ said Casalmaggiore,
handing him de Maurienne’s note and sitting down.

Castiglione read the contents quickly, still standing.

‘What in the world did you tell him?’ he asked in amazement.

‘The truth,’ answered the Colonel, suppressing a slight yawn, for
the whole affair had bored him excessively. ‘It is amazing what
miracles the truth will perform where everything else fails! If
Teresa could only realise that, she would simplify her existence.
As you have not gone to bed, in spite of my advice, come and dine
with me. I’ve got another idea about that mare, and I should like
to talk it over with you. I think it will succeed.’

Castiglione laughed a little.

‘I will come with pleasure,’ he said. ‘What is the new idea? I
thought you developed the subject pretty fully this afternoon.’

‘This has occurred to me since,’ answered Casalmaggiore gravely.
He was silent for a moment, pursuing his favourite scheme.
‘Castiglione,’ he said, rising suddenly and looking at his watch,
‘if you ever let Teresa guess that I have interfered with her
plans, I’ll court-martial you!’

‘Never fear!’ The Captain laughed again.

‘As for leave, I’m glad you would not take your two days. There is
a general strike again, and we shall certainly have some patrol
work to do, if nothing worse. After you had left me I got another
message from headquarters.’




CHAPTER XXIII


Two days later Montalto informed Maria after luncheon that he had
an appointment with the Chief of Police at three o’clock, and
had decided to lay the whole matter before him and to leave it
altogether in his hands. It had taken Montalto almost a week to
reach this final decision, and Maria had devoutly hoped that he
