was true that his r√¥le had been that of the listener, the student, but
he had so long accepted himself as a personality, as the most remarkable
of England's younger productions, that he had been deeply mortified more
than once at the cavalier treatment of middle-aged business men with no
time to waste upon a young Britisher of no possible use to them.
To-day he boldly faced the haunting doubt if he were really a great man;
if his success in England, as well as his phenomenal self-confidence,
had not been merely the result of an inordinate ambition fed by
fortuitous circumstances. He recalled that from childhood his
grandfather and his mother had practically decreed that the bright,
lovable, mischievous boy was to be a great man; that as he grew older
the entire family connection joined the conspiracy. It is easy enough to
believe in yourself when the world believes in you, and easy enough to
make the world take you at your own valuation when you have a powerful
backing, a reasonable amount of cleverness, a sublime audacity, the
power of speech, and a happy series of accidents. Were all great men
two-thirds accidental or manufactured? He felt inclined to believe it,
but while it soothed his torn and throbbing pride, it by no means
lessened his apprehension.
Was he not a great man, even so? He felt anything but a great man at the
moment. He recalled that he had indulged in few lapses into complacency
since his departure incognito from England, and that he had deliberately
held self-analysis at bay by incessant travel and a compulsory interest
in subjects that did not appeal to him in the least. It was this absence
of interest after close upon a year in the country that appalled him as
much as his inner visioning. He hated the country. He hated its
politics, both parties impartially. He hated all the questions that
absorbed the American mind, from graft to negroes. He had sat in the
Congressional galleries in Washington, attended political meetings
wherever he could obtain admittance, studied the press in even the
smaller towns, travelled through the South and relieved himself of
whatever abstract sympathy he may have cherished for the colored race,
visited the sweat-shops of New York, the meat-packing establishments of
Chicago, the factories of New England, every phase of the great
civilization he knew of; and while he found much to admire and condemn,
both left him evenly indifferent. With all his soul he longed for
England. She might have her selfishness and her snobberies, lingering
taints in her political system, but she stood at the apex of
civilization, and her very faults were interesting; far removed from the
brazen crudities of the New World's struggle for wealth and power. And
although the blood of reformers was in his veins, and in his secret soul
he was an idealist to the point of knight-errantry, the desire for
reform had ebbed out of him during his American exile. And he knew the
fate of a good many American reformers. There were several in high
places at present, cheerfully trimmed down from the statesman to the
political ideal. Julia Kaye--clever woman!--had put the matter into an
epigram. The American statesman was the superior politician.
And how was he, out of tune with every phase of the country, to find the
ghost of an opportunity to lead it? He was no actor. If he had a merit
it was sincerity, a contempt for subterfuge as beneath both his powers
and the lofty position to which he had been born. Moreover, he was
honest; an equally aristocratic failing and drawback.
He recalled a conversation he had held in the smoking-compartment of a
Pullman with a sharp young politician, who had become voluble after
Gwynne had "stood him" two high-balls.
"It's graft or quit," he had announced. "All this cleaning up in
insurance and what not, all this talk of curbing the trusts and the rest
of it don't fool yours truly one little bit. It's just the ins trying to
get ahead of the outs. It's not the honestest or the best man that gets
there in God's own country, but the smartest--every time. Those that are
crying the loudest against the grafters are just waiting for a chance to
graft good and hard themselves. I am, and I don't care who knows it.
Only I don't waste any strength kicking. The labor party works itself up
over trusts and capitalists, and most of the capitalists come out of
that factory, and are the first to grind those left behind them, under
both heels. They know what I know, and what you'll know before you get
through, that the only fun in life is to be got out of power and money."
The face as sharp as a razor but by no means dishonest rose before
Gwynne. He had been a very decent little chap, and in the two days they
had travelled together he had displayed a photograph of his wife and
"kids," to whom he seemed even sentimentally devoted. Although Gwynne
had parted from the man with satisfaction it was impossible to despise
him utterly. Since then he had met many of his kind, more or less
honest, able, pettily ambitious, fairly educated, unlearned on every
subject except politics and the general business of the country; and all
equally unsympathetic. He made no pretence to judge the country on its
social or intellectual side, for he had been forced to avoid all groups
that might have enlightened him--although he found no difficulty in
assuming that well-bred and intellectual people were much the same the
world over, and was willing to give the United States the benefit of
every doubt. But its obvious side was the one that concerned him and his
career. In order to succeed--and without success life would mean less
than nothing to him--must he in a measure conform to conditions that
were the result of a century of complexities? He recurred to the dry
biographical sketches he had received, from certain of his travelling
companions, of the most distinguished--and successful!--men in American
politics to-day. Their ideals and their zeal for reform had played
between horizon and zenith like a flaming sword, so compelling the
attention of all that would pause to look that the diminishing
effulgence had been even more conspicuous; and now, although the sword
was occasionally brandished for form's sake, and was even sharper than
before, having learned to cut both ways, it had the rust of tin not of
blood on it, and deceived no one. But it had served its purpose--if to
be sure it had been needed at all--and its owners were past-masters of
success. Had he in him the makings of the mere trimmer and politician,
in addition to the miserable vanity that had riven him to-day? And would
some measure of great success won on those lines stir the dormant
greatness in him?--if there were any greatness to stir. This was the
fearful doubt, after all, that beset him. He almost saw with his outer
vision his ideals lying in a tumbled heap, as he felt himself on the
point of crying aloud that to feel once more that sense of power which
had exalted him above mere mortals, and given him an ecstasy of spirit
that no other passion could ever excite, he would sacrifice everything,
everything!
He paused abruptly and looked about him. He was half-way up the
mountain. The great valley, that looked as if it might embrace the State
itself, lay before him. North and south the scenery was magnificent,
ethereal in the distance, melting everywhere into one of those lovely
mists that seem to have extracted the spiritual essence of all the
colors. But the very beauty of his new domain added to the sense of
unreality, of uneasiness, that had so often possessed him since he had
crossed the borders of the State. And it was all on such a colossal
scale. There could never be anything friendly, anything possessing, in a
land destined for a race of primeval giants. He felt so passionate a
longing for the sweet embracing historied landscapes of England that the
very violence of the nostalgia drove him homeward with the half-formed
intention of taking the first train for New York and the first steamer
out of it. Moreover, he was suddenly obsessed with the belief that if he
had greatness in him England alone held its magnet.
But it was a long walk to his house, and he reached it late in the
afternoon, very tired and very hungry. When he entered his comfortable
living-room, redolent of flowers, he received something like a shock of
peace, and after he had taken a cold bath, he cursed himself roundly for
permitting the mixed blood in his veins to contrive at times the
temperament of an artist or of some women. As he sat down to a more than
palatable supper, he felt thankful that he had had it out with himself
so early in the engagement, and thought it odd if the Anglo-Saxon in him
could not drive rough-shod over his weaker outcroppings.
VIII
He did not see Isabel again for three weeks. Several days after his
arrival he received a note from her, briefly stating that she was
starting for Los Angeles to exhibit her prize Favarolles and Leghorns at
a "Chicken show," and after that would pay a long deferred visit to her
sister. "But I shall not be long," she added, possibly with a flicker of
contrition, "only they have been planning things for me for ages and I
am always putting them off. I will spend a week--not with them, exactly,
but at their disposal, and it will be a relief to have it over."
Gwynne felt himself ill-treated, but shrugged his shoulders with a new
philosophy not all doggedness, and easily stretched to embrace the
vagaries of woman. And, in truth, he found an abundance of occupation.
Ascertaining that Mr. Leslie was away, he spent his time on the ranch,
examining its various yields, divisions, possibilities; to say nothing
of its books and history. The dairy was now an insignificant affair,
experiments having proved disastrous, and his superintendent advised him
to let it remain so. The greatest yield was in hay, and cattle raised
for the market. The last lessee had come to grief over blood horses, and
Gwynne's agents had accepted what remained of the racers and breeders in
default of apocryphal cash. Although advised that they could be sold to
advantage if haste were not imperative, Gwynne, who had a large balance
in the bank, determined to continue the experiment. Many acres of the
ranch were profitably let, although by the month only, as pasture both
for cows and horses. The orchards always made a handsome yield, and the
vegetable garden and strawberry beds needed only proper care to become
remunerative. Moreover, several acres had recently been planted with
kale, a favorite food of the conquering Leghorn, and there were fine
runs on the hills that might be fenced off for sheep--or chickens; but
at this point the superintendent always detected something even defiant
in his employer's cold indifference, and told his friends that the
Englishman was "haughty in spots."
It was all very satisfactory, but in order to bring him a really
considerable increase of income he must dismiss his superintendent--who
now drew a salary of a hundred and fifty dollars a month, and who did
not inspire him with unbounded trust--and become his own manager, an
office which would not only make heavy demands upon his time, turning
him virtually into a farmer, with little leisure for the reading and
practice of law, but no doubt involve the sacrifice of money as well; he
did not flatter himself that he could learn to "run" a ranch of nineteen
thousand varied acres in a season. His superintendent was a half-breed
Mexican, the son of his cook, quick, voluble, and experienced in the
ways of the ranch, upon which he had worked since boyhood. Gwynne had
called on Mr. Colton at the bank two days after his arrival, and the old
gentleman, who had an eye like a gimlet and a mouth like a steel trap,
had consigned all "greasers" to subterranean fires, and emphasized the
fact that he had hired Carlos Smith by the month only. A better man
would demand a year's contract. There were infinite possibilities for
"the greaser" to pocket a goodly share of the profits, and "cover up his
tracks." And it might be a year or two before a superintendent could be
found capable in every way of managing so complicated a ranch.
While he was still revolving the problem he met Mr. Leslie and Tom
Colton, who advised him to sell at least half the ranch to small
farmers. Properties of four and five acres were in increasing demand in
this fertile county, and equally difficult to obtain. He had but the one
interview with them, as they were starting the same day to attend to
some business in the north, but after revolving the matter in all its
bearings for another ten days he made up his mind to accept their
advice, consoled his crestfallen superintendent with the promise of
constant work, and set forth one afternoon to place his advertisements.
He had visited the town but twice since his arrival, and then in the
morning. To-day he saw it characteristically for the first time. The
hills that formed a cove of the great valley were bright with their
houses and gardens, but very quiet. The long sloping block of Main
Street was crowded with wagons, buggies, and horses, that from a
distance looked to be a solid mass; and even when he rode into their
midst he found some difficulty in forcing his way. Where the dusty
vehicles were not moving they were tied to every post, the horses with
their front feet on the sidewalk observing the familiar throng with
friendly patient eyes. The shops were doing a rushing business, and so,
Gwynne inferred, were the banks. As for the saloons, their doors swung
with mechanical precision. Most of the farmers wore linen dusters and
broad straw hats, but their women had put on all their finery. The girls
of the town could be readily distinguished by their crisp muslins and
white hats and absence of dust. There were groups of Rosewater girls
holding rendezvous with their country cousins everywhere, although for
the most part in the drug stores, which, with their tiled floors and
ample space, looked like public reception-rooms. There were many knots
of men under the broad roof over the pavement, but in spite of the
ubiquitous saloon no drunkenness. Nor was there a policeman in sight.
Nor a shop for fire-arms. Gone were the old days when a man drank till
his brain was fire and his pistol went off by itself. The sting had been
extracted from California and she had settled down to practical
consideration of her vast resources; and in the comfortable assurance
that there was enough for all. Gwynne had not seen a beggar nor a pauper
since his arrival.
He placed his advertisements with both the local newspapers, to avoid
the ill-will of either, posted others to the San Francisco press, and
was riding down Main Street in order to have a closer look at the long
hitching-rail lined on either side with another solid mass of horses and
vehicles, when he caught sight of Isabel driving a buggy and evidently
searching for an empty post. He laid aside his grievance and made his
way to her side. She quite beamed with welcome, and they disentangled
themselves into a side street, where there were empty posts.
"I only got home at half-past eleven last night," she informed him. "The
boat was three hours late in starting, and when I finally made up my
mind to come by train the last had gone. So I overslept this morning or
I should have gone out to see you. But I meant to telephone you from
here and ask you to come out for the first duck-shooting--"
"Duck-shooting!" Gwynne forgot the grievance.
"The season opens to-day--the fifteenth of October. I had meant really
to ask you for the first thing this morning. Never mind, we have plenty
of time, and you will not have to go home for anything. Just wait here
until I do my errands."
He tied his horse next to hers and sat down in the shade on a chair
provided by a friendly store-keeper. In less than half an hour she
returned, and they started for Old Inn. Isabel had never seemed so
charming to him as they rode slowly out of the town and along the dusty
road. Smiling and sparkling, she asked him rapid eager questions about
his ranch, his plans, his comforts, whom he had met, how he had passed
his days and evenings. The truth was she had practically forgotten him,
and her conscience smote her. Her week in San Francisco had waxed to a
fortnight, for she had enjoyed herself far more than was usual in the
company of her relatives. Lyster Stone was one of the most agreeable of
men when debts were not more than usually pressing, and as he had just
painted a drop curtain and sold a picture for a considerable sum, he had
replenished his own elaborate wardrobe, given his wife a new frock,
silenced the loudest of his creditors, and thought it worth while to
"blow the rest in" on a sister-in-law who seemed to have no taste for
matrimony. Moreover, he really liked and admired her, and he liked still
more to spend money. When his pockets were full of actual coin he
abandoned himself to sheer happiness. Debt had bred philosophy;
moreover, his wife relieved him of too depressing a contact with duns,
and there were times when his respite was longer than he deserved. If
his Paula had a little way of cajoling the amount out of her sister's
pocket, why not? He had never refused a friend in need, and, in truth,
could see no use for money except to spend it. If all the world did not
wag his way, so much the worse for cold-blooded mercenary superfluous
beings. So, the two weeks had been a round of dinners at the gay
Bohemian restaurants, chafing-dish suppers at his own and other studios,
the theatre and opera, and long walks about the brilliant streets at
night. It was all the more interesting to Isabel from its odd wild
likeness to foreign life. She had heard much of this American
"continental" flavor of San Francisco life, only to be tasted by
artificial light, and she had given herself up to it with an abandon of
which she possessed a sufficient reserve. But one cloud had risen on the
blue, and as it emptied itself in a torrent, it was a matter for
congratulation that it had tarried the fortnight.
A woman of growing wealth, who affected artists' society, had continued
to live in her pretty odd little house, but had recently done it up like
a stuffed and scented jeweller's box. The tiny salon was her pride. It
was all cherry satin and white lace, the furniture lilliputian, to match
the proportions of the room and the lady. She was large-eyed,
dark-haired, pretty, and the room set her off admirably. It was here
that she invariably received her artist friends, and felt herself at
last set in a definite niche, in the city of individualities. One day,
in a spasm of generosity, she bade Stone, calling in a mood of unusual
depression, to paint it, and sell for his own benefit what, at least,
should be a glowing bit of still life. Stone began his work next day,
meaning, when the seductive interior was finished, to induce his patron
to sit on the doll-like sofa for a portrait, irresistible alike to her
vanity and pocket. But she capriciously went off to New York for
clothes, and he exhibited the picture in the shop of a dealer where
buyers were not infrequent. Thence, indeed, in the course of a few days
went a wealthy broker whose sign was three balls. He liked the picture,
but bargained that himself should sit on the sofa. His offer was
generous. Stone, to do him justice, demurred, for all Bohemia, at least,
knew the room. But Mrs. Paula wept at the thought of the lost hundreds,
and he succumbed. The result, at the owner's insistence, was exhibited.
The lady returned as unexpectedly as she had flown, and was asked at
every step if she had "seen her room." Scenting mystery, she went
to the gallery; and stood petrified before the faithful presentment
of her cherry-colored satin boudoir, the very edge of the sofa
accommodating a large gentleman with an eminent nose, a bulging
shirt-front--diamond-studded--and knees long severed. He looked like a
Hebraic Gulliver in Lilliput, and the unities were in tatters. She
stared, stuttered, wept. And then she descended upon Stone.
Gwynne laughed heartily as Isabel related the episode, but they fell
into silence after they crossed the bridge and were able to accelerate
their pace. He made no effort to break it, although Isabel had never
found him more polite. She also thought him vastly improved with his
thick coat of tan, and almost picturesque in his khaki riding-clothes
and high boots. There were more subtle changes in him which it was too
warm and dusty to speculate upon at the moment.
Gwynne had restrained his spontaneous delight in seeing Isabel again.
Not only did he have a genuine grievance in her neglect of him, but he
had no intention that she should fancy he had need of anything she could
give him, beyond superficial companionship and advice. More than once
during the past weeks he had caught himself longing so miserably for her
sympathy and the support of her strong independent character that it had
alarmed him. He realized for the first time what a prop and resource the
deep maturity and scornful strength of his mother had been. He must
brace and reinforce his character at all points if he persisted in his
determination to achieve the colossal task he had set for himself.
Woman's sympathy was all very well for some men, or for him in more
toward circumstances, but he had looked deeply into himself and been
terrified at unsuspected weaknesses. He had set his teeth and determined
to fight his fight alone. If he failed, at least he would have the
consolation of never having cried out to a woman: "Give me your help! I
need you!"
He did not betray the least of this, but his first remark as they rested
the horses on the slight hill leading to Isabel's ranch was less
irrelevant than it may have seemed to himself.
"I suppose you met all sorts of interesting Johnnies in that beloved San
Francisco of yours," he said, abruptly.
"Of course. It will be quite cool in an hour and we can go out.
Fortunately I never gave away Uncle Hiram's shooting-togs, and he was
quite your height and figure. We'll take tea and sandwiches with us so
that we need not hurry home for supper."
She suddenly forgot the ducks and pointed with her whip at the low hills
behind her house. The runs were covered with several thousand
snow-white, red-combed chickens, and all their little white houses shone
in the sun. The effect was by no means inartistic, but Gwynne elevated
his nose. He hated the sight of chickens.
"Did you ever see anything more beautiful than that?" asked Isabel,
proudly. "They all know me, and I love every one of them."
"I don't doubt there is money in them," said Gwynne, dryly. "But as a
pet I should prefer even a cat."
"Oh, I only pet them when they are ill. There is an old feather-bed in
the house, and I put them in that when they need nursing at night. That
is a device of my own, and much better than going out at twelve o'clock
on a cold dark night. By-the-way, I think your idea of selling half or
more of Lumalitas admirable. Great tracts of land in this part of the
State are out of date, and more bother than they are worth, anywhere.
You can invest the money to great advantage in San Francisco; but I
think you should devote the rest of the ranch to chickens--"
"No, madam!" Gwynne turned upon her the glittering eye of an animal at
bay. Then he laughed. "I have heard that proposition from every man I
have met and daily from my superintendent until I managed to suppress
him. I won't have a chicken on the ranch. The sight of them not only
fills me with ennui, but I have no intention of presenting your comic
papers with material. I could write their jokes myself--'Gwynne before
and after': Westminster in the background and a hayseed figure in front
addressing a constituency of chickens. Stumping the country with eggs in
my pockets for the children. Dining the eminent members of my
constituency on horse-meat, under the delusion that what is good for
chickens is good for votes. 'Leghorn Gwynne.' 'The Member from
Chickenville.' No thanks. No weapons that I can withhold."
IX
"This is all on my ranch," said Isabel; "so there is no danger of being
peppered. The rest of the marsh is owned by clubs, and as there was no
shooting here last year the ducks should be thicker than anywhere else.
We should get our fifty apiece in no time."
They were entering a narrow slough, hardly wider than the boat. It cut
its zigzag way through the marsh for many miles, and they could follow
its course with the eye but a few feet at a time. Gwynne shipped the
oars and began to scull, his gun across his knee. Isabel, in front and
with her back to him, sat with her own gun ready for a shot. On one side
of them was a large piece of marsh-land, on the left, smaller patches,
and little islands caught in the long grasping fingers of the tide.
Gwynne had attired himself with an ill grace in a pair of his cousin
Hiram's rubber boots that completely covered his body below the waist,
and an old shooting-coat with capacious pockets. Isabel wore a similar
costume, and but for her hair might have been mistaken for a lad. She
possessed no interest for Gwynne whatever at the moment. Nor did
anything else but the prospect of a new and exciting sport. The October
evening was mellow and full of color, the entire reach of the marsh
steeped in a golden haze shed from the glory in the west. Even the
forests and the lower ridges rising to Tamalpais had something aqueous
in their vague outlines, swayed gently in the golden tide. Only the tide
lands were green; the very water was yellow. Here and there, but far
away, a mast or sail rose above the level surface of the marsh. From the
distance came the sound of constant shooting.
Gwynne sculled silently, but with some impatience. They had left the
open creek far behind and had not seen a duck. Suddenly Isabel's gun
leaped to her shoulder. They rounded a sharp point and the whole surface
of the narrow slough between them and the next bend was black with
sleeping ducks. Gwynne's knee moved automatically to the seat in front
of him, and as the startled birds rose he and Isabel fired to right and
left. The scattering shot played havoc, and the second charge brought
down at least half as many on the higher wing. Isabel reloaded the guns
while Gwynne went for the ducks that had fallen on the land. He fell
into several holes himself, and returned covered with mud, but waving
his birds in triumph; and once more they stole softly along their
winding way. The shot had roused neighboring flocks; several dark clouds
had risen simultaneously, but in a few moments they settled again.
"You had better use both guns," whispered Isabel, "and I will do the
reloading. We can't do much with these old-fashioned things at best."
Gwynne accepted this act of sacrifice with a matter-of-fact nod, and it
was but a moment later that they came upon another flock. He fired with
an accuracy of aim that won him an admiring mutter, although to miss
would have been almost as noteworthy. But after repeating this
experience several times, he shrugged his shoulders and announced
himself blas√©.
"I'd like something a little more difficult," he said. "Ten minutes of
this and we can glut the market."
"All men are children," said Isabel, indulgently. "Tie up the boat and
we'll go after widgeon."
They landed and stole softly over the larger reach of marsh-land, Isabel
in the lead as she knew every hole. It was ten minutes before she raised
her hand and pointed to a wilted but still effective screen. Under cover
of this they crawled towards a large pond on which ducks were resting
but by no means asleep. Before the guns were shouldered they had taken
flight; so few were brought down on the wing that Gwynne's interest
revived, and he followed Isabel eagerly towards another pond with a
better blind. Here they were more wary and more fortunate, and Isabel
took a curious pleasure in watching the manifest bliss of her companion.
She had never seen him look really happy before. Upon his return to
Capheaton from his triumphant battle on the hustings he had been as
impassive as his traditions demanded. On the morning of his engagement
he had looked rather silly to her detached eye; and immediately after,
tragedy and trouble and infinite vexation had claimed him. But this
evening, with his cap pushed back, his nostrils distended, his eyes
sparkling, he looked like any other young fellow to whom the present was
all. Isabel reflected somewhat cynically that it was the opportunity to
kill something that had effected this momentary reconciliation with
life. But she was too good a sportswoman not to understand his mood, and
when he had waded into the lake and returned flushed and triumphant with
his bag, she complimented him so warmly that he laughed aloud in sheer
delight.
"We have enough for once," she began, but he would not hear of returning
to the boat even for the refreshment of tea, and they went on and on
until their feet were as weary as their shoulders under the burden that
was Isabel's part to string while her partner enjoyed himself.
"But we must really go," she announced, finally. "We have a long stretch
out in the open creek after we leave the slough, and it is not so easy
to keep the channel after dark. I have lost track of things and don't
remember what time the moon rises. You can come every day if you like;
and four in the morning is the best time if you are energetic enough--"
"I would get up at midnight--stay up all night. But I am quite willing
to return now--and not for tea. I should like several of these ducks for
supper, if your Jap is less haughty than mine."
Their way lay through the middle of the marsh-land. It was not until
they reached the slough that she uttered a loud sharp cry. The boat was
at least three feet below them and there was nothing at either end but
mud.
Isabel stamped both feet in succession and flung her burden to the
ground. "Why, why did I take Mac's word?" she exclaimed, furiously.
"He always makes mistakes about the tide--he hasn't an inch of memory
left. Why didn't I look at the calendar? Or think? This comes of going
off for three weeks instead of staying at home and attending to
business. I had a confused idea that this was the 'good week.' Great
heavens!"
Gwynne had watched her with considerable interest and curiosity. But he
answered, soothingly: "Well, what of it? The tide turns, doesn't it." It
happened that he had had no experience of marsh-lands.
"Yes--in six hours."
"Six hours! Well, what of it? It is all in the day's work. Look at it as
a jolly adventure." It was his first opportunity to console and he
hastened to take advantage of it. "We have tea and sandwiches, warm
enough clothing, and the weather is perfection. If we get stiff and
chilly we can walk--"
"Walk? In these rubber boots? I am nearly dead already." She had a wild
impulse to drop her head on his shoulder and weep; but her pride flew to
the front and she shrugged her shoulders and remarked, airily: "I don't
really mind anything much except being an idiot. However, I'll make it
up to you. I can cook ducks better than Chuma. You make the tea."
Gwynne made a fire out of decayed tule weed and driftwood, then climbed
down into the boat and brought up the provisions and utensils intended
for an earlier interlude. The tea warmed and stimulated both, and they
knelt by the fire and toasted the ducks at the end of the boat-hook,
scowling with a preternatural earnestness both were too hungry to
observe. Then they fell to, and it is doubtful if either had ever eaten
with a keener relish. They were obliged to use their fingers, and, as
they had no salt, to shred the ham and wrap it about the morsels of
duck, but to such minor matters they gave not a thought, and consumed
four teals and every scrap they had brought from home, as well as
another pot of tea. Isabel, recalling the injured air of her father,
uncle, and brother-in-law when their comfort was rudely disturbed,
warmed to Gwynne, who was good-humored and amused. Even the reflection
that he had roughed it in far worse straits than this, or that had he
the legal right to grumble he might possibly use it, did not alter the
pleasant impression he made as he tramped out the fire, washed his hands
in the marsh grass, and then stretched himself full length with his
pipe. She lit a cigarette, but had not smoked half its length when she
sprang to her feet.
"Look!" she said. "We must get into the boat. It is getting damper every
moment, and the fog will make us feel as if we were in our graves if we
don't sit on something dry."
She had pointed northward, and Gwynne saw a phantom mountain moving
along the level surface of the marsh with the quiet plodding motion of a
ship under full sail in a light breeze. The curious combination of
images fascinated him, and he watched the stealthy silent progress of
this night visitor from the tule lands of the north, that looked as if
it might have obliterated the world. As he jumped down into the boat he
saw before him, on three sides of him, the sparkling night. Then as
Isabel laid her hands on his shoulders and he lifted her down, the fog
swept over them, and there was nothing to do but sit and watch the glow
of pipe and cigarette; even their own outlines were barely visible.
"I fancy it will go home when the moon rises," said Isabel, with a
little shiver. "Are you cold?" she asked, solicitously.
"No," replied a tart voice. "Why didn't you let me ask that? You are not
my mother. We can make tea at intervals. How long do you suppose the
tide has been out?"
"About two hours."
"I am quite comfortable and have never resented any adventure. And this
is the appropriate time and place for a certain story. As I remarked
before I shall not know you until I have heard it. Pasts are dead
walls."
"It is not necessary that you should know me."
"I think otherwise. You are my one friend among eighty millions of
aliens, or ought to be. I shall continue to feel a superior sort of
acquaintance until you have taken me into your confidence."
There was a movement of the fog that he inferred was a shrug. "Very
well," she replied, without a break in her cool even voice. "I suppose I
shall enjoy talking about myself. It is not often I have had the
opportunity to indulge in a monologue in my family, and you certainly
are at my mercy. If you attempt to flee you will be mired like the boat,
and I could not pull you out."
He had never felt the least curiosity about the past history or the
inner life of a mortal before, and in normal circumstances Isabel's
would not have appealed to him. But her instrumentality in changing the
whole current of his life had alarmed his masculinity into a resolve to
demonstrate his superiority if it came to a contest of wills; given
birth to a subtle assumption of proprietorship, indifferent in material
things, but pressing towards the guarded chambers of the spirit. Isabel,
vaguely uneasy earlier in the day, began to appreciate the advance of an
outer and powerful force upon her precious freedom, and resented it. And
while she made up her mind that if it came to a silent contest of wills,
hers at least should not be conquered, she reflected that the deeper
intimacy, certain to ensue if she gave him her confidence, would insure
her a firmer and subtler hold upon his destinies.
X
"Of course I lived two lives before my father's death. My days were
sufficiently filled with him, to say nothing of making both ends meet;
for even after my uncle's death, I had only a small income until the day
of my complete liberty came. I slept soundly enough when I was not
following my father about the house with a candle, or about the hills
with a lantern. But such a life preyed upon my spirits. I imagined
myself both melancholy and bitter and grew unhealthily romantic. But
from the conditions of my life I had two escapes--in books and in
dreams. My father hated company more and more and I rarely left him for
a dance or one of those church festivities where all the young people of
my set were sure to meet. I knew that I was regarded as rather a tragic
figure, and this enhanced my morbid egoism. I wonder if I shall ever be
as really happy again!
"During the year following my father's death I lived out here alone, but
with my hands tied by the executors of my uncle's will. I felt myself
quite the enchanted princess and put in most of my time dreaming about
the prince. I suppose no girl ever had such wild and impossible notions
of love. That is to say most girls have, but I had peculiar
opportunities for indulgence and elaboration. At the same time I
despised or disliked every man I knew or ever had known--with the
possible exception of Judge Leslie. Not only had I found all the men of
my little personal world weak, or selfish, or tyrannical, but those I
knew almost as well were narrow, or commonplace, or uninterested in
anything but local politics or making money, or both combined. Not but
that Rosewater is the world in little. You never read of any old Italian
duchy where there was more jealousy and intrigue; more silent and tense,
or open and gnashing struggle for supremacy than is centered in these
three banks. They have prevented the town from increasing in size and
importance, in spite of its prosperity, through their machinations
against one another. If a stranger comes to the town intending to invest
his money in some one of the flourishing industries, or to introduce
another, the banker to whom he brings a letter, or whom he happens to
meet first, terrifies him with tales of the rapacity and dishonorable
methods of his rivals; and the other two, who fear that the first will
get the stranger's business, warn him that Mr. Colton, for instance,
never gave an hour's mercy. The three have made slow, sure, dogged
fortunes, but each has prevented the others from becoming millionaires,
and Rosewater from taking its proper place as county seat. And they are
all afraid of new-comers, new capital, of authority passing out of their
hands. They are careful not to charge exorbitant rates of interest, and
every farmer and merchant in the county borrows from them; partly from
habit, partly because the banks are uncommonly sound. They foreclose
without mercy, but that does not frighten their old patrons, who have
the perennial optimism of the country. The only capital they have not
succeeded in frightening off is that controlled by the great
corporations. One or two have wedged their way in and others will follow
in time. Doubtless when the younger men get the reins in their hands
they will trim with the times, but the older seem to be Biblical if not
Christian, and the consequence is that most of the younger have left for
a wider field.
"Finally the day came when I could turn my back on California, and I
felt sure that I should remain away for ten years at least. I thought
that the liberty I had longed for all my life was mine at last. In a
conducted tour, I soon discovered, there was little liberty, to say
nothing of privacy. Before I had been two days in the train I was made
to feel that there was something wrong with a person that showed a
disposition to retire into herself. She was either aristocratic, or had
something to hide, unless she responded to the confidences natural to
people of that class. As there were just eighteen in the party, of
course I always had a room partner, and there was not a woman in the
entire company that I would have known from choice. However, it was
excellent discipline, not unenlightening, and the end came in six weeks.
They sailed from Naples and I wandered about by myself. In a way the
liberty was intoxicating, but of course the sum of it was lessened by
the daily irritations of travel in Europe: the rapacity of the Italians
and French, the wretched trains, the hordes of vulgar tourists, mostly
of my own nation, the absurd primness, quite foreign to my nature, I was
forced to assume when alone with a man who was neither English nor
American, the awful fatigues, the ennuis of long rainy days in the
second-rate hotels and pensions I had to frequent. Still, I was too
