
"Trouble might be the making of Kelly Neville," mused Ogilvy, "and it
might not. It depends, John, not on the amount and quality of the hell,
but on the man who's frying on the gridiron."

Annan said: "Personally I don't see how Kelly could paint happiness or
sorrow or wonder or fear into any of his creations any more convincingly
than he does. And yet--and yet--sometimes we love men for their
shortcomings--for the sincerity of their blunders--for the fallible
humanity in them. That after all is where love starts. The rest--what
Kelly shows us--evokes wonder, delight, awe, enthusiasm.... If he could
only make us love him--"

"I love him!" said Burleson.

"We all are inclined to--if we could get near enough to him," said Annan
with a faint smile.

"Him--or his work?"

"Both, John. There's a vast amount of nonsense talked about the
necessity of separation between a man and his work--that the public has
no business with the creator, only with his creations. It is partly
true. Still, no man ever created anything in which he did not include a
sample of himself--if not what he himself is, at least what he would
like to be and what he likes and dislikes in others. No creator who
shows his work can hope to remain entirely anonymous. And--I am not yet
certain that the public has no right to make its comments on the man who
did the work as well as on the work which it is asked to judge."

"The man is nothing; the work everything," quoted Burleson, heavily.

"So I've heard," observed Annan, blandly. "It's rather a precious
thought, isn't it, John?"

"Do you consider that statement to be pure piffle?"

"Partly, dear friend. But I'm one of those nobodies who cherish a
degenerate belief that man comes first, and then his works, and that the
main idea is to get through life as happily as possible with the minimum
of inconvenience to others. Human happiness is what I venture to
consider more important than the gim-cracks created by those same
humans. Man first, then man's work, that's the order of mundane
importance to me. And if you've got to criticise the work, for God's
sake do it with your hand on the man's shoulder."

"Our little socialist," said Ogilvy, patting Annan's blonde head. "He
wants to love everybody and everybody to love him, especially when
they're ornamental and feminine. Yes? No?" he asked, fondly coddling
Annan, who submitted with a bored air and tried to kick his shins.

Later, standing in a chance group on the sidewalk before scattering to
their several occupations, Burleson said:

"That's a winner of a model--that Miss West. I used her for the fountain
I'm doing for Cardemon's sunken garden. I never saw a model put together
as she is. And that's going some."

"She's a dream," said Ogilvy--"un pen sauvage--no inclination to
socialism there, Annan. I know because I was considering the
advisability of bestowing upon her one of those innocent, inadvertent,
and fascinatingly chaste salutes--just to break the formality. She
wouldn't have it. I'd taken her to the theatre, too. Girls are
astonishing problems."

"You're a joyous beast, aren't you, Sam?" observed Burleson.

"I may be a trifle joyous. I tried to explain that to her, but she
wouldn't listen. Heaven knows my intentions are child-like. I liked her
because she's the sort of girl you can take anywhere and not queer
yourself if you collide with your fianc√©e--visiting relative from
'Frisco, you know. She's equipped to impersonate anything from the
younger set to the prune and pickle class."

"She certainly is a looker," nodded Annan.

"She can deliver the cultivated goods, too, and make a perfectly good
play at the unsophisticated intellectual," said Ogilvy with conviction.
"And it's a rare combination to find a dream that looks as real at the
Opera as it does in a lobster palace. But she's no socialist,
Harry--she'll ride in a taxi with you and sit up half the night with
you, but it's nix for getting closer, and the frozen Fownes for the
chaste embrace--that's all."

"She's a curious kind of girl," mused Burleson;--"seems perfectly
willing to go about with you;--enjoys it like one of those
bread-and-butter objects that the department shops call a 'Miss.'"

Annan said: "The girl is unusual, everyway. You don't know where to
place her. She's a girl without a caste. I like her. I made some
studies from her; Kelly let me."

"Does Kelly own her?" asked Burleson, puffing out his chest.

"He discovered her. He has first call."

Allaire, who had come up, caught the drift of the conversation.

"Oh, hell," he said, in his loud, careless voice, "anybody can take
Valerie West to supper. The town's full of her kind."

"Have you taken her anywhere?" asked Annan, casually.

Allaire flushed up: "I haven't had time." He added something which
changed the fixed smile on his symmetrical, highly coloured face into an
expression not entirely agreeable.

"The girl's all right," said Burleson, reddening. "She's damn decent to
everybody. What are you talking about, Allaire? Kelly will put a head on
you!"

Allaire, careless and assertive, shrugged away the rebuke with a laugh:

"Neville is one of those professional virgins we read about in our
neatly manicured fiction. He's what is known as the original mark.
Jezebel and Potiphar's wife in combination with Salome and the daughters
of Lot couldn't disturb his confidence in them or in himself. And--in my
opinion--he paints that way, too." And he went away laughing and
swinging his athletic shoulders and twirling his cane, his hat not
mathematically straight on his handsome, curly head.

"There strides a joyous bounder," observed Ogilvy.

"Curious," mused Annan. "His family is oldest New York. You see 'em that
way, at times."

Burleson, who came from New England, grunted his scorn for Manhattan,
ancient or recent, and, nodding a brusque adieu, walked away with
ponderous and powerful strides. And the others followed, presently, each
in pursuit of his own vocation, Annan and Ogilvy remaining together as
their common destination was the big new studio building which they as
well as Neville inhabited.

Passing Neville's door they saw it still ajar, and heard laughter and a
piano and gay voices.

"Hi!" exclaimed Ogilvy, softly, "let's assist at the festivities.
Probably we're not wanted, but does that matter, Harry?"

"It merely adds piquancy to our indiscretion," said Annan, gravely,
following him in unannounced--"Oh, hello, Miss West! Was that you
playing? Hello, Rita"--greeting a handsome blonde young girl who
stretched out a gloved hand to them both and nodded amiably. Then she
glanced upward where, perched on his ladder, big palette curving over
his left elbow, Neville stood undisturbed by the noise below, outlining
great masses of clouds on a canvas where a celestial company, sketched
in from models, soared, floated, or hung suspended, cradled in mid air
with a vast confusion of wide wings spreading, fluttering, hovering,
beating the vast ethereal void, all in pursuit of a single exquisite
shape darting up into space.

"What's all that, Kelly? Leda chased by swans?" asked Ogilvy, with all
the disrespect of cordial appreciation.

"It's the classic game of follow my Leda," observed Annan.

"Oh--oh!" exclaimed Valerie West, laughing; "such a wretched witticism,
Mr. Annan!"

"Your composition is one magnificent vista of legs, Kelly," insisted
Ogilvy. "Put pants on those swans."

Neville merely turned and threw an empty paint tube at him, and
continued his cloud outlining with undisturbed composure.

"Where have you been, Rita?" asked Ogilvy, dropping into a chair.
"Nobody sees you any more."

"That's because nobody went to the show, and that's why they took it
off," said Rita Tevis, resentfully. "I had a perfectly good part which
nobody crabbed because nobody wanted it, which suited me beautifully
because I hate to have anything that others want. Now there's nothing
doing in the millinery line and I'm ready for suggestions."

"Dinner with me," said Ogilvy, fondly. But she turned up her dainty
nose:

"Have you anything more interesting to offer, Mr. Annan?"

"Only my heart, hand, and Ogilvy's fortune," said Annan, regretfully.
"But I believe Archie Allaire was looking for a model of your type--"

"I don't want to pose for Mr. Allaire," said the girl, pouting and
twirling the handle of her parasol.

But neither Annan nor Ogilvy could use her then; and Neville had just
finished a solid week of her.

"What I'll do," she said with decision, "will be to telephone John
Burleson. I never knew him to fail a girl in search of an engagement."

"Isn't he a dear," said Valerie, smiling. "I adore him."

She sat at the piano, running her fingers lightly over the keyboard,
listening to what was being said, watching with happy interest
everything that was going on around her, and casting an occasional
glance over her shoulder and upward to where Neville stood at work.

"John Burleson," observed Rita, looking fixedly at Ogilvy, "is easily
the nicest man I know."

"Help!" said Ogilvy, feebly.

Valerie glanced across the top of the piano, laughing, while her hands
passed idly here and there over the keys:

"Sam can be very nice, Rita; but you've got to make him," she said.

"Did you ever know a really interesting man who didn't require
watching?" inquired Annan, mildly.

Rita surveyed him with disdain: "Plenty."

"Don't believe it. No girl has any very enthusiastic use for a man in
whom she has perfect confidence."

"Here's another profound observation," added Ogilvy; "when a woman loses
confidence in a man she finds a brand-new interest in him. But when a
man once really loses confidence in a woman, he never regains it, and
it's the beginning of the end. What do you think about that, Miss West?"

Valerie, still smiling, struck a light chord or two, considering:

"I don't know how it would be," she said, "to lose confidence in a man
you really care much about. I should think it would break a girl's
heart."

"It doesn't," said Rita, with supreme contempt. "You become accustomed
to it."

Valerie leaned forward against the keyboard, laughing:

"Oh, Rita!" she said, "what a confession!"

"You silly child," retorted Rita, "I'm twenty-two. Do you think I have
the audacity to pretend I've never been in love?"

Ogilvy said with a grin: "How about you, Miss West?"--hoping to
embarrass her; but she only smiled gaily and continued to play a light
accompaniment to the fugitive air that was running through her head.

"Don't be selfish with your experiences," urged Ogilvy. "Come on, Miss
West! 'Raus mit 'em!'"

"What do you wish me to say, Sam?"

"That you've been in love several times."

"But I haven't."

"Not once?"

Her lowered face was still smiling, as her pliant fingers drifted into
Grieg's "Spring Song."

"Not one pretty amourette to cheer those twenty-one years of yours?"
insisted Ogilvy.

But his only answer was her lowered head and the faint smile edging her
lips, and the "Spring Song," low, clear, exquisitely persistent in the
hush.

When the last note died out in the stillness Rita emphasised the finish
with the ferrule of her parasol and rose with decision:

"I require several new frocks," she said, "and how am I to acquire them
unless I pose for somebody? Good-bye, Mr. Neville--bye-bye!
Sam--good-bye, Mr. Annan--good-bye, dear,"--to Valerie--"if you've
nothing better on hand drop in this evening. I've a duck of a new hat."

The girl nodded, and, as Rita Tevis walked out, turning up her nose at
Ogilvy who opened the door for her, Valerie glanced up over her shoulder
at Neville:

"I don't believe you are going to need me to-day after all, are you?"
she asked.

"No," he said, absently. "I've a lot of things to do. You needn't stay,
Miss West."

"Now will you be good!" said Annan, smiling at her with his humourous,
bantering air. And to his surprise and discomfiture he saw the least
trace of annoyance in her dark eyes.

"Come up to the studio and have a julep," he said with hasty cordiality.
"And suppose we dine together at Arrowhead--if you've nothing else on
hand--"

She shook her head--the movement was scarcely perceptible. The smile had
returned to her lips.

"Won't you, Miss West?"

"Isn't it like you to ask me when you heard Rita's invitation? You're a
fraud, Mr. Annan."

"Are you going to sit in that boarding-house parlour and examine Rita's
new bonnet all this glorious evening?"

She laughed: "Is there any man on earth who can prophesy what any woman
on earth is likely to do? If you can, please begin."

Ogilvy, hands clasped behind him, balancing alternately on heels and
toes, stood regarding Neville's work. Annan looked up, too, watching
Neville where he stood on the scaffolding, busy as always, with the only
recreation he cared anything for--work.

"I wish to Heaven I were infected with the bacillus of industry," broke
out Ogilvy. "I never come into this place but I see Kelly busily doing
something."

"You're an inhuman sort of brute, Kelly!" added Annan. "What do you work
that way for--money? If I had my way I'd spend three quarters of my time
shooting and fishing and one quarter painting--and I'm as devotedly
stuck on art as any healthy man ought to be."

"Art's a bum mistress if she makes you hustle like that!" commented
Ogilvy. "Shake her, Kelly. She's a wampire mit a sarpint's tongue!"

"The worst of Kelly is that he'd rather paint," said Annan,
hopelessly. "It's sufficient to sicken the proverbial cat."

"Get a machine and take us all out to Woodmanston?" suggested Ogilvy.
"It's a bee--u--tiful day, dearie!"

"Get out of here!" retorted Neville, painting composedly.

"Your industry saddens us," insisted Annan. "It's only in mediocrity
that you encounter industry. Genius frivols; talent takes numerous
vacations on itself--"

"And at its own expense," added Valerie, demurely. "I knew a man who
couldn't finish his 'Spring Academy' in time: and he had all winter to
finish it. But he didn't. Did you ever hear about that man, Sam?"

"Me," said Ogilvy, bowing with hand on heart. "And with that cruel jab
from you--false fair one--I'll continue heavenward in the elevator.
Come on, Harry."

Annan took an elaborate farewell of Valerie which she met in the same
mock-serious manner; then she waved a gay and dainty adieu to Ogilvy,
and reseated herself after their departure. But this time she settled
down into a great armchair facing Neville and his canvas, and lay back
extending her arms and resting the back of her head on the cushions.

Whether or not Neville was conscious of her presence below she could not
determine, so preoccupied did he appear to be with the work in hand. She
lay there in the pleasant, mellow light of the great windows, watching
him, at first intently, then, soothed by the soft spring wind that
fitfully stirred the hair at her temples, she relaxed her attention,
idly contented, happy without any particular reason.

Now and then a pigeon flashed by the windows, sheering away high above
the sunlit city. Once, wind-caught, or wandering into unaccustomed
heights, high in the blue a white butterfly glimmered, still mounting to
infinite altitudes, fluttering, breeze-blown, a silvery speck adrift.

"Like a poor soul aspiring," she thought listlessly, watching with dark
eyes over which the lids dropped lazily at moments, only to lift again
as her gaze reverted to the man above.

She thought about him, too; she usually did--about his niceness to her,
his never-to-be-forgotten kindness; her own gratitude to him for her
never-to-be-forgotten initiation.

It seemed scarcely possible that two months had passed since her
novitiate--that two months ago she still knew nothing of the people, the
friendships, the interest, the surcease from loneliness and hopeless
apathy, that these new conditions had brought to her.

Had she known Louis Neville only two months? Did all this new buoyancy
date from two short months' experience--this quickened interest in life,
this happy development of intelligence so long starved, this unfolding
of youth in the atmosphere of youth? She found it difficult to realise,
lying there so contentedly, so happily, following, with an interest and
appreciation always developing, the progress of the work.

Already, to herself, she could interpret much that she saw in this new
world. Cant phrases, bits of studio lore, artists' patter, their ways
of looking at things, their manners of expression, their mannerisms,
their little vanities, their ideas, ideals, aspirations, were fast
becoming familiar to her. Also she was beginning to notice and secretly
to reflect on their generic characteristics--their profoundly serious
convictions concerning themselves and their art modified by surface
individualities; their composite lack of humour--exceptions like Ogilvy
and Annan, and even Neville only proving the rule; their simplicity,
running the entire gamut from candour to stupidity; their patience which
was half courage, half a capacity for suffering; and, in the latter,
more woman-like than like a man.

Simplicity, courage, lack of humour--those appeared to be the
fundamentals characterising the ensemble--supplemented by the extremes
of restless intelligence and grim conservatism.

And the whole fabric seemed to be founded not on industry but on impulse
born of sentiment. In this new, busy, inspiring, delightful world logic
became a synthesis erected upon some inceptive absurdity, carried
solemnly to a picturesque and erroneous conclusion.

She had been aware, in stage folk, of the tendency to sentimental
impulse; and she again discovered it in this new world, in a form
slightly modified by the higher average of reasoning power. In both
professions the heart played the dominant part in creator and creation.
The exceptions to the rule were the few in either profession who might
be called distinguished.

Neville had once said to her: "Nothing that amounts to anything in art
is ever done accidentally or merely because the person who creates it
loves to do it."

She was thinking of this, now, as she lay there watching him.

He had added: "Enthusiasm is excellent while you're dressing for
breakfast; but good pictures are painted in cold blood. Go out into the
back yard and yell your appreciation of the universe if you want to; but
the studio is a silent place; and a blank canvas a mathematical
proposition."

Could this be true? Was all the beauty, all the joyous charm, all the
splendour of shape and colour the result of working out a mathematical
proposition? Was this exquisite surety of touch and handling, of mass
and line composition, all these lovely depths and vast ethereal spaces
superbly peopled, merely the logical result of solving that problem? Was
it all clear, limpid, steady, nerveless intelligence; and was nothing
due to the chance and hazard of inspiration?

Gladys, the cat, walked in, gently flourishing her tail, hesitated,
looked around with narrowing green-jewelled eyes, and, ignoring the
whispered invitation and the outstretched hand, leaped lightly to a
chair and settled down on a silken cushion, paws and tail folded under
her jet-black body.

Valerie reproached her in a whisper, reminding her of past caresses and
attentions, but the cat only blinked at her pleasantly.

On a low revolving stand at Valerie's elbow lay a large lump of green
modelling wax. This wax Neville sometimes used to fashion, with his
facile hands, little figures sketched from his models. These he arranged
in groups as though to verify the composition on the canvas before him,
and this work and the pliant material which he employed had for her a
particular and never-flagging interest. And now, without thinking,
purely instinctively, she leaned forward and laid her hand caressingly
on the lump of wax. There was something about the yielding, velvety
texture that fascinated her, as though in her slim fingers some delicate
nerves were responding to the pleasure of contact.

For a while she moulded little cubes and pyramids, pinched out
bread-crumb chickens and pigs and cats.

"What do you think of this little wax kitten, Gladys?" she whispered,
holding it up for the cat's inspection. Gladys regarded it without
interest and resumed her pleasant contemplation of space.

Valerie, elbows on knees, seated at the revolving stool with all the
na√Øve absorption of a child constructing mud pies, began to make out of
the fascinating green wax an image of Gladys dozing.

Time fled away in the studio; intent, absorbed, she pinched little
morsels of wax from the lump and pushed them into place with a snowy,
pink-tipped thumb, or with the delicate nail of her forefinger removed
superfluous material.

Stepping noiselessly so not to disturb Neville she made frequent
journeys around to the other side of the cat, sometimes passing
sensitive fingers over silky feline contours, which, research inspired a
loud purring.

As she worked sometimes she talked under her breath to herself, to
Gladys, to Neville:

"I am making a perfectly good cat, Valerie," she whispered. "Gladys,
aren't you a little bit flattered? I suppose you think it's honour
enough to belong to that man up there on the scaffolding. I imagine it
is; he is a very wonderful man, Gladys, very high above us in intellect
as he is in body. He doesn't pay very much attention to you and me down
here on the floor; he's just satisfied to own us and be amiable to us
when he thinks about us.

"I don't mean that in any critical or reproachful sense, Gladys. Don't
you dare think I do--not for one moment! Do you hear me? Well then! If
you are stupid enough to misunderstand me I'll put a perfectly horrid
pair of ears on you!... I've made a very dainty pair of ears for you,
dear; I only said that to frighten you. You and I like that man up
there--tremendously, don't we? And we're very grateful to him for--for a
great many happy moments--and for his unfailing kindness and
consideration.... You don't mind posing for me; you wear fur. But I
didn't wear anything, dear, when I first sat to him as a novice; and,
kitty, I was a fortunate girl in my choice of the man before whom I was
to make a d√©but. And I--"

The rattle of brushes and the creak of the scaffolding arrested her:
Neville was coming down for a view of his work.

"Hello," he said, pleasantly, noticing for the first time that she was
still in the studio.

"Have I disturbed you, Mr. Neville?"

"Not a bit. You never do any more than does Gladys." He glanced absently
at the cat, then, facing his canvas, backed away from it, palette in
hand.

For ten minutes he examined his work, shifting his position from minute
to minute, until the change of positions brought him backed up beside
Valerie, and his thigh brushing her arm made him aware of her. Glancing
down with smiling apology his eye fell on the wax, and was arrested.
Then he bent over the work she had done, examining it, twirled the top
of the stool, and inspected it carefully from every side.

"Have you ever studied modelling, Miss West?"

"No," she said, blushing, "you must know that I haven't." And looked up
expecting to see laughter in his eyes; and saw only the curiosity of
interest.

"How did you know how to start this?"

"I have often watched you."

"Is that all the instruction you've ever had in modelling?"

She could not quite bring herself to believe in his pleasant
seriousness:

"Y-yes," she admitted, "except when I have watched John Burleson.
But--this is simply rotten--childish--isn't it?"

"No," he said in a matter of fact tone, "it's interesting."

"Do you really think--mean--"

He looked down at her, considering her while the smile that she knew and
liked best and thought best suited to his face, began to glimmer; that
amused, boyish, bantering smile hinting of experience and wisdom
delightfully beyond her.

"I really think that you're a very unusual girl," he said. "I don't want
to spoil you by telling you so every minute."

"You don't spoil me by telling me so. Sometimes I think you may spoil me
by not telling me so."

"Miss West! You're spoiled already! I'm throwing bouquets at you every
minute! You're about the only girl who ever sat for me with whom I talk
unreservedly and incessantly."

"Really, Mr. Neville?"

"Yes--really, Mr. Neville," he repeated, laughing--"you bad, spoiled
little beauty! You know devilish well that if there's any intellectual
space between you and me it's purely a matter of circumstance and
opportunity."

"Do you think me silly enough to believe that!"

"I think you clever enough to know it without my telling you."

"I wish you wouldn't say that."

She was still smiling but in the depths of her eyes he felt that the
smile was not genuine.

"See here," he said, "I don't want you to think that I don't mean what I
say. I do. You're as intelligent a woman as I ever knew. I've known
girls more cultivated in general and in particular, but, I say again,
that is the hazard of circumstance. Is all clear between us now, Miss
West?"

"Yes."

He held out his hand; she glanced up, smiled, and laid her own in it.
And they shook hands heartily.

"Good business," he said with satisfaction. "Don't ever let anything
threaten our very charming accord. The moment you don't approve of
anything I say or do come straight to me and complain--and don't let me
divine it in your eyes, Miss West."

"Did you?"

"Certainly I did. Your lips were smiling but in your eyes was something
that did not corroborate your lips."

"Yes.... But how could you see it?"

"After all," he said, "it's part of my business to notice such things."
He seated himself on the arm of her chair and bent over the wax model,
his shoulder against hers. And the chance contact meant nothing to
either: but what he said about men and things in the world was
inevitably arousing the intelligence in her to a gratitude, a happiness,
at first timid, then stirring subtly, tremulously, toward passionate
response.

No man can do that to a girl and leave the higher side of her
indifferent or unresponsive. What he had aroused--what he was awakening
every day in her was what he must some day reckon with. Loyalty is born
of the spirit, devotion of the mind; and spiritual intelligence arouses
fiercer passions than the sensuous emotions born of the flesh.

Leaning there above the table, shoulder to shoulder, his light finger
