quieting hand on the Sagamore's shaking arm, cautioning him; and he
touched the Oneidas and the Stockbridge, one by one, in warning.

Opposite us, the ruddy firelight played over the massed savages, women,
children, and old men mostly, gleaming on glistening eyes, sparkling on
wampum and metal ornaments. To the right and left of us a few knives
and hatchets caught the firelight, and many multi-coloured plumes and
blankets glowed in its shifting brilliancy.

The eight Sachems stood, tall and motionless, behind the altar; the
drumming never ceased, and from around the massed circle rose a low
sing-song chant, keeping time to the hollow rhythm of the drums:

  * "Onenh are oya
    Egh-des-ho-ti-ya-do-re-don
  Nene ronenh
    'Ken-ki-ne ne-nya-wenne!"

  [* "Now again they decided and said: 'This shall be done!'"]

Above this rumbling undertone sounded the distant howling of dogs in
Catharines-town; and presently the great forest owls woke up, yelping
like goblins across the misty intervale. Strangely enough, the dulled
pandemonium, joined in by dog and owl and drum and chanting savages,
made but a single wild and melancholy monotone seeming to suit the time
and place as though it were the voice of this fierce wilderness itself.

Now into the circle, one by one, came those who had dreamed and must be
answered--not as in the old-time and merry Feast of Dreams, where the
rites were harmless and the mirth and jollity innocent, if rough--for
Amochol had perverted the ancient and innocent ceremony, making of a
fourteen-day feast a sinister rite which ended in a single night.

I understood this more clearly now, as I lay watching the proceedings,
for I had seen this feast in company with Guy Johnson on the Kennyetto,
and found in it nothing offensive and no revolting license or
blasphemy, though others may say this is not true.

Yet, how can a rite which begins with three days religious services,
including confession of sins on wampum, be otherwise than decent? As
for the rest of the feast, the horse-play, skylarking, dancing,
guessing contests--the little children's dance on the tenth day, the
Dance for Four on the eleventh, the Dance for the Eight Thunders on the
thirteenth--the noisy, violent, but innocent romping of the False
Faces--all this I had seen in the East, and found no evil in it and no
debauchery.

But what was now already going on I had never seen at any Iroquois
feast or rite, and what Amochol had made of this festival I dared not
conjecture as I gazed at the Dreamers now advancing into the circle
with an abandon and an effrontery scarcely decent.

Six young girls came first, naked except for a breadth of fawn-skin
falling from waist to instep. Their bodies were painted vermilion from
brow to ankle; they carried in their hands red harvest apples, which
they tossed one to another as they move lightly across the open space
in a slow, springy, yet not ungraceful dance.

Behind them came a slim maid, wearing only a black fox-head, and the
soft pelt dangling from her belt, and the tail behind. She was painted
a ruddy yellow everywhere except a broad line of white in front, like a
fox's belly; and, like a fox, too, her feet and hands were painted
black.

Following her came eight girls plumed in spotless white and clothed
only in white feathers--aping the Thunders, doubtless; but even to me,
a white man and a Christian, it was a sinister and evil sight to see
this mockery as they danced forward, arms entwined, and the snowy
plumes floating out in the firelight, disclosing the white painted
bodies which the firelight tinted with rose and amber lights.

Then came dancing other girls, dressed in most offensive mockery of the
harmless and ancient rite--first the Fire Keeper, crowned with oak
leaves instead of wild cherry, and wearing a sewed garment made of oak
twigs and tufted leaves, from which the acorns hung. Followed two girls
in cloaks of shimmering pine-needles, and wearing wooden masks,
dragging after them the carcasses of two white dogs, to "Clothe the
Moon Witch!" they cried to the burly Erie acolyte who followed them,
his heavy knife shining in his hand.

Then the Erie disemboweled the strangled dogs, cast their entrails into
the fire, and kicked aside the carcasses, shouting:

"Atensi stands naked upon the Moon! What shall she wear to cover her?"

"The soft hide of a Hidden Child!" answered a Sachem from behind the
altar. "We have so dreamed it."

"It shall be done!" cried the Erie; and, lifting himself on tip toe, he
threw back his brutal head and gave the Panther Cry so that his voice
rang hideously through the night.

Instantly into the circle came scurrying the Andastes, some wearing the
heads of bulls, some of wolves, foxes, bears, their bodies painted
horribly in raw reds and yellows, and running about like a pack of
loosened hounds. All their movements were wild and aimless, and like
animals, and they seemed to smell their way as they ran about hither
and thither, sniffing, listening, but seldom looking long or directly
at any one thing.

I was sorely afraid that some among them might come roving and muzzling
into the bushes where we lay; but they did not, gradually gathering
into an uneasy pack and settling on their haunches near the dancing
girls, who played with them, and tormented them with branches of hazel,
samphire and green osier.

Suddenly a young girl, jewelled with multi-coloured diamonds of paint,
and jingling all over with little bells, came dancing into the ring,
beating a tiny, painted drum as she advanced. She wore only a narrow
sporran of blue-birds' feathers to her knees, glistening blue moccasins
of the same plumage, and a feathered head dress of the scarlet
fire-bird. Behind her filed the Cat-People, Amochol's hideous acolytes,
each wearing the Nez Perce ridge of porcupine-like hair, the lynx-skin
cloak and necklace of claws; and all howling to the measure of the
little painted drum. I could feel Mayaro beside me, quivering with
eagerness and fury; but the time was not yet, and he knew it, as did
his enraged comrades.

For behind the Eries, moving slowly, came a slender shape, shrouded in
white. Her head was bent in the shadow of her cowl; her white wool
vestments trailed behind her. Both hands were clasped together under
her loose robe. On her cowl was a wreath of nightshade, with its dull
purple fruit and blossoms clustering around her shadowed brow.

"Who is that?" whispered Lois, beginning to tremble, "God knows," I
said. "Wait!"

The shrouded shape moved straight to the great stone altar and stood
there a moment facing it; then, veiling her face with her robe, she
turned, mounted the left hand mound, and seated herself, head bowed.

Toward her, advancing all alone, was now approaching a figure, painted,
clothed, and plumed in scarlet. Everything was scarlet about him, his
moccasins, his naked skin, the fantastic cloak and blanket, girdle,
knife-hilt, axe shaft, and the rattling quiver on his back--nay, the
very arrows in it were set with scarlet feathers, and the looped
bowstring was whipped with crimson sinew.

The Andastes came moaning, cringing, fawning, and leaping about his
knees; he noticed them not at all; the Cat-People, seated in a
semicircle, looked up humbly as he passed; he ignored them.

Slowly he moved to the altar and laid first his hand upon it, then
unslung his bow and quiver and laid them there. A great silence fell
upon the throng. And we knew we were looking at last upon the Scarlet
Priest.

Yes, this was Amochol, the Red Sachem, the vile, blaspheming,
murderous, and degraded chief who had made of a pure religion a horror,
and of a whole people a nation of unspeakable assassins.

As the firelight flashed full in his face, I saw that his features were
not painted; that they were delicate and regular, and that the skin was
pale, betraying his French ancestry.

And good God! What a brood of demons had that madman, Frontenac, begot
to turn loose upon this Western World! For there appeared to be a
Montour in every bit of devil's work we ever heard of--and it seemed as
though there was no end to their number. One, praise God, had been
slain before Wyoming--which some said enraged the Witch, his mother, to
the fearsome deeds she did there--and one was this man's sister, Lyn
Montour--a sleek, lithe girl of the forest, beautiful and depraved. But
the Toad Woman, mother of Amochol, was absent, and of all the Montours
only this strange priest had remained at Catharines-town. And him we
were now about to take or slay.

"Amochol!" whispered the Sagamore in my ear.

"I know," I said. "It is strange. He is not like a monster, after all."

"He is beautiful," whispered Lois.

I stared at the pale, calm face over which the firelight played. The
features seemed almost perfect, scarcely cruel, yet there was in the
eyes a haunting beauty that was almost terrible when they became fixed.

To his scarlet moccasins crept the Andastes, one by one, and squatted
there in silence.

Then a single warrior entered the ring. He was clad in the ancient
arrow-proof armour of the Iroquois, woven of sinew and wood. His face
was painted jet black, and he wore black plumes. He mounted the eastern
mound, strung his bow, set an arrow to the string, and seated himself.

The red acolytes came forward, and the slim Prophetess bent her head
till the long, dark hair uncoiled and fell down, clouding her to the
waist in shadow.

"Hereckenes!" cried Amochol in a clear voice; and at the sound of their
ancient name the Cat-People began a miauling chant.

"Antauhonorans!" cried Amochol.

Every Seneca took up the chant, and the drums timed it softly and
steadily.

"Prophetess!" said Amochol in a ringing voice. "I have dreamed that the
Moon Witch and her grandson Iuskeha shall be clothed. With what, then,
shall they be clothed, O Woman of the Night Sky? Explain to my people
this dream that I have dreamed."

The slim, white-cowled figure answered slowly, with bowed head,
brooding motionless in the shadow of her hair:

"Two dogs lie yonder for Atensi and her grandson. Let them be painted
with the sun and moon. So shall the dream of Amochol come true!"

"Sorceress!" he retorted fiercely. "Shall I not offer to Atensi and
Iuskeha two Hidden Children, that white robes may be made of their
unblemished skins to clothe the Sun and Moon?"

"Into the eternal wampum it is woven that the soft, white skins shall
clothe their bodies till the husks fall from the silken corn."

"And then, Witch of the East? Shall I not offer them when the husks are
stripped?"

"I see no further than you dream, O Amochol!"

He stretched out his arm toward her, menacingly:

"Yet they shall both be strangled here upon this stone!" he said.
"Look, Witch! Can you not see them lying there together? I have dreamed
it."

She silently pointed at the two dead dogs.

"Look again!" he cried in a loud voice. "What do you see?"

She made no reply.

"Answer!" he said sharply.

"I have looked. And I see only the eternal wampum lying at my
feet--lacking a single belt."

With a furious gesture the Red Priest turned and stared at the dancing
girls who raised their bare arms, crying:

"We have dreamed, O Amochol! Let your Sorceress explain our dreams to
us!"

And one after another, as their turns came, they leaped up from the
ground and sprang forward. The first, a tawny, slender, mocking thing,
flung wide her arms.

"Look, Sorceress! I dreamed of a felled sapling and a wolverine! What
means my dream?"

And the slim, white figure, head bowed in her dark hair, answered
quietly:

"O dancer of the Na-usin, who wears okwencha at the Onon-hou-aroria,
yet is no Seneca, the felled sapling is thou thyself. Heed lest the
wolverine shall scent a human touch upon thy breast!" And she pointed
at the Andastes.

A dead silence followed, then the girl, horror struck, shrank back, her
hands covering her face.

Another sprang forward and cried:

"Sorceress! I dreamed of falling water and a red cloud at sunset
hanging like a plume!"

"Water falls, daughter of Mountain Snakes. Every drop you saw was a
dead man falling. And the red cloud was red by reason of blood; and the
plume was the crest of a war chief."

"What chief!" said Amochol, turning his deadly eyes on her.

"A Gate-Keeper of the West."

The shuddering silence was broken by the eager voice of another girl,
bounding from her place--a flash of azure and jewelled paint.

"And I, O Sorceress! I dreamed of night, and a love song under the
million stars. And of a great stag standing in the water."

"Had the stag no antlers, little daughter?"

"None, for it was spring time."

"You dreamed of night. It shall be night for a long while--for ages and
ages, ere the stag's wide antlers crown his head again. For the antlers
were lying upon a new made grave. And the million stars were the lights
of camp-fires. And the love-song was the Karenna. And the water you
beheld was the river culled Chemung."

The girl seemed stunned, standing there plucking at her fingers,
scarlet lips parted, and her startled eyes fixed upon the white-draped
sibyl.

"Executioner! Bend your bow!" cried Amochol, with a terrible stare at
the Sorceress.

The man in woven armour raised his bow, bent it, drawing the arrow to
the tip. At the same instant the Prophetess rose to her feet, flung
back her cowl, and looked Amochol steadily in the eyes from the shadow
of her hair.

So, for a full minute in utter silence, they stared at each other; then
Amochol said between his teeth:

"Have a care that you read truly what my people dream!"

"Shall I lie?" she asked in even tones. And, quivering with impotent
rage and superstition, the Red Priest found no word to answer.

"O Amochol," she said, "let the armoured executioner loose his shaft.
It is poisoned. Never since the Cat-People were overthrown has a
poisoned arrow been used within the Long House. Never since the
Atotarho covered his face from Hiawatha--never since the snakes were
combed from his hair--has a Priest of the Long House dared to doubt the
Prophetess of the Seneca nation. Doubt--and die!"

Amochol's face was like pale brown marble; twice he half turned toward
the executioner, but gave no signal. Finally, he laid his hand flat on
the altar; the executioner unbent his bow and the arrow drooped from
the painted haft and dangled there, its hammered iron war-head glinting
in the firelight.

Then the Prophetess turned and stood looking out over the throng
through the thick, aromatic smoke from the birch-fire, and presently
her clear voice rang through the deathly silence:

"O People of the Evening Sky! Far on the Chemung lie many dead men. I
see them lying there in green coats and in red, in feathers and in
paint! Through forests, through mountains, through darkness, have my
eyes beheld this thing. There is a new thunder in the hills, and red
fire flowers high in the pines, and a hail falls, driving earthward in
iron drops that slay all living things.

"New clouds hang low along the river; and they are not of the water
mist that comes at twilight and ascends with the sun. Nor is this new
thunder in the hills the voice of the Eight White Plumed Ones; nor is
the boiling of the waters the stirring of the Serpent Bride.

"Red run the riffles, yet the sun is high; and those who would cross at
the ford have laid them down to dam the waters with their bodies.

"And I see fires along the flats; I see flames everywhere, towns on
fire, corn burning, hay kindling to ashes under a white ocean of
smoke--the Three Sisters scorched, trampled, and defiled!" She lifted
one arm; her spellbound audience never stirred.

"Listen!" she cried, "I hear the crashing of many feet in northward
flight! I hear horses galloping, and the rattle of swords. Many who run
are stumbling, falling, lying still and crushed and wet with blood. I,
Sorceress of the Senecas, see and hear these things; and as I see and
hear, so must I speak my warning to you all!"

She whirled on Amochol, flinging back her hair. Her skin was as white
us my own!

With a stifled cry Lois sprang to her feet; but I caught her and held
her fast.

"Good God!" I whispered to the Sagamore. "Where is Boyd?"

The executioner had risen, and was bending his bow; the Sorceress
turned deathly pale but her blue eyes flashed, never swerving from the
cruel stare of Amochol.

"Where is Boyd?" I whispered helplessly. "They mean to murder her!"

"Kill that executioner!" panted Lois, struggling in my arms. "In God's
name, slay him where he stands!"

"It means our death," said the Sagamore.

The Night Hawk came crouching close to my shoulder. He had unslung and
strung his little painted bow of an adolescent, and was fitting the
nock of a slim arrow to the string.

He looked up at me; I nodded; and as the executioner clapped his heels
together, straightened himself, and drew the arrow to his ear, we heard
a low twang! And saw the black hand of the Seneca pinned to his own bow
by the Night Hawk's shaft.

So noiselessly was it done that the fascinated throng could not at
first understand what had happened to the executioner, who sprang into
the air, screamed, and stood clawing and plucking at the arrow while
his bow hung dripping with blood, yet nailed to his shrinking palm.

Amochol, frozen to a scarlet statue, stared at the contortions of the
executioner for a moment, then, livid, wheeled on the Prophetess,
shaking from head to foot.

"Is this your accursed magic?" he shouted. "Is this your witchcraft,
Sorceress of Biskoonah? Is it thus you strike when threatened? Then you
shall burn! Take her, Andastes!"

But the Andastes, astounded and terrified, only cowered together in a
swaying pack.

Restraining Lois with all my strength, I said to the Mohican:

"If Boyd comes not before they take her, concentrate your fire on
Amochol, for we can not hope to make him prisoner----"

"Hark!" motioned the Sagamore, grasping my arm. I heard also, and so
did the others. The woods on our left were full of noises, the trample
of people running, the noise of crackling underbrush.

We all thought the same thing, and stood waiting to see Boyd's onset
break from the forest. The Red Priest also heard it, for he had turned
where he stood, his rigid arm still menacing the White Sorceress.

Suddenly, into the firelit circle staggered a British soldier, hatless,
dishevelled, his scarlet uniform in rags.

For a moment he stood staring about him, swaying where he stood, then
with a hopeless gesture he flung his musket from him and passed a
shaking hand across his eyes.

"O Amochol!" cried the Sorceress, pointing a slim and steady finger at
the bloody soldier. "Have I dreamed lies or have I dreamed the truth?
Hearken! The woods are full of people running! Do you hear? And have I
lied to you, O Amochol?"

"From whence do you come?" cried Amochol, striding toward the soldier.

"From the Chemung. Except for the dead we all are coming--Butler and
Brant and all. Bring out your corn, Seneca! The army starves."

Amochol stared at the soldier, at the executioner still writhing and
struggling to loose his hand from the bloody arrow, at the Sorceress
who had veiled her face.

"Witch!" he cried, "get you to Yndaia. If you stir elsewhere you shall
burn!"

He had meant to say more, I think, but at that moment, from the
southern woods men came reeling out into the fire-circle--ghastly,
bloody, ragged creatures in shreds of uniforms, green, red, and
brown--men and officers of Sir John's regiment, men of Butler's
Rangers, British regulars. On their heels glided the Seneca warriors,
warriors of the Cayugas, Onondagas, Caniengas, Esauroras, and here and
there a traitorous Oneida, and even a few Hurons.

Pell-mell this mob of fighting men came surging through the
fire-circle, and straight into Catharines-town, while I and my Indians
crouched there, appalled and astounded.

I saw Sir John Johnson come up with the officers of his two battalions
and a captain, a sergeant, a corporal, and fifteen British regulars.

"Clear me out this ring of mummers!" he said in his cold, penetrating
voice. "And thou, Amochol, if this damned town of thine be stocked,
bring out the provisions and set these Eries a-roasting corn!"

I saw McDonald storming and cursing at his irregulars, where the poor
brutes had gathered into a wavering rank; I saw young Walter Butler
haranguing his Rangers and Senecas; I saw Brant, calm, noble, stately,
standing supported by two Caniengas while a third examined his wounded
leg.

The whole place was a tumult of swarming savages and white men; already
the Seneca women, crowding among the men, were raising the death wail.
The dancing girls huddled together in a frightened and half-naked
group; the Andastes cowered apart; the servile Eries were staggering
out of the corn fields laden with ripe ears; and the famished soldiers
were shouting and cursing at them and tearing the corn from their arms
to gnaw the raw and milky grains.

How we were to withdraw and escape destruction I did not clearly see,
for our path must cross the eastern belt of forest, and it was still
swarming with fugitives arriving, limping, dragging themselves in from
the disaster of the Chemung.

Hopeless to dream of taking or slaying Amochol now; hopeless to think
of warning Boyd or even of finding him. Somewhere in the North he had
met with obstacles which delayed him. He must scout for himself, now,
for the entire Tory army was between him and us.

"There is but one way now," whispered the Mohican.

"By Yndaia," I said.

My Indians were of the same opinion.

"I should have gone there anyway," said Lois, still all a-quiver, and
shivering close to my shoulder. I put my arm around her; every muscle
of her body was rigid, taut, yet trembling, as a smooth and finely
turned pointer trembles with eagerness and powerful self-control.

"Amochol has driven her thither," she whispered. "Shall we not be on
our way?"

"Can you lead, Mayaro?" I whispered.

The Mohican turned and crawled southward on his hands and knees, moving
slowly.

"For God's sake let them hear no sound in this belt of bush," I
whispered to Lois.

"I am calm, Euan. I am not afraid."

"Then fallow the Sagamore."

One by one we turned and crept away southward; and I was ever fearful
that some gleam from the fire, catching our rifle-barrels or axe-heads,
might betray us. But we gained the denser growth undiscovered, then
rose to our feet in the open forest and hurried forward in file,
crowding close to keep in touch.

Once Lois turned and called back in a low, breathless voice;

"I thank Tahoontowhee from my heart for his true eye and his avenging
arrow."

The young warrior laughed; but I knew he was the proudest youth in all
the West that night.

The great cat-owls were shrieking and yelping through the forest as we
sped southward. My Indians, silent and morose, their vengeance unslaked
and now indefinitely deferred, moved at a dog trot through the forest,
led by the Sagamore, whose eyes saw as clearly in the dark as my own by
day.

And after a little while we noticed the stars above us, and felt ferns
and grass under our feet, and came out into that same glade from whence
runs the trail to Yndaia through the western hill cleft.

"People ahead!" whispered the Sagamore. "Their Sorceress and six Eries!"

"Are you certain?" I breathed, loosening my hatchet.

"Certain, Loskiel. Yonder they are halted within the ferns. They are at
the stream, drinking."

I caught Lois by the wrist.

"Come with me--hurry!" I said, as the Indians darted away and began to
creep out and around the vague and moving group of shadows. And as we
sped forward I whispered brokenly my instructions, conjuring her to
obey.

We were right among them before they dreamed of our coming; not a
war-cry was uttered; there was no sound save the crashing blows of
hatchets, the heavy, panting breathing of those locked in a death
struggle, the deep groan and coughing as a knife slipped home.

I flung a clawing Erie from me ere his blood drenched me, and he fell
floundering, knifed through and through, and tearing a hole in my
rifle-cape with his teeth as he fell. Two others lay under foot; my
Oneidas were slaying another in the ferns, and the Sagamore's hatchet,
swinging like lightning, dashed another into eternity.

The last one ran, but stumbled, with three arrows in his burly neck and
spine; and the Night Hawk's hatchet flew, severing the thread of life
far him and hurling him on his face. Instantly the young Oneida leaped
upon the dead man's shoulders, pulled back his heavy head, and tore the
scalp off with a stifled cry of triumph.

"The Black-Snake!" said the Sagamore at my side, breathing heavily from
his bloody combat, and dashing the red drops from the scalp he swung.
"Look yonder, Loskiel! Our little Rosy Pigeon has returned at last!"

I had seen it already, but I turned to look. And I saw the White
Sorceress and my sweetheart close locked in each other's arms--so close
and motionless that they seemed but a single snowy shape there under
the lustre of the stars.



CHAPTER XX

YNDAIA

At the mouth of the pass which led to the Vale Yndaia I lay with my
Indians that night, two mounting guard, then one, then two more, and
the sentinels changed every three hours throughout the night. But all
were excited and all slept lightly.

Within the Vale Yndaia, perhaps a hundred yards from the mouth of the
pass, stood the lonely little house of bark in which Madame de
Contrecoeur had lived alone for twenty years.

And here, that night, Lois lay with her mother; and no living thing
nearer the dim house than we who mounted guard--except for the little
birds asleep that Madame de Contrecoeur had tamed, and the small forest
creatures which had learned to come fearlessly at this lonely woman's
low-voiced call. And these things I learned not then, but afterwards.

Never had I seen such utter loneliness--for it had been less a
solitude, it seemed to me, had the little house not stood there under
the pale lustre of the stars.

On every side lofty hills enclosed the valley, heavily timbered to
their crests; and through the intervale the rill ran, dashing out of
the pass and away into that level, wooded strip to the fern-glade which
lay midway between the height of land and Catharines-town; and there
joined the large stream which flowed north. I could see in the darkness
little of the secret and hidden valley called Yndaia, only the heights
silhouetted against the stars, a vague foreground sheeted with mist,
and the dark little house standing there all alone under the stars.

