on the roof, they had heard the farmer coming to milk his cows. The
man had evidently just parted from his wife, and there had been a
quarrel; but the farmer hadn’t dared to say what he wanted to, so
now he took it out on the cows! “Na! na! na!” he shouted, with
furious vehemence. “That’s it! Go on! Nag, nag, nag! Don’t stop, or
I might manage to get a word in! Yes, I’m late, of course I’m late!
Do you expect me to drive by the clock? Maybe I did forget the
sugar! Maybe I’ve got nothing on my mind but errands! Whiskey? Maybe
it’s whiskey, and maybe it’s gin, and maybe it’s grape-juice!” The
farmer set down his milk-pail and his lantern, and shook his
clenched fist at the patient cattle. “I’m a man, I am, and I’ll have
you understand I’m master in my own house! I’ll drink if I feel like
drinking, I’ll stop and chat with my neighbors if I feel like
stopping, I’ll buy sugar if I remember to buy it, and if you don’t
like it, you can buy your own!” And so on--becoming more inspired
with his own eloquence--or maybe with the whiskey, or the gin, or
the grape-juice; until young Philip became so filled with the spirit
of the combat that he popped up out of the hay and shouted, “Good
for you, old man! Stand up for your rights! Don’t let her down you!
Hurrah for men!” And the astounded farmer stood staring with his
mouth open, while the two “wobbles” leaped up and fled from the
barn, so convulsed with laughter they hardly noticed the floods of
rain pouring down upon them.



LII


But, of course, it wasn’t long before this little company became
serious again. Carpenter told Franklin that he ought not stay here;
he, Carpenter, was too conspicuous a figure, the authorities were
certain to be watching him. Korwsky backed him up. There were sure
to be spies here! They would never leave such a man unwatched. They
would set to work to get something on him, and if they couldn’t get
it they would make it. When Carpenter asked what he meant, he
explained, “Dey’ll plant dynamite in de place vere you are, or
dey’ll fake up some letters to show you been plannin’ violence.”

“And do people believe such things?” asked Carpenter.

“Believe dem?” cried Korwsky. “If dey see it in de papers, dey
believe it--sure dey do!”

The prophet answered, “Let a man live so that the world will believe
him and not his enemies.” Then he added a startling remark. “There
is one among us who will betray me.”

Of course, they all looked at one another in consternation. They
were deeply distressed, and each tried in turn--“Comrade,” or
“Brother,” or “Fellow-worker,” or whatever term they used--“is it
I?” Presently the sturdy looking fellow named Hamby, who called
himself a pacifist, asked, “Is it I?” And Carpenter answered,
quietly, “You have said it.”

Then, of course, some of the others started up; they wanted to throw
him out, but Carpenter bade them sit down again, saying, “Let things
take their course; for the powers of this world will perish more
quickly if they are permitted to kill themselves.”

Apparently he saw no reason why this episode should be permitted to
interfere with the festivities. Mary Magna came in laughing, bearing
the strawberry short-cake, and set it on the table and proceeded to
portion it out. When it was served, Carpenter said, “I shall not be
with you much longer, my friends; but you will remember me when you
see this beautiful red fruit on top of a cake; and also you will
think of me and my message when you taste rich purple grape-juice
that has perhaps stayed a day or two too long in the bottle!”

Some of the company laughed, but others of them had tears in their
eyes; and I noticed that in the midst of the merriment the fellow
Hamby got up and slipped out of the room. Not long after that the
company began to disperse for various reasons. Karlin explained that
his old horse had been working all day, and had had no supper.
Colver was uneasy, not for himself, but for his friend, and I saw
him start every time the door was opened. Also, T-S was having some
night-scenes taken, and he and Mary were to see the work. Finally
Carpenter dismissed the Company, with the statement that he wished
to retire to Comrade Abell’s private office to pray; and Abell and
his friend Lynch and the young Mexican said they would watch and
wait for him. The rest of us took our departure, not without
misgivings and sorrow in our hearts.



LIII


Now, you may find it hard to believe a confession which I have put
off making--the fact that at this time I was engaged to be married.
There was a certain member of what is called the “younger set,” whom
I had given reason to expect that I would think about her at least
once in a while. But here for precisely three days I had been
chasing about at the skirts of a prophet fresh from God, getting my
name into the newspapers in scandalous fashion, and not daring even
to call the young lady on the telephone and make apologies. That
evening there was a dinner-dance at her home, and I supposed I was
supposed to be there; but no one had bothered to invite me, and as a
matter of fact I would not have known of the affair if I had not
seen the announcement in the papers. I was too late for the dinner,
but I got myself a taxicab, and drove to my room and changed my
clothes, and hurried in my own car to the dance.

You would not be interested in the fact that when I arrived I was
treated as an unwelcome guest, and Miss Betty even went so far as to
remind me that I had not been invited. But after I had pleaded, she
consented to dance with me; and so for an hour or two I tried to
forget there were any people in the world who had anything to do but
be happy. Just as I was succeeding, the butler came, calling me to
the telephone, and I answered, and who should it be but Old Joe!

My surprise became consternation at his first words: “Billy, your
friend Carpenter is in peril!”

“What do you mean?”

“They are going to get him tonight.”

“Good God! How do you know?”

“It’s a long story, and no time to tell it. Somebody’s tipped me
off. Where can I meet you? Every minute is precious.”

“Where are you?” I asked, and learned that he was at his home, not
far away. I said I would come there, and I hurried to Betty and had
another scene with her, and left her weeping, vowing that she would
never see me again. I ran out and jumped into my car--and I would
hate to tell what I did to the speed laws of Western City. Suffice
it to say that a few minutes later I was in Old Joe’s den, and he
was telling me his story.

Part of it I got then, and part of it later, but I might as well
tell it all at once and be done with it. It happened that at the
restaurant where Old Joe and I had dined before we went to the
mass-meeting, he had met a girl whom he knew too well, after the
fashion of young men about town. In greeting her on the way out, he
had told her he was going to hear the new prophet and had laughingly
suggested that the meeting was free. The girl, out of idle
curiosity, had come, and had been touched by Carpenter’s physical,
if not by his moral charms. It chanced that this girl was living
with a man who stood high in the secret service department of “big
business” in our city; so she had got the full story of what was
being planned against Carpenter. That afternoon, it appeared, there
had been a meeting between Algernon de Wiggs, president of our
Chamber of Commerce, and Westerly, secretary of our “M. and M.,” and
Gerald Carson, organizer of our “Boosters’ League.” These three had
put up six thousand dollars, and turned it over to their secret
service agents, with instructions that Carpenter’s agitations in
Western City were to be ended inside of twenty-four hours.

A plan had been worked out, every detail of which had been phoned to
Old Joe. A group of ex-service men, members of the Brigade, had been
hired to seize the prophet and treat him to a tar and feathering. It
had not taken much to move them to action, for the afternoon papers
were full of accounts of Carpenter’s speech on Main Street, his
denunciation of war, and of soldiers as “murderers” and “wolves.”

But that was not all, said Old Joe; and I saw that his hand was
trembling as he spoke. It appeared that there was an “operative”
 named Hamby, who was one of Carpenter’s followers.

“By God!” I burst out, in sudden fury. “I was sure that fellow was a
crook!”

“Yes,” said the other. “He’s been telephoning in regular reports as
to Carpenter’s doings. And now it’s been arranged that he is to put
an infernal machine in the Socialist headquarters where Carpenter
has been staying!”

I was almost speechless. “You mean--to blow them up?”

“No, to blow up their reputations. Hamby is to lure Carpenter out to
the street, and when the gang grabs him, Hamby will fire a shot, and
there will be three or four secret agents in the crowd, who will
incite the others, and see to it that Carpenter is lynched instead
of being tarred and feathered!”



LIV


So there was the layout; and now, what was to be done? The first
thing was to call Abell on the phone, and see if anything had
happened. I picked up the receiver; but alas, the report was, “No
answer.” I urged “central” to try several times, but all I could get
was, “I am ringing them.” Carpenter, no doubt, was praying. What
were the others doing? I kept on trying, but finally gave up.

Could the mob have taken them away? But Old Joe answered, no, a
definite hour had been set. The ex-service men were to gather on the
stroke of midnight. We had nearly an hour yet.

My first thought was that we should hurry to the Socialist
headquarters and get Carpenter out of the way. But my friend pointed
out that the place was certain to be watched, and we might find
ourselves held up by the armed detectives; they would hardly take a
chance of letting their prey escape at this hour. Also, I realized
there was no use figuring on any plan that involved spiriting
Carpenter away quietly, by the roof, or a rear entrance, or anything
of that sort. He would insist on staying and facing his enemies.

I put my wits to work. We needed a good-sized crowd; we needed, in
fact, a mob of our own. And suddenly the word brought to me an
inspiration; that mob which T-S had drilled at Eternal City! I
recalled that a year or so ago I had been lured to sit through a
very dull feature picture which the magnate had made, showing the
salvation of our country by the Ku Klux Klan; and I knew enough
about studio methods to be sure they had not thrown away the
costumes, but would have them stored. Here was the way to save our
prophet! Here was the way to get what one wanted in Mobland!

I picked up the receiver and called Eternal City. Yes, Mr. T-S was
there, but he was “on the lot” and could not be disturbed. I gave my
name, and stated that it was a matter of life and death; Mr. T-S
must come to the phone instantly. A couple of minutes later I heard
his voice, and told him the situation, and also my scheme. He must
come himself, to make sure that his orders were obeyed; he must
bring several bus-loads of men, clad in the full regalia of
Mobland’s great Secret Society; and they must arrive at Abell’s
place precisely on the stroke of midnight. The men must be paid five
dollars apiece, and be told that if they succeeded in bringing away
the prophet unharmed, they would each get ten dollars extra. “I will
put up that money,” I said to T-S; but to my surprise he cried: “You
ain’t gonna put up nuttin’! God damn dem fellers, I’ll beat ‘em if
it costs me a million!” So I realized that the prophet had made one
more convert!

“Have you got that bus with the siren?” I asked; and when he
answered, yes, I said, “Let that be the signal. When we hear it, Joe
and I will bring Carpenter down to the street, and if the Brigade is
there, it’s up to you to persuade them you’re the bigger mob!”

Then Old Joe and I ran down to my car, and drove at full speed to
the Socialist headquarters; and on the way we worked out our own
plan of campaign. The real danger-point was Hamby, the secret agent,
and we must manage to put him out of the way. Despite his pose of
“pacifism,” he was certain to be armed, said Old Joe; yet we must
take a chance, and do the job unarmed. If we should get into a
shooting-scrape, they would certainly put it onto us; and they would
make it a hanging matter, too.

I named over the members of Carpenter’s party who had stayed with
him. Andy Lynch, the ex-soldier, was probably a useful man, and we
would get his help. We would get rid of Hamby, and then we would
wait for T-S and his siren. By the time these plans were thoroughly
talked out, we had reached the building in which the headquarters
were located. There were lights in the main room upstairs, and the
door which led up to them was open. The street was apparently
deserted, and we did not stop to look for any “operatives,” but left
our machine and stole quietly upstairs and into the room.



LV


Comrade Abell sat at the table, with his head bowed in his arms,
sound asleep. Lynch, the ex-soldier, and Tom Moneta, the Mexican,
were lying on the floor snoring. And on a chair near the doorway,
watching the scene, sat Hamby, wide awake. We knew he was awake,
because he leaped to his feet the instant we entered the door. “Oh,
it’s you!” he said, recognizing me; I noted the alarm in his voice.

I beckoned to him, softly. “Come here a moment;” and he came out
into the ante-room. At the same time Old Joe stepped across the big
room, and stooped down and waked up Lynch. We had agreed that Joe
was to give Lynch a whispered explanation of the situation, while I
kept Hamby busy.

“Where is Mr. Carpenter?” I asked.

“He’s in the private office, praying.”

“Well,” said I, “there’s a sick woman who needs help very badly. I
wonder if we’d better disturb him.”

“I don’t know,” said Hamby. “I’ve been here an hour, and haven’t
heard a sound. Maybe he’s asleep.”

I was uncertain what I should do, and I elaborately explained my
uncertainty. Of course, praying was an important and useful
occupation, and I knew that the prophet laid great stress upon it,
and all of us who loved him so dearly must respect his wishes.

“Yes, of course,” said Hamby.

Yet at the same time, I continued, this woman was very ill, a case
of ptomaine poisoning--

“Do you think he can cure that?” asked Hamby guilelessly; and at
that moment Old Joe and Lynch came from the big room. Hamby started
to turn, but he was too late. Old Joe’s arms went around him, and
Hamby’s two elbows were clamped to his sides, in a grip which more
than one professional wrestler in our part of the world has found it
impossible to break. At the same time I stooped on my knees and
grasped the man’s two wrists; because we were taking no chances of
his gun. Lynch, the ex-soldier, had a cloth, taken from the big
table, and he flung this over the head of the “pacifist” and stifled
his cries.

I took a revolver from his hip-pocket, but Joe was not satisfied.
“Search him carefully,” said he, and so I discovered another weapon
in a side-pocket. Then I made hasty search in a big closet of the
room, and found a lot of bundles of books and magazines tied with
stout cords. I took the cords, and we bound the “pacifist’s” wrists
and ankles, and put a gag in his mouth, and then we felt sure he was
really a pacifist. We carried him to the closet and laid him on the
floor, where a humorous idea came to us. These bundles of magazines
and books were no doubt the ones which the mob had confiscated from
Comrade Abell. Since they were no longer saleable, they might as
well be put to some use, so I gathered armfuls of them and
distributed them over the form of Hamby, until there was no longer a
trace of him visible.

And while I was doing this, I noticed in one corner of the closet,
under the bundles, a wooden box about a foot square. Upon trying to
lift it, I discovered that it weighed several times as much as it
should have weighed if it had contained printed matter. “Here’s our
infernal machine,” I whispered, and I picked it up gingerly, and
tiptoed out of the room, and back to the kitchen, and down a rear
stairway of the building. I unlocked the door and opened it--and
there, crouching in the shadows alongside the door, just as I
expected, I saw a man.

“Hello!” I whispered.

“Hello!” said he, badly startled.

“Here’s something belonging to Hamby. He wants me to give it to you.
Be careful, it’s heavy.” I deposited the box in his hands, and shut
the door, and turned the lock again, and groped my way upstairs,
chuckling to myself as I imagined the man’s plight. He would not
know what to make of this incident, and I had an idea he would not
be able to find out, because he could not leave his post. Nor would
he have much time to figure over the matter; for when I got back to
the light, I looked at my watch, and it lacked just three minutes to
twelve.

I found that Lynch and Old Joe had shut the pacifist in the closet,
and were in the ante-room waiting for me. I whispered that
everything was all right. A moment later we heard a sound in the big
room, and peered in, and saw a door at the far end open--and there
was Carpenter, standing with his white robes gleaming in the light.
After a moment I realized that they gleamed even more than was
natural; I perceived once more that strange “aura” which had been
noticed at the mass-meeting; and by means of it I noticed an even
more startling thing. There were drops of sweat on Carpenter’s
forehead, as always when he had labored intensely in his soul. This
time I saw that the drops were large, and they were drops of blood!

A trembling seized me. I was awe-stricken before this man--afraid to
go on with what I was doing, and equally afraid to back out. I
remained staring helplessly, and saw him approach the sleeping
figures, and stand looking at them. “Could you not watch with me one
hour?” he said, in his gentle, sad voice; and he put his hand on
Comrade Abell’s shoulder, with the words: “The time has come.”

Abell started to his feet, and began to apologize. The other said
nothing, but stooped and waked Moneta. And at that moment I heard
the shrill blast of a whistle outside on the street! “There’s the
Brigade!” whispered Old Joe.



LVI


I ran down the stairs, and peered through the doorway, and sure
enough, there were four or five automobiles stopped before the
headquarters, having approached from opposite direction. I stood
just long enough to see a crowd of men in khaki uniforms jumping
out; then I ran back, and leaving Old Joe and Lynch to keep guard at
the top of the stairs, I walked in and greeted Carpenter.

He expressed no surprise at seeing me. Evidently his thoughts were
on other things. For my part, I was trembling with excitement, so
that my knees would barely hold me. How long would it be before T-S
and his crowd appeared? I could figure the time it should take them
to drive from Eternal City; but suppose something held them up? How
long would the ex-service men stay out on the street, waiting for
Hamby to answer their signal? Surely not many minutes! They would
storm the place, and hunt out their victim for themselves. And
suppose they should carry him off before the others arrived?

I had Hamby’s two revolvers in my pocket. Should we use them, or
not? The thought hit me all of a sudden; and apparently it hit Old
Joe at the same moment. “Give me those guns, Billy,” he whispered,
and I put them obediently into his hands, and he went quickly into
the rear rooms. At the end of a minute, he returned, saying, “I
unloaded them and threw them out of the back window.” And even as he
spoke, the silence of the night outside was shattered by the scream
of that siren, which served to warn people out of the way when T-S
was moving his companies about “on location.”

I went up to Carpenter. I didn’t enjoy telling him a lie; in fact, I
had an idea that one couldn’t lie to him successfully. But I tried
it. “Mr. Carpenter, Hamby left a message; he had to go downstairs,
and said he wanted to see you. Would you come down and meet him?”

“Ah, yes!” said Carpenter. And he walked to the door and down the
stairs without another word. The rest of us followed him; Abell and
Moneta first, they being innocent and unsuspicious; and then Lynch,
and then Joe and I.

The prophet stepped out to the street, and was instantly surrounded
by a group of a dozen ex-service men, two of whom grasped him by the
arms. He did not lift a hand, nor even make a sound. Comrade Abell,
of course, started to cry out in protest; Moneta, the Mexican,
reverted to his ancestors. His hand flashed to an inside pocket, and
a knife leaped out. A soldier had hold of him, and Moneta shouted,
“Stand back, or I cut off your ears.” At which Carpenter turned, and
in a stern, commanding voice proclaimed: “Let no man use force in my
behalf! They who use force shall perish by force.” Moneta stood
still; and of course Lynch and Old Joe and I stood still; and the
dozen men about Carpenter started to lead him away to their
automobiles.

But they did not get very far. Upon the silence of the street a
voice rang out. Ordinarily, one would have known it was the voice of
a woman; but in this place, under these exciting circumstances, it
seemed the voice of a supernatural being. It almost sang the words;
it was like a silver bugle calling across a battle-field--glorious,
thrilling, hypnotic. “Make way-y-y-y for the Grand Imperial
Kle-e-e-agle of the Ku-u Klux Klan!” Every one was startled; but I
think I was startled more that the rest, for I knew the voice! Mary
Magna had taken another speaking part!

I was on the steps of the building, so I could see over the heads of
the crowd. There were four of the big busses from Eternal City, two
having approached from each direction. Some fifty figures had
descended from them, and others were still descending, each one clad
in a voluminous white robe, with a white hood over the head, and two
black holes for eyes, and another for the nose. These figures had
spread out in a half moon, entirely surrounding the little mob of
ex-service men, and penning them against the wall of the building.
In the center of the half moon, standing a few feet in advance, was
the figure of the “Grand Imperial Kleagle,” with a red star upon the
forehead of the white hood, and shrouded white arms stretched out,
and in one hand a magic wand with a red light on the end. This wand
was waving over the Brigade members, and had apparently its full
supernatural effect, for one and all they stood rooted to the spot,
staring with wide-open eyes.



LVII


The grand-opera voice raised again its silver chant: “Give way, all
mobs! Yield! Retire! Abdicate!--Bow down-n-n-n-n! Make way for the
Mob of Mobs, the irresistible, imperial, superior super-mob! Hearken
to the Lord High Chief Commanding Dragon of the Esoteric Cohorts,
the Exalted Immortal Grand Imperial Kleagle of the Ku Klux Klan!”

Then the Grand Imperial Kleagle turned and addressed the white-robed
throng in a voice of sharp command: “Klansmen! Remember your oath!
The hour of Judgment is here! The guilty wretch cowers! The grand
insuperable sentence has been spoken! Coelum animum imperiabilis
senescat! Similia similibus per quantum imperator. Inexorabilis
ingenium parasimilibua esperantur! Saeva itnparatus ignotum
indignatio! Salvo! Suppositio! Indurato! Klansmen, kneel!”

As one man, the host fell upon its knees.

“Klansmen, swear! Si fractus illibatur orbis, impavidum ferient
ruinae! You have heard the sentence. What is the penalty? Is it
death?”

And a voice in the crowd cried “Death!” And the others took it up;
there was a roar: “Death! Death!”

Said the Grand Imperial Kleagle: “Arma virumque cano, tou
poluphlesboiou thalasses!” Then, facing the staring ex-servicemen:
“Tetlathi mater erne kai anaskeo ko-omeneper!”

Finally the Grand Imperial Kleagle pointed her shrouded white arm at
Carpenter, who stood, as pale as death, but unflinchingly. “Death to
all traitors!” she cried. “Death to all agitators! Death to all
enemies of the Ku Klux Klan! Condemnatus! Incomparabilis!
Ingenientis exequatur! Let the Loyal High Inexorable Guardians and
the Grand Holy Seneschals of the Klan advance!”

Six shrouded figures stepped out from the crowd. Said the Grand
Imperial Kleagle: “Possess yourselves of the body of this guilty
wretch!” And to the ex-servicemen: “Yield up this varlet to the High
Secret Court-martial of the Klan, which alone has power to punish
such as he.”

What the bewildered members of the Brigade made of all this
hocus-pocus I had no idea. Afterwards, when the adventure was over,
I asked Mary, “Where in the world did you get that stuff?” And she
told me how she had once acted in a children’s comedy, in which
there was an old magician who spent his time putting spells on
people. She had had to witness his incantations eight or ten times a
week for nearly a year, so of course the phrases had got fixed in
her memory, and they had served just as well to impress these
grown-up children.

Or perhaps the ex-servicemen thought this might be a further plan of
those who had employed them. Whatever they thought, it was obvious
that they were hopelessly outnumbered. There could be nothing for a
mob to do but yield to a Super-mob; and they yielded. Those who were
in front of Carpenter stepped back, and the Loyal High Inexorable
Guardians and the Grand Holy Seneschals took Carpenter by the arms
and led him away. Apparently they were going to overlook the rest of
us; but Old Joe and Lynch and myself took Abell and Moneta by the
shoulders and shoved them along, past the ex-service men and into
the midst of the “Klansmen.”

There was no need to consider dignity after that. We hustled
Carpenter to the nearest of the busses, and put him in; the Grand
Imperial Kleagle followed, and the rest of us clambered in after
her. Sitting up beside the driver, watching the scene, was T-S,
beaming with delight; he got me by the hand and wrung it. I could
not speak, my teeth were literally chattering with excitement.
Carpenter, sitting in the seat behind us, must have realized by now
the meaning of this scandalous adventure; but he said not a word,
and the white-gowned Klansmen piled in behind him, and the siren
shrieked out into the night, and the bus backed to the corner, and
turned and sped off; and all the way to Eternal City, T-S and I and
Old Joe slapped one another on the back and roared with laughter,
and the rest of the Klansmen roared with laughter--all save the
Grand Imperial Kleagle, who sat by Carpenter’s side, and was
discovered to be weeping.



LVIII


T-S and I had exchanged a few whispered words, and decided that we
would take Carpenter to his place, which was a few miles in the
country from Eternal City. He would be as safe there as anywhere I
could think of. When we had got to the studios, we discharged our
Klansmen, and arranged to send Old Joe to his home, and the three
disciples to a hotel for the night; then I invited Carpenter to step
into T-S’s car. He had not spoken a word, and all he said now was,
“I wish to be alone.”

I answered: “I am taking you to a place where you may be alone as
long as you choose.” So he entered the car, and a few minutes later
T-S and I were escorting him into the latter’s showy mansion.

We were getting to be rather scared now, for Carpenter’s silence was
forbidding. But again he said: “I wish to be alone.” We took him
upstairs to a bed-room, and shut him in and left him--but taking the
precaution to lock the door.

Downstairs, we stood and looked at each other, feeling like two
school-boys who had been playing truant, and would soon have to face
the teacher. “You stay here, Billy!” insisted the magnate. “You
gotta see him in de mornin’! I von’t!”

“I’ll stay,” I said, and looked at my watch. It was after one
o’clock. “Give me an alarm-clock,” I said, “because Carpenter wakes
with the birds, and we don’t want him escaping by the window.”

So it came about that at daybreak I tapped on Carpenter’s door,
softly, so as not to waken him if he were asleep. But he answered,
“Come in;” and I entered, and found him sitting by the window,
watching the dawn.

I stood timidly in the middle of the room, and began: “I realize, of
course, Mr. Carpenter, that I have taken a very great liberty with
you--”

“You have said it,” he replied; and his eyes were awful.

“But,” I persisted, “if you knew what danger you were in--”

Said he: “Do you think that I came to Mobland to look for a
comfortable life?”

“But,” I pleaded, “if you only knew that particular gang! Do you
realize that they had planted an infernal machine, a dynamite bomb,
in that room? And all the world was to read in the newspapers this
morning that you had been conspiring to blow up somebody!”

Said Carpenter: “Would it have been the first time that I have been
lied about?”

“Of course,” I argued, “I know what I have done--”

“You can have no idea what you have done. You are too ignorant.”

I bowed my head, prepared to take my punishment. But at once
Carpenter’s voice softened. “You are a part of Mobland,” he said;
“you cannot help yourself. In Mobland it is not possible for even a
martyrdom to proceed in an orderly way.”

I gazed at him a moment, bewildered. “What’s the good of a
martyrdom?” I cried.

“The good is, that men can be moved in no other way; they are in
that childish stage of being, where they require blood sacrifice.”

“But what kind of martyrdom!” I argued. “So undignified and
unimpressive! To have hot tar smeared over your body, and be hanged
by the neck like a common criminal!”
