during which time he had shown a most minute and accurate knowledge of
the matter in dispute, gave the whole question a new aspect. During the
second hour that his argument was continued, in which precedent after
precedent, not before introduced, were brought forward, bearing a
direct application to the case under review, the court exhibited the
most marked attention. When he concluded, all present saw hope for the
old Virginian.

This new and unexpected champion in the cause aroused the counsel of
Allison to another and more determined effort; but he tore their
arguments into ribands, and set off their authorities with an
overwhelming array of decisions directly in the teeth of those they
introduced bearing upon their side of the question. It was wonderful to
observe his perfect familiarity with the whole matter in dispute, the
law bearing upon it, and the decisions of courts in this country and
England, that could in any way throw light upon it, far outstripping
the learned advocates on both sides, who had been at work upon the case
for five years.

During the time this brilliant champion was fighting his battle for him
in the last defensible position he could ever obtain, Mr. Tomlinson
remained as if fixed to the spot where he was sitting, yet with his
mind entirely active. He saw, he felt that there was hope for him; that
this heaven-sent advocate, whoever he was, would save him from ruin. At
last the case closed, and the court announced that its decision would
be given in the morning.

"Who is he?" Mr. Tomlinson heard some one ask of his persecutor, as the
young man closed his last and most brilliant effort.

With an imprecation uttered between his teeth, he replied, "One that
refused to take my side, although I offered him a fee of five thousand
dollars if successful."

"What is his name?"

"Denton."

"Pity you couldn't have secured him."

