"O you wouldn't know it is a pitcher when I have fixed it.
I'll cover up all the broken part with green you know. Are we
going home now, Grandpa?"

"No, I want to stop a minute at uncle Joshua's."

Uncle Joshua was a brother-in-law of Mr. Ringgan, a
substantial farmer, and very well to do in the world. He was
found not in the house, but abroad in the field with his men,
loading an enormous basket wagon with corn-stalks. At Mr.
Ringgan's shout he got over the fence, and came to the wagon-
side. His face showed sense and shrewdness, but nothing of the
open nobility of mien which nature had stamped upon that of
his brother.

"Fine morning, eh?" said he. "I'm getting in my corn-stalks."

"So I see," said Mr. Ringgan. "How do you find the new way of
curing them answer?"

"Fine as ever you see. Sweet as a nut. The cattle are mad
after them. How are you going to be off for fodder this
winter?"

"It's more than I can tell you," said Mr. Ringgan. "There
ought to be more than plenty; but Didenhover contrives to
bring everything out at the wrong end. I wish I was rid of
him."

"He'll never get a berth with me, I can tell you," said uncle
Joshua, laughing.

"Brother," said Mr. Ringgan, lowering his tone again, "have
you any loose cash you could let me have for six months or
so?"

Uncle Joshua took a meditative look down the road, turned a
quid of tobacco in his cheek, and finally brought his eyes
again to Mr. Ringgan and answered.

