candy-man!" calling after an old man with a tin cylinder under his
arm, that looked something like an ice cream freezer. The lady drew
out her purse, and searched among its contents for the small coin
her child wanted.

"I havn't any thing less than a levy," she at length said.

"Oh, well, he can change it. Candy-man, you can change a levy?"

By this time the "candy-man" stood smiling beside the
strawberry-woman. As he was counting out the fip's worth of candy,
the child spoke up in an earnest voice, and said:

"Get a levy's worth, mother, do, wont you? Cousin Lu's coming to see
us to-morrow."

"Let him have a levy's worth, candy-man. He's such a rogue I can't
resist him," responded the mother. The candy was counted out, and
the levy paid, when the man retired in his usual good humor.

"Shall I take these strawberries for thirty-seven and a half cents?"
said the lady, the smile fading from her face. "It is all I am
willing to give."

"If you wont pay any more, I musn't stand for two cents and a half,"
replied the woman, "although they would nearly buy a loaf of bread
for the children," she mentally added.

The four boxes were sold for the sum offered, and the woman lifted
the tray upon her head, and moved on again. The sun shone out still
hotter and hotter as the day advanced. Large beads of perspiration
rolled from the throbbing temples of the strawberry-woman, as she
passed wearily up one street and down another, crying her fruit at
the top of her voice. At length all were sold but five boxes, and
now it was past one o'clock. Long before this she ought to have been
at home. Faint from over-exertion, she lifted her tray from her
head, and placing it upon a door-step, sat down to rest. As she sat
thus, a lady came up, and paused at the door of the house, as if
about to enter.

