had furrowed passages down his checks.

In the simple but eloquent language of Mrs. Green, the housekeeper of
Woodville, who had followed the party up stairs, to offer her services
in the capacity of nurse, Richard was "a sight to behold." He had
retired from the sitting room, and bade the family good night before
nine o'clock, looking like a decent person. His pants were in good
condition then; certainly, if they had been in their present plight, it
would have been noticed.

The first impulse of the visiting party was to laugh at the
extraordinary appearance he presented; but a stronger feeling of
interest and sympathy overruled the inclination, and the culprit was
spared this humiliation. Richard was almost as much astonished as they
were, for he had not regarded a thing so trivial as his personal
experience, in the excitement and terror of the hour.

While the party were scrutinizing him with surprise and anxiety, he
happened to glance at the looking glass on the bureau. Then he saw his
hair tangled and matted with mud and filth; then he saw his dirty,
tear-furrowed cheeks; and then he saw his befouled and torn pants. In
the choice language of the boys, it seemed to him that "the cat was out
of the bag" beyond the possibility of recovery.

"What ails you, Richard? What under the sun has happened?" asked Mr.
Grant again, for the terrified boy made no reply to the first question.

But Richard was an old head, and he had no notion of being defeated in
the present contest of words or ideas. He stood like a statue in the
middle of the floor, and made no reply to the interrogatories.

"Where have you been?" said his father. "Can't you speak?"

"I don't know," replied Richard, with a bewildered look, as he glanced
with a vacant stare at his soiled garments.

"Don't know where you have been?"

"No, sir."

