
He laughed and took her in his arms again, looking at her with that
mixture of expressions.

"I wish I could give you some of my content!" he said.

"I do not want it!" said Eleanor laughing.

"Is that declaration entirely generous?"

Eleanor had no mind, like a wise woman, to answer this question; but
she was held under the inspection of an eye that she knew of old clear
and keen beyond all others to untie the knot of anybody's meaning. She
flushed up very much and tried to turn it off, for she saw he had a
mind to have the answer.

"You do not want me to give account of every idle word after that
fashion?" she said lightly.

"Hush--hush," he said, with a gravity that had much sweetness in it. "I
cannot have you speak in that way."

"I will not--" said Eleanor, suddenly much more sober than he was.

"There are too many that have the habit of using their Master's words
to point their own sentences. Do not let us use it. Come to my
study--you did not see it before dinner, I think."

Eleanor was glad he could smile again, for at that minute she could
not. She felt whirled back to Plassy, and to Wiglands, to the time of
their old and very different relations. She could not realize the new,
nor quietly understand her own happiness; and a very fresh vivid sense
of his character made her feel almost as much awe of him as affection.
That was according to old habit too. But if she felt shy and strange,
she was the only one; for Mr. Rhys was in a very gay mood. As they went
through the dining-room he stopped to shew and display to her numerous
odd little contrivances and arrangements; here a cupboard of rustic,
and very pretty too, native work; or at least native materials. There a
more sophisticated beaufet, which had come from Sydney by Mrs. Caxton's
order. "Dear Mrs. Caxton!" said Mr. Rhys,--"she has forgotten nothing.
