he had any money in his house," answered Levi, grieved and mortified at
the necessity of again defending himself from such an assault.

"Mr. Gayles told me that your room at his house, and indeed all his
premises, had been searched by Constable Cooke, in your absence,
to-day, for the missing gold."

"Of course they did not find anything," replied Levi, blushing.

"No, they did not; but perhaps they would if your affairs had been
managed by a less discreet person than Mr. Gayles. It seems that Dock
Vincent went to the house, with the constable, about dinner time. Your
uncle appears to have employed Vincent to look up the money for him.
Mr. Gayles was willing to admit the officer, but he positively refused
to allow Vincent to enter his house. Levi, that villain is the worst
enemy a man ever had. You must beware of him; have nothing to do with
him, and nothing to say to him."

"I do not, any more than I can help."

"The story now is, that you took your uncle's money, and set a trap to
kill or severely injure him at the cut, because you are his legal
heir."

"How absurd!" interposed Bessie, indignantly, as she rose from her
chair, and seated herself by the side of Levi on the sofa, her mild
eyes beaming with unwonted fire.

"Very absurd, my dear; but there are people who are foolish enough to
believe such absurd stories even of their own minister. Of course,
Levi, there is no real danger, but you may be seriously annoyed."

Levi was smart. He had done great deeds. He was known to be worth
thirty-five or forty thousand dollars, in the hands of his guardian;
and his intimate relations with the family of Mr. Watson rendered it
exceedingly probable that he would eventually roll in wealth, to be
counted by hundreds of thousands. Most of the people were generous
enough to congratulate the young man, in their hearts, on his brilliant
prospects, especially as he did not put on any airs, or cut any of his
old friends.
