street?

I meditated a good while, before there suddenly started into
my mind a third subject upon which I had meant to take action
with Mr. Thorold. I had thought to qualify a little the
liberty he had assumed upon our first betrothal; to keep at a
somewhat more reserved distance, and make him. Could I? Was
Mr. Thorold under my management? He seemed to take me under
his. I pondered, but between laughing and rebellion I could
make nothing of the subject. Only, I resolved, if
circumstances gave me any chance, to act on my proposed
system.

The next day was swallowed up in like thoughts. I tried to
arrange my subjects and fix upon one to begin with; but it was
a vain effort. I knew that as soon as I began to get ready for
my walk. Things must come as they would. And my cross tides of
purpose resolved themselves into one long swell of joy, when I
discerned the figure I was looking for, waiting for me on
Pennsylvania avenue; too soon, for it was near the place where
we parted the night before.

"This is very dangerous -" I said, as we began to stroll up
the avenue.

"What?" said Mr. Thorold, looking down at me with his eyes as
full of mischief as ever.

"It is so light yet, and you come so near the house."

"You walk with other people, don't you?"

"I am not afraid of the other people."

"Are you afraid of me?" said he smiling; and then growing
grave, "We may have only a few times, Daisy; let us make the
most of them."

How could I start anything after that. I was mute; and Mr.
Thorold began upon a new theme.
