marriage.

I am out of patience with Eva for her very virtues. It is her instinct
to want to please and to comply, and because mamma and aunt Maria have
set their heart on this match, and because she is empty-hearted and
tired, and ennuyeuse, she has no strength to stand up for herself. Her
very conscientiousness weakens her; she doubts, but does not decide. She
has just enough of everything in her nature to get her into trouble, and
not enough to get her out. A phrenologist told her she needed
destructiveness. Well, she does. The pain-giving power is a most
necessary part of a well organized human being. Nobody can ever do
anything without the courage to be disagreeable at times, which I have
plenty of. They do not try to control me, or enslave me. Why? Because I
made my declaration of independence, and planted my guns, and got ready
for war. This is dreadfully unamiable, but it did the thing; it secured
peace; I am let alone. I am allowed my freedom, but everybody interferes
with Eva. She is conquered territory--has no rights that anybody is
bound to respect. It provokes me.

As to the religious part of your letter, dear friend, I thank you for
it. I cannot see things as you do, however. To me it appears that in our
day everything has got to be brought to the simple test of, What good
does it do? If baptism, confirmation and eucharist make unworldly,
self-denying, self-sacrificing people just as certainly as petunia-seed
make petunias, why, then, nobody will have any doubt of their necessity,
and the church will have its throngs. I don't see now that they do. Go
into a fashionable party I have been in, and watch the girls, and see if
you can tell who have been baptized and confirmed, and who have not.

The first Christians carried Christianity over all the pomp and power of
the world simply by the unworldly life they lived. Nobody doubted where
the true church was in those days. Christians were a set of people like
nobody else in the world, and whenever and wherever and by whatever
means that kind of character that they had is created, it will have
power.

I like the Episcopal Church, but I cannot call it the church till I
see evidences that it answers practically the purpose of a church better
than any other. For my part I go to hear a dreadfully heretical preacher
on Sunday, who lectures in a black-coat in a hall, simply because he
