
“Another cemetery,” said Sara, as the white crosses and head-stones
shone out in the sunset on one side of the road.

Mokes, stimulated to unusual conversational efforts by the successes of
the day, now brought forward the omnipresent item. “This is--er, I
suppose, the old Huguenot burying-ground, a--er--a spot of much
interest, I am told.”

“Yes,” replied Sara. “This is the very spot, Mr. Mokes.”

“Oh no, Miss St. John,” said Aunt Diana, coming to the rescue, “you
mistake. This is Tolomato.”

“It makes no difference. I am now convinced that they are all Huguenot
burying-grounds,” replied Sara, calmly.

The little cemetery was crowded with graves, mounds of sand over which
the grass would not grow, and heavy coquina tombs whose inscriptions had
crumbled away. The names on the low crosses, nearly all Spanish,
Minorcan, Corsican, and Greek, bore witness to the foreign ancestry of
the majority of the population. We found Alvarez, La Suarez, Leonardi,
Capo, Carrarus, Ximanies, Baya, Pomar, Rogero, and Hernandez. Among the
Christian names were Bartolo, Raimauld, Rafaelo, Geronimo, Celestino,
Dolorez, Dominga, Paula, and Anaclata.

“It looks venerable, but it only dates back about one hundred years,”
said John. “Where the old Dons of two or three centuries ago buried
their dead, no one knows; perhaps they sent them all back home, Chinese
fashion. An old bell which now hangs in the cathedral is said to have
come from here; it bears the inscription, ‘Sancte Joseph, ora pro nobis;
D. 1682,’ and is probably the oldest bell in the country.”

“And what was it doing here?” said Mokes, with the air of a historian.

“There was once an Indian village here, called Tolomato, and a mission
chapel; the bell is supposed to have come from the chapel.”

“Is that the chapel?” asked Mokes, pointing to a small building on the
far side of the cemetery. He was getting on famously, he thought, quite
