despairing eyes! They looked dazed at the light and order and quiet
they saw as they came in. Mr. James and the superintendent stood at
the door, saying, "Come in, boys, come in; you're welcome heartily!
Here you are, glad to see you," seating them on benches at the lower
part of the room.

While the supper was being brought in, the table was set with an array
of bowls of smoking hot soup and a large piece of nice white bread at
each place. When all had been arranged, Mr. James saw to seating the
whole band at the tables, asked a blessing, standing at the head, and
then said, cheerily, "Now, boys, fall to; eat all you want; there is
plenty more where this came from, and you shall have as much as you
can carry."

The night was cold, and the soup was savory and hot, and the bread
white and fine, and many of them ate with a famished appetite; the
girls meanwhile stood watchful to replenish the bowls or hand more
bread. All seemed to be done with such a spirit of bountiful, cheerful
good-will as was quite inspiriting.

It was not till hunger was fully satisfied that Mr. James began to
talk to them, and when he did, I wondered at his tact.

"This is quite the thing, now, isn't it, boys, of a cold night like
this, when a fellow is hungry? See what it is to have friends.

"I suppose, boys, you get better suppers than these from those
fellows that you buy your drink of. They make suppers for you
sometimes, I suppose?"

"No, indeed," growled some of the men. "Catch 'em doing it!"

"Why, I should think they ought to, when you spend all your money on
them. You pay all your money to them, and make yourselves so poor that
you haven't a crust, and then they won't even get you a supper?"

"No, that they won't," growled some. "They don't care if we starve."

"Boys," said Mr. James, "aren't you fools? Here these men get rich,
and you get poor. You pay all your earnings to them. You can't have
