unwilling to return, even if the original cause of his leaving home were
removed. Life in a Pennsylvania village seemed "slow" compared with the
excitement of his present life.

In the winter, when the weather was inclement, and the lodging
accommodations afforded by the street were not particularly
satisfactory, Ben found it convenient to avail himself of the cheap
lodgings furnished by the Newsboys' Lodging House; but at other times,
particularly in the warm summer nights, he saved his six cents, and
found a lodging for himself among the wharves, or in some lane or alley.
Of the future he did not think much. Like street boys in general, his
horizon was limited by the present. Sometimes, indeed, it did occur to
him that he could not be a luggage boy all his lifetime. Some time or
other he must take up something else. However, Ben carelessly concluded
that he could make a living somehow or other, and as to old age that was
too far ahead to disquiet himself about.




CHAPTER XIV.

THE PASSENGER FROM ALBANY.


Ben did not confine himself to any particular pier or railway depot, but
stationed himself now at one, now at another, according as the whim
seized him, or as the prospect of profit appeared more or less
promising. One afternoon he made his way to the pier at which the Albany
boats landed. He knew the hour of arrival, not only for the river-boats,
but for most of the inward trains, for this was required by his
business.

He had just finished smoking a cheap cigar when the boat arrived. The
passengers poured out, and the usual bustle ensued. Now was the time for
Ben to be on the alert. He scanned the outcoming passengers with an
attentive eye, fixing his attention upon those who were encumbered with
carpet-bags, valises, or bundles. These he marked out as his possible
patrons, and accosted them professionally.

