“Such a sensitive plant will fare ill between us, I am afraid,” answered
Helwyze, as he followed her, leaving the other to open drawers and
settle papers, like one eager to begin his work.

Gladys was standing in the full glare of the fire, as if its cheerful
magic could exorcise all dark fancies. Helwyze eyed the white figure for
an instant, feeling that his lonely hearthstone had acquired a new
charm; then joined her, saying quietly,—

“This is the place where Felix and I have lived together for nearly two
years. Do you like it?”

“More than I can tell. It does not seem strange to me, for he has often
described it; and when I thought of coming here, I was more curious to
see this room than any other.”

“It will be all the pleasanter henceforth if Felix can spare you to me
sometimes. Come and see the corner I have prepared, hoping to tempt you
here when he shuts us out. It used to be his; so you will like it, I
think.” Helwyze paced slowly down the long room, Gladys beside him,
saying, as she looked about her hungrily,—

“So many books! and doubtless you have read them all?”

“Not quite; but you may, if you will. See, here is your place; come
often, and be sure you never will disturb me.”

But one book lay on the little table, and its white cover, silver
lettered, shone against the dark cloth so invitingly that Gladys took it
up, glowing with pleasure as she read her own name upon the volume she
knew and loved so well.

“For me? you knew that nothing else would be so beautiful and precious.
Sir, why are you so generous?”

“It amuses me to do these little things, and you must humor me, as Felix
does. You shall pay for them in your own coin, so there need be no sense
of obligation. Rest satisfied I shall get the best of the bargain.”
Before she could reply a servant appeared, announced dinner, and
vanished as noiselessly as he came.
