“Mademoiselle Noémie interests me; she is extremely remarkable. If
there is a good reason, in honor or decency, for dismissing her from my
thoughts forever, I am perfectly willing to do it. Your estimate of the
papa’s sensibilities is a good reason until it is invalidated. I promise
you not to look at the young girl again until you tell me that you have
changed your mind about the papa. When he has given distinct proof of
being a philosopher, you will raise your interdict. Do you agree to
that?”

“Do you mean to bribe him?”

“Oh, you admit, then, that he is bribable? No, he would ask too much,
and it would not be exactly fair. I mean simply to wait. You will
continue, I suppose, to see this interesting couple, and you will give
me the news yourself.”

“Well,” said Newman, “if the old man turns out a humbug, you may do what
you please. I wash my hands of the matter. For the girl herself, you
may be at rest. I don’t know what harm she may do to me, but I certainly
can’t hurt her. It seems to me,” said Newman, “that you are very well
matched. You are both hard cases, and M. Nioche and I, I believe, are
the only virtuous men to be found in Paris.”

Soon after this M. de Bellegarde, in punishment for his levity, received
a stern poke in the back from a pointed instrument. Turning quickly
round he found the weapon to be a parasol wielded by a lady in green
gauze bonnet. Valentin’s English cousins had been drifting about
unpiloted, and evidently deemed that they had a grievance. Newman left
him to their mercies, but with a boundless faith in his power to plead
his cause.



CHAPTER XII

Three days after his introduction to the family of Madame de Cintré,
Newman, coming in toward evening, found upon his table the card of the
Marquis de Bellegarde. On the following day he received a note informing
him that the Marquise de Bellegarde would be grateful for the honor of
his company at dinner.
