
"'Beyond the Alps lies Italy,'" quoted Jack. "Not on the top, you
observe, but perhaps in the valley. I wish you would be a little
friendly with him, Maverick: you couldn't help but like him."

"There is more in him than I gave him credit for. I thought at the time
of his father's death I had never seen so useless a fine gentleman,
with all the stamina educated out of him. I had half a mind to turn him
over to Aunt Jean and Miss Lothrop."

Darcy laughed absently, and Maverick saw that his mind had wandered
elsewhere. How odd that these two should be friends! Maverick could not
discern the fine bond uniting them.




CHAPTER XIX.


SUMMER came on apace. The Cooking Club took a vacation, or rather turned
into a gardening club, and studied the sensible part of botany and
floriculture. People began to look at the waste land lying about, with
envious eyes. Here and there some one started a garden, or indulged in a
flock of chickens. The Webbers traded their snug cottage for a place on
the outskirts of the town, with two acres of ground, which they improved
rapidly. Men who had sold farms, and spent the money in vain business
speculations, looked back regretfully, and in some instances hired where
they had been proprietors. There was no money to be realized in farming,
but if one could even make a living! No one was making money but those
lucky fellows at Hope Mills. Of course that was a bubble, and would
burst presently; but doubtless it was good while it lasted.

Miss Barry, Sylvie, and Mrs. Darcy went away to a pleasant, quiet
seaside resort. Miss Barry appeared to be ailing a little. Mrs. Minor so
far relented as to invite her mother and Irene to spend two months with
her at Long Branch. Mrs. Lawrence consented, Irene refused flatly. "She
had no money to spend for dress, and she would accept no one's charity,"
she declared in her haughty way. But she could not stay in the house
forever: so she took long walks over wild country ways, angry with the
