girls on their way to school, all the pleasant stir of a new day of
happy work and play for the rest of the world, more lonely, quiet, and
wearisome than ever to her since her friend and fellow-prisoner was set
free and going to leave her.

Jack understood that patient, wistful look, and, without a word, went
back to his seat, staring at the fire so soberly, that his mother
presently asked: “What are you thinking of so busily, with that pucker
in your forehead?”

“I’ve about made up my mind that I won’t go to school just yet,”
 answered Jack, slowly lifting his head, for it cost him something to
give up the long-expected pleasure.

“Why not?” and Mrs. Minot looked much surprised, till Jack pointed to
the screen, and, making a sad face to express Jill’s anguish, answered
in a cheerful tone, “Well, I’m not sure that it is best. Doctor did not
want me to go, but said I might because I teased. I shall be sure to
come to grief, and then every one will say, ‘I told you so,’ and that is
so provoking. I’d rather keep still a week longer. Hadn’t I better?”

His mother smiled and nodded as she said, sewing away at much-abused old
Caesar, as if she loved him, “Do as you think best, dear. I always want
you at home, but I don’t wonder you are rather tired of it after this
long confinement.”

“I say, Jill, should I be in your way if I didn’t go to school till the
first of February?” called Jack, laughing to himself at the absurdity of
the question.

“Not much!” answered a glad voice from behind the screen, and he knew
the sorrowful eyes were shining with delight, though he could not see
them.

“Well, I guess I may as well, and get quite firm on my legs before I
start. Another week or so will bring me up if I study hard, so I shall
not lose my time. I’ll tackle my Latin as soon as it’s ready, mother.”

Jack got a hearty kiss with the neatly covered book, and Mamma loved him
for the little sacrifice more than if he had won a prize at school. He
