“I don’t see how you did it, Louise,” panted the player; “it’s
astonishing how you beat me.”

The lady on the bench made as if to answer, but ended by coughing
hoarsely.

“Oh, dear child!” cried the first, dropping her mallet, and running to
her. “You ought to have put on your shawl!” She lifted the knit shawl
lying beside her on the bench, and laid it across the other’s shoulders,
and drew it close about her neck.

“Oh, don’t!” said the other. “It chokes me to be bundled up so tight.”
 She shrugged the shawl down to her shoulders with a pretty petulance.
“If my chest’s protected, that’s all that’s necessary.” But she made no
motion to drape the outline which her neatly-fitted dress displayed, and
she did not move from her place, or look up at her anxious friend.

“Oh, but don’t sit here, Louise,” the latter pleaded, lingering near
her. “I was wrong to let you sit down at all after you had got heated.”

“Well, Grace, I had to,” said she who was called Louise. “I was so tired
out. I’m not going to take more cold. I can always tell when I am. I’ll
put on the shawl in half a minute; or else I’ll go in.”

“I’m sure there’s nothing to keep me out. That’s the worst of these
lonely places: my mind preys upon itself. That’s what Dr. Nixon always
said: he said it was no use in air so long as my mind preyed upon
itself. He said that I ought to divert my mind all I could, and keep
it from preying upon itself; that it was worth all the medicine in the
world.”

“That’s perfectly true.”

“Then you ought n’t to keep reminding me all the time that I’m sick.
That’s what starts my mind to preying upon itself; and when it gets
going once I can’t stop it. I ought to treat myself just like a well
person; that’s what the doctor said.”

The other stood looking at the speaker in frowning perplexity. She was a
serious-faced girl, and now when she frowned her black brows met sternly
