him to lie down at the foot of the maple. The dog appeared to
understand his mission. The principal was glad to find the carpenter
did not display any thing like anger.

“Now, Phil, we will go back to the shop, and attend to those shelves,”
said Mr. Brookbine.

Phil wanted very much to get hold of Dick Short. He looked up at him,
and then at the dog. He said nothing; for he realized that the
instructor intended to punish his assailant in his own way, and he was
rather curious to see what the result would be.

Phil and the rest of the boys followed the carpenter. The board was
taken into the shop, and not a word said about the incident which had
just occurred.

“We have no saw-horses, or trestles as some call them. But we can use
a couple of these boxes, and in a few days we shall be able to make
all the furniture we need in the shop,” said the carpenter as
pleasantly as though no breach of discipline had occurred.

The pupils expected him to say something on the subject of skylarking
in general, and the late case in particular. He directed a couple of
the boys to place the boxes where he wanted them, and then to put the
board upon them.

“There will be waste in that board: I think the one I picked out would
have done better. It was just the right length,” said Ben Ludlow, who
was rather displeased because his board had been rejected.

“How wide was your board, Ben?” asked the carpenter.

“Just one foot to a hair. It was exactly wide enough to make two
shelves,” answered Ben.

“You think you were right, Ben, and I am glad to see that you are
ready to argue your side of the question. If I don’t prove that you
were wrong, I hope you will stick to your opinion,” replied Mr.
Brookbine, as he took one of the slitting-saws from the bench.

