Felix was notified that the rest of his money would be 
paid him when he chose. With a delight more boyish 



 

than any emotion he had dared indulge for years, he 
gave up his situation, talked with Professor Ryder, and 
so reached that gentleman's favor by showing clear 
common-sense, that he took pains to give him definite 
advice. In pursuance of that, Felix began study at 
Cambridge. The next year he entered college and 
managed to stay there. He heard of Stratford Academy 
through Lawyer Sims, who had chanced to visit Har- 
vard in the way of sight-seeing. 

Felix had carried through his years of hard work a 
growing wish to be of use in the world. He was born 
with that sympathy for suffering and desire to help 
which is inherent in some souls, and it had been fos- 
tered to a passion by his own contact with working 
people. That had trained this natural instinct, which 
was like a delicate sense responsive to suffering, by 
giving him a practical knowledge of what life forces 
people to bear. He nourished and tended theories of 
living ; with his pity, there was an enthusiastic faith 
that life need not be so bitter, if religion could be made 
an intentness on doing, which should leave no time nor 
heart for moaning over what fate had done. So the 
resolve to become a minister had been in his mind for 
years ; he had no theological creed or bias, but made 
his choice simply because a minister was recognized as 
having something to say for the good of the soul, and 
people expected to listen to it. Having a lesson to 
teach the world, or good thing- to share with it, and 
being neither poet nor philosopher, he had no way but 
to stand honestly before it and speak. And he meant 
to do this without prefix of title, without sanction of 
synod or laying on of hands. 
