helping the old frogs out to sit in the sun when damp weather gave them
rheumatism, or taking care of the sick ones, or feeding the poor, or
running errands for busy mammas with large families and lazy daughters.

In her own little home all was as neat as wax, but so lonely she did not
like to stay there much. All day she helped others, and at evening sat
at her door and thought sadly of her lost brothers. She was very pretty
in her neat, gray gown and white apron, with her bright eyes, gentle
face, and sweet voice; though she seldom sung, except lullabies to the
little frogs and the sick folks.

She was rocking a small tadpole to sleep in this way one day, when the
disguised Prince came hobbling along, and asked for a bit to eat.
Putting little Wiggle in his cobweb hammock, Splash said kindly,--

"Yes, old mother, come in and rest while I get you some dinner.  Here ’s
a soft cushion of moss, and a leaf of water fresh from the spring."

The Prince sat a long time talking with her, and hearing about her
brothers, and seeing how sweet she was.  He made up his mind to marry at
once; for frogs don’t spend a long time and much money getting
ready,--they just wash up their green and gray suits, and invite their
friends to the wedding.  The bride can always find a delicate cobweb on
the grass for a veil, and that is all she needs.

The Prince thought he would try one thing more; so he said to her,--

"I ’m very lame; will you take me to the palace? I want to see the
Prince.  Do you know him?"

"No; I ’m only a humble creature, and he would n’t care to know me,"
said Splash, modestly.  "But I admire him very much, he is so brave and
just and good.  I love to see him go by, and always peep behind my
curtain, he is such a splendid sight."

The Prince blushed under the nut-shell cap at such praise, and was sure,
from the way Splash spoke, that she loved him a little bit.  So he was
very happy and wanted to dance, but kept quiet and leaned on her arm as
she led him down the bank, put him nicely on a lily-pad, and rowed away,
smiling at him and talking so sweetly he got fonder and fonder of her
