an every-day instance as that man, as a rule, and with but few
exceptions, pictures in advance the pleasures and sensations which the
future seems to hold, and yet when the pictured future becomes the
actual present the disproportion between fact and fancy is so great
that it results, in nine cases out of ten, in a complete insolvency.
After one or more bankruptcies of this description the individual very
generally finds that he has had enough, so to speak, and lets hope ever
after alone, whereupon disillusionment steps in and takes its place.

It is thought, then, that does the mischief; or to be more exact, it
is the inability to maintain an equilibrium between the real and the
ideal; that is, in the majority of cases, the cause of disenchantment.
To this it may be also added that it is because every one is so well
organized for misfortune that such a small amount of open revolt is
encountered. When it does appear, it is, as a rule, presented by such
thinkers as have been mentioned in the course of these pages, who,
through their assertion of the undeniable awake the dislike and
animosity of those who have not yet had their fill of proceedings in
bankruptcy, and still hope to find life a pleasant thing well worth the
living.

It may be said in conclusion, and without any attempt at the
discursive, that the moral atmosphere of the present century is charged
with three distinct disturbances,--the waning of religious belief, the
insatiable demand for intense sensations, and the increasing number of
those who live uncompanied, and walk abroad in solitude. That each of
these three effects is due to one and the self-same cause is well-nigh
unquestionable. The immense nausea that is spreading through all lands
and literature is at work on the simple faith, the contented lives, and
joyous good-fellowship of earlier days, and in its results it brings
with it the signs and portents of a forthcoming though undetermined
upheaval. Jean Paul said that we care for life, not because it is
beautiful, but because we should care for it; whence follows the oft
repeated yet hollow reasoning,--since we love life it must be
beautiful; and it is from a series of deductions not dissimilar that
the majority of those who are as yet unaffected by that which after all
may be but a passing change still cling resolutely to the possibility
of earthly happiness.

Out of a hundred intelligent Anglo-Saxons there are seldom two who
