Stock Street, when I reached it, had a strange look to me.  I was not
used to being there at such an hour; few of us are.  The relative
silence, the few passers, the long empty spaces in the great
thoroughfare, told me that the hour was later than I thought.  This
added to my restlessness, and I sought to look at my watch, for the
first time since the accident; it was gone.  I glanced at the high
clock at the head of the street; but the light was imperfect, and with
the vertigo which I had I did not make out the hour.  It might, indeed,
be really late.  This troubled me, and I hastened my steps till I broke
into a run.

It occurred to me, indeed, that I might be arrested for the suspicions
under which such a pace, at such an hour and in such a street, would
place me.  But as I knew most of the members of the force in that
region more or less well, this did not trouble me.  I ran on,
undisturbed, passing a watchman or two, and came quickly to Brake's
place.  It was locked.

This distressed me.  I think I had confidently expected to find him
there.  It did not seem to me possible to go home without seeing my
broker.  I stood, uncertain, rattling at the heavy door with imbecile
impatience.  This act brought the police to the spot in three minutes.

It was Inspector Drayton who came up, the well-known inspector, so long
on duty in Stock Street; a man famed for his professional shrewdness
and his gentlemanly manner.

"I wish," I said, "Mr. Inspector, that you would be good enough to let
me in.  I want to see Brake.  I have reason to believe he is in his
office.  I must get in."

"It is very important," I added; for the inspector did not answer
immediately, but looked at me searchingly.

"There was certainly some one meddling with this lock," he said, after
a moment's hesitation, looking stealthily up and down and around the
street.

"It was I," I replied, eagerly.  "It was only I, Dr. Thorne.  Come,
Drayton, you know me.  I want to see Brake.  I must see Brake.  It is a
