sort are generally not paid for until they have been sold out of the
shop. Marchetto would not give him a good price for the watch until he
knew what it would fetch, and the man would not take a small sum because
he believes it to be valuable. The chances are that the Lala comes from
time to time to inquire if it is sold, and Marchetto shows it to him to
prove that he has not got any money for it."

"That sounds rather far-fetched," I observed. "Marchetto may have had it
in his keeping ever since Alexander disappeared. The Lala would not wait
as long as that. He would take it to some one else."

"No, I do not believe so," said Gregorios thoughtfully. "Besides, it may
not have been brought to the Jew more than a week ago. Those fellows do
not part with jewelry unless they need money. It is a pretty thing, too,
and would attract the attention of any foreigner."

"How can you manage to watch Marchetto so closely as to get a sight of
the man?"

"Bribe the Jew in the next shop; or, still better, pay a hamál to spend
his time in the neighborhood. The man probably comes once a week on a
certain day. Keep the watch. The next time he comes it will be gone, but
Marchetto will not have been paid for it and will refuse to pay the
Lala. There will inevitably be a hubbub and a noise over it. The hamál
can easily find out the name of the negro, who is probably well known in
the bazaar."

"But suppose that I am right, and it is already paid for?" I objected.

"It is very unlikely. I know these people better than you do. At all
events, we will put the hamál there to watch for the row. If it does not
come off in a month, I will begin to think you are right."

Gregorios is a true Oriental. He possesses the inborn instinct of the
bazaar.




XIII.
