his acquaintance with Fifth Avenue, and during the homeward journey he
pictured to himself the advantages which his native city possessed over
any other which he had visited.

He had not, however, been many hours on shore before he found that Fifth
Avenue had shrunk. In some unaccountable way the streets had lost their
charm, the city seemed provincial. He was perplexed at the discovery
that the uniform if depthless civility of older civilizations was rarely
observable; he was chagrined to find that the minuti√¶ which, abroad,
he had accepted as a matter of course, the thousand trifles which
amount, after all, to nothing particularly indispensable, but which
serve to make mere existence pleasant, were, when not overlooked,
inhibited by statute or custom.

In the course of a week he was surprised into reflecting that, while no
other country was more naturally and bountifully favored than his own,
there was yet no other where the art of living was as vexatiously
misunderstood.

Of these impressions he said nothing. His father asked him no questions,
nor did he manifest a desire for any larger sociological information
than that which he already possessed. His grandfather was too irascible
for anyone to venture with in safety through the shallows of European
refinements, and of other relatives Tristrem could not boast. Few of his
former friends were at once discoverable, and of those that he
encountered some had fallen into the rut and routine of business life,
some had married and sent in their resignations to everything but the
Humdrum, and some passed their days in an effort to catch a train.

For the moment, therefore, there was no one to whom Tristrem could
confide his earliest impressions, and in a month's time the force of
these impressions waned; the difference between New York and Paris lost
much of its accent, and in its place came a growing admiration for the
pluck and power of the nation, an expanding enthusiasm for the stretch
and splendor of the land.

During the month that followed, an incident occurred which riveted his
patriotism forever. First among the friends and acquaintances whom
Tristrem sought on his return was Royal Weldon. Outwardly the handsome,
turbulent boy had developed into an admirable specimen of manhood, he
