roses for my bouquet de corsage; but the poor Madame Page was so
triste, I left them on her table to remember her of me.  It seemed so
heartless to go and dance while she had only pain; but she wished it."

"Dear little Sophie, how good you are!" and warm-hearted Fan kissed the
blooming face that needed no roses to make it sweet and gay.

Half an hour later, twenty girls and boys were dancing round the
brilliant tree.  Then its boughs were stripped.  Every one seemed
contented; even Sophie’s little gifts gave pleasure, because with each
went a merry or affectionate verse, which made great fun on being read
aloud.  She was quite loaded with pretty things, and had no words to
express her gratitude and pleasure.

"Ah, you are all so good to me! and I have nothing beautiful for you.  I
receive much and give little, but I cannot help it!  Wait a little and I
will redeem myself," she said to Fanny, with eyes full of tears, and a
lap heaped with gay and useful things.

"Never mind that now; but look at this, for here’s still another
offering of friendship, and a very charming one, to judge by the
outside," answered Fan, bringing the white box with the sea-weed
ornaments.

Sophie opened it, and cries of admiration followed, for lying on the
soft cotton was a lovely set of coral.  Rosy pink branches, highly
polished and fastened with gold clasps, formed necklace, bracelets, and
a spray for the bosom. No note or card appeared, and the girls crowded
round to admire and wonder who could have sent so valuable a gift.

"Can’t you guess, Sophie?" cried Dora, longing to own the pretty things.

"I should believe I knew, but it is too costly. How came the parcel,
Fan?  I think you must know all," and Sophie turned the box about,
searching vainly for a name.

"An expressman left it, and Jane took off the wet paper and put it on my
table with the other things.  Here’s the wrapper; do you know that
writing?" and Fan offered the brown paper which she had kept.

