not being urgent, she hates to impoverish the old man who hath lost so
much. For it seems he made some heavy bets upon Lord Cornwallis reducing
the southern Colonies and entering Philadelphia in triumph. And even now
he is sure the King will never consent to the separation."

"Which shows how much the King loved the Colonies."

"A queer love, that would deprive them of any kind of freedom. No, my
kind of love is broad and generous, and not thinking how much profit one
can squeeze out," and her lovely eyes were deep with intense feeling.

"When wilt thou give me a little of this measure?"

"Oh, Phil, am I very naughty and cross?" and her sweet voice would have
disarmed anyone. "But I think sometimes you are only half converted. You
talk of returning to England, and it grieves me."

"But if I stay here I must find some business. I am not very lucky at
cards. I have resigned my position, and now that poor old Sir Wyndham is
dead and the income shrunk sadly, I can count on no more from that
quarter. There is only the interest on what my dear father invested for
me, and that may pay but poorly. They will hardly want to make a rebel
officer of me, since if peace comes they will disband many of the
regiments. To beg I am ashamed. I hardly know how to work. If I went
home and re-enlisted--England always hath some wars on hand."

"They are a naughty, quarrelsome nation, and then they wonder how we
come to have so much spunk and bravery! No, thou shalt not go back.
Business here will stir up. Then men talk to Madam Wetherill about it.
And I think thou hast wit enough to learn. Thou shalt get settled here,
and--and marry some pretty rebel wife----"

"And quarrel with her?" mirthfully.

"Nay, she shall be better tempered than I. Everybody hath spoiled me,
and I am a shrew. No man will ever want to marry me, and I am glad of
that."



