woman, still as fair as ever. It might even be said that there was
something imposing in their appearance. They had that look of
unaffectedly conscious superiority which those who most dislike it most
strenuously endeavour to imitate. Moreover, when a lady, of even
passably good looks, appears down town between eleven and twelve o’clock
in the morning, she is certain to be stared at. Very soon, however, the
Lauderdales had left the busiest part of the multitude behind them. They
walked quickly, with a preoccupied manner, exchanging a few words from
time to time. Lauderdale was gradually recovering from his first
surprise.

“Did Routh say that there was no hope?” he asked, as they paused at a
crossing.

“No,” answered Mrs. Lauderdale. “He didn’t say that. He said that uncle
Robert’s condition caused him grave anxiety. Those were his very words.
You know how he speaks when a thing is serious. He said he thought that
we all ought to know it.”

“Of course--of course. Very proper. We should be the first, I’m sure.”

It would not be fair, perhaps, to say that Alexander’s voice expressed
disappointment. But he spoke very coldly and his lips closed
mechanically, like a trap, after his words. They went on a little
further. Then Mrs. Lauderdale spoke, with some hesitation.

“Alexander--I suppose you don’t know exactly--do you?” She turned and
looked at his face as she walked.

“About what?” he asked, glancing at her and then looking on before him
again.

“Well--you know--about the will--”

“My dear, what a very foolish question!” answered Alexander, with some
emphasis. “We have often talked about it. How in the world should I know
any better than any one else? Uncle Robert is a secretive man. He never
told me anything.”

“Because there are the Ralstons, you know,” pursued Mrs. Lauderdale.
