“No!” cried Miss Van De Water, looking over her shoulder with a little
laugh at the man next to her, who offered his arm in the European
fashion. “We don’t want you--we’re not in Washington--we’re going to
talk about you, and we want to be by ourselves. Stay and smoke your
cigars--but not forever, you know,” she added, and laughed again, a
silvery, girlish laugh.

Ralston stood back and watched the fair young girls and women as they
filed out. After all, there was not one that could compare with
Katharine--whether he loved her, or not, he added mentally.

When the men were alone, they gathered round him under a great cloud of
smoke over their little cups of coffee and their tiny liqueur glasses
of many colours. He had always been more popular than he had been
willing to think, which was the reason why so much had been forgiven
him. He had assuredly done nothing heroic on the present occasion,
unless his manly effort to fight against his taste for drinking was
heroic. If it was, the majority of the seven other men did not think of
it nor care. But he did not deserve such very great credit even for
that, perhaps, for there was that strain of asceticism in him which
makes such things easier for some people than for others. Most of them,
being young, envied and admired him for having stood up to a champion
prize-fighter in fair combat, heavily handicapped as he had been, and
for having reached his antagonist once, at least, before he went down. A
good deal of the enthusiasm young men occasionally express for one of
themselves rests on a similar basis, and yet is not to be altogether
despised on that account.

John warmed to something almost approaching to geniality, in the midst
of so much good-will, in spite of his many troubles and of the painful
interview which was imminent. When Van De Water dropped the end of his
cigar and suggested that they should go into the drawing-room and not
waste the evening in doing badly what they could do well at their clubs
from morning till night, John would have been willing to stay a little
longer. He was very tired. Three or four glasses of wine would have
warmed him and revived him earlier, but he had not broken down in his
resolution yet--and coffee and cigars were not bad substitutes, after
all. The chair was comfortable, it was warm and the lights were soft. He
rose rather regretfully and followed the other men through the house to
join the ladies.
