

The commander of the squadron had not yet become familiar with the
trials, doubts, and anxieties of military life in the midst of actual
fighting; and though he was as calm and resolute as ever, he seemed to
the boys to be greatly disturbed about something. Thus far all the
fighting had been done by the second company; but before this time Major
Lyon had confidently expected to be engaged with the cavalry which had
encamped three miles from the mansion of the planter.

The reputation of the Texans had been spread over this portion of the
State; and they were regarded as terrible soldiers, real fire-eaters,
and he had by no means underrated them. He had made the most careful
preparations to meet them, and had sent the two messengers to obtain a
re-enforcement from the second company, which had successfully
completed its work at the railroad bridge, and could spare a portion of
their strength.

Deck handed his father the letter from Captain Truman as soon as he came
into his presence. The major opened it without saying a word, for he
expected it to give him the information he had been so anxiously
awaiting. The firing to which he had listened, though it was so faint
that he could hardly make it out, had assured him that something not
laid down in his programme had been in progress. While he was reading
the hurriedly written communication, Deck and Artie busied themselves in
examining the region lying to the eastward of the mansion.

"The road by which the Texans came must be just beyond that hill, a
couple of miles from us," said Artie, as they went as far as they could
from the major. "I know I saw them come out from behind it; for I sat on
my horse, on the highest ground I crossed, watching them for some time."

"There's father's map," added Deck, pointing to the sheet which lay on
the railing that surrounded the platform; and then he went for it. "I
wondered father did not see this force from his high perch on this
house."

The young soldiers spread out the map, and examined it very closely.
They readily found the planter's house, and then a road, nearly parallel
to the east one, passing over several hills. The high ground, as they
