short cuts in what she had to do, as well as a certain tact in evading
or bridging over rough places.

But the reading was very hard labor. They did not know the meaning or
the application of words, and their pronouncing ability was indeed
halting.

They had not even attained to the practical knowledge acquired by
mingling with other children. Dil’s life had been pathetic in its
solitariness, like the loneliness of a strange crowd. Other children had
not “taken to her.” Her days had been all work. She would have felt
awkward and out of place playing with anything but a baby.

Bess found the most similitudes in Christiana. Even John Travis would
have been amused by her literal interpretation. Though it had been
simplified for children’s reading, it was far above their limited
capacity. But the pictures helped so much; and when Dil could not get
“the straight of it,” when the spiritual part tried and confused their
brains, they turned to Christiana crossing the river and entering
heaven.

Valiant Mr. Greatheart appealed strongly to Bess.

“He’s got such a strong, beautiful name,” she declared enthusiastically.
“He always comes when there’s troubles, an’ gettin’ lost, an’ all that.
I ’most wish his name was Mr. Greatheart. He could fight, I know; not
this common, hateful fightin’ down here in the court, but with giants
an’ wild beasts. An’ there were the boys, Dil; but I s’pose Owny
wouldn’t care ’bout goin’.”

“Well,” Dil hesitated curiously, “you’ve got to try to be good some way,
an’ Owny wouldn’t quit swearin’ an’ snivyin’ when he got a chance. An’ I
don’t think he’d understand. Then he might tell mammy ’bout our plans.”

“An’ mammy jes’ wouldn’t let you stir a step, I know. An’ I couldn’t go
athout you, Dil, though there’ll be many people on the road. I was most
feared it would be lonesome like.”

“An’ I’ll be gettin’ a few clo’es ready, the best of thim. I’ll wash an’
iron your new white dress when we don’t go out no more, an’ put it away
