they were too lazy to run it, or couldn’t get pianos and buggies out of
it, or were such fools as not to know whether they were well off? It was
their home; they were born and lived and died here. There is the family
burying-ground over there.”

Neither Mrs. Makely nor myself was ready with a reply, and we left the
word with the Altrurian, who suggested: “Still, I suppose they will be
more prosperous in the West on the new land they take up?”

The young fellow leaned his arms on the wheel by which he stood. “What do
you mean by taking up new land?”

“Why, out of the public domain--”

“There ain’t any public domain that’s worth having. All the good land is
in the hands of railroads and farm syndicates and speculators; and if you
want a farm in the West you’ve got to buy it; the East is the only place
where folks give them away, because they ain’t worth keeping. If you
haven’t got the ready money, you can buy one on credit, and pay ten,
twenty, and thirty per cent. interest, and live in a dugout on the
plains--till your mortgage matures.” The young man took his arms from the
wheel and moved a few steps backward, as he added: “I’ll see you over at
the house later.”

The driver touched his horses, and we started briskly off again. But I
confess I had quite enough of his pessimism, and as we drove away I leaned
back toward the Altrurian and said: “Now, it is all perfect nonsense to
pretend that things are at that pass with us. There are more millionaires
in America, probably, than there are in all the other civilized countries
of the globe, and it is not possible that the farming population should be
in such a hopeless condition. All wealth comes out of the earth, and you
may be sure they get their full share of it.”

“I am glad to hear you say so,” said the Altrurian. “What is the meaning
of this new party in the West that seems to have held a convention lately?
I read something of it in the train yesterday.”

“Oh, that is a lot of crazy Hayseeds, who don’t want to pay back the money
they have borrowed, or who find themselves unable to meet their interest.
It will soon blow over. We are always having these political flurries. A
