of his men, under the command of Lieutenant Butters, to which position
the jailer had been elected by the company. Life Knox galloped
furiously in advance of Milton for half a mile, till the latter called
to him to halt.

"Here is the road across the country," shouted the recruit.

There was a fence across the entrance, which Milton removed without
dismounting, for it consisted of only two rails, within his reach. Life
rode through the opening, and started his horse into a gallop again.
The subsoil was of gravel, with a thin coating of loam on it, not more
than three inches deep, so that the animals had a good footing.

"Are we uns in a hurry?" asked Life, turning his head back to see his
fellow scout.

"I should say so," replied Milton; "for the wagon-train may be captured
before we come up with it if we delay, though we don't know that it is
in any danger; but the pike must be crowded with the enemy hurrying on
to the attack of General Thomas's force."

"Then I reckon we had better keep the hosses' legs moving lively,"
replied Life, as he hurried his steed to his best paces.

They soon reached the forest, which extended from one of greater extent
on the other side of the pike, though the scouts passed through only a
projecting corner of it. Beyond the end of the by-road, Milton
explained, was a portion of low ground, through which ran a small
stream. It was in this soft place that the wagon-train had mired. But
it had advanced a mile from the pike; and Milton declared that it was
moving by the longest way to hard ground, the shortest being to the
road they had used for two miles and a half.

"There they be!" exclaimed Life; and he reined in his foaming steed to
take a survey of the surroundings.

"That escort is having a hard time of it," added Milton.

"Thunder and lightning-bugs!" suddenly exclaimed the sergeant. "There's
a whole company of Cornfed cavalry after 'em."
