



CHAPTER X.

A RUSTIC ADMIRER.


Sunday was always a lonely day to me. In the country village, where I
knew everybody, I always looked forward to it as the pleasantest day of
the week. Here in the crowded city, I felt isolated from human sympathy.
I accustomed myself to attending church in the forenoon. In the
afternoon I took a walk or an excursion.

At the boarding-house even it was dull and less social than usual. Such
of the boarders as had friends near the city were able to absent
themselves after breakfast. Among the faces that I missed was that of
the Disagreeable Woman. Sometimes she appeared at breakfast; but never
at dinner or tea. Though she never indulged in conversation to any
extent, I think we all missed her.

One Sunday afternoon, soon after the gathering described in the last
chapter, I walked up Fifth Avenue to Central Park. It was a pleasant day
and many were out. Through the magnificent avenue I walked in a
leisurely way, and wondered idly how it would seem to own a residence in
this aristocratic street. I could not repress a feeling of envy when I
thought of the favored class who dwelt in the long line of palaces that
line the avenue. Their lives seemed far removed from that of a
struggling physician, who was in daily doubt how long he could maintain
his modest style of living in the crowded metropolis.

Arrived at Fifty-ninth street I sauntered toward the menagerie. This is
the favorite resort of children, and of young persons from the country.
Perhaps I, myself, might be classed among the latter. I did not care so
much, however, to observe the animals as the visitors. I had a hope that
I might see some one whom I knew.

At first I could see no familiar face. But presently I started, as my
glance fell on the short and somewhat plump figure of the young woman
