
   "We do not think
   We'll ever drink
   Brandy or rum,
   Or anything that makes drunk come"

I have never changed my mind on that head. What I thought then, I
know now, that for half a century I have seen what desolation
drunkenness has wrought in our land. I never see a boy toss off his
"cocktail," or "cobbler", or "sling," or by whatever other
name the devil's brew is disguised, with the mannish, knowing air that
proves him to be as weak as water, when he would have you think him
strong as--fusel oil!--that I do not recall the vehement outburst in
Mrs. Mulock-Craik's "A Life for a Life," of the old clergyman whose
only son had filled a drunkard's grave:

"If I had a son, and he liked wine, as a child does, perhaps--a pretty
little boy, sitting at table and drinking healths at birthdays; or a
schoolboy, proud to do what he sees his father doing--I would take his
glass from him, and fill it with poison--deadly poison--that he might
kill himself at once, rather than grow up to be his friends' curse and
his own damnation--a drunkard!"

I lack words in which to express my contempt for the petty ambition,
rooted and grounded in vanity, that urges a young fellow to prove the
steadiness of his brain by tippling what he does not want, or even
like. For not one in fifty of those who take "nips" and "coolers,"
cared for the taste of the perilous stuff at the first or twentieth
trial. He proved himself a man, one of the stronger parts of creation,
by pouring liquid fire down his quailing throat until he could do so
without winking. He swears and smokes cigarettes at street corners for
the same reason.

"I love a dog!" exclaimed a lively young girl, patting a big St.
Bernard.

"Would I were a dog!" sighed an amorous dude.

"Oh, you'll grow!" retorted the fair one, consolingly.

