interest than to frighten her. She had an artist's nature and instincts,
and the two young gentlemen were very romantic characters in her eyes,
when they rode down from their dilapidated stronghold, on their compact
little horses, their beautiful Winchester rifles slung over their
shoulders, their velvet coats catching the sunlight, their spurs
gleaming, and their broad hats shading their dark eyes. Had there been
but one of them, her mind would soon have been made up to make him marry
her, and she might have succeeded without much difficulty. But she found
it hard to decide between the two. They were too different for
comparison, and yet too much alike for preference. Tebaldo was a born
tyrant, and Francesco a born coward. She was dominated by the one and
she ruled the other, but she was not in love with either, and she could
not make up her mind whether it would on the whole be more agreeable to
love her master or her slave.

Meanwhile she made rapid progress in her singing, appeared at the opera
in Palermo, and almost immediately obtained an engagement in Rome. To
her father, the sum offered her appeared enormous, and her aunt was
delighted by the prospect of going to Rome with her during the winter.
Aliandra had been successful from the first, and she seemed to be on the
high road to fame. The young idlers of rich Palermo intrigued to be
introduced to her and threw enormous nosegays to her at the end of every
act. She found that there were scores of men far handsomer and richer
than the Pagliuca brothers, ready to fall in love with her, and she
began to reflect seriously upon her position. Artist though she was, by
one side of her nature, there was in her a touch of her father's
sensible legal instinct, together with that extraordinary
self-preserving force which usually distinguishes the young girl of
southern Italy.

She soon understood that no one of her new admirers would ever think of
asking her to be his wife, whereas she was convinced that she could
marry either Tebaldo or Francesco, at her choice and pleasure. They were
poor, indeed, but of as good nobility as any of the rich young noblemen
of Palermo, and she was beginning to find out what fortunes were
sometimes made by great singers. She dreamed of buying back the old
Corleone estates and of being some day the Princess of Corleone herself.
That meant that she must choose Tebaldo, since he was to get the title.
And here she hesitated again. She did not realise that Francesco was
actually a physical coward and rather a contemptible character
