will still think them children. Why, I wasn't quite fifty when you fell
in love with me!"

Fifty! How ridiculous it was to think of Dolly ever being fifty. Ah, it
is love alone that holds the secret of eternal youth!

"Well, I hope there won't any one be foolish over Hanny, in a long
while," said Stephen, decisively.

"Foolish!" repeated Dolly, in a tone of resentment. But then they both
laughed.

The Odell girls came down to make a two days' visit. They went up to the
Deans' to tea; and the two engaged girls strayed off by themselves, with
their arms about each other, and had confidences in which the masculine
pronoun played an important part. And poor Polly bewailed the prospect
of being left alone. If she had a brother like Jim, she wouldn't mind.

Jim's girls were a kind of standing amusement to the family. This was a
case where there was safety in numbers, Mrs. Underhill felt assured. If
she had known of the episode of Lily Ludlow, her confidence would have
been a little shaken. Jim was a general lover of the sex, and a
good-looking, entertaining young fellow is apt to be spoiled.

Just now he had a penchant for Daisy, who teased him, and was as
uncertain as an April shower. She and Hanny were inseparables. Jim took
them round to Dolly's, or down to Ben's, or to Mrs. Hoffman, who had a
new grand piano, and had refurnished her parlor, quite changing the
simplicity of her first wedded life. Through the winter, she had given
fortnightly receptions, that had an air and grace of the highest
refinement. You always met some of the best and the most entertaining
people. It was not a crush and a jam; but men and women really talked at
that period, and brought out their best. Knowledge was not at a
discount.

Young ladies came to call on Miss Underhill; and in the evenings, they
brought their brothers or admirers. When she knew of it beforehand, she
always had Daisy to help. Sometimes the whole party would go out for a
little walk, and have some cream or water ices. The city was still so
airy and open, you did not have to fly out of it at the first pleasant
