mistake: I should have telegraphed to Sing Sing. But I was mad, I think,
until I reached Albany, and there it is no wonder I forgot it. The
regular time for—that business is round eleven o’clock, about a quarter
past; but if the warden happens to be drunk there’s no telling what he
will take it into his head to do. But I dare not stop.”

Suddenly they shot about a curve. The engineer shouted “There! There!” A
dark speck was just making another curve, far to the south.

“The express!” cried the engineer. “We’ve side-tracked everything else.
We’ll catch her now.”

An hour later they dashed into Poughkeepsie, the express only two
minutes ahead of them. Amidst a crowd of staring people, Bourke and the
priest, begrimed, dishevelled, leaped from the engine and boarded a
parlour car of the express. Alone, Bourke would probably have been
arrested as a madman, controlled as was his demeanour; but the priest’s
frock forbade interference.

The governor was not in the parlour car, nor in the next, nor in the
next.

Yes, he had been there, a porter replied, and would be there again; but
he had left the train as soon as it had stopped. No, he did not know in
what direction he had gone; nor did any one else.

There was nothing to do but to wait. Bourke sent a telegram to Sing
Sing, but it relieved his anxiety little: he knew the languid methods of
the company’s officials in country towns.

There were five of those remaining seven minutes when he thought he was
going mad. An immense crowd had gathered by this time about the station.
Nobody knew exactly what was the matter, and nobody dared ask the man
walking rapidly up and down the platform, watch in hand, gripping the
arm of a priest; but hints were flying, and no one doubted that this
sudden furious incursion of a flying engine and the extraordinary
appearance of Bourke had to do with the famous prisoner at Sing Sing.

At exactly three minutes to starting time the governor came sauntering
down the street, a tooth-pick in his mouth, his features overspread with
