thing, hardest of any to bear.  By an accident she had learned at last
that Richard Wimpole had loved her, and she had guessed that he loved
her still.  He had fancied her indifferent to him; and Harmon had been
his friend in young days.  Harmon had been called fast, even then, but
not vicious, and he had been rich.  Wimpole had stood aside and had let
him win, being diffident, and really believing that it might be better
for Helen in the end.  He thought that she could make anything she chose
of Harmon, who was furiously in love with her.

So the two had made the great mistake, each meaning to do the very best
that could be done. But when Harmon had gone mad at last, and was in an
asylum without prospect of recovery, and Helen found herself the
administrator of his property for her son, it had been necessary to go
through all his disordered papers, and she had found a letter of
Wimpole’s to her husband, written long ago.  Had it been a woman’s
letter, she would have burned it unread.  But it was a duty to read
every paper which might bear upon business matters, from the beginning,
and she naturally supposed that Harmon must have had some reason for
keeping this one.  So she read it.

It had been written in the early days of her husband’s courtship.  He,
too, had been generous, then, with impulses of honour in which there had
been, perhaps, something of vanity, though they had impelled him to do
right.  There had been some conversation between the friends, and Harmon
had found out that Wimpole loved Helen.  Not being yet so far in love as
he was later, he had offered to go away and let the young colonel have a
chance, since the latter had loved her first.  Then Wimpole had written
this letter which she found twenty years later.

It was simple, grateful, and honourably conceived.  It said what he had
believed to be the truth, that Helen did not care for him, that Harmon
was quite as good as he in all ways, and much richer, and it finally and
definitely refused the offer of ’a chance.’  There was nothing tragic
about it, nor any high-flown word in its short, clear phrases.  But it
had decided three lives, and the finding of it after such a long time
hurt Helen more than anything had ever hurt her before.

In a flash she saw the meaning of Wimpole’s life, and she knew that he
loved her still, and had always loved her, though in all their many
meetings, throughout those twenty years, he had never said one word of
