“On the contrary, I understated its merits.”

“Oh, very well, then,” she said, quite as if I had confessed my guilt;
“they will come here, and you will have your romance on your hands for
the rest of the month.  I’m thankful we’re going away the first of
August.”




III


THE next afternoon, while we were sitting in the park waiting for the
Troy band to begin playing, and I was wondering just when they would
reach the “Washington Post March,” which I like because I can always be
sure of it, my unknown friends came strolling our way.  The man looked
bewildered and bored, with something of desperation in his troubled eye,
and his wife looked tired and disheartened.  The young girl, still in
white duck, wore the same air of passive injury I had noted in her the
night before.  Their faces all three lighted up at sight of me; but they
faded again at the cold and meagre response I made to their smiles under
correction of my wife’s fears of them.  I own it was base of me; but I
had begun to feel myself that it might be too large a contract to attempt
their consolation, and, in fact, after one is fifty scarcely any romance
will keep overnight.

My wife glanced from them to me, and read my cowardly mind; but she
waited till they passed, as they did after an involuntary faltering in
front of us, and were keeping on down the path, looking at the benches,
which were filled on either hand.  She said, “Weren’t those your
friends?”

“They were the persons of my romance.”

“No matter.  Go after them instantly and bring them back here, poor
things.  We can make room for them.”

I rose.  “Isn’t this a little too idyllic?  Aren’t you rather overdoing
it?”
