made in fact the other moment so vivid as almost to start again the
tears it had started at the time. "You could do so much for me, yes. I
perfectly understood you."

"I wanted, you see," he despite this explained, "to fix your
confidence. I mean, you know, in the right place."

"Well, Lord Mark, you did--it's just exactly now, my confidence, where
you put it then. The only difference," said Milly, "is that I seem now
to have no use for it. Besides," she then went on, "I do seem to feel
you disposed to act in a way that would undermine it a little."

He took no more notice of these last words than if she hadn't said
them, only watching her at present as with a gradual new light. "Are
you really in any trouble?"

To this, on her side, she gave no heed. Making out his light was a
little a light for herself. "Don't say, don't try to say, anything
that's impossible. There are much better things you can do."

He looked straight at it and then straight over it. "It's too monstrous
that one can't ask you as a friend what one wants so to know."

"What is it you want to know?" She spoke, as by a sudden turn, with a
slight hardness. "Do you want to know if I'm badly ill?"

The sound of it in truth, though from no raising of her voice, invested
the idea with a kind of terror, but a terror all for others. Lord Mark
winced and flushed--clearly couldn't help it; but he kept his attitude
together and spoke even with unwonted vivacity. "Do you imagine I can
see you suffer and not say a word?"

"You won't see me suffer--don't be afraid. I shan't be a public
nuisance. That's why I should have liked this: it's so beautiful in
itself and yet it's out of the gangway. You won't know anything about
anything," she added; and then as if to make with decision an end: "And
you don't! No, not even you." He faced her through it with the
remains of his expression, and she saw him as clearly--for
him--bewildered; which made her wish to be sure not to have been
unkind. She would be kind once for all; that would be the end. "I'm
