but a humbled group of shivering cadets.




CHAPTER XXVII.

WHAT MARK DID.


The surprise of the helpless watchers on the shore precludes
description. They knew that out upon that seething river a tragedy was
being enacted; but the driving rain made a wall about them--they could
not aid, they could not even see. They stood about in groups, and
whispered, and listened, and strained their eyes to pierce the mist.

Mark's friends were wild with alarm; and his enemies--who can describe
their feelings?

A man has said that it is a terrible thing to die with a wrong upon
one's soul; but that it is agony to see another die whom you have
wronged, to know that your act can never be atoned for now. That there
is one unpardonable sin to your account on the records of eternity. That
was how the yearlings felt; and even Bull Harris, ruffian though he was,
trembled slightly about the lips.

The storm itself was one of those which come but seldom. Nature's mighty
forces flung loose in one giant cataclysm. It came from the north, and
it had a full sweep down the valley of the Hudson, pent in and focused
to one point by the mountains on each side. It tore the trees from the
tops as it came; it struck the river with a swish, and beat the water
into foam. It flung the raindrops in gusts against it, and caught them
up in spray and whirled them on; and this, to the echoing crashes of the
thunder and the dull, lurid gleam of the lightning that played in the
rear.

One is silent at such times at that; the frightened cadets on the shore
would probably have stood in groups and trembled, and done nothing
through it all, had it not been for a cry that aroused them. Some one,
sharper eyed than the rest, espied a figure struggling in the water near
