
“That is right. Oh, Renée, child, do not let any one persuade you! You
are too young. And then, by and by—yes, you will know some one cares for
you with his whole soul, will lay all that he has at your feet——”

“He had better not. I should simply dance over it. Now let us go back. I
am all rested. You shall have the next dance with me.”

Monsieur Laflamme made no movement toward her, but seemed quite devoted
to a new partner. Did he really care so much? Renée felt piqued with
this display of indifference. This dance had a chain of persons going in
and out and turning partners. As that gentleman approached she gave her
rose a caressing touch and glanced up with eyes so alight and full of
beseechingness that he pressed her hand in token that all was peace
between them, and her wilful heart exulted.

“My charming queen,” he said in an appealing tone, “may I come back to
my rightful place and sun myself in your smiles? Did I offend you?”

She was not used to such flowery speech, but it sounded delightful to
her. And yet it did not seem quite sincere. But she waved her hand
playfully to André and went with M. Laflamme to the head of the row of
dancers. It was hardly likely she would be queen again after to-night.

André Valbonais looked on puzzled, confused. He danced with several
other girls, he chatted with the mothers and fathers, but it seemed as
if one side of his nature did not respond to anything. It was so
curiously cold that the smiles Renée lavished on every one did not
arouse any jealous resentment. It was like an ice-bound stream that
would awaken presently; the spring sunshine never failed to burst the
bounds.

They came to the end of the night’s pleasure. Several lovers were
glancing at each other with confident, lingering smiles that mothers
understood and did not disapprove of, even while they hurried their
daughters away.

“There can be but one more ball, Lent falls so early,” said some one.

“True. Well, let us make it on Tuesday night.”
