She wrote to Miss Holmes and heard from her the current news about
every one. Olive Personette was well married. Isola had a music
master, an enthusiastic German, who insisted such a voice should not
be hidden out of sight and hearing. Her father had been persuaded to
allow her to sing in St. Mary's Church, recently completed in a very
fine manner, on Ascension Sunday and there had been great enthusiasm
over the unknown singer. Elena was growing up into a bright, eager
girl who rode magnificently and danced to perfection, and was already
drawing crowds of admirers, much to her mother's satisfaction, and
would make amends for Isola's diffidence and distaste of society. Dick
Folsom was still flirting with pretty girls. Nothing had been heard
from Mr. Chadsey, except that he had gone up to the wild Russian
possessions. There was inclosed a letter from Mrs. Hudson, who was a
happy mother, and Jos√© was the best of husbands.

Laverne wondered at times how it was possible to hear anything of
Victor Savedra. Girls were so hedged about here, everything they did
inquired into. It would not be proper for her to write, and if she had
an answer Mrs. Westbury would know it. She kept an excellent watch
over her pretty daughter. She was really glad no one heard from Jason
Chadsey. In this round of pleasure Laverne would soon forget that
crude life, and not care to go back to it.

She did find many things to interest. But the Westbury society was not
of the intellectual type. Then there were no stirring questions about
one's own town. London seemed a great agglomeration of small places,
and was to a degree finished. There was no especial Steamer day, there
was no influx of miners, no great bay with its shipping at hand, and,
oh, no great ocean with its multitude of denizens to watch.

Yet, of course, there were other wonderful things, the galleries, with
their pictures and statues, only it seemed to her that people went
quite as much to see each other's fine clothes. There were the
churches, the palaces, the great piles of learning that had trained
Englishmen hundreds of years. Mr. Westbury took them to the House of
Commons to a debate that he was interested in, but she felt a little
disappointed. Somewhere at Oxford was Victor Savedra, but what was one
amid the great multitude?

They went over on the French coast for a summering and Laverne found
