"Yes, there are the convicts. And there is one among them whom I helped
to put there. He is an assassin that killed many when he was at liberty.
But now he sits for seven years in a little cell alone, and sees no
Christian, and it will be thirty years before he is free."

"Madonna!" ejaculated the mate. "When he has been there thirty years he
will perhaps understand."

"It is as I say," rejoined the captain. "The world is made so. There are
the good and the bad. The Eternal Father has created things thus. Get a
little more on the main sheet, and then flatten in those jibs."

Under the May moon, in the small shaft of white light that fell through
the narrow grated window, a man sat on the edge of his pallet bed. His
face was ghastly, and there were strange scars on his bare throat. His
cell was seven feet by six, and the air was hard to breathe, because the
wind was not from the south. But the moon was kinder than the sun. He
heard the ripple of the cool sea, and he tried to dream that a great
stone was hung to his neck, and that he had been thrown into a deep
place. Perhaps, some day, the gaoler would forget to take away the
coarse towel which was brought with the water in the morning. With a
towel he could hang himself.

      

Under the May moon a small marble cross cast its shadow upon young roses
and violets and growing myrtle. In the sweet earth below a very loyal
heart was at rest for ever. But the flowers were planted and still
tended by a woman with radiant hair; and sometimes, when she stooped to
train the young roses, bright drops fell quietly upon their bloom. Also,
on certain days, a man came there alone and knelt upon the marble border
within which the flowers grew. But the man and the woman never came
together; and he gave the gardener of that place money, praising him for
the care of the flowers.

      

Under the May moon the man and the woman went down from the cottage by
the Roman shore to the break in the high bank, and stood still a while,
looking out at the peaceful sea and the moon's broad path. Presently
