now.

Yet there was one thing she must do, and she must do it at once.
She would not go back to the Capuchin, but she would certainly
go to some other confessor, not her own, and make sure that she
had found absolution, not for what she had done lately, since she
was absolutely sure that she had done right, but for that long
unacknowledged moment of weakness years ago. No priest in his
senses could refuse her absolution for that.

She meant to be as careful and scrupulous as she had ever been
in the hardest days; but it was not easy to feel very humble and
repentant just when she was so very happy, just when she felt that
the new life was lifting her up, together with the man she loved so
well.

It did not seem wrong either to go to a confessor whose name she
knew, and who had the reputation of being a very mild man, who
always took the most gentle and charitable point of view. She had
once heard Giuliana say with a laugh that he must have listened to
some astounding confessions in his day, stories that would make
one’s hair stand on end, because he was such a mild man, and so
charitable; but even Giuliana admitted that he was as good as he
was kind. There was no reason why Maria should not go to him.

She made an appointment with him in a quiet and remote church; she
put on the grey veil and went in a cab in the afternoon, and she
got what she hoped for. She came home, and Leone was waiting for
her; and when she turned up the veil and kissed him there was a
bright smile in her face.

He looked at her critically for a moment.

‘To-day it was a good priest,’ he said, in a satisfied tone. ‘I
don’t hate this priest. You should always go to this one!’

‘Perhaps I shall,’ Maria answered, still smiling.

Early next morning she went out again, and knelt at the altar rail
of the little new oratory that stands in a side street not far from
