
Zoë was glad that there were iron bars between him and her, for she
had never seen a human being more like a raging wild beast. She had
looked anxiously for Omobono, but as there was no trace of him nor of
any blood, she at once decided that he had been able to get out by
some secret way, after Lucilla had barred the door.

'Where is Messer Carlo?' were the words which arrested Tocktamish in
the act of smashing the desk.

He stood gazing at Zoë stupidly, and as he did not answer she repeated
her question, watching him quietly so that he should understand that
he was completely in her power. When he heard her voice again he made
a sort of instinctive attempt to smooth himself, as the peacock
spreads his tail before the female; he pulled out his immense
moustaches, drew his shaggy beard through his two hands, settled his
fur papakh on his head, and smiled complacently as he approached the
window, prepared, in his own estimation, to win the heart of any woman
in Constantinople. The exercise of breaking up the furniture had
probably done him good, for he walked quite steadily, with his eyes
wide open and his big head a little on one side.

'Messer Carlo is quite safe and very well,' he answered when he was
near the grating. 'He has sent me to get him a little money, which he
greatly needs.'

'You have a singular way of executing his commission,' observed Zoë,
looking at the splinters of the smashed furniture.

Tocktamish felt that the havoc round him must be explained.

'I have been killing the rats,' he said. 'It is extraordinary how many
rats and mice get into counting-houses!'

'Where is Messer Carlo?' Zoë asked a third time.

'Sweet woolly ewe-lamb of heaven,' said Tocktamish, leaning on the
window-sill and bringing his face close to the bars, 'if you will only
give me one little kiss, I will tell you where Carlo is!'

