great-great-grandfather was a pirate," lightly. "Love asks no questions;
and ancestors worry me not at all; they are all comfortably dead."

"Not always. But if my perception of honor were less keen, I should
laugh at what you call your evidence."

"Laugh?"

"Yes, indeed. I very well understand the tremendous power of money."

"Not more than I," sadly.

She laughed brokenly. "More than you. I can picture to you just what
will happen." She rose. "There will, of course, be a great newspaper
clamor; the interstate commissioners will put their heads together;
there will be investigations by the government. That will be the attack.
The keenest lawyers are on the side of corporations; that is because the
state is niggard with her pay. Let me outline the defense. Father will
resign from his high office, to be reÃ«lected later when the public cools
off! A new directorate will fill the place of the present one. Suddenly
falsified entries will be discovered; the head bookkeeper will have
disappeared. All fingers will point to him. He will be in South America,
having been paid several thousand to go there. All this will make the
passing of the dividend perfectly logical. The matter will never be
tried in court. Money will do all this."

"My dear little woman, you reason like Pythagoras; but," Carrington
added gravely, "when I undertook to untangle this affair, I realized its
huge proportions. For every redoubt your father has, I have an assault,
for every wall a catapult, for every gate a petard. But, as I said
before, you have only to say the word, and for the present nobody will
be any the wiser."

"If I permitted you to do this, I should destroy my faith in both of us.
It would erect a barrier which would be insurmountable. That is not the
way out."

"I have weighed all these things," discouragedly.

He took the document from his pocket and caught it in a way that
