from his grave.

I looked at Aristides, and read compassion in his dear face; but the face
of Cyril remained severe and judicial. He said: “Then, if what you say is
true, you cannot think it a hardship if we remove your burden for the
time you remain with us. I have consulted with the National and Regional
as well as the Communal authorities, and we cannot let you continue to
live in the manner you are living here. You must pay your way.”

“I shall be only too glad to do that,” Mr. Thrall returned, more
cheerfully. “We have not a great deal of cash in hand, but I can give you
my check on London or Paris or New York.”

“In Altruria,” Cyril returned, “we have no use for money. You must pay
your way as soon as your present provision from your yacht is exhausted.”

Mr. Thrall turned a dazed look on the young lord, who suggested: “I don’t
think we follow you. How can Mr. Thrall pay his way except with money?”

“He must pay with work. As soon as you come upon the neighbors here for
the necessities of life you must all work. To-morrow or the next day or
next week at the furthest you must go to work, or you must starve.”

Then he came out with that text of Scripture which had been so efficient
with the crew of the Little Sally: “For even when we were with you this
we commanded you, that if any would not work neither should he eat.”

Lord Moors seemed very interested, and not so much surprised as I had
expected. “Yes, I have often thought of that passage and of its
susceptibility to a simpler interpretation than we usually give it.
But--”

“There is but one interpretation of which it is susceptible,” Cyril
interrupted. “The apostle gives that interpretation when he prefaces the
text with the words, ‘For yourselves know how you ought to follow us; for
we behaved not ourselves disorderly among you. Neither did we eat any
man’s bread for nought; but wrought with travail night and day, that we
might not be chargeable to any of you: not because we have not power, but
to make ourselves an ensample unto you to follow us.’ The whole economy
of Altruria is founded on these passages.”
