thinking about it. All day long the traveller crouched in the hollow
of the ruby cave, and Baraka watched him from her place; when it grew
dark the vulture on the pinnacle of rock thrust its ugly head under
its wing. As soon as Baraka could not see any more she curled herself
up on the white sand like a little wild animal and went to sleep,
though she was thirsty.

It was dawn when she awoke, and her linen garment was damp with the
dew, so that the touch of it refreshed her. The traveller had come out
and was lying prone on the sand, his face buried against his arm, as
soldiers sleep in a bivouac. She could not tell whether he was asleep
or not, but she knew that he could not see her, and she cautiously
sucked the dew from her garment, drawing it up to her mouth and
squeezing it between her lips.

It was little enough refreshment, but it was something, and she was
not afraid, which made a difference. Just as she had drawn the edge of
her shift down and round her ankles again, the man turned on his side
suddenly, and then rose to his feet. For an instant he glared at her,
and she saw that his blue eyes were bloodshot and burning; then he
picked up the heavy camel bag, and began to make his way round what
had been the beach of the pool, towards the passage through which they
had entered, and which was now a dry cave, wide below, narrow at the
top, and between six or seven feet high. He trod carefully and tried
his way, for he feared the quicksand, but he knew that there was none
in the passage, since he had walked through the water and had felt the
way hard under his feet. In a few moments he disappeared under the
rock.

Baraka knew what he meant to do; he was going to try to dig through
the dam at the entrance to let the water in, even if he could not get
out. But she was sure that this would be impossible, for by this time
her father and brothers had, no doubt, completely filled the spring
with earth and stones, and had turned the water in the other
direction. The traveller must have been almost sure of this too, else
he would have made the attempt much sooner. It was the despotism of
thirst that was driving him to it now, and he had no tool with which
to dig--it would be hopeless work with his hands.

The girl did not move, for in that narrow place and in the dark she
