friend at headquarters to find out where he was living, and she soon
learned that he was in charge of the magazine.

After a little reflection, she wrote him a note, recalling their
acquaintance and the fact that she had known his poor brother very
well. She had never seen a powder magazine, she said; would he show
the one at Monteverde to her and two or three friends, next Wednesday?

Ugo answered politely that this was quite impossible without a special
permission from the Commander-in-Chief or the War Office, and that he
greatly regretted his inability to comply with her request. As he was
a punctilious man, though he lived almost like a hermit, he took the
trouble to send his orderly into the city on the following afternoon
with a couple of cards to be left at the Palazzo Chiaromonte for the
Prince and Princess, in accordance with Roman social custom.

A few days later a smart 'limousine' drew up to the door of Ugo's
little house and a footman rang the old-fashioned bell, which went on
tinkling in the distance for a long time after the rusty chain had
been pulled. Ugo's Sicilian orderly opened the door at last in a
leisurely way and appeared on the threshold in grey linen fatigue
dress; on seeing the car and the Princess he straightened himself and
saluted.

His master was riding, he said, and would not come home for an hour.
The Princess wrote a message on a card, asking if Ugo would come and
see her any day after five o'clock, and she wrote down the number of
her telephone. She gave the card to the man, and by way of impressing
its importance on him, added that she was a very old friend of the
family and had known the Captain's mother as well as the brother who
had been lost in Africa. She also smiled sweetly, for the Sicilian was
a handsome young man; she had a way of smiling at handsome men when
she was speaking to them, especially if she wished them to remember
what she said.

When the car was gone, Salvatore Pica, the orderly, shut the door and
went into the hall where the telephone was. He looked at the visiting
card before leaving it on the brass salver on the table, where letters
and reports were placed for the Captain whenever he was out; and being
an intelligent man and considerably impressed by what the Princess had
