
He passed on down the room, chuckling to himself; and the Major said,
"That's Maltby Symmes. Have you heard of him?"

"No," said Montague.

"He gets into the papers a good deal. He was up in supplementary
proceedings the other day--couldn't pay his liquor bill."

"A member of the Millionaires'?" laughed Montague.

"Yes, the papers made quite a joke out of it," said the other. "But you
see he's run through a couple of fortunes; the last was his
mother's--eleven millions, I believe. He's been a pretty lively old boy
in his time."

The vinegar and oil had now arrived, and the Major set to work to dress
the salad. This was quite a ceremony, and Montague took it with amused
interest. The Major first gathered all the necessary articles together,
and looked them all over and grumbled at them. Then he mixed the
vinegar and the pepper and salt, a tablespoonful at a time, and poured
it over the salad. Then very slowly and carefully the oil had to be
poured on, the salad being poked and turned about so that it would be
all absorbed. Perhaps it was because he was so busy narrating the
escapades of Maltby Symmes that the old gentleman kneaded it about so
long; all the time fussing over it like a hen-partridge with her
chicks, and interrupting himself every sentence or two: "It was Lenore,
the opera star, and he gave her about two hundred thousand dollars'
worth of railroad shares. (Really, you know, romaine ought not to be
served in a bowl at all, but in a square, flat dish, so that one could
keep the ends quite dry.) And when they quarrelled, she found the old
scamp had fooled her--the shares had never been transferred. (One is
not supposed to use a fork at all, you know.) But she sued him, and he
settled with her for about half the value. (If this dressing were done
properly, there ought not to be any oil in the bottom of the dish at
all.)"

This last remark meant that the process had reached its climax--that
the long, crisp leaves were receiving their final affectionate
overturnings. While the waiter stood at respectful attention, two or
