
"No, no!" she cried, vehemently. "Don't say that! 
I love you, Thyrsis ! I love you, heart and soul !" 

He turned and gazed at her with his haggard eyes. 

"I will do anything for you," she rushed on. "You 
shall have me ! I will be your wife !" 

Then, however, as he clasped her to him, there came 
once more the shrinking. "Only give me a little time, 
dear," she whispered. "Let me get used to it. Let it 
come naturally." 

But the only way he could have given her time would 
have been to go away. Here he was, in her room with 
every reminder of her about him, with every incitement 
to his desire. And he had but two things to choose 
between to go out and walk and think about her, or to 
come home and sit with her and talk about their love. 

They had their supper, and then again she was in his 
arms. He told her about this trouble he showed how 
the love of her was consuming him. Far into the night 
they sat talking, and he poured out his heart to her, 
he bore her with him to the mountain-tops of his de- 
sire. He took down a book of Spenser's, and read her 
the "Epithalamium" ; he read her Shelley's "Epip- 





sychidion," which they both loved. All the power of 
Thyrsis' genius was turned now to passion, and the 
hidden forces of him were revealed as never had they 
been revealed to her before. He became eloquent; he 
talked to her as he had lived with himself; he awed 
her and frightened her, as he had that evening upon the 
hill-top. Then at last, as the tide of his feeling swept 
