at the hilly ground where we lay watching them.

Then there was a break in the line, an interval of many minutes before
their pack horses appeared, escorted by green-coated soldiers.

And in the ghostly light of dawn, I saw Sir John Johnson riding at the
head of his men, his pale hair unpowdered, his heavy, colourless face
sunk on his breast. After him, in double file, marched his regiment of
Greens; then came more Indians--Owagas, I think--then that shameless
villain, McDonald, in bonnet and tartan, and the heavy claymore a-swing
on his saddle-bow, and his blue-eyed Indians swarming in the rear.

Lord, what a crew! And as though that were not enough to affront the
rising sun, comes riding young Walter Butler, in his funereal cloak,
white as a corpse under the black disorder of his hair, and staring at
nothing like a damned man. On his horse's heels his ruffianly Rangers
marched in careless disorder but with powerful, swinging strides that
set their slanting muskets gleaming like ripples glinting athwart a
windy pond, and their canteens all a-bobbing.

Then, hunched on his horse, rode old John Butler--squat, swarthy,
weather-roughened, balancing on his saddle with the grace of a chopping
block; and after him more Rangers crowding close behind.

Behind these, quite alone, stalked an Indian swathed in a scarlet
blanket edged with gold, on which a silver gorget glittered. He seemed
scarce darker than I in colour; and if he wore paint I saw none. There
was only a scarlet band of cloth around his temples, and the
flight-feather of the white-crested eagle set there low above the left
ear and slanting backward.

"Brant!" I whispered to the Sagamore; and I saw him stiffen to very
stone beside me; and heard his teeth grate in his jaws.

Then, last of all, came the Keepers of the Eastern Gate, the flower of
the warriors of the Long House--the Mohawks.

They passed in the barbaric magnificence of paint and feather and
shining steel, a hundred lithe, light-stepping warriors, rifles
swinging a-trail, and gorgeous beaded sporrans tossing at every stride.
