that clear? Now, take your friend, the Skeleton, and take your torch and
yourself out of this cellar.  Get out, or I’ll bash your face in!—You
dirty little bandy-legged, blood-lapping cockroach——"

His big, pock-pitted, hairless face became frightful in its concentrated
ferocity; both men made simultaneous and involuntary movements to the
rear.

"You’ll come at nine o’clock, do you hear!" he roared. "And you’ll bring
a sack with you and enough weight to keep it sunk!  You, Maggot; you,
Skeleton, do you understand?  Very well, clear out!"

The young ruffians made no response; Asticot turned and made his way
through the narrow passage; the Skeleton shuffled on his heels, shining
his torch ahead.

Halfway down the central corridor they helped themselves to two more
bottles of Bordeaux, pocketing them in silence, and continued on their
course.

Listening, Warner could hear them ascending the stone stairs, could hear
the door click above as they left the cellar.  But his eyes remained
fixed on Wildresse, who still stood in the door, darkly outlined against
the dull gaslight burning somewhere in the room behind him.

Once or twice he looked at the great cask which the two voyous had not
troubled to close into its place behind them.  And Wildresse did not
bother to go out and swing the cask back into place, but, as soon as he
caught the sound of the closing cellar door, stepped back and shut his
own door.

He must either have forgotten, or carelessly neglected, to close the
open panel in it, for the lighted square remained visible, illuminating
the narrow passage after Warner heard him bolt the door on the inside.

His retreating footsteps, also, were audible for some distance before
the sound of them died away; and Warner knew then that the door belonged
to the cabaret, and that behind its bolted shutters and its police seals
Wildresse had been lurking since his return from Saïs.

