"Why, go and enjoy yourselves.  Forewarned is forearmed.  The thing is,
be very careful not to acquaint any one with the character of your
disguise, least of all the Countess Perigoff.  Besides," Jones added
smiling, "perhaps I may go myself."

"Goody!  I've read about masked balls and have always been crazy to go
to one," said Florence with eagerness.

"Suppose we go at once and pick out some costumes?" suggested Norton.

"Just as soon as I can get my hat on," replied Florence, happy as a
lark.

"But mind," warned Jones; "be sure that you see the costumer alone and
that no one else is about."

"I'll take particular care," agreed Norton.  "We've got to do some
hustling to find something suitable.  For a big affair like this the
town will be ransacked.  All aboard!  There's room for two in that car
of mine; and we can have a spin besides.  Hang work!"

Florence laughed, and even Jones permitted a smile (which was not grim
this time) to stir his lips.

A happy person is generally unobservant.  Two happy persons together
are totally unobservant of what passes around them.  In plainer terms
this lack is called love.  And being frankly in love with each other,
neither Norton nor Florence observed that a taxicab followed them into
town.  Jones, not being in love, was keenly observant; but the taxicab
took up the trail two blocks away, so the matter wholly escaped Jones'
eye.

The two went into several costumers', but eventually discovered a shop
on a side street that had been overlooked by those invited to the
masquerade.  They had a merry time rummaging among the
camphory-smelling boxes.  There were dominoes of all colors, and at
length they agreed upon two modest ones that were evenly matched in
color and design.  Florence ordered them to be sent home.  Then the two
of them sallied up to the Ritz-Carleton and had tea.

