that point, was a wavering and incalculable line. He had an idea that
the fighting was much nearer than he or Jacks had imagined. The place at
which they had broken down must be about fifteen miles from the Marne.
But could it be possible that the Germans had crossed the Marne?

Troy grew hungry, and thrust his hand in his pocket to pull out a
sandwich. With it came a letter of his mother's, carried off in haste
when he left Paris the previous morning. He re-read it with a mournful
smile. "Of course we all know the Allies must win; but the preparations
here seem so slow and blundering; and the Germans are still so
strong...." (Thump, thump, the artillery echoed: "Strong!") And just
at the end of the letter, again; "I do wonder if you'll run across
Sophy...."

He lit a cigarette, and shut his eyes and thought. The sight of Miss
Warlick had made Sophy Wicks's presence singularly vivid to him: he had
fallen asleep thinking of her the night before. How like her to have
taken a course at the Presbyterian Hospital without letting any one
know! He wondered that he had not suspected, under her mocking
indifference, an ardour as deep as his own, and he was ashamed of having
judged her as others had, when, for so long, the thought of her had been
his torment and his joy. Where was she now, he wondered? Probably in
some hospital in the south or the centre: the authorities did not let
beginners get near the front, though, of course, it was what all the
girls were mad for.... Well, Sophy would do her work wherever it was
assigned to her: he did not see her intriguing for a showy post.

Troy began to marvel again at the spell of France--his France! Here was
a girl who had certainly not come in quest of vulgar excitement, as so
many did: Sophy had always kept herself scornfully aloof from the pretty
ghouls who danced and picnicked on the ruins of the world. He knew that
her motives, so jealously concealed, must have been as pure and urgent
as his own. France, which she hardly knew, had merely guessed at through
the golden blur of a six weeks' midsummer trip, France had drawn her
with an irresistible pressure; and the moment she had felt herself free
she had come. "Whither thou goest will I go, thy people shall be my
people...." Yes, France was the Naomi-country that had but to beckon,
and her children rose and came....

Troy was exceedingly tired: he stretched himself on the dusty bank, and
