sweet edge," she whispered caressingly. "No!--do not close your eyes.
Look upon me. Look into my eyes. I am Aoula, temple girl of the
Baroulass! I am mistress to the Slayer of Souls! I am a golden plaything
to Sanang No√Øane, Prince of the Yezidees. Look upon me attentively, my
lord!"

Her smooth little hand closed on the hilt; the scarlet fish splashed
furiously in the bowl, dislodging a blossom or two which fell to the
carpet and slowly faded into mist.

Now she grasped the knife, and she slipped from the bed to the floor and
stood before the dazed man.

"This is the Namaz-Ga," she said in her silky voice. "Behold, this is
the appointed Place of Prayer. Gaze around you, my lord. These are the
shadows of mighty men who come here to see you die in the Place of
Prayer."

Cleves's head had fallen back, but his eyes were open. The Baroulass
girl took his head in both hands and turned it hither and thither. And
his glazing eyes seemed to sweep a throng of shadowy white-robed men
crowding the room. And he saw the bloodless, symmetrical visage of
Sanang among them, and the great red beard of Togrul; and his stiffening
lips parted in an uttered cry, and sagged open, flaccid and soundless.

The Baroulass sorceress lifted the shroud from his knees and spread it
on the carpet, moving with leisurely grace about her business and softly
intoning the Prayers for the Dead.

Then, having made her arrangements, she took her knife into her right
hand again and came back to the half-conscious man, and stood close in
front of him, bending near and looking curiously into his dimmed eyes.

"Ayah!" she said smilingly. "This is the Place of Prayer. And you shall
add your prayer to ours before I use my knife. So! I give you back your
power of speech. Pronounce the name of Erlik!"

Very slowly his dry lips moved and his dry tongue trembled. The word
they formed was,

