
He saw the conflict coming which must drench the land in blood and dry
with fire the blackened cinders.

Torn betwixt loyalty to his King whom he had so tirelessly served, and
loyalty to his country which he so passionately loved, it has been said
that, rather than choose between King and Colony, he died by his own
hand.

But those who knew him best know otherwise. Sir William died of a broken
heart, in his great Hall at Johnstown, all alone.

       

His son, Sir John, killed a fine horse riding from Fort Johnson to the
Hall. And arrived too late and all of a lather in the starlight.

And I have never ceased marvelling how such a man could have been the
son of the great Sir William.

At the Hall the numerous household was all in a turmoil; and, besides
Sir William's immediate family, there were a thousand guests--a thousand
Iroquois Indians encamped around the Hall, with whom Sir William had
been holding fire-council.

For he had determined to restrain his Mohawks, and to maintain
tranquillity among all the fierce warriors of the Six Nations, and so
pledge the entire Iroquois Confederacy to an absolute neutrality in the
imminence of this war betwixt King and Colony, which now seemed to be
coming so rapidly upon us that already its furnace breath was heating
restless savages to a fever.

All that hot June day, though physically ill and mentally unhappy,--and
under a vertical sun and with head uncovered,--Sir William had spoken to
the Iroquois with belts.

The day's labour of that accursed council-fire ended at sunset; sachem
and chief departed--tall spectres in the flaming west; there was a clash
of steel at the guard-house as the guard presented arms; Mr. Duncan
saluted the Confederacy with lifted claymore.
