
His clinched fist unclosed, the muscles relaxed, and though his face
was still red, a smile of triumph played upon his lips.

"Will you go, Watermelons?" sneered Redman.

"I will not," replied Richard.

"Shut up, Redman," interposed Nevers, who entirely mistook the singular
change which had come over Richard's countenance. "Come, Grant, you and
I will talk it over alone;" and he took his arm, and led him away from
the crowd.

"You see we know all about these things," continued Nevers, "but we
don't want to be hard upon you. Only about a dozen of us know any thing
about those scrapes."

"Who told you about them?" asked Richard.

"That's nothing to the purpose. You are a good fellow, Grant, and I
advise you to join us; if you do, not a fellow shall ever say a word
about watermelons or sleep-walking."

"I will not join you, whatever you say and whatever you do."

"Then you won't hear any thing but watermelons while you stay here. I
called you out as a friend, and I think you had better go with us."

"I will not."

"Then we will tell all the fellows."

"I will save you the trouble by telling them myself."

"Come, Grant."

"I will not."

"Go it, then, Watermelons!" said Nevers, as he ran back to the others,
and told them of the result of the interview.

Richard wondered who could have informed them of his scrapes, but he
could form no idea. Lest our readers should be equally in the dark, we
will tell them, confidentially, that Sandy Brimblecom had done the
mischief. A cousin of his, on his way to Tunbrook, had stopped a day in
Whitestone. This relative was, unfortunately, one of the Nevers'
faction, and the information he brought was carefully preserved for an
emergency.

"All who join, come under the big tree!" shouted Redman. "If you walk
in your sleep, Grant, perhaps you will pay us a visit."

"Asleep or awake," replied Richard, calmly, but forcibly, "I shall know
enough to keep out of bad company."

"Do you mean me by that?" demanded Redman, rushing up to Richard, and
shaking his fist in his face.

"I do."

"Then take that;" and Redman struck Richard in the face.

The latter did take that, but the next instant his assailant lay upon
the ground, where Richard with a single blow had thrown him.

"None of that, Redman," interposed Nevers. "The colonel will be down
upon us."

"Let's lick him," said another.

"I am ready," coolly replied Richard, throwing off his coat.

But prudence carried the day, and the mutineers retired to the big oak.
Only about fifty, or one fourth of the students, responded to the call
of Redman, and the rest retired from the ground.

"What did they mean by 'watermelons'?" asked Bailey, as they walked up
to the Institute.

"I'll tell you all about it;" replied Richard. "I got into some scrapes
