"Mamma, if Mr. Carlisle is there,--"

"Hold your tongue, Eleanor!--take your whip and go. They are all
waiting. You may talk to me when you come back, but now you must go. I
should think Mr. Carlisle would like to be of the party, for there
isn't such another figure on the ride. Now kiss me and go. You are a
good girl."

Mrs. Powle said it with some feeling. She had never found Eleanor so
obediently tractable as since her return; she had never got from her
such ready and willing cooperation, even in matters that her mother
knew were not after Eleanor's heart, as now when her heart was less in
them than ever. And at this moment she was gratified by the quiet grave
obedience rendered her, in doing what she saw plainly enough Eleanor
did not like to do. She followed her daughter down stairs with a proud
heart.

It happened again, as it was always happening, that Mr. Carlisle was
Eleanor's special attendant. Eleanor meditated possible ways of
hindering this in future; but for the present there was no remedy. Mr.
Carlisle put her on her horse; it was not till she was taking the reins
in her left hand that something struck her with a sense of familiarity.

"What horse is this?" she asked.

"No other than your old friend and servant--I hope you have not
forgotten her. She has not forgotten you."

Eleanor perceived that. As surely as it was Black Maggie, Maggie knew
her; and displeased though Eleanor was with the master, she could not
forbear a little caress of recognition to the beautiful creature he had
once given her. Maggie was faultless; she and Eleanor were accustomed
to each other; it was an undeniable pleasure to be so mounted again, as
Eleanor could not but acknowledge to herself during the first few
dainty dancing steps that Maggie made with her wonted burden.
Nevertheless it was a great deal too much like old times that were
destroyed; and glancing at Mr. Carlisle Eleanor saw that he was on
Tippoo, and furthermore that there was a sparkle in his eye which meant
hope, or triumph. Something put Eleanor on her mettle; she rode well
that day. She rode with a careless grace and ease that even drew a
compliment from Mr. Carlisle; but beyond that, his companion at first
gave him little satisfaction. She was grave and cold to all his
conversational efforts. However, there she was on his black mare; and
Mr. Carlisle probably found an antidote to whatever discouragement she
threw in his way. Chance threw something else in his way.

They had turned into one of the less frequented streets of the town, in
their way to get out of it, when Eleanor's eye was seized by a figure
on the sidewalk. It startled her inexpressibly; and before she could be
sure her eyes did not deceive her the figure had almost passed, or they
had almost passed the person. But in passing he had raised his bat; she
knew then he had recognized her, as she had known him; and he had
recognized her in such company. And he was in Brighton. Without a
moment for thought or delay, Eleanor wheeled her horse's head sharply
round and in one or two smart steps brought herself alongside of Mr.
Rhys. He stopped, came up to her stirrup and shook hands. He looked
grave, Eleanor thought. She hastened to speak.

"I could not pass you, Mr. Rhys. I had to leave Plassy without bidding
you good bye."

"I am glad to meet you now," he said,--"before I go."

"Do you leave Brighton very soon?"

"To-morrow. I go up to London, and in a few days I expect to sail from
there."

"For--?"

"Yes,--for my post in the Southern Ocean. I have an unexpected
opportunity."

Eleanor was silent. She could not find anything to say. She knew also
that Mr. Carlisle had wheeled his horse after her, and that Tippoo was
taking steps somewhere in her close neighbourhood. But she sat
motionless, unable to move as well as to speak.

"I must not detain you," said Mr. Rhys. "Do you find it as easy to live
well at Brighton as at Plassy?"
