
"If there is any on board."

"There is, plenty of it. I'll make you a present of a bottle, if you
wish it."

"Thank you. Suppose we get the ship, Shuffles, who are to be the
officers?" asked Pelham.

"We shall have good fellows for officers. You will be one, of course."

"I suppose I am higher in rank now than any fellow who has joined the
Chain."

"Yes, that's a fact; but we are not going to mind who are officers now,
or who have been before. We intend to take the best fellows--those who
have done the most work in making the Chain."

"Whether they are competent or not," added Pelham.

"All the fellows know how to work a ship now, except the green hands
that came aboard this year."

"This is rather an important matter. Shuffles, for everything depends
upon the officers. For instance, who will be captain?" asked Pelham,
with assumed indifference.

"I shall, of course," replied Shuffles, with becoming modesty.

"That's a settled matter, I suppose."

"Yes; without a doubt it is."

"I may not agree to that," suggested the new convert.

"You have already agreed to it. You have promised to obey your
superiors."

"But who are my superiors?"

"I am one of them."

"Who appointed you?"

"I appointed myself. I got up the Chain."

"I think I have just as much right to that place as you have. Shuffles."

"I don't see it! Do you expect me to get up this thing, and then take a
subordinate position?" demanded Shuffles, indignantly.

"Let the members choose the captain; that's the proper way."

"Perhaps they will choose neither one of us."

"Very well; I will agree to serve under any fellow who is fairly
elected."

"When shall he be chosen?" asked Shuffles, who was so sure of a majority
that he was disposed to adopt the suggestion.

"When we have thirty links, say."

"I will agree to it."

The conspirators separated, each to obtain recruits as fast as he could.
During the latter part of the day, the gale began to subside, and at
sunset its force was broken, but the sea still ran fearfully high. The
fore course was shaken out, and the ship filled away again, plunging
madly into the savage waves.

On Sunday morning, the gale had entirely subsided; but the wind still
came from the same quarter, and the weather was cloudy. The sea had
abated its fury, though the billows still rolled high, and the ship had
an ugly motion. During the night, the reefs had been turned out of the
topsails; the jib, flying-jib, and spanker had been set, and the Young
America was making a course east-south-east.

"Sail ho!" shouted one of the crew on the top-gallant forecastle, after
the forenoon watch was set.
