"And then you ran away from your home."

"That also I know."

"I was sent for by your uncle--"

"By your father, you mean," I interposed.

"I said by your uncle," added he, persistently. "I found him quite
ill--made so by your bad behavior."

"Not much," I replied, when Tom looked into my face to notice the effect
of this revelation. "Didn't he tell you he had not slept nights for
years; that he had steeped his soul in crime for your sake, Mr. Tom
Thornton?"

He started, sprang to his feet; but recollecting himself, he sat down
again, and tried to recover his calmness.

"It's no use for you to tell me, Mr. Tom Thornton, that your father was
made ill by my bad behavior. It was your bad behavior and his own that
trouble him."

"Young man, you talk just as though you were entirely innocent
yourself," added Tom, virtuously. "Do you really think you are free from
guilt?"

"I think I have done nothing more than my duty."

"Then you believe it is all right to break into your uncle's safe, and
take his money and his papers?"

"Circumstances alter cases."

"They don't make black white."

"Sometimes a man's hypocrisy whitewashes his whole life. Sometimes a man
lives for years on his ill-gotten gains, and all the world thinks he is
an honest man. Then circumstances make black white."

"You are talking of something besides the subject before us. Let us come
back to it."

"No; I am talking about the subject before us."

"You confess that you robbed your uncle's safe."

"I admit that I helped myself to certain things in it which I wanted. I
am ready to admit it anywhere you choose to place me," I replied, easily
and good-naturedly.

"Are you aware that you have committed a crime?" said he, more
pointedly than he had before spoken.

"I don't think I have committed any crime, or even any wrong. If you
think so, Mr. Tom Thornton, you are welcome to your opinion."

"I do think so," he answered, beginning to be a little excited. "Do you
know that I can arrest you, and send you to prison?"

"I do know it; and I respectfully ask, Why don't you do it?"

"Why don't I do it?" repeated he, apparently amazed at my impudence, and
disappointed because an arrest and a prison appeared to have no terrors
to me.

"Yes, why don't you do it?"

"I'll tell you why I don't do it. Because your uncle is weak, and don't
wish to injure you. That's the reason."

"That isn't the reason. I want to tell you, Mr. Tom Thornton, that
nothing would suit me better than to have you arrest me, and send me to
prison."

This answer vexed him so much that he jumped up, and walked off.




