I shall make merry while I can; a short life and a jolly one has always
been my motto, you know, so fare you well till dinnertime.”

They watched him gallop down the avenue, and then went their different
ways, still burdened with a nameless foreboding. Octavia strolled into
the conservatory, thinking to refresh herself with the balmy silence
which pervaded the place, but Annon soon joined her, full of a lover’s
hopes and fears.

“Miss Treherne, I have ventured to come for my answer. Is my New Year to
be a blissful or a sad one?” he asked eagerly.

“Forgive me if I give you an unwelcome reply, but I must be true, and so
regretfully refuse the honor you do me,” she said sorrowfully.

“May I ask why?”

“Because I do not love you.”

“And you do love your cousin,” he cried angrily, pausing to watch her
half-averted face.

She turned it fully toward him and answered, with her native sincerity,
“Yes, I do, with all my heart, and now my mother will not thwart me, for
Maurice has saved my life, and I am free to devote it all to him.”

“Happy man, I wish I had been a cripple!” sighed Annon. Then with a
manful effort to be just and generous, he added heartily, “Say no more,
he deserves you; I want no sacrifice to duty; I yield, and go away,
praying heaven to bless you now and always.”

He kissed her hand and left her to seek my lady and make his adieus, for
no persuasion could keep him. Leaving a note for Sir Jasper, he hurried
away, to the great relief of Treherne and the deep regret of Blanche,
who, however, lived in hopes of another trial later in the season.

“Here comes Jasper, Mamma, safe and well,” cried Octavia an hour or two
later, as she joined her mother on the terrace, where my lady had been
pacing restlessly to and fro nearly ever since her son rode away.

With a smile of intense relief she waved her handkerchief as he came
clattering up the drive, and seeing her he answered with hat and hand.
He usually dismounted at the great hall door, but a sudden whim made him
ride along the wall that lay below the terrace, for he was a fine
horseman, and Mrs. Snowdon was looking from her window. As he
approached, the peacocks fled screaming, and one flew up just before the
horse’s eyes as his master was in the act of dismounting. The spirited
creature was startled, sprang partway up the low, broad steps of the
terrace, and, being sharply checked, slipped, fell, and man and horse
rolled down together.

Never did those who heard it forget the cry that left Lady Treherne’s
lips as she saw the fall. It brought out both guests and servants, to
find Octavia recklessly struggling with the frightened horse, and my
lady down upon the stones with her son’s bleeding head in her arms.

They bore in the senseless, shattered body, and for hours tried
everything that skill and sciences could devise to save the young man’s
life. But every effort was in vain, and as the sun set Sir Jasper lay
dying. Conscious at last, and able to speak, he looked about him with a
troubled glance, and seemed struggling with some desire that
overmastered pain and held death at bay.

“I want Maurice,” he feebly said, at length.

“Dear lad, I’m here,” answered his cousin’s voice from a seat in the
shadow of the half-drawn curtains.

“Always near when I need you. Many a scrape have you helped me out of,
but this is beyond your power,” and a faint smile passed over Jasper’s
lips as the past flitted before his mind. But the smile died, and a
groan of pain escaped him as he cried suddenly, “Quick! Let me tell it
before it is too late! Maurice never will, but bear the shame all his
life that my dead name may be untarnished. Bring Edith; she must hear
the truth.”

She was soon there, and, lying in his mother’s arms, one hand in his
cousin’s, and one on his sister’s bent head, Jasper rapidly told the
secret which had burdened him for a year.

