"And I will write to you. And I belong to you, Daisy, and to
no other. All I have is yours, and all that I am is yours, 
after my duty; you may dispose of me, pretty one, just as you
like. You would not have that put second, Daisy."

A great yearning came over me, so great and strong that it
almost took away my breath. I fancy it spoke in my eyes, for
Thorold's face grew very grave, I remember, as he looked at
me. But I must speak it more plainly than so, at any costs,
breath or no breath, and I must not wait.

"Christian," I whispered,  "won't you earn your right to your
name?"

He pressed his lips upon mine by way of answer first, and then
gave me a quick and firm "Yes." I certainly thought he had
found the mouth he was talking of a little while ago. But at
that instant the sound of the distant house door closing, and
then of steps coming out from the parlour, made me know that
Miss Cardigan's business was over, and that she was returning
to us. I wanted to free myself from Thorold's arm, but he
would not let me; on the contrary, held me closer, and half
turned to meet Miss Cardigan as she came in. Certainly men are
very different from women. There we stood awaiting her; and I
felt very much ashamed.

"Come on, aunt Catherine," Thorold said, as she paused at the
door,  "come in! Come in and kiss her;  this little darling
is mine."

Miss Cardigan came in slowly. I could not look up.

"Kiss her, aunt Catherine," he repeated; "she is mine."

And to my great dismay he set her the example; but I think it
was partly to reassure me, and cover my confusion, which he
saw.

"I have kissed Daisy very often before now," said Miss
Cardigan. I thought I discerned some concern in her voice.

"Then come, do it again," said Thorold, laughing. "You never
kissed her as anything belonging to me, aunt Catherine."

And he fairly laid me in Miss Cardigan's arms, till we kissed
each other as he desired. But Miss Cardigan's gravity roused
me out of my confusion. I was not ashamed before her; only
before him.

"Now, aunt Catherine," he said, pulling up a comfortable
armchair to the corner of the hearth,  "sit there. And Daisy,
 come here!"

He put me into the fellow chair; and then built up the wood in
the fireplace till we had a regular illumination. Then drew
himself up before the fire, and looked at his aunt.

"It's like you!" broke out Miss Cardigan. "Ever since you were
born, I think, you did what you liked, and had what you liked;
and threw over everything to get at the best."

"On the contrary," said Thorold, "I was always of a very
contented disposition."

"Contented with your own will, then," said his aunt. "And now,
do you mean to tell me that you have got this prize  this
prize  it's a first-class, Christian  for good and for
certain to yourself?"

I lifted my eyes one instant, to see the sparkles in Thorold's
eyes; they were worth seeing.

"You don't think you deserve it?" Miss Cardigan went on.

"I do not think I deserve it," said Thorold. "But I think I
will."

"I know what that means," said his aunt. "You will get worldly
glory  just a bit or two more of gold on your coat  to match
you with one of the Lord's jewels, that are to be 'all
