"Yes. How'd you know?"

"I saw him on the stage, and somebody said he got off at your house.
Going to stay with you?"

"Yes, I've taken charge of him."

"He seems a good sort of boy."

"When did you see him?" asked Mr. Huxter.

"This morning. He only went out from here a few minutes ago."

"Humph!" said Mr. Huxter. "Did he buy anything?"

"Only two sheets of paper and two envelopes."

A light began to dawn upon Mr. Huxter. John wanted to make trouble by
writing home.

"Look here," said he; "if the boy brings in a letter you needn't send
it. Keep it, and hand it to me."

The clerk looked surprised. Mr. Huxter, finding some explanation
necessary, continued:--

"He's a very troublesome boy. He's almost broken his poor mother's
heart,--she's my sister,--and I've agreed to take charge of him for
a time. It takes a man to manage him. But it won't do for him to be
writing home and making a fuss. You understand?"

"I shouldn't have thought him so troublesome. He looks very quiet."

"You can't judge from appearances," said Mr. Huxter, shaking his head.
"He don't show out before folks. So, if any letters are put in directed
to Hampton, just keep them, and I'll look them over. If they're proper
to send, I will let them go."

"He wrote a letter here this morning."

"Did he?" asked Mr. Huxter, his eyes sparkling. "The young rascal's
prompt. It's lucky I came in. He was cunning enough to write here, that
I might not know anything about it. Let me see the letter."

The clerk, not doubting Mr. Huxter's authority, handed him the letter.

He broke it open hastily, and read it. It is needless to say that
John's description of himself, though moderately expressed, was far
from complimentary, and Mr. Huxter's heart was stirred with indignation.

"The young rascal shall pay for this," he thought.

"This letter is not fit to send," he said, aloud. "It would only make
trouble. I will take charge of it. The boy needn't know but it is gone.
You may take any letter he brings; but mind you don't send it till I
have seen it."

"Very well," said the clerk; but he could not help pitying John, if
he was to be under Mr. Huxter's guardianship. In a small village like
Jackson every man's failings were a matter of general knowledge, and
the estimation in which Mr. Huxter was held was not very high.

"Well, I've defeated the young rascal," thought Mr. Huxter,
triumphantly, as he left the store. "He'll find it isn't so easy to
outwit me. If Jane can't manage him I can, and I intend to. I reckon
it'll be some time he'll have to wait for an answer to that letter."

This thought amused Mr. Huxter, so that he partly forgot his vexation
at the unflattering description of himself which the letter contained.
Having no further business to attend to, he went up the road towards
home. The letter he put in one of the side-pockets of the loose coat
which he wore. But there was a large hole in his pocket, and without
Mr. Huxter's knowledge the letter slipped through. He kept on his way,
not suspecting his loss.

The letter remained unnoticed in the grass by the side of the road,
having been wafted there by the wind, until John, on his way home an
hour and a half later, happened to catch sight of it. He went to pick
it up, not suspecting what it was, and was immeasurably surprised when
he found it to be the same letter he had put into the post-office two
