"I have been after Ella."

"O, have you heard anything from her?" demanded she, choking with
emotion.

"Yes, we have heard from her. She's all right," I answered, as I throw
the harness upon Firefly.

"What do you mean? Don't deceive me, Phil."

"I won't, Mrs. Gracewood. You shall see her yourself in ten minutes."

"Where is she?" gasped the poor mother, apparently unable to believe
the good news.

"She is down at the landing; but she is all worn out, and not able to
move a step. I am going down with the wagon after her."

"Do you really mean so?"

"Certainly I do, Mrs. Gracewood; and her father is with her."

"Father in heaven, I thank thee!" exclaimed she, fervently, sobbing and
weeping.

"It's just as I tell you; but you had better go into the house, for
there are some Indians along the river somewhere."

"I am not afraid of them, if I can only see Ella."

By this time, the sentinel who had confronted me had passed the word to
the camp, and the soldiers were all under arms. A squad of them
hastened to the river, and presently I heard a couple of shots in that
direction. I had finished harnessing the horses, and was putting old
Matt's bed upon the wagon for Ella to lie upon, when Lieutenant
Jackson, the officer in command of the detachment, rushed up to me.

"What is the matter?" he demanded. "Are we attacked?"

"There are three Indians on the river. I suppose your men are firing at
them. Here is an order from Lieutenant Pope," I added, handing him the
paper, and jumping upon the wagon, where Mrs. Gracewood had already
placed herself. "We have recovered the young lady, and I am going down
to the landing after her."

"But I wish to know----"

"Well, I can't stop now to talk, sir."

"I will go with you;" and he leaped upon the wagon.

"I advise you to take two or three more with you. You may capture the
three Indians your men are firing at now."

He called three of his men, who joined us in the wagon, and I drove off
as fast as I could make the horses go.

"Where did you see Lieutenant Pope?" asked Mr. Jackson.

"At his camp on the Big Fish. You must keep those three Indians from
going up the Fish River if you can."

"Why so?"

But the violent jolting of the wagon prevented me from talking, and him
from hearing; so I deferred my explanation till a more convenient
season. In a few minutes, I stopped the horses a short distance from
the landing, when Mr. Gracewood hailed me from a clump of bushes. I
felt relieved when I saw that Ella and he were safe. I helped the
trembling mother out of the wagon, and conducted her to the spot.

"My child! O, Ella!" cried Mrs. Gracewood, as she bent over the form of
her daughter.

"I am safe, mother," she replied, faintly.

They sobbed and wept in each other's arms till Mr. Gracewood
interposed, and then we placed the sufferer on the bed in the wagon.

"Now, lieutenant, if you will let one of your men drive the horses up
