hands, and anathematizing the cold and their thin boots. The particulars
of the midnight disturbance were quickly disseminated. The ebon
sentinels had, directed by the barking of their canine associates,
discovered, under a holly hedge on one side of the yard, a man lying
upon the earth, and almost buried in the snow he seemed not to have
strength to throw off. He was either drunk or so nearly frozen as to be
incapable of answering coherently their demands as to what was his
name and what his business upon the premises. The interrogations of the
gentlemen and the ungentle shakings administered by his captors elicited
nothing but groans and muttered oaths. He could not, or would not, walk
without support, and to leave him where he was, or to turn him adrift
into the public road, would be certain death. Therefore Mr. Aylett
had ordered him to be confined for the night in a garret room. In the
morning he might be examined to more purpose.

“But he ought to have a fire, and something hot and nourishing to
drink!” exclaimed Mrs. Button, upon hearing the story. “He will freeze
in that barn of a place--poor wretch!”

“I imagine he has no need of additional stimulants,” said Mrs. Aylett,
dryly, again resorting to her smelling-bottle. “From what the gentlemen
say, I judge that he had laid in a supply of caloric sufficient to last
through the night. And the first use he would make of fire would be
to burn the house over our heads. His lodgings are certainly more
comfortable than those selected by himself. There is little danger of
his finding fault with them. What manner of looking creature is he?”

“An unkempt vagabond!” rejoined Randolph Harrison, rubbing his blue
fingers before the fire. “His clothes are ragged, and frozen stiff. I
suppose he has been out in the storm ever since it set in. There were
icicles upon his beard and hair, his hat having fallen off. It is a
miracle he did not freeze to death long ago. It is a bitter night.”

“Did you say he was an old man?” inquired the hostess languidly, from
the depths of her easy chair.

“He is not a young one, for his hair is grizzled. But we will form
ourselves into a court of inquiry in the morning, with Mr. Aylett as
presiding officer--have in the nocturnal wanderer, and hear what account
he can give of himself. Who knows what romantic history we may hear--one
that may become a Christmas legend in after years?”

“You will get nothing more sensational than the confessions of a
hen-roost robber, I suspect,” said Mrs. Aylett, more wearily than was
consistent with her role of attentive hostess.

Her husband noticed the tokens of exhaustion, and interposed to spare
her further exertion.

“Our friends will excuse you if you retire without delay, Clara. You
still feel the effects of your agitation and faintness.”

This was the signal for a general dispersion of the ladies--the
gentlemen, or most of them, adjourning to the smoking-room.

Since the late extraordinary influx of visitors, Mabel had shared her
aunt’s chamber, but, instead of seeking this now, she went straight from
the parlor to the supper-room, where she found, as she had expected,
Mrs. Sutton in the height of business, directing the setting of the
breakfast-table, clearing away the debris of the evening feast, and
counting the silver with unusual care, lest a stray fork or spoon had,
by some hocus-pocus known to the class, been slipped into the pocket of
the supposititious burglar.

“Aunt,” began Mabel, drawing her aside, “that poor wretch up-stairs must
be cared for. It is the height of cruelty to lock him up in a fireless
room, without provisions or dry clothing. If he should die, would we be
guiltless?”

Mrs. Sutton’s benevolent physiognomy was perplexed.

“Didn’t I say as much in the other room, before everybody, my dear? And
didn’t SHE put me down with one of her magisterial sentences? She is
mistress here--not you or I. Besides, Winston has the key of that east
garret in his pocket, and I would not be the one to ask him for it,
since he has had his wife’s opinion upon the subject of humanity to
prisoners.”

“I shall not trouble him with my petition. I discovered by accident,
when I was a child, that the key of the north room would open that door.
