within a few miles of the shore, on a long cruise. If I can get away
for two or three weeks this summer, I intend to make a voyage up to the
strait, and down on the other side of the lake."

"I should like to go with you first rate."

"My friend Waterford, who has made his fortune by speculating in lands,
keeps a boat just like the Florina; and last summer he went to Detroit
and back in her."

The picture he drew of life on the lake pleased me exceedingly, and I
could not but sigh when I thought that such amusements were only for
rich men. A poor boy, like me, had no right to think of them. Mr.
Whippleton had come about, and at dark we were at the mouth of Chicago
River again. I took in the jib, and he moored the boat near the lake.
When we had put everything in order, he invited me to sail with him the
next day.

"To-morrow will be Sunday," I suggested.

"What of it? The Florina sails just as well on Sunday as on any other
day."

"I would rather not sail on Sunday. I want to go to church and to
Sunday school."

"I didn't think that of you," replied the skipper, contemptuously. "I
always sail Sundays, and I expect to race with Waterford to-morrow."

"I hope you will excuse me, sir; I would rather not go."

I saw that he was disgusted with me, but I could not yield this point.
I went home, feeling that I had offended my employer, who evidently
wished me to assist him in handling the boat.




CHAPTER IX.

IN WHICH PHIL ATTEMPTS TO MAKE OUT A TRIAL BALANCE.


I went to church and to Sunday school as usual the next day; and I knew
that I felt better than I should have done on board of the Florina. The
next day, however, when I met Mr. Whippleton in the counting-room, he
seemed to have laid up no grudge against me: on the contrary, I thought
he was rather more pleasant and considerate than usual; but perhaps his
conduct was only in contrast with what I had expected.

On Thursday morning, Bob Murray, the new entry clerk, appeared, and I
spent the forenoon in initiating him into the mysteries of his duty. In
the afternoon I commenced posting, for Mr. Whippleton had been so busy
with his boat, and with his other out-door occupations, that the books
were somewhat behindhand. While I was thus engaged, I obeyed the
instructions of the junior partner, and examined carefully into the
system by which the accounts were kept. I began early in the morning
and worked till late at night, until I had posted everything down to
the Saturday of the preceding week. Then I had no difficulty in keeping
the work up.

Mr. Whippleton was away now a large portion of the time. I knew that he
was engaged to some extent in real estate speculations, and he hinted
to me that these operations occupied a considerable portion of his
time. He had simply directed me to post the books, but having mastered
the system, I was disposed to show him that I was competent to keep the
books alone. I footed up the columns of the invoice and sales books,
and I intended to surprise him, at the end of the month, by showing him
a trial balance and a statement of results. I thought I could do this,
and it would be a feather in my cap if I succeeded. It would not only
be good practice for me, but it would show the exact condition of the
business.

While I was at work on the invoice book, I found what appeared to me to
be an error. The invoices, or bills of lumber purchased by the firm,
were all carefully filed away. On referring to the original document, I
found it footed up five instead of fifteen thousand dollars. I turned
to the cash book, and found that fifteen thousand dollars had been paid
on account of this transaction, and I concluded that there must be
another bill. I could find no other. The purchase had been made while I
