
"I don't know that we can," replied De Forrest. "Cantwell is a great
scholar, and seems to know everything without studying it; but he is
mean, conceited, overbearing, and tyrannical. I don't believe the
principal likes the idea of his being captain."

"But he can get along better as captain than he could as first
lieutenant; for he has only to say, 'Get under way,' 'Come to anchor,'
'Take in the main-topsail,' and the executive officer gives all the
orders in detail."

"That's true. Yet the captain is expected to know all these things, and
to see that they are properly done. But, after all, we are not sure
that Cantwell will be captain," suggested De Forrest.

"He has had a perfect mark in every lesson during the month; and I know
that Captain Lincoln slipped up on his geometry two or three times."

"But the captain has beaten him in his seamanship, I know."

"There's the difficulty. We have been in port, or lying at anchor among
these islands, nearly all the time, and there has been no chance to
make anything in seamanship. We have hardly had an exercise in which
marks were given out since we made the coast of Norway."

"Perhaps we shall, yet."

"If we do, Cantwell won't be captain, but he may be a lieutenant; and
that is almost as bad."

"We won't cry till we are hurt, then," said De Forrest; "though I
think something ought to be done to keep us out of such a scrape in
the future. I have a plan in my head, which, I think, would work first
rate, and be a fair thing for all."

"What is it?" asked Beckwith.

"I'll tell you. As the matter now stands, a fellow may jump from the
steerage into the captain's cabin without any experience at all in
commanding, especially, as during the last month, when we are running
about on shore, and we don't do much in seamanship."

"But you know that this struggle for rank puts the fellows on their
good behavior; and the principal would lose his sheet anchor if the
present system were abandoned."

"I don't propose to abandon it entirely. I would like to have the first
five officers made elective."

"You would have the captain and the four lieutenants chosen by ballot?"
asked Beckwith, interested in the plan.

"Precisely so."

"But the fellows in the steerage could have it all their own way under
such a plan. They could make Clyde Blacklock, Sandford, or any such
fellow captain."

"No, you haven't heard me out. The captain and the four lieutenants
shall be chosen from the cabin officers only."

"I rather like that."

"Any fellow will see that it is a fair thing."

"And who would be candidates for masters, pursers, and lieutenants?"
asked Beckwith.

"They must obtain their rank by their merit. By my plan, ten of the
fifteen cabin officers of the ship must get their positions by their
scholarship, conduct, and seamanship, just as they do now; but the
captain or lieutenant must first have served as master, purser, or
midshipman. Then a fellow can't be captain till he has served at least
one month as a cabin officer."

"The plan pleases me; but of course we can't tell how it would work
without a trial."

"It would work first rate. As the matter now stands, no officer has any
inducement to please anybody but the principal and the instructors,
