It would be hazardous to say how many times Matilda read this letter. I
am afraid some tears were shed over it. For to tell truth, difficulties
rather thickened upon the little girl this week. In the first place,
Norton was away at school almost all day. David and he came home to
luncheon, which now became the dinner time of the young ones; but even
so, he was full of his studies and his mates, and his new skates, and
the merits of different styles of those instruments, and Matilda could
hardly get anything out of him. David talked little; but he was always
more self-absorbed. And with Judy, this week, Matilda had nothing to
do. That young lady ignored her. Matilda went out shopping a good deal
with Mrs. Laval; that was her best resource. The shops were an
unfailing amusement and occupation; for everywhere she had her
Christmas work to think of, and everywhere accordingly she kept her
eyes open and studied what was before her; weighed the merits and noted
the prices even of stuffs and ribbands; and left nothing unexamined
that eyes could examine in the fancy stores. And when she got home,
Matilda went to her room and made notes of the things she had seen and
liked that she thought might be good for a present to one or another of
the friends she had to reckon for. The obelisk held its place in her
favour for Mrs. Laval; but with respect to the other people a crowd of
images filled her imagination. Japanese paperweights, and little
tea-pots; so pretty, Matilda thought she must buy one; ivory and
Scotch plaid and carved wood paper knives, and one with a deer's foot
handle. Little Shaker work-baskets, elegantly fitted up; scent-bottles;
a carved wood letter-holder at Goupil's; a bronze standish representing
a country well with pole and bucket. At Goupil's, where Mrs. Laval had
business to attend to, Matilda's happy eyes were full of treasure. She
wandered round the room gazing at the pictures, in a dream of delight;
finding soon some special favourites which she was sure to revisit with
fresh interest every time she had a chance; and Mrs. Laval took her
there several times. Once Mrs. Laval, having finished what she came to
do, was at a loss where to find Matilda; and only after going half
round the long gallery, discovered her, wrapt in contemplation,
standing before a large engraving which hung high above her on the
wall. Matilda's head was thrown back, gazing; her two little hands were
carelessly crossed at her back; she was a sort of picture herself. Mrs.
Laval came up softly.

"What are you looking at, my darling?"

Matilda started. "Have you got through, mamma? did you want me?"

"I have got through; but I do not want you unless you are ready. What
have you found that pleases you?"

"Look, mamma. That one--the woman holding a lamp--don't you see?"

It was Holman Hunt's figure of the woman searching for the lost piece
of money.

"What is it?" said Mrs. Laval.

"Don't you remember, mamma? the story of the woman who had ten pieces
of silver and lost one of them? how she swept the house, and looked
until she found it?"

"If I had nine left, I should not take so much trouble," said Mrs.
Laval.

"Ah, but, mamma, you know the Lord Jesus does not think so."

"The Lord! What are you talking of, my child?"

"O you do not remember, mamma! It is a parable. The Lord Jesus means us
to know how He cares for the lost ones."

Mrs. Laval looked from Matilda to the picture and back again.

"Do you like it so very much?" she said.

"O I do, mamma! it's beautiful. What an odd lamp she has."

"That is the shape lamps used to be," said Mrs. Laval. "Not so good as
ours."

"Prettier," said Matilda. "And it seems to give a good light. No, it
don't, though; it shines only on a little place. But it's pretty."

"You do love pretty things," said Mrs. Laval laughing. "We will come
and look at it again."
