
“I thought that you would have enough of that with your party and all,”
said John.

“Well, now it’s all over, and duller than ever,” said Lillie. “I think
a little spirit of gayety makes it seem duller by contrast.”

“Yet, Lillie,” said John, “you see there are women, who live right here
in Springdale, who are all the time busy, interested, and happy, with
only such sources of enjoyment as are to be found here. Their time does
not hang heavy on their hands; in fact, it is too short for all they
wish to do.”

“They are different from me,” said Lillie.

“Then, since you must live here,” said John, “could you not learn to be
like them? Could you not acquire some of these tastes that make simple
country life agreeable?”

“No, I can’t; I never could,” said Lillie, pettishly.

“Then,” said John, “I don’t see that anybody can help your being
unhappy.” And, opening his book, he sat down, and began to read.

Lillie pouted awhile, and then drew from under the sofa-pillow a copy
of “Indiana;” and, establishing her feet on the fender, she began to
read.

Lillie had acquired at school the doubtful talent of reading French
with facility, and was soon deep in the fascinating pages, whose theme
is the usual one of French novels,—a young wife, tired of domestic
monotony, with an unappreciative husband, solacing herself with the
devotion of a lover. Lillie felt a sort of pique with her husband. He
was evidently unappreciative: he was thinking of all sorts of things
more than of her, and growing stupid, as husbands in French romances
generally do. She thought of her handsome Cousin Harry, the only man
that she ever came anywhere near being in love with; and the image of
his dark, handsome eyes and glossy curls gave a sort of piquancy to the
story.

John got deeply interested in his book; and, looking up from time to
time, was relieved to find that Lillie had something to employ her.

“I may as well make a beginning,” he said to himself. “I must have my
time for reading; and she must learn to amuse herself.”

After a while, however, he peeped over her shoulder.

“Why, darling!” he said, “where did you get that?”

“It is Mrs. Follingsbee’s,” said Lillie.

“Dear, it is a bad book,” said John. “Don’t read it.”

“It amuses me, and helps pass away time,” said Lillie; “and I don’t
think it is bad: it is beautiful. Besides, you read what amuses you;
and it is a pity if I can’t read what amuses me.”

“I am glad to see you like to read French,” continued John; “and I can
get you some delightful French stories, which are not only pretty and
witty, but have nothing in them that tend to pull down one’s moral
principles. Edmond About’s ‘Mariages de Paris’ and ‘Tolla’ are charming
French things; and, as he says, they might be read aloud by a man
between his mother and his sister, without a shade of offence.”

“Thank you, sir,” said Mrs. Lillie. “You had better go to Rose
Ferguson, and get her to give you a list of the kinds of books she
prefers.”

“Lillie!” said John, severely, “your remarks about Rose are in bad
taste. I must beg you to discontinue them. There are subjects that
never ought to be jested about.”

“Thank you, sir, for your moral lessons,” said Lillie, turning her back
on him defiantly, putting her feet on the fender, and going on with her
reading.

John seated himself, and went on with his book in silence.

Now, this mode of passing a domestic evening is certainly not agreeable
