mother when we were at the Fair! Do you like her?"

"We are all schoolmates, you know," said Kathie, in a peculiar, but
gentle tone. "Are you well? This is quite a surprise!"

"You are a good, sensible gal," remarked Mrs. Strong, with a meaning
look, which showed Kathie that she was not so deficient in perception,
after all.

"O yes! How is your uncle? Jim thinks he's just splendid! We did have
such a nice time that day! I've commenced a long letter to you, and
I've read both books aloud. We liked the story so much! and I cried over
the Evangeline,--I couldn't help it. I'm so glad to have the picture!
Wasn't it sad?" and the ready tears came into Sarah's eyes.

"It's a real pleasure to meet you"; and Mrs. Strong's face softened to a
motherly glow. "I've come down to get a cousin whose husband was killed
in Tennessee fightin', and the poor thing's a'most begged her way back
with one little child, so I want her to come up and make a good visit
while she's gettin' over the worst. Sez I to father, 'We ain't suffered
any from the war, and gettin' good prices all the time for farmin'
truck, and it's a pity if we can't make it a little easier for them who
have.' She was such a nice young gal, and used to teach school there at
Middleville; but she's seen sights o' trouble sence. And then Sary Ann
begged to come, 'cause her father give her money to buy a new gown."

"And I coaxed mother to go to your house, but she wouldn't," said Sarah,
shyly. "I wanted to hear something about you so much! I'm so glad!"

"And so am I," returned Kathie, warmly.

Plain and unrefined as Mrs. Strong was, she had a good, generous heart.
"We must not keep Miss Kathie standin' here in the cold," she said.
"Which way you goin'?"

"Straight on to Crosby Street."

"I wish you'd jump in and ride."

"O do!" pleaded Sarah.

The girls had pretty well dispersed. Even Emma Lauriston was walking
slowly down the street. Kathie declined at first, but they urged so
strongly that finally she acceded; and, driving slowly, they had quite a
nice talk, though Mrs. Strong insisted upon taking her nearly home, as
their shopping was all done.

But the episode had not been suffered to pass unremarked.

"What an elegant turnout!" sneered Belle Hadden. "Some of Kathie
Alston's country relations, I suppose."

"No," answered Lottie, "it is some people she met at the Fair."

"What horrid taste,--and what coarse, uncouth creatures! Who is Kathie
Alston, anyhow? A decided parvenu, to my thinking. Are they really
rich,--the Alstons?"

"No, it is Kathie's uncle, Mr. Conover. He made a fortune off in
Australia, I believe. They were poor enough before!" Lottie uttered this
rather spitefully. Kathie's refusal to assist her that noon still
rankled in her mind.

"Did they live here then?"

"O yes! in one of a row of little cottages; and Mrs. Alston had to sew
for a living."

The murder was out. Lottie had a misgiving that this was decidedly mean
and treacherous; and yet, she said to herself, it was every word true.
Why should the Alstons be ashamed of it? Only it did seem mortifying.

"This is just about what I thought. Kathie Alston hasn't a bit of style
or dignity; and how they do dress her! There was some common linen
edging on that ruffle she wore to-day, and I don't believe she ever has
more than two dresses at the same time. Plebeian blood will tell. Hattie
Norman asked me about them, but I told her Kathie was only a little chit
that she wouldn't care to invite. I don't suppose they let her go to
parties, or that she knows how to dance. What is the inside of their
house like?"
