that, Pink; it's a splendid watch, Bars and Bullion said;--I mean, the
man at Bars and Bullion's, and I believe it was Bullion himself. Do you
like it? Now Pink, we must not stay a minute longer; supper will be on
hand, and you want some, don't you. Come! Put these away, and come."

Matilda could do it, even without looking at her bonbons or Mrs.
Bartholomew's present, and with only a glance at her watch. She locked
up her treasures and went down with Norton; a happy child, if there was
one in the city that night.




CHAPTER II.


Supper was just served when they got downstairs. It was another variety
of this wonderful evening. The dining-room long table was so beautiful
with lights, fruits, greens, and confections, with setting of plate and
glass, that to Matilda it was almost as much of a sight as the
Christmas tree had been. But the others were accustomed to this sort of
thing, and fell to tasting, with very little rapture about the seeing.
What a buzz the room was in, to be sure! Tongues were fairly unloosed
over oysters and sandwiches; and all the glory of the Christmas tree
was to talk about, with comparisons of presents, plans, and prospects.
Matilda looked on, half bewildered, but so very happy that it hardly
occurred to her to remember that she might like something to eat too.
Everybody was attending upon the wants of the guests, though certainly
Matilda did notice that Judy had a plateful of something, and was
eating as busily as she was talking. Doing neither, for she knew nobody
to talk to, Matilda waited, and thought of her watch, in a trance of
rapture.

"Why, my dear, is nobody attending to you?" she heard the voice of Mrs.
Lloyd say at last. "Have you had nothing all this while?"

"No, ma'am--they are all so busy."

But David came up at the minute, and Matilda had no longer anything to
complain of. He served her very kindly, and Matilda found that she was
very hungry. She got a chance, however, to thank David for her work-box.

"I am sure you deserve it," he said. "What did Judy give you?"

He looked very little pleased, Matilda thought, when she told him. But
he only helped her carefully to everything she would have, and said no
more about it.

A third wonder to Matilda that evening was the style and amount of
eating that went on. The ices were in beautiful fruit forms; and she
thought when she had demolished one of them she had done enough,
especially as caramel, and candied fruits, and other confections were
awaiting her attention. But the circulation of these little ices went
on at a rate that proved Matilda's moderation to be shared by few, and
she heard one little lady say to another, herself with a plateful, "Is
that your third or your fourth?" Slowly munching candied grapes,
Matilda looked on and marvelled. Presently Norton came to see if she
wanted anything, and then Esther joined them, and the talk was of the
witch again.

"We are going to see her now," said Norton. "Just as soon as we have
done with the table."

"What's it all for?" inquired Esther.

"I don't know," said Norton, shaking his head. "Some crotchet of
somebody's. I don't know anything about it. Only everybody is invited
to go and see the witch; and the witch's den is in the little reception
room on the other side of the hall; and we must go in one by one; and
we must answer every question we are asked, or we shall get no good of
our interview. So much I am informed of."

"What good shall we get if we do answer all the questions?" Esther
asked.

"If I was a wizard, maybe I could tell you, Esther. You should ask
David. There used to be witches and wizards, too, among his people."

"They were forbidden," said David gravely.

