beg you to receive this intimation in the spirit in which I offer
it!--furthermore, she is homesick for Dundee and her sister. I
adverted to them casually to assure myself that my views on this
point were correct, and her eyes filled again directly.

"'I had hoped to see Euna this month,' she said, 'but the change in
the college vacation, abolishing the intermediate, and making one
long term instead of two short ones, has prevented it.'

"But when I remarked--'I wish Eunice could pay you a visit, were it
only from Saturday to Monday!' the loyal wife (such a stanch
advocate as you have in her, Mr. Fordham!), took alarm.

"'Indeed, Cousin Jane, no one could take kinder care of me than Roy
does!' she said, warmly. 'He spoils and pets me beyond reason, and
when he is in the house, I desire no other society.'

"'But my precious girl!' I remonstrated; 'he cannot be with you all
the time?'

"I wish you had seen the smile with which she replied--'Ah! but I
have the memory of his goodness to live on in his absence!'

"She is true and fond, Mr. Fordham! Nevertheless, she does need
change of air and scene. Her mother pined herself into an untimely
grave in her longing for a sight of her old home and the faces of
beloved ones."

Roy was silent; his eyes downcast, his lips whitening with the
pressure this story had brought to bear upon him. It was not so much
the consciousness that, in sending his wife away, he would rob his
life of repression and self-denial of the little sunshine left to
it, as the thought that she was sickening of his companionship;
could not live and grow in his shadow. This was the naked truth,
disguise it as she might from her cousin; deny it to herself as she
probably did. In every point of Mrs. Baxter's description, he
recognized this terrible sense of bondage, crushing spirit and life;
heard, even in her tribute to his loving watchfulness over her
health and bodily comfort, the plaint embodied in the poem he had
learned by heart:

    "Like a chainèd thing, caressed
    By the hand it knows the best,
    By the hand which, day by day,
    Visits its imprisoned stay,
    Bringing gifts of fruit and blossom
    From the green earth's plenteous bosom;
    All but that for which it pines,
    In these narrow, close confines,
    With a sad and ceaseless sigh,--
    Wild and wingèd Liberty!"

With a deep inspiration which was the farewell to more hopeful
dreams than he knew, until then, he had nursed, he collected his
senses to reply.

"It was my intention to take Jessie to Dundee in June, at the
beginning of my vacation. She set the time herself--I can see now,
in compliance with what she believed were my wishes. But she shall
go at once. I thank you for your more than friendly concern for her,
your frank dealing with me."

He arose to go. The lady scanned his face somewhat uneasily. There
was something there that foiled her penetration.

"You understand, my dear sir, that nothing would have tempted me
to intermeddle in this affair, were the case precisely what you have
supposed. But there is an undercurrent, Mr. Fordham, the effect of
which I can trace, that seriously complicates anything like
hysterical depression. And loving the child as we do--as every one
does, it behooves us to watch her warily, minister to her
intelligently as tenderly. The affection between the sisters is
unusually strong, and we should remember that the dear lamb has
known no other mother."

"I have offered, several times during the winter, to take her to
visit Eunice. We were to have gone at Christmas, but Jessie had a
severe cold that confined her to the house a fortnight."

"I remember! To be quite sincere with you--not that I consider it
