Anderson's absence.  Harry was accustomed to do his work as
compositor in the forenoon and the early part of the afternoon.  From
three to five he occupied the editorial chair, read letters, wrote
paragraphs, and saw visitors.  He had just seated himself, when a man
entered the office and looked about him inquisitively.

"I would like to see the editor," he said.

"I am the editor," said Harry, with dignity.

The visitor looked surprised.

"You are the youngest-looking editor I have met," he said.  "Have you
filled the office long?"

"Not long," said Harry.  "Can I do anything for you?"

"Yes, sir, you can.  First let me introduce myself.  I am Dr.
Theophilus Peabody."

"Will you be seated, Dr. Peabody?"

"You have probably heard of me before," said the visitor.

"I can't say that I have."

"I am surprised at that," said the doctor, rather disgusted to find
himself unknown.  "You must have heard of Peabody's Unfailing
Panacea."

"I am afraid I have not."

"You are young," said Dr. Peabody, compassionately; "that accounts
for it.  Peabody's Panacea, let me tell you, sir, is the great remedy
of the age.  It has effected more cures, relieved more pain, soothed
more aching bosoms, and done more good, than any other medicine in
existence."

"It must be a satisfaction to you to have conferred such a blessing
on mankind," said Harry, inclined to laugh at the doctor's
magniloquent style.

"It is.  I consider myself one of the benefactors of mankind; but,
sir, the medicine has not yet been fully introduced.  There are
thousands, who groan on beds of pain, who are ignorant that for the
small sum of fifty cents they could be restored to health and
activity."

"That's a pity."

"It is a pity, Mr. ----"

"Walton."

"Mr. Walton,--I have called, sir, to ask you to co-operate with me in
making it known to the world, so far as your influence extends."

"Is your medicine a liquid?"

"No, sir; it is in the form of pills, twenty-four in a box.  Let me
show you."

The doctor opened a wooden box, and displayed a collection of very
unwholesome-looking brown pills.

"Try one, sir; it won't do you any harm."

"Thank you; I would rather not.  I don't like pills.  What will they
cure?"

"What won't they cure?  I've got a list of fifty-nine diseases in my
circular, all of which are relieved by Peabody's Panacea.  They may
cure more; in fact, I've been told of a consumptive patient who was
considerably relieved by a single box.  You won't try one?"

"I would rather not."

"Well, here is my circular, containing accounts of remarkable cures
performed.  Permit me to present you a box."

