"You'll be glad to run back again!"

"You see, now!" was the decisive reply.

"Florentina, it is your turn now. We have had age before beauty."

Florence tossed her soft curls, and went through with a few pretty
airs.

"I shouldn't run away," she said slowly; "but I'd like to go, for
all that. Sometimes, as I sit by the window sewing, and see an elegant
carriage pass by, I think, what if there should be an old gentleman in
it, who had lost his wife and all his children, and that one of his
little girls looked like--like me? And if he should stop and ask me for
a drink, I'd go to the well and draw a fresh, cool bucketful"--

"From the north side--that's the coldest," interrupted Joe.

"Hush, Joe! No one laughed at you!"

"Laugh! Why, I am sober as an owl."

"Then I'd give him a drink. I wish we could have some goblets: tumblers
look so dreadfully old-fashioned. I mean to buy one, at least, some
time. He would ask me about myself; and I'd tell him that we were all
orphans, and had been very unfortunate, and that our grandmother was
old"--

    "'Four score and ten of us, poor old maids,--
            Four score and ten of us,
            Without a penny in our puss,
                    Poor old maids,'"

sang Joe pathetically, cutting short the purse on account of the
rhyme.

"O Joe, you are too bad! I won't tell any more."

"Yes, do!" entreated Hal. "And so he liked you on account of the
resemblance, and wanted to adopt you."

"Exactly! Hal, how could you guess it?" returned Florence, much
mollified. "And so he would take me to a beautiful house, where there
were plenty of servants, and get me lovely clothes to wear; and there
would be lots of china and silver and elegant furniture and a piano.
I'd go to school, and study music and drawing, and never have to sew or
do any kind of work. Then I'd send you nice presents home; and, when
you were fixed up a little, you should come and see me. And maybe, Hal,
as you grew older, he would help you about getting a hot-house. I think
when I became a woman, I would take Dot to educate."

"I've heard of fairy godmothers before, but this seems to be a
godfather. Here's luck to your old covey, Florrie, drunk in imaginary
champagne."

"Joe, I wish you wouldn't use slang phrases, nor be so disrespectful."

"I'm afraid I'll have to keep clear of the palace."

"Oh, if it only could be!" sighed Hal. "I think Flo was meant for a
lady."

Florence smiled inwardly at hearing this. It was her opinion also.

"Here, Kit, are you asleep?" And Joe pulled him out of the pile by one
leg. "Wake up, and give us your heart's desire."

Kit indulged in a vigorous kick, which Joe dodged.

"It'll be splendid," began Kit, "especially the piano. I've had my
hands over my eyes, making stars; and I was thinking"--

"That's just what we want, Chief of the Mohawk Valley. Don't keep us in
suspense."

"I'm going to save up my money, like some one Hal was reading about the
other day, and buy a fiddle."

A shout of laughter greeted this announcement, it sounded so comical.

