A good pinch of nutmeg.

1 cup strong veal or lamb broth—never mutton.

Wash the sweetbreads well. Soak them in very cold or ice-water,
slightly salted, for half an hour. Blanch by plunging them for an
instant into boiling water, after which lay for five minutes in
ice-water. This process makes them white and firm. Put them into a
covered saucepan with the broth, which must be well seasoned with
pepper and salt, and, if you like, a very slight touch of onion.
Sprinkle with nutmeg, cover closely, and stew steadily for an hour, if
the sweetbreads are of a fair size, and you mean to serve them whole.
If they have been sliced, three-quarters of an hour is sufficient.

Heat the cream in another saucepan until scalding hot, but not boiling.
Take it from the fire, and stir carefully, a little at a time, into the
beaten eggs. Just before the sweetbreads are taken from the fire, add
this mixture slowly, stirring all the time. Leave it in the saucepan
just long enough to cook the eggs, but do not let it boil. Stir in the
parsley at the same time. Turn out in a hot covered dish.


LARDED SWEETBREADS STEWED.

3 fine sweetbreads.

¼ pound fat salt pork, cut into long narrow strips.

1 cup good veal gravy.

1 small pinch of cayenne pepper.

1 table-spoonful of mushroom catsup.

Juice of half a lemon.

Parboil the sweetbreads for five minutes. The water should be boiling
when they are put in. Plunge immediately into very cold salt water. Let
them lie in this for five minutes, wipe them dry with a soft, clean
cloth, and lay upon a cool dish until perfectly cold. Lard them closely
with the strips of salt pork. Stew gently for twenty-five minutes in
the gravy, which must be rich and thick. Add lemon-juice, catsup,
cayenne, and, if needed, a little salt. Lay the sweetbreads in order on
a flat dish, pour the gravy over them, and garnish with sliced lemon
laid in the triangular spaces left between three-cornered bits of fried
toast.

N.B. A pleasant addition to this dish, as to the brown fricassee of
sweetbreads, is force-meat of chopped beef or veal very finely minced
and worked to a paste with hard-boiled yolk of egg, a little crumbed
bread, a spoonful or two of gravy or butter. Season very highly, work
in the beaten yolk of a raw egg to bind the mixture, and make into oval
balls a little larger than olives. Flour these, and lay on a floured
plate, so as not to touch one another. Set in a quick oven until they
are firm and hissing hot, garnish the dish with them instead of the
sliced lemon, and pour the hot gravy over them and the triangles of
toast as well as the sweetbreads. An outer circle of parsley looks well
with these.


LARDED SWEETBREAD—FRIED. +

3 or 4 sweetbreads.

4 or 5 slices very fat salt pork.

A little pepper.

Parboil, blanch and lard, as in preceding receipt. Have ready a
clean, hot frying-pan barely greased with a little butter. Put in the
sweetbreads, and fry without other fat than that of the pork lardoons
which should project half an inch on each side of the sweetbreads.
Cook steadily, turning the sweetbreads frequently, until they are of a
nice brown. Cut into one with a small sharp knife, to assure yourself
that it is done. Remove to a hot, well-buttered dish, and garnish with
sprigs of parsley, which have been crisped, but not burned, in a little
boiling butter.


BROILED SWEETBREADS. +
