
“Hardly. I can’t tell precisely what it will cost, but I think Mrs.
Gordon Grahame’s did not cost less than a hundred and twenty. Don’t be
angry with me, Paley. Don’t look so cold!”

“I am neither angry nor cold, dearest,” I answered, pulling out my
portmonnaie, and taking therefrom one hundred and fifty dollars, which
I handed to her.

It was the half I had left of what I had stolen that day—for, in the
light of after days, I may as well call the act by its true name. I
could not bear to have her accuse me of being angry, or of being cold,
or of grudging her any thing I had, or any thing I could get.

“O, thank you, Paley! How generous you are!” she exclaimed, giving me a
rapturous kiss.

She was satisfied, and so was I. We talked and read and played
backgammon till ten o’clock.

“Paley, won’t you take a glass of wine?” she asked. “We had some left
the other night.”

“I don’t care, Lilian. Did I tell you how much that party cost?”

“No.”

I told her.

“I think that was quite reasonable, considering what we had. The
champagne was splendid, and the Madeira had been to India three
times—so Smith said.”

She brought a bottle of sherry. It was old and strong. I was rather
startled to see her take two glasses within a few minutes of each
other, and I wished there was no wine in the house. We went to bed
happy, and no thought of the future disturbed me.

The following Saturday was the last day of the month, and I was
detained at the bank so late that I could not go to Springhaven. I did
not like to leave while others remained, for I did not know but Mr.
Bristlebach might take it into his head to overhaul my cash again. The
next Monday I learned that Aunt Rachel was very sick, had been attacked
with paralysis. I went down to see her that night. She was almost
senseless, and I could not talk with her. But she might die in a few
days, and then her money would all be mine—I hoped; for it did not yet
appear that she had made a will.

Two or three days later, my uncle, Captain Halliard, came into the bank
just as we were closing. He looked particularly grim and savage.

“Paley, your aunt is very sick,” said he.

“I know she is, but I hope she will get better,” I replied, perhaps
stretching the truth no more than many people do under such
circumstances.

“I am attending to her affairs, as usual.”

I bowed, and wondered what was coming.

“I found among her papers a note for a thousand dollars, signed by
you,” he added, taking the document from his pocket.

My heart came up into my throat. What was he driving at?

“If you can afford to give parties and fill your guests with champagne,
you can afford to pay this note,” he continued, sternly.

My plan was set at naught.




CHAPTER XV.

MY UNCLE IS SAVAGE.



