end. I believe the bidding of this boy to be a premeditated swindle. If
so, I will do my best to have him punished."

"And I," said Tom, boldly, "have an equal right to demand that Squire
Hudson submit proof that he is responsible for the amount of his
offers."

"Curse your impudence!" exclaimed the squire, foaming with rage.

"But I waive that right," continued Tom, "and will ask Squire Hudson to
name two gentlemen present to examine the proofs which I have to offer
of my ability to back my bids."

"I name Mr. Jones and Mr. Howe," said the squire, quickly, "and request
them to act at once."

"That is my desire," said Tom.

In five minutes the committee reported that Tom had shown them
bank-books, of two Boston banks, certifying that he held two thousand
dollars on deposit in one, and four thousand in the other.

"Is that satisfactory?" asked Tom, coolly.

"No," shouted the squire; "I believe that the books are bogus."

But the rest of those present entertained no doubts, and our hero was at
once surrounded by admiring friends, who shook his hand till it fairly
ached.

"Squire Hudson, your mortgage shall be paid whenever you desire," said
Tom.

"Three cheers for Tom Nelson!" proposed some one, and the cheers were
given with a will. During the confusion the squire and his
brother-in-law slipped out of the house, thoroughly discomfited.




CHAPTER XXXII.

MANHOOD.


If Squire Hudson was surprised at Tom's suddenly revealed wealth, Mr.
Nelson was no less so. When Tom first commenced bidding his father
feared that he was only trying to annoy the squire, or, perhaps, seeking
to force him to pay a higher price for the farm. But when investigation
revealed the fact of Tom's riches, and he saw the mountain of debt
lifted from his little property, he was overjoyed and grateful.

"I can't understand it, Tom," he said; "how could you possibly get
possession of so much money?"

"I have worked hard, father; but that won't explain it. I have been very
lucky, and my good luck has enabled me to save the farm."

"I think you will be easier with me than the squire, Tom," said his
father, smiling. "I will make out a mortgage to you, since your money
has been used to redeem the farm."

"I shall have no claim on the farm," said Tom, "or if I have I give it
to you. I have money enough for myself, and hope to earn a good deal
more besides."

"If that is the case, Tom, I will gladly accept your gift. It will be a
great relief to think that I have no interest to pay. Now I shall be
able to get along easily. I have over two hundred dollars on hand."

"I want to make your life easier, hereafter, father. I think you need a
larger income than the farm will yield you, and I will therefore send
you a hundred dollars every quarter."

"You are very generous, Tom; but I fear you will soon get rid of all
your money at this rate."

"I will explain my circumstances, father, and then you will think
differently. I have a business in San Francisco which will yield me at
least a thousand dollars a year, without my personal attention, and
