Frank explained, and thus gave her fresh cause for anxiety.

On reaching her father's chamber she was shocked by his changed
appearance; but her heart was gladdened by the wan smile that lighted
up his face, assuring her that she was welcome. From the doctor she
received the assurance that her father was in no immediate danger.
Indeed, he expressed a confident hope that Mr. Graham would rally from
his present attack, and be able to go about his business again, though
caution would be required against undue excitement or fatigue.

The doctor's prediction was verified. Mr. Graham recovered; but his old
pride and obduracy did not come back. He became reconciled to his
son-in-law, and provided him a well-paid position in his own mercantile
establishment, and provided rooms in the Madison-avenue mansion for the
little family whom Frank had first visited in the squalid tenement-house
in Fourteenth street, and the glad voices of children made the house no
longer lonely.

"You must call and see us often," said Ellen Morgan to our hero. "I
shall always remember you as the messenger who brought us good tidings
at the darkest hour in our fortunes. We shall always welcome you as a
friend."




CHAPTER XX.

A NEW JOB, AND A LETTER FROM HOME.


One morning an elderly gentleman entered the office in which Frank was
employed, and sought an interview with the superintendent.

"I want a smart boy for detective work," he said. "Have you one you can
recommend?"

The superintendent cast his eyes over the line of boys, and called
Frank. Our hero's recognition of the disguised counterfeiter by his ring
had given him a reputation for shrewdness.

"I think this boy will suit you," he said. "Do you wish him to go with
you now?"

"Yes; I may want him a week."

"Very well."

Frank accompanied the gentleman into the street.

"Have you no other clothes except this uniform?" asked Mr. Hartley.

"Yes, sir."

"Then go and put them on. Then report to me at No. -- Broadway."

"All right, sir."

"It is fortunate I have a good suit," thought Frank.

He was not long in exchanging his uniform for the neat suit given him by
Mr. Bowen. Thus attired, he presented himself in Mr. Hartley's
counting-room. The merchant surveyed him with approval.



"You will enter my service as errand-boy," he said. "You will be sent to
the post-office, the bank, and on similar errands, in order not to
excite suspicion of the real object of your presence. Keep your eyes
open, and I will take an opportunity of explaining to you later what I
wish you to do."

Frank bowed.

"Mr. Haynes," said the merchant, calling a thin, sallow young man, "I
have engaged this boy as an errand-boy. Has any one been to the
post-office this morning?"

"No, sir."

