
Rotha went off smiling. It was no use indeed! And Mrs. Mowbray turned 
away with a sigh. 

Down stairs, a few hours later, Mr. Southwode was sitting in the little 
end room back of the library--Mrs. Mowbray's special sanctuary. He was 
trying to see what was the matter with a cuckoo clock which would not 
strike. The rooms were all in summer order; sweet with the fragrance of 
India matting, which covered the floors; cool and quiet in the strange 
stillness of the vacation time. Mrs. Mowbray was a wonderful housekeeper; 
everything in her house was kept in blameless condition of purity; the 
place was as fresh and sweet as any place in a large city in the month of 
July could be. It was July, and warm weather, and the summer breeze blew 
in at the windows near which Mr. Southwode was sitting, with a fitful, 
faint freshness, pushing in the muslin curtains which were half open. 
There was the cool light which came through green India jalousies, but 
there was light enough; and everywhere the eye could look there was 
incentive to thought or suggestion for conversation, in works of arts, 
bits of travel, reminiscences of distant friends, and tributes from 
foreign realms of the earth. Books behind him, books before him, books on 
the table, books on the floor, books in the corners, and books in a great 
revolving bookstand. There was a dainty rug before the fireplace; there 
were dainty easy chairs large and small; there was a lovely India screen 
before the grate; and there was not much room left for anything else when 
all these things were accommodated. Mr. Southwode however was in one of 
the chairs, and a cuckoo clock, as I said, on his knees, with which he 
was busy. 

Then came a light step over the matting of the library, and Rotha entered 
the sanctuary. She came up behind his chair and laid her two hands on his 
shoulder, bending down so as to speak to him more confidentially. There 
came to Mr. Southwode a quick recollection of the first time Rotha had 
ever laid her hand on his shoulder, when her mother was just dead; and 
how in her forlorn distress the girl had laid her head down too. He 
remembered the feeling of her thick locks of wavy hair brushing his 
cheek. Now the full locks of dark hair were bound up, yet not tightly; it 
was a soft, natural, graceful style, which indeed was the character of 
all Rotha's dressing; she had independence enough not to be unbecomingly 
bound by fashion. Mr. Southwode knew exactly what was hanging over his 
shoulder, though he did not look up. I may say, he saw it as well as if 
he had. 

"I do not know how to speak to you," Rotha began abruptly. "You do not 
like me to call you 'Mr. Southwode.'" 

"No." 

"But I do not think I know your Christian name." 

"My name is Digby." 

"That is your surname--your half surname, I thought." 

"Yes, but I was christened Digby. That is my name. I took the surname 
Digby afterwards in compliance with the terms of a will, and legally my 
name is Digby Digby; but I am of course by birth Southwode." 

"Then if I called you 'Digby,' it would sound as if I were simply 
dropping the 'Mr.' and calling you by your surname; and that is very 
ugly. It does not sound respectful." 

"Drop the respect." 

"But I cannot!" cried Rotha, laughing a little. "I have heard women speak 
so, and it always seemed to me very ungraceful. Fancy aunt Serena saying 
'Busby' to her husband! She always says so carefully 'Mr. Busby'--" 

"She is a woman of too much good taste to do otherwise." 

"She has a good deal," said Rotha, "in many ways. Then what will you 
think of me, if I do 'otherwise'?" 

"You are not logical this afternoon," said Mr. Southwode laughing. "Am I 
an equivalent for Mr. Busby, in your imagination?" 

"Will you make that clock go?" 

"I think so." 

There was a little pause. Rotha did not change her position, and Mr. 
