passengers discharged in one of the small towns along the coast, to
wait until the means of getting over the little river could be
arranged. People on a railway journey commonly do not like to wait; it
was different no doubt in the days of stage-coaches, when patience had
some exercise frequently; now, we are spoiled, and you may notice that
ten minutes' delay is often more than can be endured with complacency.
Our fathers and mothers had hours to wait, and took it as a matter of
course.

Among the impatient passengers thrown out at Independence were two
specially impatient.

"What on earth shall we do with ourselves?" said the lady.

"Pity the break-down had not occurred a little further on," said the
gentleman. "You might have visited your friend--or Tom's friend--Miss
Lothrop. We are just a few miles from Shampuashuh."

"Shampuashuh!--Miss Lothrop!--Was that where she lived? How far,
George?"

"A few miles--half a dozen, perhaps."

"O George, let us get horses and drive there!"

"But then you may not catch the train this evening again."

"I don't care. I cannot wait here. It would be a great deal better to
have the drive and see the other place. Yes, we will go and visit her.
Get horses, George, please! Quick. This is terrible."

"Will you ask for their hospitality?"

"Yes, of course. They would be delighted. That is just what the better
sort of country people like, to have somebody come and see them. Make
haste, George."

With a queer little smile on his face, Mr. Lenox however did as he was
desired. A waggon was procured without very much delay, in which they
could be driven to Shampuashuh.

It was a very warm day, and the travellers had just the height of it.
Hot sunbeams poured down upon them; the level, shadeless country
through which lay their way, showed as little as it could of the
attractive features which really belonged to it. The lady declared
herself exceeded by the heat and dust; the gentleman opined they might
as well have stayed in Independence, where they were. Between two and
three o'clock they entered the long green street of Shampuashuh. The
sunbeams seemed tempered there, but it was only a mental effect
produced by the quiet beauty and airy space of the village avenue, and
the shade of great elms which fell so frequently upon the wayside grass.

"What a sweet place!" cried the lady.

"Comfortable-looking houses," suggested the gentleman.

"It seems cooler here," the lady went on.

"It is getting to a cooler time of day."

"Why, no, George! Three o'clock is just the crown of the heat. Don't it
look as if nobody ever did anything here? There's no stir at all."

"My eyes see different tokens; they are more versed in business than
yours are--naturally."

"What do your eyes see?"--a little impatiently.

"You may notice that nothing is out of order. There is no bit of fence
out of repair; and never a gate hanging upon its hinges. There is no
carelessness. Do you observe the neatness of this broad street?"

"What should make it unneat? with so few travellers?"

"Ground is the last thing to keep itself in order. I notice, too, the
neat stacks of wood in the wood-sheds. And in the fields we have
passed, the work is all done, up to the minute; nothing hanging by the
eyelids. The houses are full of windows, and all of them shining
bright."

