"None at all."

"I know better. You can't pull wool over my eyes. Your Chinaman tells a
different story."

"Ha! Have you seen Ki Sing?" asked Dewey, interested at last.

"Yes, I had the pleasure of meeting the heathen you refer to."

"Where is he now? Can you tell me?"

"To the best of my knowledge he is tied to a tree a mile or so from
here. I don't think he will get away very easily."

"Scoundrel! you shall answer for this!" exclaimed Richard Dewey,
springing to his feet, and thereby showing that neither of his legs was
broken.




CHAPTER VI.

AN UNEQUAL CONTEST.


Bill Mosely was decidedly startled when the man whom he thought helpless
sprang up so suddenly and approached him in a menacing manner. He rose
precipitately from the rude seat on which he had settled himself
comfortably, his face wearing an expression of alarm.

Richard Dewey paused and confronted him. A frown was on his face, and he
appeared very much in earnest in the question he next asked. "Have you
dared to ill-treat my servant, you scoundrel?" he demanded.

"Look here, stranger," said Mosely, with a faint attempt at bluster,
"you'd better take care what you say to me. I'm a bad man, I am."

"I don't doubt it," said Dewey, contemptuously.

This was not altogether satisfactory to Bill Mosely, though it
expressed confidence in the truth of his statement.

"You haven't answered my question," continued Dewey. "What have you done
with my servant?"

"Perhaps he wasn't your servant," said Bill Mosely, evasively.

"There is but one Chinaman in this neighborhood," said Richard Dewey
impatiently, "and he is my faithful servant. Did you tie him to a tree?"

"He was impudent to me," answered Bill Mosely, uneasily.

"Ki Sing is never impudent to any one," returned Dewey, his eyes
flashing with anger. "Tell me what you did with him, or I will fell you
to the ground."

"I didn't harm him," said Bill Mosely, hastily. "I wanted to teach him a
lesson; that is all."

"And so you tied him to a tree, did you?"

"Yes."

"Then go back and release him instantly, or it will be the worse for
you. I would go with you, to make sure that you did so, but my ankle is
weak. Where did you leave him?"

"A little way down the hill."

"Then go at once and release him. If you fail to do it, some day I shall
meet you again and I will make you bitterly repent it."

"All right, stranger; make your mind easy."

Bill Mosely turned to leave the cabin, and Richard Dewey threw himself
down on the pallet once more.

But Mosely had no intention of letting the matter rest there. Had he
been alone he would not have ventured on any further conflict with
