stopped to light a cigar. Mr. Graub noticed that he was able to use his
left hand quite cleverly, and asked him whether he was naturally
left-handed; Captain Heathcote answered that he was not, but had learned
the use only since his right arm had been disabled. Mr. Graub, seeing
him go toward the door, thought that it was somewhat singular that he
should wish to take a second walk, and casually remarked upon the warmth
of the evening. Captain Heathcote replied that it was for that very
reason he was going out; he could not breathe in the house; and he added
something not very complimentary to the air (generally considered
unusually salubrious) of Timloesville. Mr. Graub noticed that he walked
up and down on the piazza once or twice, as if he wished to show
himself plainly to the persons who were sitting there. He then strolled
away, going toward the main street.


"THE OUTSIDE STAIRWAY.

"As before mentioned, the second room given to Mrs. Heathcote was in a
wing. This wing is not much used; in fact, at the time, save this party
of three, it had no occupants. It is in the old part of the house. A
piazza or gallery runs across a portion of the second story, to which
access is had from the garden by a flight of wooden steps, or rather an
outside stairway. This stairway is old and sagged; in places the railing
is gone. It is probable that Mrs. Heathcote did not even see it. But
Captain Heathcote might have noticed it, and probably did notice it,
from the next street, through which he passed when he took his first
walk before dark.


"MRS. BAGSHOT'S TESTIMONY.

"As we have seen, Captain Heathcote left the hotel ostentatiously by the
front entrance at ten o'clock. At eleven, Mrs. Bagshot, who happened to
be looking from her window in the bend of the L, distinctly saw him (her
candle being out) stealing up by the outside stairway in the only
minute of moonlight there was during the entire evening, the clouds
having suddenly and strangely parted, as if for that very purpose. She
saw him enter his wife's room through one of the long windows which
opened to the floor. In about a quarter of an hour she saw him come
forth again, close the blind behind him, and begin to descend the
stairway. As there was no longer any moonlight, she could only
distinguish him by the light that shone from the room; but in that short
space of time, while he was closing the blind, she recognized him
beyond the possibility of a doubt.


"THE NIGHT PORTER'S TALE.

"A little before midnight, all the hotel entrances being closed save the
main door, Captain Heathcote returned. As he passed through the office,
the night porter noticed that he looked pale, and that his clothes were
disordered; his shirt cuffs especially were wet and creased, as though
they had been dipped in water. He went up stairs to his room, but soon
came down again. He had knocked, but could not awaken his wife. Would
the porter be able to open the door by turning back the key? His wife
was an invalid; he feared she had fainted.


"THE TRAGEDY.

"The night porter--a most respectable person of Irish extraction, named
Dennis Haggerty--came up and opened the door. The lamp was burning
within; the blinds of the window were closed. On the bed, stabbed to the
heart, apparently while she lay asleep, was the body of the wife.


"DUMB WITNESSES.

"Red marks were found on the shutter, which are pronounced by experts to
be the partial print of a left hand. On the white cloth which covered
the bureau is a slight impression of finger-tips, also belonging to a
left hand. These marks are too imperfect to be relied upon in
themselves, save that they establish the fact that the hand which
touched the cloth and closed the shutter was a left hand.


"AN IMPROBABLE STORY.

"Captain Heathcote asserts that he left the hotel at ten, as testified,
to smoke a cigar and get a breath of fresh air. That he returned through
