the whole burden on her shoulders, and silently bowing her queenly head
to the storm of woe and grief and destruction.




CHAPTER XXIII.


Diana would have taken her brother away from Turin if she could, but
there was a danger that the mere suggestion might revive the fixed idea
that had driven him mad. His illusions had not the absolutely permanent
character which is the most hopeless. For instance, on the evening of
the very day when he had called his sister by his wife's name, he had
known Diana perfectly well, and had sat for an hour talking about old
times with her. Whether, at such moments, he had any recollection of
recent occurrences, would be hard to say; and the doctor advised for the
present that he should have perfect quiet and should be allowed to amuse
himself and to be amused in any way which seemed best. In the course of
a day or two the doctor saw him, coming on pretence of seeing Madame de
Charleroi. He felt now, he said, from Marcantonio's manner, that he
would recover before long, though his memory concerning the
circumstances of the time when he was insane would probably be very
uncertain.

But Diana felt relieved at this and devoted her time to her brother from
morning till night, reading to him, driving with him, or talking to him
as the case might be. She could do nothing more for the present. Turin
is a pleasant city enough, the weather was not excessively hot, and the
hotel was large and comfortable. In the course of time it would be
possible to move Carantoni and take him to Paris, but at present any
sudden change of place or surroundings was to be deprecated.

A week passed in this way, and Diana grew pale with the constant strain
of anxiety, and the great dark rings circled her grey eyes. But she bore
bravely up, and rose each day with strength to do what lay before her.
She wrote to her husband, and he offered at once to come and help her to
take care of Marcantonio, but she would not let him come, fearing the
effect of a new face,--even that of an old friend like Charleroi. She
received all the letters that came to her brother, and was surprised
that there were no communications from the detectives he had employed.
The fact was that Marcantonio had given a separate address to them, and
as they discovered nothing, after the manner of most detectives, they
only systematically telegraphed that they had confidence of being on the
track. The telegrams were addressed to another hotel, and were dropped
into the box for unclaimed letters and were never heard of again. Diana
knew that business communications would be harmless in Marcantonio's
present state, and when any came she let him have them. He would read
them over and often discuss with her the information they contained, and
at last he would let her answer them, saying it was very good of her to
save him so much trouble.

All these letters came from Rome, being forwarded by the steward who
lived at the Palazzo Carantoni and managed the business of the
household. Others came, re-directed over the original address, from
friends in different parts of the country, and these Diana carefully put
aside unopened, fearing always that some passing reference or message to
Leonora might disturb him and bring on a fresh outbreak. She could
always distinguish the business letters, because they were either
directed in the handwriting of the steward, or they bore the outward and
visible printed address of the lawyer, farmer, or merchant, from whom
they came.

In the week they had spent in Turin there had been already twenty or
thirty communications of various kinds. Poor Marcantonio never knew that
his sister sorted the mail for him. It was brought to him by the
confidential servant, and he always took it and went to his room with an
air of great importance to "get through his business," as he expressed
it. He was evidently proud of doing it, showing that unaccountable
vanity in small things which characterises so many lunatics. Indeed, he
had always been proud of his attention to details, and now it became a
sort of passion, though he was never able to carry out his intentions,
and always left the unfinished work to Diana.

On the fourth of September Julius Batiscombe's letter, directed to
Marcantonio in Rome, had come back to Turin. Julius had marked it "very
urgent," and the steward had looked at it, had thought Batiscombe's
handwriting indistinct, and to secure greater certainty had put it into
another envelope and directed it in his own business-like way. The
consequence was that it was mistaken for a common business letter, and
