what it was for the youth of humanity, a god august dispensing
happiness with open hands; it is simply a matter of amusement, a remedy
for ennui, and a distraction from the fatigues of the day. Hence the
increase of dilettantism and the neglect of serious study. The future
of art is to Hartmann self-evident. "Age has no ideal, or rather, it
has lost what it had, and art is condemned in the increasing years of
humanity to hold the same position as the nightly ballets and farces
now do to the bankers and brokers of large cities."

This consistent treatment of the subject Hartmann cleverly founds on
the analogy of the different ages of the life of the individual with
the development of humanity. It is, of course, merely a series of
affirmations, but not for that reason necessarily untrue. The great
thinkers have disappeared, as have also the great artists; and they
have done so, Hartmann would say, because we no longer need them.
Indeed, there can be little doubt that could the Greeks come back, they
would tell us our art was barbarous; even to the casual observer it has
retrograded, nor is it alone in painting and sculpture that symptoms of
decadence are noticeable; if we look at the tendencies in literature,
nothing very commendable is to be found, save in isolated instances,
where the technicalities of style have been raised very near to
perfection; but, apart from a few purists who can in no sense be called
popular, the majority of the manufacturers of fiction have nothing to
offer but froth and rubbish.

The modern stage, too, brings evidence that a palpitant tableau is more
appreciated than a polished comedy, and the concert-hall tells a story
which is not dissimilar. Music, which with Mozart changed its sex, has
been turned into a harlot by Offenbach and his successors; and there
are but few nowadays who would hesitate between Don Juan and the last
inanity of Strauss. One composer, however, of incontestable genius, has
been slowly fighting his way into the hearts of cultivated people, and,
curiously enough, has sought to translate with an orchestra some part
of the philosophy of pessimism. Schopenhauer, it is said, shook his
head at Wagner, and would have none of him; yet if Schopenhauer was
ever wrong, he was certainly wrong in that; for Wagner has expressed,
as no one will do again, the flooding rush of Will, and the unspiritual
but harmonious voice of Nature.

But whatever may become of art, science is not to be dismissed so
abruptly. Practically considered, the political, social, and industrial
advance of the world depends entirely on its progress; and yet, from
Hartmann's standpoint, all that has been accomplished hitherto, by the
aid of manufactories, steamships, railways and telegraphs, has merely
served to lessen the embarrassments which compressed the activity of
man; and the sole advantage which society has reaped by their aid is
that the force heretofore expended in actual labor is now free for the
play of the intellect, and serves to hasten the evolution of the world.
This result, Hartmann remarks, while of importance to general progress,
in no wise affects the happiness of the individual.

This last statement of his will perhaps be better understood if it be
taken into consideration that the increased production of food which
will necessarily follow on a more intelligent culture of the soil will
greatly augment the population. An increase of population will multiply
the number of those who are always on the verge of starvation, of which
there are already millions. But an advance of this kind, while a step
backward one way, must yet be a step forward in another; for the wealth
which it will bring in its train will necessarily aid in diminishing
suffering.

Politically considered, the outlook does not seem to be much more
assured. An ideal government can do nothing more than permit man to
live without fear of unjust aggressions, and enable him to prepare the
ground on which he may construct, if he can, the edifice of his own
happiness. Socially, the result will be about the same: through
solidarity, association, and other means, men will learn how to make
the struggle of the individual with want less severe; yet, in all this,
his burdens will be merely lightened, and positive happiness will
remain unobtained.

Such are the outlines of Hartmann's conception of what future progress
will amount to. If the ideal is realized, man will be gradually raised
out of the misery in which he is plunged, and little by little approach
a state of indifference in every sphere of his activity. But it should
be remembered that the ideal is ever intangible; man may approach, but
he can never reach it, and consequently will remain always in a state
of suffering.

In this manner, but with a profusion of argument, which, if not always
