
Maule had risen at Usselex's entrance and made a step forward to greet
him. "I stopped on my way to Delmonico's," he added, lightly. "I made
sure you were both going."

"Yes," Usselex answered. "The carriage is at the door now. We can give
you a lift if you care to."

He turned to Eden. "Shall I ring for your wrap?"

For one second Eden looked her husband straight in the eyes. And for one
second she stood dumb, impenetrable as Fate, then gathering the folds of
her dress in one hand, she answered in a tone which was perfectly
self-possessed, "I have changed my mind," and swept from the room.




VIII.


On reaching her room Eden bolted the door. The maid rapped, but she gave
no answer. Without was a whistling wind that parodied her anger. For a
moment she looked through the darkness for that lighthouse which is
Hope, but presumably she looked in vain. Then there came another rap,
and she heard her husband's voice. Misery had offered her its arm, and
she was silent. Her husband rapped again, entreating speech with her,
and still she made no answer. Presently she caught the sound of
retreating footsteps. She removed the opals, disrobed, undid her hair,
and accepting the proffered arm, she took Misery for bedfellow.

It was hours before she slept. But at last sleep came. In its
beneficence it remained until the morning had gone; then at noon-day it
left her, and she started with a tremor like to that which besets one
who awakes from a debauch. The incidents of the preceding days paraded
with flying standards before her. They were victors indeed. "VÃ¦ soli!"
they seemed to shout. They had been pitiless in their assault, and now
they exulted at her defeat. They jeered at their captive; and Eden, with
that obsession which captives know, thought only of release. In all the
chartless future, freedom was the one thing for which she longed. Her
wounds were many; they had depleted her strength; but in freedom is a
balm that cures. Her strength might be irrevocable and the cicatrices
not to be effaced, yet give her that balm, and come what sorrow could.
As for resignation, the idea of it did not so much as visit her.
Resignation is a daily suicide, and she had not enough to outlast the
night.

The hours limped. The afternoon was on the wane, and still she toyed
with sorrow until suddenly she bethought herself of the need of
immediate action. Usselex would presently return, but when he came again
to her room, he should find it empty. At once, then, she made her
preparations, and telling the startled maid to complete them, and to
follow with the boxes to her father's house, she started out on foot,
her wardrobe packed, and ready for removal.

As Eden hurried through the streets, she was conscious only that freedom
was her goal. Everything else she put from her. It was to her father she
turned; it was through him that freedom would be obtained; and as she
hurried she pictured the indignation with which he would hear her tale.
He, indeed, was one on whom she could lean. Whatever other men might be,
he, at least was above reproach. Had he not for twenty years been
faithful to a memory. Surely her mother when she lived must have enjoyed
that gift of gifts, perfect confidence and trust.

So far back in the past as her memory extended she saw him always
considerate, gentle of manner, courteous to inferiors, deferential to
women, unassuming, and exemplary of life. In very truth there was none
other in the world like him. And when at last she entered his house she
told herself she was safe, and when the door closed, that she was free.

She knew without inquiry where to find him, and hastened at once to the
library, breathless when she reached his chair. He had been dozing over
a book, but at the rustle of her gown, he started and rubbed his eyes.

"It's good of you to come," he said, by way of greeting. "Why, Eden, I
haven't seen you for two days. Sit down there and let me look at you.
It's odd; I was going to you after the funeral. You know about General
Meredith, don't you? He went off like that. He is to be buried this
afternoon."

