is one to strike dumb with awe, or to unstring the nerves; one might
stand in silent astonishment, another would burst into tears.

There are some experiences that cannot be repeated--one's first view of
Rome, one's first view of Jerusalem. But these emotions are produced by
association, by the sudden standing face to face with the scenes most
wrought into our whole life and education by tradition and religion.
This was without association, as it was without parallel. It was a shock
so novel that the mind, dazed, quite failed to comprehend it. All that
we could grasp was a vast confusion of amphitheatres and strange
architectural forms resplendent with color. The vastness of the view
amazed us quite as much as its transcendent beauty.



We had expected a cañon--two lines of perpendicular walls 6000 feet
high, with the ribbon of a river at the bottom; but the reader may
dismiss all his notions of a cañon, indeed of any sort of mountain or
gorge scenery with which he is familiar. We had come into a new world.
What we saw was not a cañon, or a chasm, or a gorge, but a vast area
which is a break in the plateau. From where we stood it was twelve miles
across to the opposite walls--a level line of mesa on the Utah side. We
looked up and down for twenty to thirty miles. This great space is
filled with gigantic architectural constructions, with amphitheatres,
gorges, precipices, walls of masonry, fortresses terraced up to the
level of the eye, temples mountain size, all brilliant with horizontal
lines of color--streaks of solid hues a few feet in width, streaks a
thousand feet in width--yellows, mingled white and gray, orange, dull
red, brown, blue, carmine, green, all blending in the sunlight into one
transcendent suffusion of splendor. Afar off we saw the river in two
places, a mere thread, as motionless and smooth as a strip of mirror,
only we knew it was a turbid, boiling torrent, 6000 feet below us.
Directly opposite the overhanging ledge on which we stood was a
mountain, the sloping base of which was ashy gray and bluish; it rose in
a series of terraces to a thousand-feet wall of dark red sandstone,
receding upward, with ranges of columns and many fantastic sculptures,
to a finial row of gigantic opera-glasses 6000 feet above the river. The
great San Francisco Mountain, with its snowy crater, which we had passed
on the way, might have been set down in the place of this one, and it
would have been only one in a multitude of such forms that met the eye
whichever way we looked. Indeed, all the vast mountains in this region
might be hidden in this cañon.

Wandering a little away from the group and out of sight, and turning
suddenly to the scene from another point of view, I experienced for a
moment an indescribable terror of nature, a confusion of mind, a fear to
be alone in such a presence. With all this grotesqueness and majesty of
form and radiance of color, creation seemed in a whirl. With our
education in scenery of a totally different kind, I suppose it would
need long acquaintance with this to familiarize one with it to the
extent of perfect mental comprehension.

The vast abyss has an atmosphere of its own, one always changing and
producing new effects, an atmosphere and shadows and tones of its
own--golden, rosy, gray, brilliant, and sombre, and playing a thousand
fantastic tricks to the vision. The rich and wonderful color effects,
says Captain Dutton, "are due to the inherent colors of the rocks,
modified by the atmosphere. Like any other great series of strata in the
plateau province, the carboniferous has its own range of colors, which
might serve to distinguish it, even if we had no other criterion. The
summit strata are pale gray, with a faint yellowish cast. Beneath them
the cross-bedded sandstone appears, showing a mottled surface of pale
pinkish hue. Underneath this member are nearly 1000 feet of the lower
Aubrey sandstones, displaying an intensely brilliant red, which is
somewhat marked by the talus shot down from the gray cherty limestone at
the summit. Beneath the lower Aubrey is the face of the Red Wall
limestone, from 2000 to 3000 feet high. It has a strong red tone, but a
very peculiar one. Most of the red strata of the West have the brownish
or vermilion tones, but these are rather purplish red, as if the pigment
had been treated to a dash of blue. It is not quite certain that this
may not arise in part from the intervention of the blue haze, and
probably it is rendered more conspicuous by this cause; but, on the
whole, the purplish cast seems to be inherent. This is the dominant
color of the cañon, for the expanse of the rock surface displayed is
more than half in the Red Wall group."

I was continually likening this to a vast city rather than a landscape,
but it was a city of no man's creation nor of any man's conception. In
the visions which inspired or crazy painters have had of the New
Jerusalem, of Babylon the Great, of a heaven in the atmosphere, with
