“The passengers took up a contribution, and Jotham Perry thinks Grant
got about twenty-five dollars.”

“He deserved it.”

“Well, I’m glad he got it, but he had no right to spend it himself.
Ther’s one thing that don’t occur to you, Mrs. T. What he did was done
in time, and he lost at least an hour by the delay it cost. You know
yourself how late he came home.”

“What is that, Mr. Tarbox, to the lives of the passengers and the safety
of the train?”

“You don’t understand me, Mrs. T. Under the circumstances I think I
ought to have half the money he received.”

“Mr. Tarbox!” exclaimed his wife in profound disgust.

“That’s so, and of course if I had it he wouldn’t have no twenty dollars
to throw away on a suit of clothes.”

“You forget, Mr. Tarbox, that it has saved you the money you would have
to pay for a new suit for him.”

“It has saved me nothing. I wouldn’t have bought him a new suit. My
grandson, Rodney, was goin’ to give him one of his old suits. Now I
think of it, I’ll go down and see Mr. Shick and warn him not to make up
the suit, tellin’ him that Grant can’t pay for it with my permission.”

“That will be a mean thing to do, Seth Tarbox.”

Mrs. Tarbox always called her husband by his full name when she had
occasion to feel displeased with him.

“You and I don’t look on things in the same way, Mrs. T.,” said her
husband calmly. “I’ll go and see Mr. Shick at once.”

The tailor shop was still open for business when Mr. Tarbox entered.

“Well, Mr. Tarbox, have you come to pick out a suit for yourself?”

“No, I haven’t. Have you cut out Grant’s suit yet?”

“Yes; it is nearly finished.”

“Then I’m sorry for you. You mustn’t make it up?”

“Why not?”

“Because I shall forbid the boy to pay for it. He’s got the money, as
I’ve found out, but part of it belongs to me, and I won’t have him
spendin’ it so extravagantly.”

“I shan’t be able to oblige you, Mr. Tarbox. The suit will be made up,
as I agreed, and delivered to Grant.”

“Well, you’ll be takin’ a risk. I’ve warned you that you won’t get your
pay.”

“You are behind the times, Mr. Tarbox. You have taken your walk for
nothing. The suit is already paid for.”

“What!” ejaculated Mr. Tarbox.

“It is just as I said. Grant has paid me for the suit in advance. I
advise you to give me an order and do the same thing.”

Mr. Tarbox felt that he had been outwitted. He persuaded himself that
Grant had treated him meanly. Of course there was no resource. He was
too wise to ask Mr. Shick to refund the money, for he knew he would not
do it. He found nothing to say, and shuffled out, looking down in the
mouth.

“There goes the meanest man in town!” soliloquized the tailor, as his
visitor walked slowly down the road. “Grant must have a pretty
uncomfortable time at home. I am glad that in this case the boy has got
the better of his step-father.”

“He’s got five dollars left,” reflected Mr. Tarbox. “I’d ought to have
that, for it was in my time that he earned the money. I’ll go upstairs
