there were any besides the captain and mate. The engineers and firemen
were willing to remain and do duty as long as they were paid. In a
couple of hours the Ionian started her screw and headed for New York,
where she would arrive the next day.

Captain Chantor directed the quartermaster at the wheel to ring one
bell, and the Chateaugay began to move again. The events of the day were
discussed; but the first business of the ship had been successfully
disposed of, and the future was a more inviting field than the past. The
captain requested the presence of the two passengers in his cabin, and
read to them in full the latest instructions that had been sent off to
him.

"Our next duty is to look for the Dornoch, with her six guns and fifty
men, and we are not likely to have so soft a time of it as we had with
the Ionian," said Captain Chantor, when he had read the letter.

"The Chateaugay is reasonably fast, though she could not hold her own
with the Bellevite, or even the Bronx; and you have a pivot gun
amidships, and six broadside guns," added Christy.

"Oh, I shall be happy to meet her!" exclaimed the commander. "I don't
object to her six guns and fifty men; the only difficulty I can see is
in finding her. I am afraid she has already gone into St. George's
harbor, and she may not come out for a month."

"Why should she wait all that time?" asked Christy. "Her commander knew
nothing about the Ionian, that she was to take in a valuable cargo for
her, and she will not wait for her."

"That is true; but I am afraid we shall miss the Ovidio if we remain too
long in these waters."

"It seems to me that the Dornoch has had time enough to reach the
Bermudas," said Christy. "Possibly she is in port at this moment."

"That is a harassing reflection!" exclaimed the commander.

"I don't see that there is any help for it," added Christy. "You cannot
go into the port of St. George's to see if she is there."

"Why not?" asked Mr. Gilfleur, speaking for the first time. "I spent a
winter there when I was sick from over-work and exposure; and I know all
about the islands."

"That will not help me, Mr. Gilfleur," said the captain, with a smile at
what he considered the simplicity of the Frenchman.

"But why can you not go in and see if the Dornoch is there?" inquired
the detective.

"Because if I learned that she was about to leave the port, the
authorities would not let me sail till twenty-four hours after she had
gone."

"You need not wait till she gets ready to leave," suggested the
Frenchman.

"She might be ready to sail at the very time I arrived, and then I
should lose her. Oh, no; I prefer to take my chance at a marine league
from the shore," added the captain, shaking his head.

"Perhaps I might go into Hamilton harbor and obtain the information you
need," suggested Mr. Gilfleur, looking very earnest, as though he was
thinking of something.

"You!" exclaimed Captain Chantor, looking at him with amazement. "How
could you go in without going in the ship?"

"You know that I have a boat on deck," replied the detective quietly.

"But you are not a sailor, sir."

"No, I am not a sailor; but I am a boatman. After I had worked up the
biggest case in all my life in Paris,--one that required me to go to
London seven times,--I was sick when the bank-robbers were convicted,
and the excitement was over. The doctors ordered me to spend the winter
in Martinique, and I went to the Bermudas in an English steamer, where I
was to take another for my destination; but I liked the islands so well
that I remained there all the winter. My principal amusement was
