
"You care more for the brat than you do for me," he muttered.

"I care for you both," she answered. "You know how the money would go,
John. We should all be left destitute."

"That meddling sister of yours has put you up to this," he said,
angrily.

"There was no need of that. It is right, and I have decided for myself."

"Your first duty is to your husband."

"I feel that in refusing I am doing my duty by you."

"It is a strange way--to oppose your husband's wishes. Women ought never
to be trusted with money--they don't know how to take care of it."

"You are not the person to say this, John. In five years you have wasted
one hundred thousand dollars."

"It was bad luck in investments," he replied.

"I am afraid you are right. Investing money at the gaming-table is not
very profitable."

"Do you mean to insult me, madam?" exclaimed Hartley, furiously.

"I am only telling the sad truth, John."

He forgot himself and struck her.

She withdrew, flushed and indignant, for she had spirit enough to resent
this outrage, and he left the house in a furious rage.

When Hartley found that there was no hope of carrying his point, all
restraint seemed removed. He plunged into worse excesses, and his
treatment became so bad that Mrs. Hartley consented to institute
proceedings for divorce. It was granted, and the child was given to her.
Hartley disappeared for a time. When he returned his wife had died of
pneumonia, and her sister--Mrs. Vernon, now a widow--had assumed the
care of Althea. An attempt to gain possession of the child induced her
to find another guardian for the child. This was the way Althea had
come into the family of our young hero.

Thus much, that the reader may understand the position of affairs, and
follow intelligently the future course of the story.

When John Hartley left the presence of his sister-in-law, he muttered
maledictions upon her.

"I'll have the child yet, if only to spite her," he muttered, between
his teeth. "I won't allow a jade to stand between me and my own flesh
and blood. I must think of some plan to circumvent her."

This was not easy. He had absolutely no clew, and little money to assist
him in his quest. But Fortune, which does not always favor the brave,
but often helps the undeserving, came unexpectedly to his help.

At an American banker's he ran across an old acquaintance--one who had
belonged to the same club as himself in years past.

"What are you doing here, Hartley?" he asked.

"Not much. Luck is against me."

"Sorry to hear it. By the way, I was reminded of you not long since."

"How is that?"

"I saw your child in Union Square, in New York."

"Are you sure of it?" asked Hartley, eagerly. "Are you sure it was my
child?"

"Of course; I used to see it often, you know. She is a bright little
thing."

"Do you know where she lives?" asked Hartley. "Did you follow her?"

