society. It seemed to me iniquitous, for we believe that inequality and
iniquity are the same in the last analysis.”

At this I found myself able to say: “Yes, there is something terrible,
something shocking, in the frank brutality with which Englishmen affirm
the essential inequality of men. The affirmation of the essential equality
of men was the first point of departure with us when we separated from
them.”

“I know,” said the Altrurian. “How grandly it is expressed in your
glorious Declaration!”

“Ah, you have read our Declaration of Independence, then?”

“Every Altrurian has read that,” answered my friend.

“Well,” I went on smoothly, and I hoped to render what I was going to say
the means of enlightening him without offence concerning the little
mistake he had just made with the waitress, “of course we don’t take that
in its closest literality.”

“I don’t understand you,” he said.

“Why, you know it was rather the political than the social traditions of
England that we broke with, in the Revolution.”

“How is that?” he returned. “Didn’t you break with monarchy and nobility,
and ranks and classes?”

“Yes, we broke with all those things.”

“But I found them a part of the social as well as the political structure
in England. You have no kings or nobles here. Have you any ranks or
classes?”

“Well, not exactly in the English sense. Our ranks and classes, such as we
have, are what I may call voluntary.”

“Oh, I understand. I suppose that from time to time certain ones among you
feel the need of serving, and ask leave of the commonwealth to subordinate
themselves to the rest of the state and perform all the lowlier offices in
it. Such persons must be held in peculiar honor. Is it something like
that?”

“Well, no, I can’t say it’s quite like that. In fact I think I’d better
let you trust to your own observation of our life.”

“But I’m sure,” said the Altrurian, with a simplicity so fine that it was
a long time before I could believe it quite real, “that I shall approach
it so much more intelligently with a little instruction from you. You say
that your social divisions are voluntary. But do I understand that those
who serve among you do not wish to do so?”

“Well, I don’t suppose they would serve if they could help it,” I replied.

“Surely,” said the Altrurian, with a look of horror, “you don’t mean that
they are slaves.”

“Oh no! oh no!” I said; “the war put an end to that. We are all free now,
black and white.”

“But if they do not wish to serve, and are not held in peculiar honor for
serving--”

“I see that my word ‘voluntary’ has misled you,” I put in. “It isn’t the
word exactly. The divisions among us are rather a process of natural
selection. You will see, as you get better acquainted with the workings of
our institutions, that there are no arbitrary distinctions here but the
fitness of the work for the man and the man for the work determines the
social rank that each one holds.”

“Ah, that is fine!” cried the Altrurian, with a glow of enthusiasm. “Then
I suppose that these intelligent young people who teach school in winter
and serve at table in the summer are in a sort of provisional state,
waiting for the process of natural selection to determine whether they
shall finally be teachers or waiters.”

“Yes, it might be stated in some such terms,” I assented, though I was not
altogether easy in my mind. It seemed to me that I was not quite candid
with this most candid spirit. I added: “You know we are a sort of
