
Otherwise stated, Captain Scott believed that if all the water in the
bay could be suddenly dried up, the bottom of it would present the same
irregularities as the shore. Doubtless his theory was correct in regard
to the great oceans. Islands are only the tops of submarine hills and
mountains rising above the surface of the water.

The captain steered the Maud directly towards the shore, while the
steamer was making not over five knots an hour. He kept one eye on the
rocky cone on the starboard hand, which was an elevation on the enormous
ledge of half an acre.

"Where's the bottom, Morris?" he called to the first officer when the
steamer was abreast of the cone.

"Thirteen feet down," returned Morris.

"Heave the lead on the port hand, Flix," added the captain very quietly;
and he seemed to be still in a brown study.

"Mark under water two," reported the Milesian.

"Give the depth in feet now."

"Thirteen feet, short."

"Keep the lead going."

For about a quarter of a mile farther Scott kept the Maud moving in the
same direction, with no change in the reports of the soundings. The
great ledge could still be seen from the windows of the pilot-house; but
suddenly the color changed to a darker hue. At this point the captain
threw the helm over to port, and changed the course from south-west to
north-west, a full quarter of a circle. The soundings were continued,
and for some time the reports were of deeper water.

Louis had nothing to do on the forecastle, and he returned to the
pilot-house, where he stationed himself at the door on the starboard
side, where he could look down into the clear water as the others were
doing. The ledge still presented the same appearance; that of a smooth
surface, though with many seams and protuberances upon it.

"You seem to have found a channel inside of the ledge, Captain Scott,"
said Louis, after he had watched the indications for some time.

"I thought there must be some kind of an opening on this side of the
ledge; for on the shore there is a strip of land half a mile wide
covered with trees. The channel is all right here; but I would give up
all my chances of being appointed to the command of the Guardian-Mother
within the next ten years, to be assured that it extends out to the deep
water outside the bay," replied Scott, turning around to look at his
companion, and thus showing that there was a cloud on his face.

"Don't you believe that it extends the whole length of the ledge?" asked
Louis, who could not fail to see the shadow of anxiety that hung over
the expression of the young commander.

"It is no use to believe or disbelieve in a thing you know nothing at
all about," replied Scott, as Louis placed himself at the side of the
wheel opposite to him, so that he could see his face. "Do I believe it
rains in New York City at this moment? What is the use of expressing an
opinion about a matter upon which you have no material to base an
opinion?"

"Correct, Captain!" exclaimed Louis, laughing. "Many people make fools
of themselves by doing just that thing; but your recording angel never
does it. I did not know but you had the means of knowing something about
it."

"None whatever; there is no law of nature I know of that requires the
channel to reach through to deep water. But there is one circumstance
which leads me to fear it is 'no thoroughfare' to the deep water."

"What is that, Captain?"

"The present attitude of the Fatim√©."

"She does not appear to have changed her position or her looks since she
ran out that twelve-pounder."

