to reach Deck Lyon, after he had explained the desperate deed he had
contemplated; and the latter thought the movement indicated violence on
the part of the foreman.

"Halt where you are, Kipps! Don't come any nearer!" exclaimed Deck; and
the revolver in his hand enforced his command.

"Don't shoot, sonny! I only wanted to catch you by the hand, and shake
it with right good will," replied Kipps, as he halted where the carbine
and sabre of the young cavalryman were lying between his two feet. "I
b'lieve what you been tellin' on us; and I reckon it's right lucky some
on us on this front seat ain't all ready to be put in the ground."



"I assure you that I have told you the exact truth," said Deck, as he
dropped his revolver to his side.

The moment he did so Kipps stooped as quick as a flash and picked up the
carbine.

"Don't shoot, little one!" he continued, as the prisoner raised his
weapon again, ready to meet this new combination in front of him.

Deck realized that he must act quick, and he was in the very act of
firing at the foreman when he spoke. He looked his opponent in the eye;
but the bridge-burner did not bring the carbine to his shoulder. He had
grasped it near the muzzle, and he held it with the stock hanging down;
but he proceeded no farther than this, and the revolver pointed at the
head of Kipps, ready to fire if he elevated the piece. He was in doubt.
The words of the foreman did not indicate that he meant violence; he
felt that he had chance enough to save himself by shooting his opponent
before he could bring the carbine to bear upon him. But perhaps this was
the most exciting moment in the lifetime of the young soldier.

"Don't shoot, sonny!" repeated Kipps, still holding the carbine in a
position that rendered it entirely useless; and as he spoke he advanced
towards his prisoner.

"Don't come any nearer, Kipps, or there will be a breathless body in
this wagon!" exclaimed Deck, with vim enough to convince the other that
he was in dead earnest.

"I won't come no nearer, if you say so, Lyons. I was only go'n' to bring
this shootin'-iron and give it back to you, jest to show you that I was
right friendly-like to you; and I wanted to catch you by the hand,
'cause I believe you could 'a' killed some or all on us if you'd had a
mind to. I reckon we won't quarrel after you've held up when you mou't
have stuck some on us."

"Drop that carbine, Kipps, and then I can better understand what you
mean," replied Deck.

"That's what's the matter, is it? I was only go'n' to give it back to
you," protested the foreman, as he let go of the piece; and it dropped
upon the loading of the wagon.

Deck lowered his revolver to his side; and Kipps climbed over the
bundles, boxes, tools, and cans, till he was within reach of his late
prisoner, for he seemed no longer to regard him as such. He extended his
big hand to the cavalryman, whose right still firmly held his weapon,
and he took the hand of the other with his left.

"That's a right-down honest Tennessee fist, Lyons, and the gizzard
always goes with it," said he, as he squeezed the hand of Deck till he
was on the point of crying out with the pain of the cracking bones.
"There's that cheese-knife and shooter of yourn, and you can take 'em as
soon as you get ready. You're a Yankee; but you've sunthin' more'n a
rock for a gizzard."

"There's my hand in yours, Kipps; it's the left, but that is nearest to
the heart," replied Deck, now fully trusting the Tennesseean, as he
thrust the revolver into his pocket, satisfied that he should have no
further use for it at present.

"You've got a rayle Tennessee gizzard in your bowels, Lyons, and I like
you. If anybody wants to do you an ill turn, he's got to fight Brown
Kipps, sure," added the foreman.

"And the rest on us," put in Tom Lobkill.
