"Mercy, what a strange wish! How can you possibly wish that you were
older."

"Because I could make a larger income. It is all very well to be a young
minister, but a young doctor does not inspire confidence."

"I am sure I would rather call in a young doctor unless I were very
sick."

"There it is! Unless you were very sick."

"But even then," said the widow, coquettishly, "I am sure I should feel
confidence in you, Dr. Fenwick. You wouldn't prescribe very nasty pills,
would you?"

"I would order bread pills, if I thought they would answer the purpose."

"That would be nice. But you haven't answered my question. What were you
and Miss Blagden talking about?"

"About doctors; she hasn't much faith in men of my profession."

"Or of any other, I fancy. What do you think of her?"

"That is a leading question, Mrs. Wyman; I haven't thought very much
about her so far, I have thought more of you."

"Oh, you naughty flatterer!" said the widow, graciously. "Not that I
believe you. Men are such deceivers."

"Do ladies never deceive?"

"You ought to have been a lawyer, you ask such pointed questions.
Really, Dr. Fenwick, I am quite afraid of you."

"There's no occasion. I am quite harmless, I do assure you. The time to
be afraid of me is when you call me in as a physician."

"Excuse me, doctor, but Mrs. Gray is about to make an announcement."

We both turned our glances upon the landlady.




CHAPTER VI.

COUNT PENELLI.


Mrs. Gray was a lady of the old school. She was the widow of a merchant
supposed to be rich, and in the days of her magnificence had lived in a
large mansion on Fourteenth Street, and kept her carriage. When her
husband died suddenly of apoplexy his fortune melted away, and she found
herself possessed of expensive tastes, and a pittance of two thousand
dollars.

She was practical, however, and with a part of her money bought an old
established boarding-house on Waverley Place. This she had conducted for
ten years, and it yielded her a good income. Her two thousand dollars
had become ten, and her future was secure.

Mrs. Gray did not class herself among boarding-house keepers. Her
boarders she regarded as her family, and she felt a personal interest in
each and all. When they became too deeply in arrears, they received a
quiet hint, and dropped out of the pleasant home circle. But this did
not happen very often.

From time to time when she had anything which she thought would interest
her "family," she made what might be called a "speech from the throne."
Usually we could tell when this was going to take place. She moved about
a little restlessly, and pushed back her chair slightly from the table.
Then all became silent and expectant.

This morning Mrs. Wyman augured rightly. Mrs. Gray was about to make an
announcement.

She cleared her throat, and said: "My friends, I have a gratifying
announcement to make. We are about to have an accession to our pleasant
circle."
