"Glad to hear it, youngsters; and you have been very near perfect so
far. Go on, Frank."

"Stand by! Give way together!"

This was the most difficult movement of the whole; but the boys, for
this reason, had practised it the most in their thoughts, and in their
dummy rehearsals, and it was done as well as the others had been, much
to the surprise of Uncle Ben, who had been sure they would fail on this
command. They did not fail, and caught the stroke as well as though
they had been practising for a month. The boat went off at great speed;
and Ben had hardly a word of fault to find with the rowing, though he
corrected some of the individual movements. He permitted the crew to
pull the whole length of the lake; but Frank, prompted by Ben, had
slowed them down to the measured stroke of the cutter of a man-of-war.

"Stand by to lay on your oars!" said the coxswain, when the boat was
approaching the mouth of the river. "Oars!"

The crew instantly levelled their oars, feathering the blades. Not one
of them was permitted to touch the water. This manoeuvre was executed
quite as well as the others had been, and the boys were praised without
stint by the venerable instructor.

"Give way!" said Frank, always prompted by the old sailor at his side
in a low tone, so that most of the oarsmen believed that the coxswain
acted on his own responsibility.

"Stand by to toss!" he continued. "Toss!"

The oars all went up as one, the handles resting on the bottom of the
boat.

"Let fall!" Frank proceeded with the drill, and with only a very short
pause between the two commands; but the oars all dropped into the
water, and were shipped with entire unity. "Give way!" he added; for
the 'together' is used as a rule only when the boat starts from the
shore or another craft.

"Stand by to hold water!" said Frank a little later. "Oars!"

At this command the oarsmen levelled and feathered their oars.

"Hold water!" and the boat began to slow down.

"Right here comes in another command," said Uncle Ben. "You hain't
heard it before; but it is often needed to keep you from runnin' into a
boat, a wharf, a rock, or anything else. The command is, 'Starn all!'
When you get it, you must pull backwards. It comes arter 'Hold water!'
as you are doin' now. All ready! The command, Frank."

"Stern all!" said the coxswain in vigorous tones, for this order is
likely to be given in an emergency.

The boys made rather bad work of rowing backwards at first, and it was
necessary for Uncle Ben to drill them for half an hour before they
could do it as well as their other work. But they were attentive and
patient; and at the end of the lesson they could pick up the stroke as
readily as the forward movement, even when the manoeuvres were
executed in a hurry, for it is generally used when there is need for
haste.

"How many more things are there to learn, Uncle Ben?" asked number
five, who was Charles Hardy.

The old salt removed his tarpaulin, scratched his bald head, and said
only two. The boys lay on their oars, as it is called when they are
levelled.

"Starboard oars--back!" said Frank. "Port oars--ahead! Give way!"

Some began to put the oars as directed in the first command, and Ben
stopped them, telling them to wait for the second; and it was done over
again two or three times. Of course the Zephyr whirled round like a
top, and was left headed down the lake.

"The next new thing is to trail your oars, which is sometimes needed
when the boat has to go through a narrow place. Sometimes trail-lines
are used. They are bits of cord, say two feet long, one end made fast
to the loom of the oar, and the other to the gunwale of the boat. If
