attention to his studies, for he was falling dreadfully behind. But when
Jim had to work or study, he went at it with all his might and main, and
generally managed to catch up.

The little girl and her father were perhaps the best pleased. He liked
the little garden spot. He was not confining himself very closely to
business now. There were so many pretty walks around, for it was still
quite rural, and you could find a few wild flowers. There was another
very amusing feature farther up-town, and that was the "squatters," with
their pigs and goats and geese, and their rich, wonderful brogue, their
odd attire, which was in the same style as when they landed. Connemara
cloaks had not then attracted the fashionable eye; but the women seemed
to wear them to keep out both heat and cold. Red, green, and plaided
seemed the favourites. The wide cap-ruffles caught the breeze, for one
always found a breeze in this vicinity.

The little girl's happiness was rendered complete by the gift of a
beautiful Maltese kitten about half-grown. It had a black nose, and
black pads to its feet, and a fashion of pricking up its small ears like
a dog. There was a great discussion about a name; and Joe suggested
"Major," as she was still fond of military heroes.

One evening Ben said: "Jim, the Whitneys are going over into Jersey on
an exploring expedition, to view some curious old places, Cockloft Hall
among them. Don't you want to go?"

Jim glanced up lazily. The boys were to play ball, as they often did, on
Saturday afternoon.

"Oh, that's the place where the Salmagundi Club used to meet," cried
Hanny, with eager interest. "It is in Newark."

"Yes; and there's another queer nest on the Passaic where a great
sportsman lives, Henry William Herbert, the Frank Forrester of some
stirring adventures. Mr. Whitney is to see him. And there are some other
old haunts; Delia was looking them up,--the Kearny house, and an old
place that was once used as a sort of fort."

"Dele Whitney goes round just like a boy!" said Jim, disdainfully.

"Well, why shouldn't she go with her brother?"

"Oh, Ben, can't I go with you?" pleaded Hanny.

"Jersey's a queer sort of State," said Jim, teasingly. "The Blue Laws
are still in operation. You are not allowed to stay out after dark."

"Are they printed in blue? And you don't mean to stay out after dark, do
you, Ben?"

Hanny's expression was so simply honest they all laughed, which rather
disconcerted her.

"It is because you feel pretty blue when you have to obey them; and
Jersey is out of the United States."

"It just isn't, Mr. Jim!" cried Hanny, indignantly. "It's one of the
Middle States."

It was quite the fashion then to laugh at New Jersey, in spite of the
geography; though even at that remote date New Jersey peaches were held
in high esteem.

"But if you went with Dele Whitney, we shouldn't know when to look for
you--hardly where," and Jim winked.

That was an allusion to an old visit at the Museum, when they stayed all
the evening, for the same admittance.

"I've half suspected you were the ringleader of that scheme, Jim," said
his doctor-brother. "I have a mind to go. One good thing about the
Whitneys is that you can invite yourself, and no one takes umbrage."

"Oh, do go!" said Ben; and Hanny came around to give his hand a tender,
persuasive squeeze. "I haven't explored the State very much, but it has
some curious features. The magnolia and many Southern flowers grow
there. I believe almost every kind of mineral, even to gold, is found in
the State. And it is rich in historic lore."

"There was Valley Forge," said Hanny, softly.
