"And Jack's so lovely! Only I'm awful sorry she didn't marry Mr.
Carrington. Patty and her husband are so happy, so are mother and
father. There, I am tired. Get a book and read. That about Uncle Toby,
who had such a big, sweet, foolish heart."

The children had a great way of picking out parts they liked and
skipping the rest.

Then Dr. Collaston had to go up to Washington for a week or two, and
sent for Jaqueline also. For Patty had a little baby girl, and they all
laughed merrily about being uncles and aunts. What was happening to the
country was a minor consideration.

When the doctor came down again he had a well-digested plan.

"If it wasn't for running the risk on the ocean I should say take
the boy over to London at once and have the best medical skill there.
But there are some excellent physicians in Philadelphia and New York.
Old Dr. Rush does little in practicing now, but he is still ready and
generous with advice. You know, I am young in the profession, and as
yet we cannot boast much medical talent in our young city. Let Mrs.
Mason stay with him three months or so, and have the best treatment. I
think it quite a serious matter."

Mr. Mason was aghast at first.

"He is so young now, and the injury may not be as bad as I anticipated;
but it will need excellent skill to take him through without leaving
permanent marks and much suffering. So it had better be attended to at
once."

Jaqueline was alarmed at the seriousness of the case. If she could
go----

"No; it must be some person of experience, and one whom Charles loves
and trusts and would obey. He will make a good patient, for he is
anxious to get well; and though he does not whisper such a thing, he
has an awful fear of deformity----"

"Oh, you do not think----" in a tremulous tone.

"Hush! I have mentioned it to no one but your parents. It is not to be
discussed. It is a spinal trouble, and that covers the ground. And he
must have immediate care. You and Annis will come with us, for it would
be too lonely to have you here on the plantation, even if your father
is back and forth."

Mrs. Mason discussed the plans with Jaqueline at once, and the girl was
full of the warmest sympathy.

"If we could take Annis! but the doctor thinks it would be bad for the
child, and an added care."

"Oh, mamma, you may trust her with me! I am not as gay and volatile as
I was a year ago, nor so frivolous."

"She ought to go to school! Perhaps in the fall----"

"Mamma, that suggests something. A Madame Badeau, a very charming
French refugee, has started a school for children and young ladies
just a short distance from the doctor's. She is trying to get scholars
enough to insure her support. And she teaches the pianoforte. It is
quite coming into vogue since Mrs. Madison makes so much of the grand
one at the White House, where ladies are often asked to play. Annis
is such a little home girl that she would be very unhappy away. We all
love her so dearly. And I will look after her clothes, and the doctor
after her health, and Patty and the baby will be so much entertainment.
Patty is making a very charming woman, and much admired," said the
elder sister heartily.

"That is an admirable plan, and you are kind to take so much interest
in the child. It relieves me of considerable anxiety, and she has run
wild long enough, though she has picked up an odd conglomeration of
knowledge from Charles. I know your father will be glad and thankful."

"To let you go quite away--to stay!" ejaculated Annis, when she heard
of the plan. "Mamma, I have given up part of you a good many times, but
I can't give up all," and the soft lips quivered. "Why can I not go? I
will be very good, and not make any trouble. And I could help you with
Charles, and read to him. He is so fond of me."
