your kin as little as I do. Bid me good-bye, now. I am tired,
Michael--tired to the soul of me."

She held out her slim hand. I took it, then I bent to touch it with my
lips.

"You will not wed Dunmore?" I asked.

She did not reply.

"And you will come with me to Johnstown on the morrow, Silver Heels?"

There was no answer.

"Silver Heels?"

"If you are strong enough to take me from Dunmore, take me," she said,
in a dull, tired voice.

"And--and from the other--the one you love--the fool?"

"He will leave me--when you leave me," she answered.

"You mean to say this pitiful ass will follow you and me to
Johnstown!" I cried, excited.

"Truly, he will!" she said, hysterically, and covered her face with
her hands. But whether she was laughing or crying or doing both
together I could not determine; and I stalked wrathfully away,
determined to teach this same fool that his folly was neither to my
taste nor fancy.

And as I passed swiftly southward through the darkening town I heard
the monotonous call of the town watchman stumping his beat:

"Lanthorn, and a whole candle-light! Hang out your lights here!
Light--ho! Maids, hang out your light, and see your lamp be clear and
bright!"




CHAPTER XIV


I had learned from our host of the "Virginia Arms" that the so-called
"Governor's Hall," which stood within the limits of the
fortifications, had been built by the French in 1755. Poor Braddock's
brief d√©but before Fort Duquesne in that same year interrupted the
building of "Governor's Hall," which was called by the French "La
Fortresse de la Reine," and which, with the exception of our stone
fort at Johnstown, was the only formidable and solidly fortified
edifice of stone west of the Hudson.

When in '58 our troops seized Fort Duquesne and razed it, they not
only spared La Fortresse de la Reine, but completed it--in exceeding
poor taste--set the arms of Virginia over the portal, ran up their
red, powder-stained flag, and saluted "Governor's Hall" with hurrahs
of satisfaction, drums and fifes playing "The White Cockade."

Now the hall served sometimes as a court-house, sometimes as a
temporary jail, often as a ballroom, occasionally as the Governor's
residence when he came to Fort Pitt from Williamsburg.

In it he gave audiences to all plaintiffs, white or Indian; in it he
received deputies from other colonies or from England.

The Governor of Virginia lived on the second floor while sojourning at
Pittsburg; under his white and gold apartments stretched a long,
blank, stone hall, around the walls of which ran a wooden balcony half
way between the stone flagging and the ceiling of massive buckeye
beams.

It was in this naked and gloomy hall, damp and rank with the
penetrating odour of mortar and dropping, mouldy plaster, that my Lord
Dunmore consented to receive the old Cayuga chief, Logan, of the clan
of the Wolf, and by right of birth--which counts not with chiefs
unless they be sachems, too--the chief also of the Oquacho of the
Oneida nation.

