Avery started to go upstairs.

"Oh, Mr. Avery," cried Molly, "don't you do that; don't you, sir!"

Then Dr. Thorne stepped out of the library.  "Wait a minute, Avery," he
said, in a quiet, matter-of-fact tone, which at once restored Avery's
composure.  "Just come in here before you go up, will you?"

Marshall Avery obeyed.  He stepped into the library.  And Dr. Thorne
shut the door.

The two men regarded each other for a moment in surcharged silence.
The distracted husband stood trembling pitiably.  He passed his left
hand over his eyes, then pushed it over his right wrist several times,
as if he were pushing away an obstruction.

"I don't seem to be quite right in the head, Thorne," he pleaded.  "I
thought there was--something on the doorbell....  I 've been
shipwrecked.  I 'm not--just myself....  Why don't you speak to me?
Doctor!  Doctor!"

"I find it--difficult," replied the experienced physician, with
embarrassment.  "The case is--unusual.  Mrs. Avery"--

"Give me the worst!" cried the tortured man.

"That is impossible," said Esmerald Thorne, in a deep voice.  He turned
away and went to the window, where he stood looking out into the back
yard.  Kate was hanging out some sheets and other bedding.  Avery
noticed this circumstance--he had got up and stood behind the
doctor--as people notice the pettiest items in the largest crises of
their lives.  A small fluttering white thing on the line arrested his
attention.  It was the silk Spanish shawl which he had given his wife.

He put out his hand--groped, as a seeing man suddenly smitten blind
will grope--and, fumbling, found the doctor's arm and clutched it.
Then he toppled; his weight came heavily, and the physician caught him
before he struck the floor.


He pushed the brandy away from his lips and struggled up.  Even at that
moment it occurred to him that Esmerald Thorne looked at him with
something like aversion.

"When did she die?"

"Yesterday."

"What time?"

"At the ebb of the tide.  It was eleven o'clock in the morning."

"Who was with her?"

"The servants."

"Oh, my God, Thorne!  Nobody else?  Were n't you there?"

"I got there....  I doubt if she knew it....  It was only twenty
minutes before the end.  Hush!  Avery, hush!  Don't groan like that,
man.  Nobody is to blame.  If only--you"--  Dr. Thorne checked himself,
savagely, as he did when he was moved beyond endurance.

"Oh, I take it all!" cried Avery.  He stooped as if he bent his broad
shoulders to receive some mighty burden.  "I shall carry it all ...
forever.  Men have gone mad," he added, more calmly, "for much less
than I have got to face."

"If you find yourself strong enough," said the physician, "I shall try
to put you in possession of the facts."  Again, as before, Avery
thought he noticed an expression of aversion on the countenance of his
old friend.  Cowering, he bowed before it.  It was part of his
punishment; and he had already begun to feel that nothing but a
consciousness of punishment could give him any comfort now.

"Will you go up and see her first?" asked Dr. Thorne, as if to gain
time.  "She looks very lovely," he added, with quivering lip.

But the room rang to such a cry as the man of mercy--used to human
emergency, and old before his time in the assuagement of human
