
"Let us go back home," she exclaimed suddenly.

"Why hurry, Mam'selle? Let us go down to King's wharf and see the boats
come in."

Her eyes lighted eagerly. She gave a hop on one foot and held out her
hand to the woman, who rose slowly, then put the long, lean arm about
the child's neck, who smiled up with a face of bloom to the wrinkled and
withered one above her.

Louis Marsac frowned a little. What ailed the child to-day? She was
generally ready enough to demand his attentions.

"Mam'selle, you brought your story to an abrupt termination. I thought
you liked the accessories. The procession that marched up the aisle of
St. Anne's, the shower of kisses bestowed upon you after possible evil
had been exorcised by holy water; the being taken home in Madame
Bellestre's carriage--"

"If I wanted to hear it Pani could tell me. Walk behind, Louis, the path
is narrow."

"I will go ahead and clear the way," he returned with dignified sarcasm,
suiting his pace to the action.

"That is hardly polite, Monsieur."

"Why yes. If there was any danger, I would be here to face it. I am the
advance guard."

"There never is any danger. And Pani is tall and strong. I am not
afraid."

"Perhaps you would rather I would not go? Though I believe you accepted
my invitation heartily."

Just then two half drunken men lurched into the path. Drunkenness was
one of the vices of that early civilization. Marsac pushed them aside
with such force that the nearer one toppling against the other, both
went over.

"Thank you, Monsieur; it was good to have you."

Jeanne stretched herself up to her tallest and Marsac suddenly realized
how she had grown, and that she was prettier than a year ago with some
charm quite indescribable. If she were only a few years, older--

"A man is sometimes useful," he returned dryly, glancing at her with a
half laugh.

After the English had possession of Detroit, partly from the spirit of
the times, the push of the newcomers, and the many restrictions that
were abolished, the Detroit river took on an aspect of business that
amazed the inhabitants. Sailing vessels came up the river, merchantmen
loaded with cargoes instead of the string of canoes. And here was one at
the old King's wharf with busy hands, whites and Indians, running to and
fro with bales and boxes, presenting a scene of activity not often
witnessed. Others had come down to see it as well. Marsac found a little
rise of ground occupied by some boys that he soon dispossessed and put
the woman and child in their places, despite black looks and mutterings.

What a beautiful sight it all was, Jeanne thought. Up the Strait, as the
river was often called, to the crystal clear lake of St. Clair and the
opposite shore of Canada, with clumps of dense woods that seemed
guarding the place, and irregular openings that gave vistas of the far
away prospect. What was all that great outside world like? After St.
Clair river, Lake Huron and Michilimackinac? There were a great mission
station and some nuns, and a large store place for the fur trade. And
then--Hudson Bay somewhere clear to the end of the world, she thought.

The men uttered a sort of caroling melody with their work. There were
some strange faces she had never seen before, swarthy people with great
gold hoops in their ears.

"Are they Americans?" she asked, her idea of Americans being that they
were a sort of conglomerate.

"No--Spaniards, Portuguese, from the other side of the world. There are
many strange peoples."
