sensible to do anything so rash. There was no choice but to go away.

"Thank you," she said, as she turned to go down the steps.

"You are welcome," the man answered very civilly, for he was watching
her and was reflecting that he had never seen such a face and figure
before.

Some hours later, when the police communicated with the Superintendent,
and when he found that a woman had come to the door who said that she
knew the waif, and had been sent away, he called the orderly who had
been on duty several hard names in his heart for having followed the
rule of the hospital so scrupulously. He was an antediluvian, he was a
case of arrested mental development, he was an ichthyosaurus, he was a
new kind of idiot, he was a monumental fool, he was the mammoth ass
reported to have been seen by a medi√¶val traveller in the desert, that
was forty cubits high, and whose braying was like the blast of ten
thousand trumpets. The Superintendent wished he had time to select more
choice epithets for that excellent orderly, but the police seemed so
particularly curious about the new patient that he had no leisure for
thinking out what he wanted.

Nevertheless, the man had done his duty and nothing more nor less
according to the rules, and Regina was forced to go away discomfited.

She walked a hundred yards or more down the hill, towards San Clemente,
and then stood still to think. The sun had risen, and Marcello was safe,
though she could not see him. That was something. She stood there,
young, strong, beautiful, and absolutely penniless; and Rome was before
her.

For the first time since the previous evening she asked herself what was
to become of her, and how she was to find bread for that day and for the
next, and for all the days afterwards. She would have robbed a church to
feed Marcello, but she would sooner have lost her right hand than steal
so much as a crust for herself. As for begging, she was too proud, and
besides, no one would have given her anything, for she was the picture
of health, her rough clothes were whole and clean, she had tiny gold
earrings in her ears, and the red and yellow cotton kerchief on her head
was as good as new. Nobody would believe that she was hungry.

Meanwhile Marcello was made comfortable in one of the narrow white beds
of an airy ward in the San Giovanni hospital. The institution is
intended for women only, but there is now a ward for male patients, who
are admitted when too ill to be taken farther. The doctor on duty had
written him down as much reduced by malarious fever and wandering in his
mind, but added that he might live and get well. It was wonderful, the
doctor reflected for the thousandth time in his short experience, that
humanity should bear so much as it daily did.

The visiting physician, who was a man of learning and reputation, came
three hours later and examined Marcello with interest. The boy had not
suffered much by sleeping on the tail of the cart in the warm summer's
night, and was now greatly refreshed by the cleanliness and comparative
luxury of his new surroundings. He had no fever now and had slept
quietly for two hours, but when he tried to remember what had happened
to him, where he had been, and how he had come to the place where he
was, it all grew vague and intricate by turns, and his memories faded
away like the dreams we try to recall when we can only just recollect
that we have had a dream of some sort. He knew that he was called
Marcello, but the rest was gone; he knew that a beautiful creature had
taken care of him, and that her name was Regina. How long? How many days
and nights had he lain in the attic, hot by day and cold at night? He
could not guess, and it tired him to try.

The doctor asked two or three questions while he examined him, and then
stood quite still for a few seconds, watching him intently. The two
young house surgeons who accompanied the great man kept a respectful
silence, waiting for his opinion. When he found an interesting case he
sometimes delivered a little lecture on it, in a quiet monotonous tone
that did not disturb the other patients. But to-day he did not seem
inclined to talk.

"Convalescent," he said, "at least of the fever. He needs good food
more than anything else. In two days he will be walking about."

He passed on, but in his own mind he was wondering what was the matter
with the young man, why he had lost his memory, and what accident had
brought him alone and friendless to one of the city hospitals. For the
present it would be better to let him alone rather than tire him by a
