
"No, no; I will not have a word said. I cannot explain, no one can.
And if she took it hard, don't you see, it would drive me wild and
shorten my days. I'm all worn out. And she will be provided for."

Everybody was kind and solicitous, sending in cooked food, offering to
sit up at night, but Miss Beers was equal to all demands. The sick
woman really did improve. Laverne hovered about her mother, read to
her out of her geography and Peter Parley's history, as well as the
sweetest hymns out of the hymn book. Jimmy Cox came over and did the
chores, provided the wood, took Verne out on his sled, and the days
passed along. Jason Chadsey returned. Miss Beers had to go her way,
and a neighbor came in to do what was needed. One day, before the
minister and the Squire, she gave her child to Jason Chadsey, who
promised to care for her and educate her, and keep her from all harm.

"You both know that I loved her mother and would gladly have married
her in the old days, but untoward fate intervened. I could find no
trace of the child's father. She has no near relatives to care for
her, so I shall be father to her, and Heaven may judge me at the
last."

He was holding the child on his knee that evening, "You are to be my
little girl always," he said, with tender solemnity. "You shall be
made happy as a little bird. And if you will only love me----"

"Oh, I shall, I do. And will you stay here? Mother will be so glad.
She was longing so to have you come back. You will never go away
again?"

"Never from you, my little girl;" and he kissed the child's trust into
perfect belief.

There were two more alarms, then the frail life went out peacefully.
The child was stunned. It had seemed right for grandmother to leave a
world that she was forgetting about, but Laverne could not understand
all the mystery. Her mother had always been quiet and reserved, it was
the fashion in those days, and the child could not miss the things she
had never had. And neither could she ever have understood her sorrow
over the great mistake in giving her such a father. But Heaven had
helped her to make amends, for the child was the embodiment of her own
youth. It was all she had and she gave it to the man who had loved her
sincerely, glad and thankful that she was not to be left to the
uncertain charity of the world.

The frightened child clung very closely to him. The worn furniture and
bedding were distributed among the neighbors, a few keepsakes
collected, a few good-bys said, and good wishes given, and they went
first to Boston and then to New York. Then they were to go to the
wonderful land of gold and sunshine, California. They found it on the
map. And there was the long, long sail, and the little girl was going
far away from the only sorrow of her life, that was so strangely
mingled with the only dear love. For while the other had been hedged
about with the severe training of the times, afraid of sinfulness in
indulging in what was called carnal affections, even in loving a
child, now she had the utmost tenderness lavished upon her. She had no
one but him, and that was a continual joy and kept his heart at high
tide. She was all his.

Later she was to know about the young love between them, and how when
her mother was just fifteen he had shipped for three years aboard a
merchantman. They had sailed about the Eastern seas, bought and sold,
and at last started for home, to be wrecked, and nearly all had
perished. Of the few saved there were no tidings of Jason Chadsey.
Laverne waited and hoped and came to her twentieth birthday. David
Westbury was considered a smart young man. He had been a clerk in a
store, he had worked on a newspaper, and taught school, and could
turn his hand to a good many things. He had a smooth tongue, too, and
a certain polish in his manner above the country youths. Grandmother
espoused his cause at once. Jason Chadsey was dead, lovers were not so
plentiful in these small places, where the enterprising young men went
away. It was hard to stand out against one's own mother, and all the
years to come to be taunted as an old maid. And so Laverne married
David Westbury, and when her little girl was a month old he came back
not altogether penniless, but it was too late.

He had roamed about the world a good deal. He had made money, and
spent it freely, lost some of it, helped friends in distress. Now, he
was going out to that wonderful land that had been the dream of the
Spaniard, and another nation had brought the dream true. He would
