added, 'I can sit on the floor under the window, and you will not even
see me.'

'If we cannot shoot you, we can starve you,' retorted Zoë.

'Little ewe-lamb,' said the Tartar, 'the heart of Tocktamish is
fluttering for you like a moth in a lamp. For one kiss you shall have
anything you ask!'

'Do you understand that I mean to starve you?' Zoë asked sternly.

'Oh no, my beautiful pink-and-white rabbit! You will not be so
hard-hearted! And besides, if you will not let me out and give me a
kiss, my men will come presently and burn Carlo's house down, and I
shall carry you away! Ha ha! You had not thought of it! But Tocktamish
is not caught in the trap like a cub. He is an old wolf, and knows the
forest. My men know I am here, and if I do not go back to them within
this hour they will come to get me. That was agreed, and I can wait as
long as that. Then sixty of them will come, and before night we shall
take Carlo to the Emperor and give him up, and tell all we know; and
to-morrow morning he will be on a stake in the middle of the
Hippodrome, and it will be the third day before he is quite dead! Ha
ha! I remember how we watched that old scoundrel Michael Rhangabé! I
and my men were on duty at that execution!'

Zoë's cheeks turned ghastly white, and her eyes gleamed dangerously.
If there had been a weapon in her hand at that moment she could have
aimed well through the grating, and Tocktamish's days would have ended
abruptly. But on the other side of the bars the drunken Tartar was
laughing at his own skill in frightening her, for he thought she
turned pale from fear.

'Can no one silence this brute?' she cried in a tone that trembled
with anger.

'It is easily done,' said a voice she knew.

She turned and looked down from the little elevation of the stone
seat, and she saw the impassive face of Gorlias Pietrogliant looking
up to her.

'Come into the house, Kokóna,' he said, holding up a hand to help her
down. 'We will send him a pitcher of Messer Carlo's oldest wine to
help him pass an hour before his men come to burn the house down!'

Zoë understood the wisdom of the advice; Tocktamish would drink
himself into a stupor in a short time.

'The astrologer is right,' she said to the servants. 'Come in with me,
all of you.' She led the way, but Gorlias lingered a moment, stepped
upon the stone seat, and spoke to the prisoner in a low voice.

'They will be here in half an hour,' he said. 'Meanwhile I will send
you wine to drink. Are you hungry?'

'Hungry?' Tocktamish laughed at the recollection of the peacock. 'I
never dined better! But send me some wine, and when we divide, I will
have that white-faced girl for my share. The men may have the money
here. Tell them so.'

He slapped the well-filled leathern sack at his girdle as he spoke.

'As you please,' Gorlias answered indifferently.

He stepped to the ground again and reached the door in time to enter
with the last of the train that followed Zoë. In the dining-hall
things had been left as they were when Tocktamish and Omobono went
out. The table was in confusion, and flooded with wine that had run
down to the floor, and two or three chairs were upset. Gorlias filled
a silver pitcher with Chian; but when he turned towards the window Zoë
was the only one who saw him empty into the wine the contents of a
small vial which he seemed to have had ready in the palm of his hand.
He called Carlo's man.

'Take it to him,' he said. 'You can easily pass it through the bars.'

'It is not much wine,' observed the man doubtfully. 'He will drink
that at a draught.'

'If he asks for more, fill the pitcher again,' answered Gorlias. 'If
