‘Thank you for telling me that,’ she said. ‘It does make a
difference.’

‘Ippolito never saw him conscious again. Those must have been
almost the last words he ever spoke.’

‘Almost,’ echoed Maria, remembering that night.

‘But there is something else,’ Giuliana said. ‘Shall I tell you?
There is just one thing more.’

‘Does Don Ippolito wish me to know it? He was Diego’s best friend.’

‘Yes. He thinks it will be easier--I mean, it will seem more
natural--if it comes through me. Ippolito will never feel that he
knows you very well. You understand, don’t you, dear?’

‘Certainly. Go on, please.’ Maria prepared herself for a shock.

‘Last Christmas Eve Diego went to see him, and placed in his hands
a letter, to be given to you in case of his death. We have not
thought you were well enough to have it until now. Your husband
told Ippolito what is in the letter in case it were ever lost, and
Ippolito thought best to tell me, so that you may know beforehand
what it is about. You are strong enough now.’

‘Yes,’ Maria said, but she turned a shade whiter. ‘I can bear
anything now!’

‘It ought to relieve you rather than pain you,’ answered Giuliana.
‘The letter is meant to give you his full consent to marry again,
in case he died. But he added----’

Telemaco suddenly checked his horses to a walk at the steep
hill, and it was impossible for Giuliana to go on talking in the
low phaeton without being heard, unless she spoke in a foreign
language. Maria grew whiter.

‘A little faster,’ said Giuliana to the coachman. ‘You can stop at
the top of the hill.’

The New Appian Road is paved throughout, and the horses’ hoofs
began to clatter on the stones again. Maria waited to hear the rest.

‘He added that if you married again he thought it would be your
duty to marry Baldassare--your duty before God and your duty to
society. Yes, dear, what did you say?’

Maria had uttered a little exclamation and had turned her face
quite away.

For the first time since her friend had known her the tears
overflowed, and Giuliana, leaning forwards a little, could just see
two glistening drops on her pale cheek. When Maria turned again she
shook her head slowly.

‘No,’ she said in a low voice. ‘It is too much, it is too generous.
I must never marry him. I must never think of him again. I promised
Diego that I would tear the memory from my heart, and I must. God
help me, for I must.’

Giuliana opened her little bag, a marvel of workmanship fresh from
Paris.

‘Here is the letter, Maria,’ she said. ‘You must have it now, for
it freely gives you back the promise you made. Read it when you are
alone.’

Maria took the letter in silence; and under her black fur-lined
cloak, heavy with crape, she loosened her dress and laid the sealed
envelope upon her bare neck, a little to the left, where she had
laid the letter the monk had given her from Castiglione, some two
months ago, that seemed like ages of ages now.

Just then the horses stopped at the top of the hill, where a lane
turns to the right, leading to Acqua Santa and the golf links. A
large closed carriage with black horses and plain black liveries
was coming rapidly from the opposite direction.

As it passed the phaeton Giuliana and Maria bowed far forwards, for
