
"The girl I left--the girl who left me--was a modest, clean-thinking,
clean-minded girl, who also had a brain to use, and employed it.
Whatever conclusion that girl arrived at concerning the importance of
marriage-vows is no longer my business; but the moment she confronts me
again, offering friendship, then I may use a friend's privilege, as I
do. And so I tell you that loosely fashionable badinage bores me. And
another matter--privileged by the friendship you acknowledge--forces me
to ask you a question, and I ask it, point-blank: Why have you again
permitted Gerald to play cards for stakes at your house, after promising
you would not do so?"

The colour receded from her face and her gloved fingers tightened on the
arms of her chair.

"That is one reason I came," she said; "to explain--"

"You could have written."

"I say it was one reason; the other I have already given you--because
I--I felt that you were friendly."

"I am. Go on."

"I don't know whether you are friendly to me; I thought you were--that
night. . . . I did not sleep a wink after it . . . because I was quite
happy. . . . But now--I don't know--"

"Whether I am still friendly? Well, I am. So please explain about
Gerald."

"Are you sure?" raising her dark eyes, "that you mean to be kind?"

"Yes, sure," he said harshly. "Go on."

"You are a little rough with me; a-almost insolent--"

"I--I have to be. Good God! Alixe, do you think this is nothing to
me?--this wretched mess we have made of life! Do you think my roughness
and abruptness comes from anything but pity?--pity for us both, I tell
you. Do you think I can remain unmoved looking on the atrocious
punishment you have inflicted on yourself?--tethered to--to that!--for
life!--the poison of the contact showing in your altered voice and
manner!--in the things you laugh at, in the things you live for--in the
twisted, misshapen ideals that your friends set up on a heap of nuggets
for you to worship? Even if we've passed through the sea of mire, can't
we at least clear the filth from our eyes and see straight and steer
straight to the anchorage?"

She had covered her pallid face with her muff; he bent forward, his hand
on the arm of her chair.

"Alixe, was there nothing to you, after all? Was it only a tinted ghost
that was blown into my bungalow that night--only a twist of shredded
marsh mist without substance, without being, without soul?--to be blown
away into the shadows with the next and stronger wind--and again to
drift out across the waste places of the world? I thought I knew a
sweet, impulsive comrade of flesh and blood; warm, quick, generous,
intelligent--and very, very young--too young and spirited, perhaps, to
endure the harness which coupled her with a man who failed her--and
failed himself.

"That she has made another--and perhaps more heart-breaking mistake, is
bitter for me, too--because--because--I have not yet forgotten. And even
if I ceased to remember, the sadness of it must touch me. But I have not
forgotten, and because I have not, I say to you, anchor! and hold fast.
Whatever he does, whatever you suffer, whatever happens, steer
straight on to the anchorage. Do you understand me?"

Her gloved hand, moving at random, encountered his and closed on it
convulsively.

"Do you understand?" he repeated.

"Y-es, Phil."

Head still sinking, face covered with the silvery fur, the tremors from
her body set her hand quivering on his.

Heart-sick, he forbore to ask for the explanation; he knew the real
