makes me very happy.  You are doing only what you would ultimately have
done without any impudent advice from me.  You have found yourself, Jim;
you are climbing the rungs very quickly.

"Jim, I am not yet very old—but I might easily be younger....  I was
thinking the other day—and to-night—that sometime I shall be too old and
unattractive to practice this not very dignified profession; and I’m
disinclined to do anything more strenuous.  I don’t want to struggle and
grub and starve along respectably as a feminine physician.  It’s too
late for that, anyway.

"So I don’t know what to do, ultimately, unless I accomplish what I
started out to do—marry a wealthy man.  I mean the first agreeable one I
encounter.

"Well, I won’t bother with that problem to-night; my head aches a
little.

"Good night, Jim.

"JAPONETTE."


Diana finished her letter, sealed and stamped it, and kissed the
superscription.  She always did when she wrote his name.

Then she laid her aching temples on her arms and, leaning limply on the
desk, thought about him.

Hers was a strange, sweet pride in him—a fierce jealousy lest he should
not take the place in the world to which he was entitled, and prove
himself every inch a man.

Nor did she pretend to hide from herself what his return among his own
friends must ultimately mean.  If the love he had offered her had not
been totally extinguished by her light mockery and smiling insolence,
then this return to his own set would do it ultimately. The standards
that measured women there would be fatal to her; nor could he choose but
apply them, sooner or later.

She knew this when she sent him back among his own sort.  She realized
perfectly that if any love for her survived her irony and flippancy—her
airy but trenchant scorn—it could not survive very long when he came to
his cool-headed and reasoning self, and looked around him at the women,
and at the families and relatives of the women among whom he had always
lived.

Already he had spoken of little Aliss Ellis—a mere child, of
course—yet—yet it was a straw prophesying a change in the wind to her.

She knew; she had accomplished what she had desired.  She had done this
thing to herself, to her whole life, for his sake.  What more could she
wish for?

Sick at heart, she lifted her throbbing head and kissed his name once
more where she had written it on the envelope.  Then she placed it on
the desk, and lay down on the bed to wait for Silvette before ringing
for the maid who attended them; and after a little while she fell
asleep.




                             *CHAPTER XII*

                           *NUNC AUT NUNQUAM*


Warm weather continued; no flight occurred.  The men thrashed about with
the dogs after grouse and a few native woodcock bred in the willows
along the river, or rode, motored, and played cards.  One or two had to
give up, and return to the city.

Colonel Curmew was at his best on these gay occasions—gallant, jocose,
busy, everybody’s friend, including Jack Rivett’s, who quietly began to
hate him.

In the midst of the general tension and expectancy concerning the
long-awaited flight, Christine one morning entered her father’s study
and found the author of her being conferring with Mr. Dineen.
