critic even mentions the philosophy of the thing; all they notice is the
mere story and the supposed resemblance between my characters and living
people! I'm cursed if I ever----"

"Oh, shut up!" said Quarren tranquilly. "If you're a novelist you write
to amuse people, and you ought to be thankful that you've succeeded."

"Confound it!" roared Westguard, "I write to instruct people! not to
keep 'em from yawning!"

"Then you've made a jolly fluke of it, that's all--because you have
accidentally written a corking good story--good enough and interesting
enough to make people stand for the cold chunks of philosophical
admonition with which you've spread your sandwich--thinly, Heaven be
praised!"

"I write," said Westguard, furious, "because I've a message to
deliv----"

"Help!" moaned Quarren. "You write because it's in you to do it; because
you've nothing more interesting to do; and because it enables you to
make a decent and honourable living!"

"Do those reasons prevent my having a message to deliver?" roared
Westguard.

"No, they exist in spite of it. You'd write anyway, whether or not you
believed you had a message to deliver. You've written some fifteen
novels, and fifteen times you have smothered your story with your
message. This time, by accident, the story got its second breath, and
romped home, with 'Message' a bad second, and that selling plater,
'Philosophy,' left at the post----"

"Go on!--you irreverent tout!" growled Westguard; "I want my novels
read, of course. Any author does. But I wish to Heaven somebody would
try to interpret the important lessons which I----"

"Oh, preciousness and splash! Tell your story as well as you can, and if
it's well done there'll be latent lessons enough in it."

"Are you perhaps instructing me in my own profession?" asked the other,
smiling.

"Heaven knows I'm not venturing----"

"Heaven knows you are! Also there is something In what you say--" He
sat smoking, thoughtfully, eyes narrowing in the fire--"if I only
could manage that!--to arrest the public's attention by the rather
cheap medium of the story, and then, cleverly, shoot a few moral pills
into 'em.... That's one way, of course----"

"Like the drums of the Salvation Army."

Westguard looked around at him, suspiciously, but Quarren seemed to be
serious enough.

"I suppose it doesn't matter much how a fellow collects an audience, so
that he does collect one."

"Exactly," nodded Quarren. "Get your people, then keep 'em interested
and unsuspecting while you inject 'em full of thinks."

Westguard smoked and pondered; but presently his lips became stern and
compressed.

"I don't intend to trifle with my convictions or make any truce or any
compromise with 'em," he announced. "I'm afraid that this last story of
mine ran away with me."

"It sure did, old Ironsides. Heaven protected her own this time. And in
'The Real Thing' you have ridden farther out among the people with your
Bible and your Sword than you ever have penetrated by brandishing both
from the immemorial but immobile battlements of righteousness. Truth
is a citadel, old fellow; but its garrison should be raiders, not
defenders. And they should ride far afield to carry its message. For few
journey to that far citadel; you must go to them. And does it make any
difference what vehicle you employ in the cause of Truth--so that the
message arrives somewhere before your vehicle breaks down of its own
heaviness? Novel or poem, sermon or holy writ--it's all one, Karl, so
that they get there with their burden."
