     Who views his timid charge with jealous eyes
     And every danger for their sake defies.
     In cheerful day my helpmate and my pride,
     At night my brave companion and my guide.
     The morning flies: no more the song delay,
       For morning most delights the Sylvan Muse,
     Ere modest twilight yields to flaming day,
       And fervid sunbeams drink the cooling dews
     And wither half the freshness of the Spring."

Another nameless person, possibly the "gentle Daphnis," now speaks:

    "Alternate, then, ye swains must answering sing.
     By turns the planets circle round the sun
     In even turns the changing seasons run;
     Smooth-coming night enshrouds the passing day,
     And morn returning smiles the night away."

And doubtless now it is Corydon who resumes:

    "Inspire my song, ye tuneful nine, inspire!
     And fill the shepherd's humble lay with fire.
     Around your altar verdant bays I twine,
     And palms I offer on your sacred shrine.
     Since Julia smiles, let Julia fire my strain,
       And smooth the language of the lay of love
     Till conscious music breathes o'er all the plain,
       And joyous echoes wake the silent grove."

I have no facts to support my conjecture, but I will hazard the belief
that the winter of 1851-2 was largely given to producing and polishing
this plaster-of-paris masterpiece. I might find it easy to make a mock
of the lifeless cast--a "cold pastoral," indeed!--but it would be with a
faint, or perhaps more than faint, heartache for the boy who strove so
fervently to realize a false ideal of beauty in his work. It is my
consolation that his soul was always in his work and that when he turned
to other ideals and truer, because faithfuler to the life he knew, he
put his soul into them, too.


III

In the State Journal office I had soon been changed from the newspaper
to the book room, and was put to setting up the House bills and Senate
bills. I am not ready to say that these potential laws, with their
clattering repetitions of, "An Act entitled an Act to amend an Act,"
intensified my sense of Columbus as a capital, with the lawmaking
machinery always grinding away in it; but the formula had its
fascination, and I remained contented with my work, with no
apprehension, from the frequent half-holidays offered me by the foreman,
that there was ever to be an end of it. All at once, however, the
legislature had adjourned and my father's engagement ended with the
session. My employment somehow ceased with both, and though we children
were now no longer so homesick for the country, and would have liked
well enough to live on in Columbus, we were eager for the new home which
he told us he had found for us in the Western Reserve. In his
anti-slavery opinions he agreed better with the Ohio New-Englanders
there than with the Ohio Virginians and Kentuckians whom we had hitherto
lived amongst; we understood that he had got a share in the Freesoil
newspaper in Ashtabula; and I can recall no wider interval between the
adjournment of the legislature and our taking passage on the newly
completed railroad to Cleveland than sufficed me for a hardy experiment
in gardening among the obdurate clods and brickbats of our small back
yard.

In the news-room of the State Journal office I had seen the first real
poet of my personal knowledge in the figure of the young assistant
editor who used to come in with proofs or copy for the foreman, but I
cannot hope that the reader will recognize him in his true quality under
the name of Florus B. Plympton, or will quite withhold the sophisticated
smile of these days for the simple-hearted American parents of the past
who could so christen an unconsenting infant. I dare say most of his
verse was no worthier of his best than this name, but if here and there
a reader has known the lovely lines of the poem called In Summer when
the Days were Long, he will be glad to have me recall it with him, and
do what I can to bring it back from dumb forgetfulness. I myself had not
read that poem when I used to see the young editor in the news-room, and
he had perhaps not yet written it; I believe I did not think any great
things of other pieces which he printed in the State Journal; and it
was in the book-room, where I was afterward transferred, that I all
