
"Yes, Mr. Rush, I do. It is to my mind the one logical explanation--"

"You mean the logical fictional--"

"I'm no writer of detective stories--"

"Just like a novel then?"

"Ah! That I admit. The great novel is a logical transcript of life. The
incidents rise out of the characters, react upon them, are as inevitable
as the personal endowments, peculiarities, and contradictions.
Understand your characters, and you can't go wrong."

"You are the cleverest young woman I ever met. For that reason I feel
convinced you need no such adventitious aid as confession from a
murderer. You will work it out--your premises being dead right--far
better by yourself. It's the contradictions you mentioned I am thinking
of, both in life and character."

"You are laughing at me. It's no laughing matter!"

"By God, it isn't. But you couldn't expect me to plump out a confession
like that without taking a night to think it over."

"If you don't tell me, I warn you I'll find out for myself. And then
I'll give it to my newspaper. To begin with, I'll find out if you really
did see any one in Brooklyn that Saturday night. I'll discover the name
of everybody you know in Brooklyn."

"That's a large order. I fear the case will be over."

"I'll set the whole swarm on the case. But if you will tell me the
truth, you will be quite safe."

"The cause of literature might influence me were it not that I fear to
be thought a coward--by my fair blackmailer."

"Oh! How dare you? Why, I don't want your secret to use against you. I
thought I explained--how dare you!"

"I humbly beg pardon. Perhaps as it is such a new and flattering
variety, it deserves a new name. I suppose the legal mind becomes
hopelessly automatic in its deductions--"

"Oh, good night!"

They were at the Crumley gate. Rush opened it and passed in behind her.
"I think I too will call on Miss Crumley," he said. "I have been too
busy to call on any one for weeks, but to-night I must take a rest, and
I can imagine no rest so complete as an evening in Miss Crumley's
studio. I see a light in there--let us go round and not disturb Mrs.
Crumley."




CHAPTER XXVI


Miss Austin remained but a few moments in the studio. She was
embarrassed and angry, and Rush was not the sole object of her wrath:
she anathematised herself not only for permitting her literary
enthusiasm to carry her to the point of attempting coercion and running
the risk of being called bad names by an expert in crime, but for
speaking out impulsively in the first place and throwing her cards on
the table. It had been her intention to cultivate the wretch's
acquaintance and lead him on with excessive subtlety; but he had proved
impervious to her maidenly hints that she would like to know him better;
equally so to her boyish invitation to come over some evening and meet a
number of the newspaper girls who were all fighting for his client.
Fifteen minutes alone with him in the quiet streets of Elsinore at night
was an opportunity that might never come again, and she had surrendered
to impulse.

She was now more deeply convinced than ever that he had killed David
Balfame, but although she had no intention of denouncing him even if she
found her proofs in the course of persistent sleuthing, she thought it
wise to "keep him guessing," as the uneasiness of mind caused by this
constant pressure from without might eventually drive him to her for
