
"I care what you do to me!"

"How I behave otherwise doesn’t concern you?"

"No.  It would be an impertinence for me to meddle. For," she added in
smiling paraphrase:

    "If you are not nice to me
    What care I how nice you be—

to other girls?"

"Do you really mean that it wouldn’t make any difference to you what I
do?  Suppose I take you at your word and become enamoured of some girl
and devote myself to her?"

"You mean a nice girl, don’t you?" she inquired.

"Any old kind."

She considered the matter, surprised.

"I couldn’t interfere with your personal liberty," she concluded,
"—whatever you choose to do."

"How would you feel about my frequenting some pretty studio model, for
example?"

"I haven’t the least idea."

"It wouldn’t affect you one way or the other, then?"

"It ought not to—provided you are always nice to me."

"That," he exclaimed, "is a cold-blooded, fishy creed!"

"That’s the creed of tolerance, Jim."

"All right.  Live up to it, then.  And I’ll try to, too," he added
drily.  "Because, sometimes when you’re off, God knows where, with
Grismer, I feel lonely enough to drift with the first attractive girl I
come across."

"Why don’t you?" she asked, flushing slightly.

"The reason I haven’t," he said, "is because I’m in love with you."

She was standing with head bent, but now she looked up quickly.

"You adorable infant," she laughed.  "What a child you really are, after
all!  Come," she added mischievously, "let’s kiss like good children and
let the gods occupy themselves with our future.  It’s their business,
not ours.  I’m glad you think you’re in love with me. But, Jim, I’m in
love with life.  And you’re such an important part of life that,
naturally, I include you!"

She bent forward and touched his lips with hers, daintily, deftly
avoiding his arms, her eyes gay with malice.

"No," she laughed, "not that, if you please, dear friend!  It rumples
and raises the deuce with my hair and gown.  But we are friends again,
aren’t we, Jim?"

"Yes," he said in a low voice, "—if you can give me no more than
friendship."

"It’s the most wonderful thing in the world!" she insisted.

"You’ve read that somewhere."

"You annoy me, Jim!  It is my own conclusion. There’s nothing finer for
anybody—unless they want children.  And I don’t."

Neither did he.  No young man does.  But what she said struck him as
unpleasantly modern.


He met Grismer here and there in the artistic channels of the city;
often in Stephanie’s studio, frequently in other studios, and
