the Wood of the White Moth!"

She sat rocking in her chair in the red firelight, her hands framing her
lovely face, her eyes staring straight ahead as though they saw opening
before them through the sombre shadows of that room all the dread magic
of the East where the dancing flame of Sanang's blazing soul lighted
their path to hell through the enchanted forest.

Recklow had grown pale, but his voice was steady.

"I see no reason," he said, "why your husband should not love you."

"I tell you my girl's soul belonged to Sanang--was part of his, for an
instant."

"It is burned pure of dross."

"It is burned."

Recklow remained silent. Tressa lay deep in her armchair, twisting her
white fingers.

"What makes him so late?" she said.... "I sent my soul out twice to look
for him, and could not find him."

"Send it again," said Recklow, fearfully.

For ten minutes the girl lay as though asleep, then her eyes unclosed
and she said drowsily: "I can not find him."

"Did--did you learn anything while--while you were--away?" asked Recklow
cautiously.

"Nothing. There is a thick darkness out there--I mean a darkness
gathering over the whole land. It is like a black fog. When the damned
pray to Erlik there is a darkness that gathers like a brown mist----"

Her voice ceased; her hands tightened on the arms of her chair.

"That is what Sanang is doing!" she said in a breathless voice.

"What?" demanded Recklow.

"Praying! That is what he is doing! A million perverted minds which he
has seized and obsessed are being concentrated on blasphemous prayers to
Erlik! Sanang is directing them. Do you understand the terrible power of
a million minds all willing, in unison, the destruction of good and
the triumph of evil? A million human minds! More! For that is what he is
doing. That is the thick darkness that is gathering over the entire
Western world. It is the terrific materialisation of evil power from
evil minds, all focussed upon the single thought that evil must triumph
and good die!"

She sat, gripping the arms of her chair, pale, rigid, terribly alert,
dreadfully enlightened, now, concerning the awful and new menace
threatening the sanity of mankind.

She said in her steady, emotionless voice: "When the Yezidee Sorcerers
desire to overwhelm a nomad people--some yort perhaps that has resisted
the Sheiks of the Eight Towers, then the Slayer of Souls rides with his
Black Banners to the Namaz-Ga or Place of Prayer.

"Two marble bridges lead to it. There are fourteen hundred mosques
there. Then come the Eight, each with his shroud, chanting the prayers
for those dead in hell. And there the Yezidees pray blasphemously, all
their minds in ferocious unison.... And I have seen a little yort full
of Broad Faces with their slanting eyes and sparse beards, sicken and
die, and turn black in the sun as though the plague had breathed on
them. And I have seen the Long Noses and bushy beards of walled towns
wither and perish in the blast and blight from the Namaz-Ga where the
Slayer of Souls sat his saddle and prayed to Erlik, and half a million
Yezidees prayed in blasphemous unison."

Recklow's head rested on his left hand. The other, unconsciously, had
crept toward his pistol--the weapon which had become so useless in this
awful struggle between this girl and the loosened forces of hell.

"Is that what you think Sanang is about?" he asked heavily.

"Yes. I know it. He has seized the minds of a million men in America.
