great spiritual benefit to them, and that if you go away, they will
suffer loss. Under these circumstances, Mr. Malcolm, are you willing to
break your present connection?"

"Give me a few hours to reflect," replied the minister, a good deal
affected by this unlooked-for appeal. "I wish to do right; and in doing
it, am ready to cut off the right hand and pluck out the right eye. As
Heaven is my witness, I set before me no earthly reward. If I do
consent to remain, I will not receive more than your first offer of
eight hundred dollars, for on that I can live comfortably."

When the committee again waited on Mr. Malcolm, to receive his answer,
it was in the affirmative; but he was decided in his resolution not to
receive more than eight hundred dollars. But the congregation was just
as much decided on the other side, and although only two hundred
dollars a quarter were paid to their minister by the treasurer, more
than fifty dollars flowed in to him during the same period in presents
of one useful thing and another, from friends known and unknown.

The parish of C-- had quite reformed its mode of paying the minister.




HAD I BEEN CONSULTED.


"HE'S too independent for me," said Matthew Page. "Too independent by
half. Had I been consulted he would have done things very differently.
But as it is, he will drive his head against the wall before he knows
where he is."

"Why don't you advise him to act differently?"

"Advise him, indeed! Oh, no--let him go on in his own way, as he's so
fond of it. Young men now-a-days think they know every thing. The
experience of men like me goes for nothing with them. Advise him! He
may go to the dogs; but he'll get no advice from me unasked."

"You really think he will ruin himself if he goes on in the way he is
now going?"

"I know it. Simple addition will determine that, in five minutes. In
the first place, instead of consulting me, or some one who knows all
about it, he goes and buys that mill for just double what it is worth,
and on the mere representation of a stranger, who had been himself
deceived, and had an interest in misleading him, in order to get a bad
bargain off of his hands. But that is just like your young chaps,
now-a-days. They know every thing, and go ahead without talking to
anybody. I could have told him, had he consulted me, that, instead of
making money by the concern, he would sink all he had in less than two
years."

"He is sanguine as to the result."

"I know. He told me, yesterday, that he expected not only to clear his
land for nothing, but to make two or three thousand dollars a year out
of the lumber for the next ten years. Preposterous!"

"Why didn't you disabuse him of his error, Mr. Page? It was such a good
opportunity."

"Let him ask for my advice, if he wants it. It's a commodity I never
throw away."

"You might save him from the loss of his little patrimony."

"He deserves to lose it for being such a fool. Buy a steam saw-mill two
miles from his land, and expect to make money by clearing it?
Ridiculous!"

"Your age and experience will give your advice weight with him, I am
sure, Mr. Page. I really think you ought to give a word or two of
warning, at least, and thus make an effort to prevent his running
through with what little he has. A capital to start with in the world
is not so easily obtained, and it is a pity to see Jordan waste his as
he is doing."

"No, sir," replied Page. "I shall have nothing to say to him. If he
wants my opinion, and asks for it, he shall have it in welcome; not
without."

The individuals about whom these persons were conversing was a young
man named Jordan, who, at majority, came into the possession of fifty
acres of land and about six thousand dollars. The land was still in
forest and lay about two miles from a flourishing town in the West,
which stood on the bank of a small river that emptied into the Ohio
some fifty miles below.

As soon as Jordan became the possessor of the property, he began to
turn his thoughts toward its improvement, in order to increase its
value. The land did not lie contiguous to his native town, but near to
S--, where he was a stranger. To S--he went, and staying at one of the
hotels, met with a very pleasant old gentleman who had just built a
steam saw-mill on the banks of the river, and was getting in the engine
preparatory to putting it in operation. This man's name was Barnaby. He
had conceived the idea that a steam saw-mill at that point would be a
fortune to any one, and had proceeded to the erection of one forthwith.
Logs were to be cut some miles up the river and floated down to the
mill, and, after being there manufactured into lumber, to be rafted to
a market somewhere between that and New Orleans. Mr. Barnaby had put
the whole thing down upon paper, and saw at a glance that it was an
operation in which any man's fortune was certain. But, before his mill
was completed, he had good reason to doubt the success of his new
scheme. He had become acquainted with Matthew Page, a shrewd old
resident of S--, who satisfied him, after two or three interviews,
that, instead of making a fortune, he would stand a fair chance of
losing his whole investment.

Barnaby was about as well satisfied as he wished to be on this head,
when young Jordan arrived in S--. His business there was soon known,
and Barnaby saw a chance of getting out of his unpromising speculation.
To Jordan he became at once very attentive and polite; and gradually
drew from him a full statement of the business that brought him to S--.
It did not take a very long time for Barnaby to satisfy him, that, by
purchasing his mill and sawing up the heavy timber with which his land
was covered, he would make a great deal of money, and double the price
of his land at the same time. Figures showed the whole result as plain
as daylight, and Jordan saw it written out before him as distinctly as
he ever saw in his multiplication table that two and two are four. The
fairness of Barnaby he did not think of doubting for an instant. His
age, address, intelligence, and asseveration of strict honour in every
transaction in life, were enough to win his entire confidence.

Five thousand dollars was the price of the mill. The terms upon which
it was offered to Jordan were, three thousand dollars in cash, a
thousand in six months, and the balance in twelve months.

Shortly after Jordan arrived in the village, he became acquainted with
Mr. Page into whose family, a very pleasant one, he had been introduced
by a friend. For the old gentleman he felt a good deal of respect; and
although it did not occur to him to consult him in regard to his
business, thinking that he understood what he was about very well, yet,
if Mr. Page had volunteered a suggestion, he would have listened to it
and made it the subject of reflection. In fact, a single seriously
expressed doubt as to the safety of the investment he was about making,
coming from a man like Mr. Page, would have effectually prevented its
being made, for Jordan would not have rested until he understood the
very nature and groundwork of the objection. He would then have seen a
new statement of figures, heard a new relation of facts and
probabilities, and learned that Barnaby was selling at the suggestion
of Mr. Page, after being fully convinced of the folly of proceeding
another step.

But no warning came. The self-esteem of old Matthew Page, who felt
himself to be something of an oracle in S--, was touched, because the
young man had not consulted him; and now he might go to the dogs, for
all he cared.

The preliminaries of sale were soon arranged. Jordan was as eager to
enter upon his money-making as Barnaby was to get rid of his
money-losing scheme. Three thousand dollars cash were paid, and notes
given for the balance. An overseer, or manager of the whole business to
be entered upon, was engaged at five hundred dollars a year; some
twenty hands to cut timber, haul it to the mill, and saw it up when
there, were hired; and twenty yokes of oxen bought for the purpose of
hauling the logs from the woods, a distance of two miles. The price of
a dollar a log, which Barnaby expected to pay for timber floated down
the river, had been considered so dear a rate as to preclude all hope
of profit in the business. The great advantages which Jordan felt that
he possessed was in himself owning the timber, which had only to be cut
and taken to the mill. He had, strangely enough, forgotten to make a
calculation of what each log would cost him to cut and haul two miles.
There were the wood-choppers at a dollar a day, the teamsters at
seventy-five cents a day, and four pairs of oxen to each log to feed.
Eight logs a day he was told that each team would haul, and he believed
it. But two or three logs were the utmost that could be accomplished,
for in the whole distance there was not a quarter of a mile of good
solid road.

Six months in time, and a thousand dollars in money, over and above
wages to his men, were spent in getting the mill into running order.
Jordan had bought under the representation that it was all ready for
starting. After he had got in possession, he learned that Barnaby had
tried, but in vain, to get the mill to work.

In the mean time, the young man was extending his circle of
acquaintance among the families of the place in most of which he was
well received and well liked. Old Matthew Page had an only daughter, a
beautiful young girl, who was the pride of the village. The first time
she and Jordan met, they took a fancy to each other. But as Jordan was
rather a modest young man, he did not make very bold advances toward
the maiden, although he felt as if he should like to do so, were there
any hope of his advances being met in a right spirit.

At the end of a year, all the young man's money was gone, and his last
note to Barnaby was due. There was a small pile of lumber by his
mill--a couple of hundred dollars worth, perhaps--for which he had
found no sale, as the place was fully supplied, and had been for years,
by a small mill that was worked by the owner with great economy. The
sending of his lumber down the river was rather a serious operation for
him, and required a good deal more lumber than he had yet been able to
procure from his mill, which had never yet run for twenty-four hours
without something getting wrong. These two or three hundred dollars'
worth of lumber had cost him about fifteen hundred dollars in wages,
&c. Still he was sanguine, and saw his way clear through the whole of
it, if it were not for the fact that his capital were exhausted.

Matthew Page was looking on very coolly, and saying to himself, "If he
had consulted me," but not offering the young man a word of voluntary
counsel.

To continue his operations and bring out the ultimate prosperous
result, Jordan threw one-half of his land into market and forced the
sale at five dollars an acre. The proceeds of this sale did not last
him over six months. Then he got a raft afloat, containing about a
thousand dollars' worth of lumber, and sent it off under charge of his
overseer, who sold it at Cincinnati, and absconded with the money.

In the mean time, Barnaby was pressing for the payment of the last
note, which had been protested, and after threatening to sue, time
after time, finally put his claim into the hands of an attorney, who
had a writ served upon Jordan.

By this time, old Mr. Page began to think it best, even though not
consulted, to volunteer a little advice to the young man. The reason of
this may be inferred. Jordan was beginning to be rather particular in
attention to Edith, his daughter; and apart from the fact that he had
wasted his money in an unprofitable scheme, and had not been prudent
enough to consult him, old Matthew Page had no particular objection to
him as a son-in-law. His family stood high in the State, and his
father, previous to his death, had been for many years in the State
senate. The idea that Jordan would take a fancy to his daughter had not
once crossed the mind of Mr. Page, or he would not have stood so firmly
upon his dignity in the matter of being consulted.

Rather doubting as to the reception he should meet from the young man,
he called upon him, one day, when the following conversation took place:

"I'm afraid, Mr. Jordan," said Page, after some commonplace chitchat,
"that your saw-mill business is not going to turn out as well as you
expected."

"It has not, so far, certainly," replied Jordan, frankly. "But this is
owing to the fact of my having been deceived in the mill, and in the
integrity of my manager; not to the nature of the business itself. I am
still sanguine of success."

"Will you allow me to make a suggestion or two? I think I can show you
that you are in error in regard to the business itself."

"Most gladly will I receive any suggestion," returned Jordan. "Though I
am not apt to seek advice--a fault of character, perhaps--I am ever
ready to listen to it and weigh it dispassionately, when given. A doubt
as to the result of the business, if properly carried out, has never
yet crossed my mind."

"I have always doubted it from the first. Indeed, I knew that you could
not succeed."

"Then, my dear sir, why did you not tell me so?" said Jordan, earnestly.

"If you had consulted me, I would"--

"I never dreamed of consulting any one about it. I had confidence in
Mr. Barnaby's statements; but more in my own judgment, based upon the
data he furnished me."

"But I have none in either Barnaby or his data."

"I have none in him, for he has shamefully deceived me; but his data
are fixed facts, and therefore cannot lie."

"There you err again. Barnaby knew that the data he gave you was
incorrect. I had, myself, demonstrated this to him before he went far
enough to involve himself seriously. Something led him to doubt the
success of his project, and he came and consulted me on the subject. I
satisfied him in ten minutes that it wouldn't do, and he at once
abandoned it. Unfortunately, you arrived just at this time, and were
made to bear the loss of his mistake."

"You are certainly not serious in what you say, Mr. Page!"

"I never was more serious in my life," returned the old gentleman.

"And you permitted me to be made the victim, upon your own
acknowledgment, of a shameful swindle, and did not expend even a breath
to save me!"

"I am not used to be spoken to in that way, young man," replied Mr.
Page, coldly, and with a slightly offended air. "Nor am I in the habit
of forcing my advice upon everybody."

"If you saw a man going blindfold towards the brink of a precipice,
wouldn't you force your advice upon him?"

"Perhaps I might. But as you were not going blindfold over a precipice,
I did not see that it was my business to interfere."

A cutting reply was on the lips of Jordan, but a thought of Edith
cooled him off suddenly, and he in a milder and more respectful tone of
voice, "I should be glad, Mr. Page, if you would demonstrate the error
under which I have been labouring in regard to this business. If there
is an error, I wish to see it; and can see it as quickly as any one, if
it really exists, and the proper means of seeing it are furnished."

The change in the young man's manner softened Mr. Page, and he sat
down, pencil in hand, and by the aid of the answers which the actual
experience of Jordan enabled him to give, showed him, in ten minutes,
that the more land he cleared and the more logs he sawed up, the poorer
he would become.

"And you knew all this before?" said Jordan.

"Certainly I did. In fact, I built the saw-mill owned by Tompkins, and
after sinking a couple of thousand dollars, was glad to get it off of
my hands at any price. Tompkins makes a living with it, and nothing
more. But then he is his own engineer, manager, clerk, and almost every
thing else, and lives with the closest economy in his family--much
closer than you or I would like to live."

"And you let me go on blindly and ruin myself, when a word from you
might have saved me!"

There was something indignant in the young man's manner.

"You didn't consult me on the subject. It is not my place to look after
everybody's business; I have enough to do to take care of my own
concerns."

Both were getting excited. Jordan retorted still more severely, and
then they parted in anger, each feeling that he had just cause to be
offended.

On the next day, Jordan, who was too well satisfied that Mr. Page was
right, stopped his mill, discharged his hands, and sold his oxen. On
looking over his accounts, he found that he was over a thousand dollars
in debt: In order to pay this, he sold the balance of his land, and
then advertised his saw-mill for sale in all the county papers, and in
the State Gazette.

Meantime, the suit which had been instituted on the note given to
Barnaby came up for trial, and Jordan made an effort to defend it on
the plea that value had not been received. His fifty acres of land were
gone, and all that remained of his six thousand dollars, were a
half-weatherboarded, frame building, called a saw-mill, in which were a
secondhand steam-engine, some rough gearing, and a few saws. This stood
in the centre of a small piece of ground--perhaps the fourth of an
acre--upon which there was the moderate annual rent of one hundred
dollars! More than the whole building, leaving out the engine, would
sell for.

After waiting for two months, and not receiving an offer for the mill,
he sold the engine for a hundred and fifty dollars, and abandoned the
old frame building in which it had stood, to the owner of the land for
rent, on condition of his cancelling the lease, that had still three
years and a half to run.

His defence of the suit availed nothing. Judgment was obtained upon the
note, an execution issued, and, as there was no longer any property in
the young man's possession, his person was seized and thrown into the
county prison.

From the time old Mr. Page considered himself insulted by Jordan, all
intercourse between them had ceased. The latter had not considered
himself free to visit any longer at his house, and therefore no meeting
between him and Edith had taken place for three months.

The cause of so sudden a cessation of her lover's visits, all unknown
to Edith, was a great affliction to the maiden. Her father noticed that
her countenance wore a troubled aspect, and that she scarcely tasted
food when at the table. This did not, in any way, lessen the number of
his self-reproaches for having suffered a young man to ruin himself,
when a word from him might have saved him.

Edith was paying a visit to a friend one day, the daughter of a lawyer.
While conversing, the friend said--

"Poor Jordan? Have you heard of his misfortunes?"

"No! What are they?" And Edith turned pale. The friend was not aware of
her interest in him.

"He was terribly cheated in some saw-mill property he bought," she made
answer, "and has since lost every dollar he had. Yesterday he was sent
to prison for debt which he is unable to pay."

Edith heard no more, but, starting up, rushed from the house, and flew,
rather than walked, home. Her father was sitting in his private office
when she entered with pale face and quivering lips. Uttering an
exclamation of surprise and alarm, he rose to his feet. Edith fell
against him, sobbing as she did so, while the tears found vent, and
poured over her cheeks--

"Oh, father! He is in prison!"

"Who? Jordan?"

"Yes," was the maiden's lowly-murmured reply.

"Good heavens! Is it possible?"

With this exclamation, Mr. Page pushed his daughter from him, and
leaving the house instantly, took his way to the office of the attorney
who had conducted the suit in favour of Barnaby.

"I will go bail for this young man whom you have thrown into prison,"
said he as soon as he met the lawyer.

"Very well, Mr. Page. We will take you. But you will have to pay the
amount--he has nothing."

"I said I would go his bail," returned the old man, impatiently.

In less than twenty minutes, Mr. Page entered the apartment where the
young man was confined. Jordan looked at him angrily. He had just been
thinking of the cruel neglect to warn him of his errors, of which Mr.
Page had been guilty, and of the consequences, so disastrous and so
humbling to himself.

"You are at liberty," said the old gentleman, as he approached him and
held out his hand.

Jordan stood like one half-stupified, for some moments.

"I have gone your security, my young friend," Mr. Page added kindly.
"You are at liberty."

"You my security!" returned Jordan, taking the offered hand, but not
grasping it with a hearty pressure. He felt as if he couldn't do that.
"I am sorry you have done so," said he, after a slight pause--"I am not
worth a dollar, and you will have my debt to pay."

"It's no time to talk about that now, Mr. Jordan. I have gone your
security, because I thought it right to do so. Come home with me, and
we will soon arrange all the rest."

Jordan felt passive. A child could have led him anywhere. He did not
refuse to go with Mr. Page.

Edith was sitting in the room where her father left her, when the
opening of the door caused her to start. There was an exclamation of
delight and surprise; a movement forward, and then deep blushes threw a
crimson veil over the maiden's face, as she sank back in her chair and
covered her face with her hands. But the tears could not be hidden;
they came trickling through her fingers.

Enough, further to say, that within two months there was a wedding at
the house of Mr. Page, and Edith was the bride.

It has been noticed since, that the old gentleman does not stand so
much on his dignity when there is a chance of doing good by
volunteering a word of advice in season. "Had I been consulted," is a
form of speech which he is now rarely, if ever known to use.




THE MISTAKES OF A "RISING FAMILY."


MR. MINTURN was a rising man; that is, he was gaining money and
reputation in his profession. That he felt himself rising, was clearly
apparent to all who observed him attentively. His good lady, Mrs.
Minturn, was also conscious of the upward movement, and experienced a
consequent sense of elevation. From the height they had gained in a few
years, it was but natural for them to cast their eyes below, and to
note how far beneath them were certain individuals with whom they had
once been on a level. The observation of this fact as naturally created
an emotion of contempt for these individuals as inferiors.

Among those ranging below the Minturns,--in their estimation,--was a
family named Allender. Mr. Allender was, or had been, a merchant, and
was highly esteemed by all who knew him, as a gentleman and a man of
fine intelligence. He and Minturn started together in life; the one as
a lawyer, and the other as a merchant. Possessing some capital, Mr.
Allender was able, in commencing business, to assume a comfortable
style of living in his family, while Minturn, who had nothing but his
profession to depend upon, and that at the time of his marriage a very
small dependence, was compelled to adopt, in his domestic relations, a
very humble scale.

Having been well acquainted, for some years, with Mr. Minturn, Mr.
Allender, soon after the marriage of the former, called upon him with
his wife. The visit was promptly returned, and from that time the two
families kept up intimate relations. The Minturns lived in a small
house, in a retired street, for which they paid the annual rent of one
hundred and seventy-five dollars. Their house was furnished with
exceeding plainness, and their only domestic was a stout girl of
fourteen. The Allenders, on the other hand, lived in a fashionable
neighbourhood, so called. For their house, which was handsomely
furnished, they paid a rent of four hundred dollars; and lived in what
the Minturns thought to be great elegance. And so it was, in contrast
with their style of living. Mrs. Minturn felt quite proud of having
such acquaintances, and of being able to visit familiarly in such good
society as was to be found at the house of Mr. and Mrs. Allender. You
could not be in her company for ten minutes, at any time, without
hearing some allusion to the Allenders. What they said, was repeated as
oracular; and to those who had never been in their house, Mrs. Minturn
described the elegance of every thing pertaining thereto, in the most
graphic manner.

Well, as time went on, Mr. Minturn, by strict devotion to business,
gradually advanced himself in his profession. At the end of four or
five years, he was able to move into a larger house and to get better
furniture. Still, every thing was yet on an inferior scale to that
enjoyed by Mr. Allender, to whose family his own was indebted for an
introduction into society, and for an acquaintance with many who were
esteemed as valued friends.

Ten years elapsed, and the Minturns were on a level with the Allenders,
as far as external things were concerned. The lawyer's business had
steadily increased, but the merchant had not been very successful in
trade, and was not esteemed, in the community, a rising man. No change
in his style of living had taken place since he first became a
housekeeper; and his furniture began, in consequence, to look a little
dingy and old-fashioned. This was particularly observed by Mrs.
Minturn, who had, at every upward movement,--and three of these
movements had already taken place,--furnished her house from top to
bottom.

Five years more reversed the relations between to families. The
Minturns still went up, and the Allenders commenced going down. One
day, about this time, Mr. Minturn came home from his office, and said
to his wife:

"I've got bad news to tell you about our friends the Allenders."

"What is that?" inquired Mrs. Minturn, evincing a good deal of
interest, though not exactly of the right kind.

"He's stopped payment."

"What?"

"He failed to meet his notes in bank yesterday, and to-day, I
understand, he has called his creditors together."

"I'm sorry to hear that, really," said Mrs. Minturn. "What is the
cause?"

"I believe his affairs have been getting involved for the last four or
five years. He does not seem to possess much business energy."

"I never thought there was a great deal of life about him."

"He's rather a slow man. It requires more activity and energy of
character than he possesses to do business in these times. Men are
getting too wide awake. I'm sorry for Allender. He's a good-hearted
man--too good-hearted, in fact, for his own interest. But, it's nothing
more than I expected."

"And I am sorry for poor Mrs. Allender," said his wife. "What a change
it will be for her! Ah, me! Will they lose every thing?"

"I have no means of knowing at present. But I hope not."

"Still, they will have to come down a great way."

"No doubt of it."

A week passed, after news of Mr. Allender's business disaster had
reached the ears of Mrs. Minturn, and in that time she had not called
to see her friend in distress. Each of these ladies had a daughter
about the same age; and that age was fifteen.

"Where are you going, Emeline?" asked Mrs. Minturn of her daughter, who
came down, with her bonnet on, one afternoon about this time.

"I'm going to run around and see Clara Allender," was replied.

"I'd rather you wouldn't go there, just now," said the mother.

"Why not?" asked Emeline.

"I have my reasons for it," returned Mrs. Minturn.

Emeline looked disappointed. She was much attached to Clara, who was a
sweet-tempered girl, and felt a week's absence from her as a real
privation. Observing the disappointment of Emeline, Mrs. Minturn said,
a little impatiently:

"I think you might live without seeing Clara every day. For some time
past, you have been little more than her shadow. I don't like these
girlish intimacies; they never come to any good."

Tears were in Emeline's eyes as she turned from her mother and went
back to her room.

Mr. Allender, at the age of forty, found himself unable, through the
exhaustion of his means, to continue in business. He would have
resigned every thing into the hands of his creditors before suffering a
protest, had he not failed to receive an expected payment on the day of
his forced suspension. When he did call together the men to whom he was
indebted, he rendered them up all his effects, and in all possible ways
aided in the settlement of every thing. The result was better than he
had anticipated. No one lost a dollar; but he was left penniless. Just
then, the president of one of the Marine Insurance Companies resigned
his office, and Mr. Allender was unanimously chosen to fill his place.
The salary was two thousand dollars. This was sufficient to meet the
expense at which his family had been living. So there was no change in
their domestic economy. This being the case, the Minturns had no good
reason for cutting the acquaintance of their old friends, much as they
now felt disposed to do so. The family visiting, however, was far from
being as frequent and as familiar as in former times.

Still, on the part of the Minturns the movement was upward, while the
Allender's retained their dead level. The lawyer, who was a man of
talents and perseverance, and withal not over scrupulous on points of
abstract morality, gained both money and reputation in his profession,
and was at length known as one of the most acute and successful men at
the bar. At last, he was brought forward by one of the political
parties as a candidate for a seat in Congress, and elected.

If Mrs. Minturn's ideas of her own elevation and importance in the
social world had been large, they were now increased threefold. A
winter's residence at the seat of government,--during which time she
mingled freely with the little great people who revolve around certain
fixed stars that shine with varied light in the political
metropolis,--raised still higher the standard of self-estimation. Her
daughter Emeline, now a beautiful and accomplished young lady,
accompanied her mother wherever she went, and attracted a large share
of attention. Among those who seemed particularly pleased with Emeline
was a young man, a member of Congress from New York, who belonged to a
wealthy and distinguished family, and who was himself possessed of
brilliant talent, that made him conspicuous on the floor of Congress,
even among men of long-acknowledged abilities. His name was Erskine.

Soon after meeting with the Hon. Mr. Erskine, Mrs. Minturn felt a
strong desire to bring him to the feet of her daughter. He presented
just the kind of alliance she wished for Emeline. In imagination she
soon began to picture to herself the elevated and brilliant position
her child would occupy as the wife of Erskine, and she resolved to
leave no means untried for the accomplishment of her wishes.
Accordingly, she was particularly attentive to the young man whenever
thrown into his company; and sought, by flattering his self-love, to
make him feel in the best possible humour with himself while in her
society. In this way she succeeded in drawing him frequently to her
side, where Emeline was always to be found. A sprightly, well-educated,
and finely accomplished girl, Emeline soon interested the young M. C.;
and he showed her, as has been said, a good deal of attention during
the winter, and Mrs. Minturn flattered herself that her daughter had
made a conquest.

When the session of Congress closed, the Minturns returned home in the
enjoyment of a much higher opinion of themselves than they had ever
before entertained, and quite disposed to be rather more choice than
before in regard to their visiting acquaintance. A few days after their
reappearance in old circles, a card of invitation to meet some friends
at the house of Mr. and Mrs. Allender was received. It extended to
themselves and their eldest daughter, Emeline. Mrs. Minturn handed the
card to her husband on his return from his office in the evening.

"What is this?" he asked, on taking it. "Ah, indeed!" he added, in
rather an equivocal voice, on perceiving its tenor. "Are you going?"

"I rather think not."

"Just as you say about it," remarked the acquiescing husband.

"The truth is," said Mrs. Minturn, "a regard for our position makes it
necessary for us to be more select in our acquaintances. I don't wish
Emeline to be on terms of intimacy with Clara Allender any longer.
There is too great a difference in their social relations. As people
are judged by the company they keep, they should be a little choice in
their selection. I like Mrs. Allender very well in her place. She is a
good, plain, common-sense sort of a woman, but she occupies a grade
below us; and we should remember and act upon this for the sake of our
children, if for nothing else."

"No doubt you are right," replied Mr. Minturn. "Mr. Allender has
neither energy of character nor enterprise; he, therefore, occupies a
dead level in society. At that level he cannot expect every one else to
remain."

"Not us, at least."

"No."

"Clara called to see Emeline yesterday. I saw her in the parlour, and
asked her to excuse Emeline, as she was a little indisposed. It is
true, I had to fib a little. But that was better than a renewal of an
acquaintance that ought now to cease. She seemed a little hurt, but I
can't help it."

"Of course not. I am sorry, for their sakes, that we must give up the
acquaintance. No loss can come to us, as we have more friends, now,
than are just convenient."

"It would help Clara a good deal," remarked Mrs. Minturn, "to mingle in
our circle. Her mother feels this, and, therefore, does not wish to
give us up. I've not the least doubt but this party is made on our
account. It won't do, however; they will have to let us go."

"It will be sufficient to send our regrets," said Mr. Minturn.

"We'd better not even do that," replied his wife. "That will indicate a
wish to retain the acquaintance, and we have no such desire. Better
sever the relation at once and be done with the matter. It is
unpleasant at least, and there is no use in prolonging disagreeable
sensations."

"Be it so, then," remarked Mr. Minturn, rising; and so the thing was
decided.

Mrs. Minturn had lapsed into a small mistake touching the reason that
induced Mr. and Mrs. Allender to give an entertainment just at that
time. It was not in honour of their return from Washington, and
designed to unite the families in a firmer union; no, a thought like
this had not entered the mind of the Allenders. The honour was designed
for another--even for the Hon. Mr. Erskine, who was the son of one of
Mr. Allender's oldest and most valued friends, whom he had not seen for
many years, yet with whom he had enjoyed an uninterrupted
correspondence. On his return home, Mr. Erskine remained a few days in
the city, as much to see Mr. Allender as for any thing else, his father
having particularly desired him to do so. He had never met Mr. Allender
before, but was charmed with his gentlemanly character and fine
intelligence at the first interview, and still more pleased with him at
each subsequent meeting. With Mrs. Allender he was also pleased; but,
most of all, with Clara. About the latter there was a charm that won
his admiration. She was beautiful; but how different her beauty from
that of the brilliant belles who had glittered in the gay circles of
fashion he had just left! It was less the beauty of features than that
which comes through them, as a transparent medium, from the pure and
lovely spirit within. Erskine had been more than pleased with Miss
Minturn; but he thought of her as one in a lower sphere while in the
presence of Clara, who, like a half-hidden violet, seemed all
unconscious of beauty or fragrance.

Yes, it was for Mr. Erskine that the party was given, and in order to
introduce him to a highly refined and intellectual circle, of which Mr.
Allender and his wife notwithstanding external reverses, were still the
centre. Not from any particular pleasure that was expected to be
derived from the company of the Minturns, were they invited; for, in
going up, they had changed so for the worse, that their society had
become irksome, if not offensive. But, for the sake of old friendship,
they were included. But they did not come; and no one missed them.

On the next day, Mr. Erskine called upon Mrs. Minturn and her daughter,
as he intended leaving the city in the afternoon.

"We looked for you all last evening," said Mrs. Minturn. "Why did you
not call around?"

"I was at a select party last night," replied the young man.

"Were you, indeed?"

"Yes. At Mr. Allender's. Do you know the family?"

"At Allender's!" The tone of surprise, not altogether unmingled with
contempt, with which this was uttered by Mrs. Minturn, put Erskine a
little on his guard.

"Do you know them?" he asked, with some gravity of manner.

"Not very intimately. We had some acquaintance in former years, but we
have broken it off. They sent us cards of invitation, but we did not
notice them."

"What is their standing?"

"Not high. I believe none of our first people visit them."

"Ah!"

"Who was there?" asked Emeline.

The tone in which this was spoken caused Mr. Erskine to turn and look
somewhat closely into the young lady's face, to mark its expression.
She had never appeared less lovely in his eyes.

"Not a great many," he replied.

"I suppose not," said Mrs. Minturn.

"It was a select party," remarked the young man.

"And select enough, no doubt, you found it."

"You speak truly. I have never been in one more so," replied Erskine.

"You have not answered my question as to who were there," said Emeline.

"Young ladies, do you mean?"

"Yes, young ladies."

"Do you know Miss B--?"

"I have no particular acquaintance with her. But she was not there!"

"Oh, yes, she was. And so was her father, General B--."

"You astonish me!" said Mrs. Minturn. "Certainly you are in error."

"I believe not. I had a good deal of interesting conversation with
General B--, who is well acquainted with my father."

"Who else was there?"

"Senator Y--, and his beautiful niece, who created such a sensation in
Washington last winter. She and Miss Allender, who is, it strikes me, a
charming girl, seemed delighted with each other, and were side by side
most of the evening. They sang together many times with exquisite
effect. Then there were Mr. and Mrs. T--, Mr. and Mrs. R--, Miss Julia
S--, and Miss G--."

All these belonged to a circle yet above that in which the Minturns had
moved.

"I am astonished," said Mrs. Minturn, but poorly concealing her
mortification. "I had no idea that the Allenders kept such company. How
did you happen to be invited?"

"Mr. Allender is one of my father's oldest and most valued friends. I
called at his desire, and found both him and his family far above the
'common run' of people. I do not in the least wonder at the class of
persons I met at their house. I am sorry that you have been led so far
astray in your estimation of their characters. You never could have
known them well."

"Perhaps not," said Mrs. Minturn, in a subdued voice. "Did you hear us
asked for?" she ventured to add. "We were invited, as I mentioned, and
would have gone, but didn't expect to find any there with whom it would
be agreeable to associate."

This remark did not in the least improve the matter in the eyes of Mr.
Erskine, who now understood the Minturns rather better than before. A
feeling of repugnance took the place of his former friendly sentiments;
and in a briefer time than he had intended, he brought his visit to a
close, and bade them good morning.

What was now to be done? The Minturns had fallen into an error, which
must, if possible, be repaired. The Allenders were of far more
consequence than they had believed, and their estimation of them rose
correspondingly. A note of regret at not being able to attend the
party, in consequence of a previous engagement, was written, and this
enclosed in another note, stating that in consequence of the neglect of
a servant, it had not been delivered on the day before. Both were
despatched within half an hour after Mr. Erskine left the house.

On the day after, Mrs. Minturn and her daughter called at Mrs.
Allender's, and offered verbal regrets at not having been able to
attend the party.

"We wanted to come very much, but both Emeline and I were so much
indisposed, that the doctor said we mustn't think of going
out,"--forgetting at the moment the tenor of the note she had written
only the day before. But scarcely were the words out of her mouth, when
a glance of uneasy surprise from Emeline brought a recollection of this
fact, and caused the blood to mount to her face.

A sudden change in the manner of Mrs. Allender was conclusive evidence
that she, too, was laying side by side the two conflicting statements.

"But even," added Mrs. Minturn, in a voice that betrayed some
disturbance of mind, "if we had not been indisposed, a previously made
engagement would have been in the way of a pleasure that we shall
always regret having lost. You had a highly select party, I understood."

"Only a few old and much esteemed friends, that we invited to meet a
gentleman who was passing through the city, whose father and Mr.
Allender are old acquaintances."

"The Hon. Mr. Erskine, you mean," said Mrs. Minturn, whose vanity led
her to betray herself still more.

"Yes. Have you met him?"

"Oh, yes," was replied with animation. "We were very intimate at
Washington. He showed Emeline very particular attentions."

"Ah! I was not aware that you knew him."

"Intimately. He called to see us yesterday, on the eve of his departure
for New York."

"Oh, mother!" exclaimed Emeline, as soon as they had stepped beyond the
street-door, on leaving the house of Mrs. Allender, "why did you say
any thing at all about Mr. Erskine, and especially after blundering so
in the matter of apology? She'll see through it all, as clear as
daylight. And won't we look beautiful in her eyes? I'm mortified to
death!"

"I don't know what came over me," returned the mother, with evident
chagrin. "To think that I should have been so beside myself!"

So much mortified were both the mother and daughter, on reflection,
that they could not venture to call again upon Mrs. Allender and Clara,
who did not return the last visit. And the intimacy from that time was
broken off.

The next winter came round, and the Minturns repaired again to
Washington. Emeline had hoped to receive a letter from Mr. Erskine,
whom she half believed to be in love with her; but no such desired
communication came. But she would meet him at the Capitol; and to that
time of meeting she looked forward with feelings of the liveliest
interest. On arriving in Washington, at the opening of the session, she
repaired, on the first day, to the Capitol. But much to her
disappointment, a certain member from New York was not in his place.

"Where is Mr. Erskine," she asked of his colleague, whom she met in the
evening.

"Has not arrived yet," was replied. "Will probably be along to-morrow
or next day. He stopped in your city as he came along; and I shrewdly
suspect that he had in contemplation a very desperate act."

"Indeed! What was that?" returned Emeline, endeavouring to appear
unconcerned.

"Taking to himself a wife."

"You surprise me," said the young lady. "Who is the bride?"

"I don't know. He said nothing to me on that subject. Others, who
appear to be in the secret, aver that his detention is occasioned by
the cause I have alleged."

It required a strong effort on the part of Miss Minturn to keep from
betraying the painful shock her feelings had sustained. She changed the
subject as quickly as possible.

On the next day, it was whispered about that Mr. Erskine had arrived in
company with his newly-made bride.

"Who is she?" asked both Mrs. Minturn and her daughter; but no one to
whom they applied happened to know. Those who had seen her pronounced
her very beautiful. Two days passed, and then a bridal party was given,
to which Mrs. Minturn and Emeline were invited. They had been sitting
in the midst of a large company for about ten minutes, their hearts in
a flutter of anticipation, when there was a slight movement at the
door, and then Mr. Erskine entered with his bride upon his arm. One
glance sufficed for Mrs. Minturn and her daughter--it was Clara! While
others were pressing forward to greet the lovely bride, they, overcome
with disappointment, and oppressed by mortification, retired from the
room, and, ordering their carriage, left the house unobserved.

Up to this day, they have never sought to renew the acquaintance.




THE MEANS OF ENJOYMENT.


ONE of the most successful merchants of his day was Mr. Alexander. In
trade he had amassed a large fortune, and now, in the sixtieth year of
his age, he concluded that it was time to cease getting and begin the
work of enjoying. Wealth had always been regarded by him as a means of
happiness; but, so fully had his mind been occupied in business, that,
until the present time, he had never felt himself at leisure to make a
right use of the means in his hands.

So Mr. Alexander retired from business in favour of his son and
son-in-law. And now was to come the reward of his long years of labour.
Now were to come repose, enjoyment, and the calm delights of which he
had so often dreamed. But, it so happened, that the current of thought
and affection which had flowed on so long and steadily was little
disposed to widen into a placid lake. The retired merchant must yet
have some occupation. His had been a life of purposes, and plans for
their accomplishment; and he could not change the nature of this life.
His heart was still the seat of desire, and his thought obeyed,
instinctively, the heart's affection.

So Mr. Alexander used a portion of his wealth in various ways, in order
to satisfy the ever active desire of his heart for something beyond
what was in actual possession. But, it so happened, that the moment an
end was gained, the moment the bright ideal became a fixed and present
fact, its power to delight the mind was gone.

Mr. Alexander had some taste for the arts. Many fine pictures already
hung upon his walls. Knowing this, a certain picture-broker threw
himself in his way, and, by adroit management and skilful flattery,
succeeded in turning the pent-up and struggling current of the old
gentleman's feelings and thoughts in this direction. The broker soon
found that he had opened a new and profitable mine. Mr. Alexander had
only to see a fine picture, to desire its possession; and to desire was
to have. It was not long before his house was a gallery of pictures.

Was he any happier? Did these pictures afford him a pure and perennial
source of enjoyment? No; for, in reality, Mr. Alexander's taste for the
arts was not a passion of his mind. He did not love the beautiful in
the abstract. The delight he experienced when he looked upon a fine
painting, was mainly the desire of possession; and satiety soon
followed possession.

One morning, Mr. Alexander repaired alone to his library, where, on the
day before, had been placed a new painting, recently imported by his
friend the picture-dealer. It was exquisite as a work of art, and the
biddings for it had been high. But he succeeded in securing it for the
sum of two thousand dollars. Before he was certain of getting this
picture, Mr. Alexander would linger before it, and study out its
beauties with a delighted appreciation. Nothing in his collection was
deemed comparable therewith. Strangely enough, after it was hung upon
the walls of his library, he did not stand before it for as long a
space as five minutes; and then his thoughts were not upon its
beauties. During the evening that followed, the mind of Mr. Alexander
was less in repose than usual. After having completed his purchase of
the picture, he had overheard two persons, who were considered
autocrats in taste, speaking of its defects, which were minutely
indicated. They likewise gave it as their opinion that the painting was
not worth a thousand dollars. This was throwing cold water on his
enthusiasm. It seemed as if a veil had suddenly been drawn from before
his eyes. Now, with a clearer vision, he could see faults where,
before, every defect was thrown into shadow by an all-obscuring beauty.

On the next morning, as we have said, Mr. Alexander entered his
library, to take another look at his purchase. He did not feel very
