"Fear! Fear, Mr. Melleville! You make use of strange language."

"Perhaps I do," was answered. "And, as it seems unpleasant to you, I
will say no more. I did not mean, when I called, to speak just as I
have done. But, as the words have been uttered, I beg you to weigh
them well, and to believe that they have a meaning. Good morning."

Jasper suppressed the utterance of the word "stay," which arose to his
lips, and returned the bow of Mr. Melleville, who left without further
remark.

"What can this mean?" Thus mused Leonard Jasper, when alone. "Can this
scoundrel, Martin, have dropped a hint of the truth?" A slight shiver
went through his nerves. "Something is wrong. There is suspicion in
the thought of Melleville. I didn't look for trouble in this quarter."

To his own unpleasant reflections we will leave the merchant, and
return to Edward Claire and his true-minded, loving-hearted wife.

For a week or two after the former entered upon his new duties
as assistant clerk in a night-auction, he experienced no serious
inconvenience from his more prolonged labours, although it did not
escape the watchful eyes of his wife that his complexion was losing
its freshness, and that his appetite was far from being so good as
before. After this, he began to suffer oppressive weariness, that
made the evening's toil a daily increasing burden. Then succeeded a
feverish state, accompanied by pains in the head, back, and through
the breast. Edith remonstrated, even with tears; but still Claire went
nightly to his task, though each successive evening found him with
less and less ability for its performance.

At last, he came home from the store of Mr. Melleville, at the usual
tea-time, feeling so unwell that he was forced to lie down. He had no
appetite for supper, and merely sipped part of a cup of tea brought to
him by his wife as he still reclined upon the bed.

"Don't get up," said Edith, seeing her husband, after he had lain for
some time, about to rise.

"I can't lie here any longer; it's nearly seven o'clock now."

"You're not going out to-night!"

"O yes; I must be at the store. There is no one to take my place, and
the sales will begin by the time I can get there."

"But you are too sick to go out, Edward."

"I feel much better than I did, Edith. This little rest has refreshed
me a great deal."

"No--no, Edward! You must not go away," said his wife in a distressed
voice. "You are sick now, and the extra exertion of an evening may
throw you into a serious illness."

"I feel a great deal better, dear," urged Claire. "But, sick or well,
I must be there to-night, for the sale cannot go on without me. If I
do not feel better to-morrow, I will ask Mr. F---- to get some one,
temporarily, in my place."

Still Edith opposed, but in vain.

By the time Claire arrived at the auction store, his head was
throbbing with a pain so intense that he could scarcely see. Still, he
resolutely persevered in his determination to go through, if possible,
with the duties of the evening; and so, taking his place at his desk,
as the auctioneer went upon the stand to cry the goods which had
been advertised for sale, he prepared to keep the usual record of
purchasers and prices. This he was able to do for half an hour, when
overtaxed and exhausted nature could bear up no longer.

"Mr. Claire," said the auctioneer, as he took in hand a new article,
"did you make that last entry?--Mr. Jackson, ten cents a yard."

Claire's head had fallen over on the book in which he had been
writing, and the auctioneer, supposing him only yielding to a
momentary feeling of fatigue, or indolence, thus called his attention
to his duties.

But Claire made no answer.

"Say! young man! Are you asleep!" The auctioneer spoke now with some
sharpness of tone; but, as before, his words were not heeded.

"What's the matter, Mr. Claire? Are you sick?"

Still no response or movement.

"Mr. Claire! Bless me!" The auctioneer was now by his side, with his
hand on him. "Bring some water, quick! He's fainted--or is dead! Here!
some one help me to lay him down."

Two or three men came quickly behind the auctioneer's stand and
assisted to lift the insensible man from the high stool on which he
was seated, and place his body in a reclining position. Then water
was dashed into his face, and various other means of restoration used.
Full ten minutes passed before signs of returning life were exhibited.
His recovery was very slow, and it was nearly an hour before he was
well enough to be removed to his dwelling.

The shock of his appearance, supported from the carriage in which he
had been conveyed home, by two men, was terrible to his wife, whose
anxiety and fear had wrought her feelings already up to a high pitch
of excitement.

"Oh! what is the matter? What has happened?" she cried, wringing her
hands, while her face blanched to a deathly paleness.

"Don't be frightened," returned Claire, smiling feebly. "It was only a
slight fainting fit. I'm over it now."

"That's all, madam," said the men who had brought him home. "He merely
fainted. Don't be alarmed. It's all over."

After receiving the thanks of Claire and his assurances that he needed
nothing further from their kindness, the men retired, and Edward then
made every effort in his power to calm down the feelings of his wife,
who continued weeping. This was no easy task, particularly as he was
unable long to hide the many evidences of serious illness from which
he was suffering. Against his remonstrance, so soon as she saw how
it was with him, Mrs. Claire sent off the domestic for their family
physician; who on learning the causes which led to the condition in
which he found his patient, hesitated not to say that he must, as he
valued his life, give up the night tasks he had imposed upon himself.

"Other men," said Claire, in answer to this, "devote quite as many
hours to business."

"All men are not alike in constitution," returned the physician. "And
even the strongest do not make overdrafts upon the system, without
finding, sooner or later, a deficit in their health-account. As
for you, nature has not given you the physical ability for great
endurance. You cannot overtask yourself without a derangement of
machinery."

How reluctantly, and with what a feeling of weakness, Claire
acquiesced in this decision, the reader may imagine.

The morning found him something better, but not well enough to sit up.
Mrs. Claire had, by this time, recovered in a measure her calmness and
confidence. She had thought much, during the sleepless hours of the
preceding night, and though the future was far from opening clearly
to her straining vision, her mind rested in a well-assured confidence
that all things would work together for their good. She knew in whom
she trusted. On the Rock of Ages she had built the habitation where
dwelt her higher hopes; and the storms of this world had no power to
prevail against it.

How little dreamed gentle Fanny Elder--or Fanny Claire, as she
was called--when she laid her cheek lovingly to that of her sick
"father"--she knew him by no other name--and drew her arms around his
neck, that he was suffering alone on her account. In her unselfish
love, Claire felt a sweet compensation--while all he endured on her
account had the effect to draw her, as it were, into his very heart.

As quickly as it could be done, Mrs. Claire got through with the most
pressing of her morning duties, and then, the older children away to
school, she came and sat down by her husband's bedside, and took his
hand in hers. As he looked into her face, pale from sleeplessness and
anxiety, tears filled his eyes.

"O, Edie!" said he, his voice tremulous with feeling, "isn't this
disheartening? What are we to do?"

"He careth for us," was the low, calmly spoken reply; and, as Edith
lifted a finger upward, a ray of heavenly confidence beamed in her
countenance.

"I know, Edie; I know, but"--

The sick man left his sentence unfinished. A heavy sigh marking his
state of doubt and darkness.

"We must feel as well as know, Edward," said his wife. "God is good.
In looking back through all our past life, does not the retrospection
lead to this undoubting conclusion? I am sure you will say yes. Has
he not, in every case, proved better to us than all our fears?--Why,
then, should we distrust him now? In the beautiful language of Cowper,
let us say in these dark seasons--

  'Judge not the Lord by feeble sense,
    But trust Him for His grace;
  Behind a frowning providence
    He hides a smiling face.
  His purposes will ripen fast,
    Unfolding every hour;
  The bud may have a bitter taste,
    But sweet will be the flower.'

"Shall we doubt the sun's existence, because the night has fallen? No,
dear husband, no! There are bright stars smiling above us in token of
his unerring return. We know that the morning cometh after a season of
darkness; and so, after our spirits have lingered awhile in the realm
of shadows, the light will break in from above. Has it not always been
so, Edward?"

"He has led us by a way which we knew not."

The sick man's eyes were closed as he murmured these words; and his
voice was slightly tremulous, yet expressive of a returning state of
confidence.

"Yet, how safely," replied Edith. "When our feet were in slippery
places, and we leaned on Him, did he not support us firmly? and when
the mire and clay were deep in our path, did He not keep us from
sinking therein?"

"He is goodness itself," said Claire, a calmer expression coming into
his face. "It is wrong so to let doubt, distrust, and fear creep in
and get possession of the heart; but, we are human--weakness and error
are born with us. When the way in which we are walking is suddenly
closed up before us, and we see the opening to no other way, how can
we keep the faint heart from sinking?"

"Only as Peter was saved from sinking. If we look to God, He will lift
our hearts above the yielding billows. If we stand still, hopefully
and trustingly, the high mountain before us will become as a plain, so
that we can walk on in a smooth way, joyful and rejoicing."

"And so this high mountain, which has risen up so suddenly, will
soon be cleft for us or levelled to a plain, if we wait patiently and
confidingly for its removal?"

"Oh! I am sure of it, Edward," replied Mrs. Claire, with a beautiful
enthusiasm. "We are His creatures, and He loves us with an infinite
love. When his children are disposed to trust too much to the arm of
flesh, He sometimes shows them their weakness in order that they may
feel His strength. Faithfully and unselfishly, my husband, have you
tried to meet the suddenly increased demand upon us: and this out of
love for one of God's children. In the trial, weakness has prevailed
over strength. Suddenly your hands have fallen to your side powerless.
God saw it all; and permitted it all; and, in His own good time, will
supply, from other sources, all that is really needed. We have the
promise--our bread shall be given, and our water sure--not only
the natural food that sustains outward life, but the true bread of
heavenly affections, and the waters of pure truth, which nourish and
sustain the spirit."

Edith ceased speaking. Her husband did not make an immediate reply;
but lay pondering her words, and letting his thoughts expand their
wings in the purer atmosphere into which she had lifted him.

After that they conversed together hopefully of the future; not that
they saw the way more clearly before them, but heavenly confidence had
taken the place of human distrust.

It was, perhaps, eleven o'clock in the day--the doctor had been there,
and pronounced the condition of his patient favourable, but enjoined
quiet and prolonged rest from either bodily or mental exertion--and
the mind of Claire was beginning to run again in a slightly troubled
channel.

"Here is a letter for you," said his wife, coming into the room, after
a brief absence. "A young man just left it at the door."

Claire took the letter, wondering as he did so who it could be from.
On breaking the seal, and unfolding it, he was greatly surprised to
find within a check to his order for one hundred and fifty dollars,
signed Leonard Jasper; and still more surprised to read the
accompanying note, which was in these words:

"Enclosed you will find one hundred and fifty dollars, the sum due
you for Fanny Elder's maintenance during the past and current quarter.
When convenient, I should be glad to see you. Seeing that the child
has remained with you so long, I don't know that it will be advisable
to make a change now, although I had other views in regard to her.
However, when you call, we can settle matters in regard to her
definitively."

"Better to us than all our fears," murmured Claire, as he handed the
letter to his wife, who read it with a truly thankful heart.

"Our way is smooth once more," she said, smiling through outpressing
tears--"the mountain has become a level plain. All the dark clouds
have been swept from our sky, and the sun is shining even more
brightly than of old."

It was more than a week before Claire was sufficiently recovered to
go out and attend to business as usual. At the first opportunity,
he called upon Mr. Jasper, who received him with marked kindness of
manner.

"I do not, now," said the merchant, "entertain the same views in
regard to my ward that I did some time ago. Your opposition to
my wishes then, fretted me a good deal; and I made up my mind,
decisively, that so soon as she was twelve years of age, you must give
her up. It was from this feeling that I acted when I refused to pay
your last order. Since then, I have reflected a good deal on the
subject; and reflection has modified, considerably, my feelings. I
can understand how strong must be the attachment of both yourself and
wife, and how painful the thought of separation from a long-cherished
object of affection."

"The dread of separation, Mr. Jasper," replied Claire, "has haunted us
during the last two years like an evil spirit."

"It need haunt you no more, Edward," was the kindly spoken reply. "If
you still wish to retain the care of this child, you are free to do
so."

"You have taken a mountain from my heart, Mr. Jasper," was the young
man's feeling response.

"It is settled, then, Edward, that she remains with you. And now I
must say a word about her education. I wish that to be thorough.
She must have good advantages; better than the sum now paid for her
maintenance will procure."

Claire made no reply, and Jasper continued--

"I have this to propose. The bulk of property left by her father is
contained in two moderate-sized houses, one of which is at this time
without a tenant. It is a very comfortable house for a small family.
Just the thing, I should say, for you. If you will move into this
house, you shall have it rent free, as a set-off to the increased
charge Fanny will be to you in future. The three hundred per annum
will be paid as usual. How will that do?"

"The compensation, I think, will be greater than the service," replied
Claire.

"Not at all. During the next five or six years, or until she gains
her majority, you will find the cost of clothing and education a
constantly increasing sum. I know more about these things than you
do. And I am very sure, since I understand your relation to her, that
twice this expenditure, could not gain for her what she will have
while in your care. As her guardian, I feel it my duty to provide
liberally for her comfort and education, and to this you, of course,
can have nothing to object."

And Claire did not object. In a few weeks from that time he removed
into one of the houses mentioned by Jasper--a larger and far more
comfortable one than that in which he had lived for several years.
Here, with a thankful heart, he gathered his wife and children
around him. How happy they all were! Not selfishly happy--if such
contradictory terms may be used--but happy in the warmth of mutual
love. A heaven on earth was this little household. Shall we contrast
it with that of Leonard Jasper? No!--the opposite picture would leave
upon the reader's mind too sad an impression; and we will not burden
this chapter with another shadow.




CHAPTER XVIII.


During the five or six following years, a number of events occurred
bearing more or less seriously upon some of the actors in our story.
With Edward Claire and his family, life had flowed on in an even
current; and, but for the fact that his health never fairly recovered
from the shock it received in consequence of his having taxed his
physical system beyond its capability of endurance, the sunshine would
never have been a moment from his threshold.

The important addition made to his income through the new arrangement
volunteered by Fanny's guardian, gave to his external condition a more
favourable aspect. He was no longer troubled about the ways and means
of providing for his needful expenses. A much better situation, so far
as a higher salary was concerned, had, during this time offered; but,
as it required an amount of confinement and labour which he could not
give, without endangering his health, he wisely declined the offer.

Far less smoothly had the current of Leonard Jasper's life flowed
on. Twice during this period had he received visits from his old
acquaintance, Martin, and each time he was made poorer by five
thousand dollars. It was all in vain that he struggled and resisted.
The man had no compassion in him. He cared not who suffered loss, so
he was the gainer.

There were other miners at work sapping the foundations of Jasper's
fortune, besides this less concealed operator. Parker, the young man
who succeeded to the place of Claire, and who was afterward raised to
the condition of partner, with a limited interest, was far from
being satisfied with his dividend in the business. The great bulk of
Jasper's means were used in outside speculations; and as the result of
these became successively known to Parker, his thoughts began to run
in a new channel. "If I only had money to go into this," and, "If I
only had money to go into that," were words frequently on his tongue.
He regarded himself as exceedingly shrewd; and confidently believed
that, if he had capital to work with, he could soon amass an
independent fortune.

"Money makes money," was his favourite motto.

Unscrupulous as his partner, it is not surprising that Parker, ere
long, felt himself perfectly authorized to use the credit of the house
in private schemes of profit. To do this safely, it was necessary to
have a friend outside of the firm. Such a friend he did not find it
very hard to obtain; and as nearly the whole burden of the business
fell upon his shoulders, it was not at all difficult to hide every
thing from Jasper.

Confident as Parker was in his great shrewdness, his speculations
outside of the business did not turn out very favourably. His first
essay was in the purchase of stocks, on which he lost, in a week, two
thousand dollars.

Like the gamester who loses, he only played deeper, in the hope of
recovering his losses; and as it often happens with the gamester, in
similar circumstances, the deeper he played, the more he lost.

And so it went on. Sometimes the young man had a turn of good fortune,
and sometimes all the chances went against him. But he was too far
committed to recede without a discovery. There was no standing still;
and so newer and bolder operations were tried, involving larger and
larger sums of money, until the responsibilities of the firm, added
to the large cash drafts made without the cognizance of Jasper, were
enormous.

To all such mad schemes the end must come; and the end came in this
instance. Failing to procure, by outside operations, sufficient money
to meet several large notes, he was forced to divulge a part of his
iniquity to Jasper, in order to save the credit of the firm. Suspicion
of a deeper fraud being thereby aroused in the mind of his partner,
time, and a sifting investigation of the affairs of the house,
revealed the astounding fact that Parker had abstracted in money, and
given the notes of the firm for his own use, to the enormous amount of
fifty thousand dollars.

A dissolution of co-partnership took place in consequence. Parker,
blasted in reputation, was dragged before a court of justice, in order
to make him disgorge property alleged to be in his possession. But
nothing could be found; and he was finally discharged from custody.
The whole loss fell upon Jasper. He had nursed a serpent in his bosom,
warming it with the warmth of his own life; and the serpent had stung
him. Is it any wonder?

This circumstance, the discovery of Parker's fraudulent doings, took
place about two years prior to the time when Fanny Elder attained her
legal age.

The first thought of Jasper, after his separation from Parker, which
took place immediately on discovering that he had used the credit of
the firm improperly, was to send for Claire, and offer him a salary
of a thousand dollars a year, to come in and fill the responsible
position as clerk, from which Parker had just been ejected as partner.

"I can trust him fully," said Jasper to himself; "and I don't know
anybody else that I can trust. He is honest; I will give him credit
for that; too honest, it may be, for his own good. But, I don't know.
Who would not rather be in his shoes than in Parker's?"

For some time Jasper's mind was favourable to making Claire the offer
proposed, and he was about writing him a note, when a new view of the
case struck him, dependent on the young man's relation to his ward,
Fanny Elder.

"Oh no, no, no!" said he emphatically, speaking to himself--"that,
I fear me, will not do. It would give him too open an access to
my books, papers, and private accounts, in which are entries and
memoranda that it might be dangerous for him to see."

Jasper sighed deeply as he finished this sentence, and then fell into
a musing state. His thoughts, while this lasted, were not of the most
self-satisfying character. Some serious doubts as to his having, in
the main, pursued the wisest course in life, were injected into his
mind; and, remarkable as it may seem for one so absorbed in the love
of gain, there were moments when he almost envied the poor, but honest
clerk, who had an approving conscience, and feared no man's scrutiny.

It was with no slight reluctance that he finally came to the
conclusion that it would be altogether unsafe to take Claire into his
employment. And so he cast about for some one to supply the place
left vacant by Parker's withdrawal from the business. In his final
selection he was not over-fortunate, as the result proved. The new
clerk was shrewd, and capable enough, and apparently as much devoted
to his employer's interests as Jasper could wish. Had not his own
interests been regarded as paramount to those of the merchant, Jasper
would have possessed in him a valuable assistant. But the clerk
did not rise superior to temptations which came in his way.
Jasper continued to trade on the close-cutting, overreaching, and
unscrupulous system; and under such a teacher his clerk proved an apt
learner.

"He cuts right and left," said he to himself, "and why may not I cut
left and right when a good opportunity offers?"

Soon he began to "cut left and right," as he termed it, and it was not
remarkable that, in his cutting operations, his employer occasionally
suffered. The upshot was, after holding his situation a year, that
several false entries, in his hand-writing, were discovered in the
books of Mr. Jasper. To what extent he robbed his employer, the latter
never accurately knew; but he was worse off by at least three or four
thousand dollars through his peculations.

Again the question of taking Claire once more into his employment came
up in the mind of Jasper. After viewing it on every side, the decision
was adverse. He felt that too great a risk was involved. And so he
employed one in whom he could confide with less certainty.

Several years had now passed since the merchant began to feel the
shock of adverse winds. All before was a summer sea, and the ship of
his fortune had bent her sails alone to favouring breezes. But this
was to be no longer. His ship had suffered not only by stress of
weather, but also by the sacrifice of a portion of cargo to save what
remained. And, at last, she was driving on toward the breakers, and
her safety from destruction only hoped for through the activity,
skill, and tireless vigilance of her helmsman.

A few years before, Mr. Jasper considered himself worth between two
and three hundred thousand dollars; now, he passed sleepless nights in
fear of impending ruin. He had trusted in riches; he had called them,
in his heart, the greatest good. At his word they had poured in upon
him from all sides, until he was half bewildered at sight of the
glittering treasures; but, just as he began to feel secure in his
possessions, they began to take themselves wings and fly away.

And, alas for him! he had laid up no other treasures. None in heaven;
none in the hearts of his wife and children; none in his own mind. The
staff upon which he had leaned was now a splintering reed, wounding as
it bent under him.




CHAPTER XIX.


There was one point of time to which Leonard Jasper looked with no
little anxiety, and that was to the period of Fanny Elder's majority,
when it was his purpose to relinquish his guardianship, and wash his
hands, if it were possible to do so, entirely clean of her. Until the
estate left by her father was settled up, the property in her hands
and receipts in his, there was danger ahead. And, as the time drew
nearer and nearer, he felt increasing uneasiness.

On the very day that Fanny reached her eighteenth year, Jasper sent a
note to Claire, asking an interview.

"I wish," said he, when the latter came, "to have some conference with
you about Miss Elder. She has now, you are no doubt aware, attained
the legal age. Such being the case, I wish, as early as it can be
done, to settle up the estate of her father, and pay over to her, or
to any person she may select as her agent, the property in my hands.
It has increased some in value. Will you consult her on the subject?"

Claire promised to do so; and, at the same time, asked as to the
amount of Fanny's property.

"The total value will not fall much short of eight thousand dollars,"
replied Jasper. "There are two houses and lots that would sell at any
time for six thousand dollars. You live in one of these houses, and
the other is rented for two hundred and fifty dollars. Then there are
nearly two thousand dollars in six per cent. stocks. When her father
died, his estate consisted of these two houses, and a piece of poor
land which he had taken as satisfaction for a debt. At the first
opportunity, I sold the land and invested the money. This sum, with
accumulations of interest, and rents received for several years,
beyond what was required for Fanny's maintenance, has now increased
to within a fraction of two thousand dollars, and is, as just said,
invested in stocks. I think," added Jasper, "that you had better
assume the management of this property yourself. Get from Miss Elder a
power of attorney authorizing you to settle the estate, and the whole
business can be completed in a very short time. I will make you out an
accurate statement of every thing, so that you will be at no loss to
comprehend the accounts."

To this there could, of course, be no objection on the part of Claire.
He promised to confer with Fanny, and let Jasper know, in a day or
two, the result.

Now came a new trial for Claire and his wife. They had taken Fanny,
when only four years of age, and taken her so entirely into their home
and affections, that she had almost from the first seemed to them as
one of their own children. In a brief time the earlier memories of the
child faded. The past was absorbed in the present; and she loved
as parents none other than those she called by the tender names of
"father" and "mother." The children with whom she grew up she
knew only as her brothers and sisters. This thorough adoption and
incorporation of the child into their family was not, in any sense,
the work of design on the part of Claire and his wife. But they saw,
in the beginning, no reason to check the natural tendency thereto.
When little Fanny, of her own accord, addressed them, soon after her
virtual adoption, as "father" and "mother," they accepted the child's
own interpretation of their relative positions, and took her from that
moment more entirely into their hearts.

And so Fanny Elder grew up to womanhood, in the full belief that she
was the child of Mr. and Mrs. Claire. The new trial through which this
excellent couple were now to pass, the reader can easily imagine.
The time had come when Fanny must know the real truth in regard to
herself--must be told that she had no natural claim upon the love of
those whose love she prized above all things.

It seemed cruel to take away the conscious right to love and be loved,
which had so long blessed her. And yet the truth must now be made
known, and Mrs. Claire took upon herself the task of breaking it as
gently as possible.

A woman in age and stature, yet with all the gentle deference of
a daughter, Fanny moved by the side of Mrs. Claire with a loving
thoughtfulness, daily sharing her household duties. Some months before
she had left school, but was still taking lessons in music and French,
and devoting a portion of time to practice in drawing, for which she
had a decided taste.

On the day after Mr. Claire's interview with Jasper, Mrs. Claire said
to Fanny, with a seriousness of tone and manner that brought a look of
surprise to her face--

"Come to my room with me, dear. I have something to say to you."

Fanny moved along by her side, wondering to herself what could be in
her mother's mind. On entering the chamber, Mrs. Claire shut the door,
and then, as she sat down, with an arm around the young girl's waist,
she said, in a thoughtful, earnest voice--

"Fanny, I want you to tell me the first thing you recollect in life."

"The first thing, mother?" She smiled at a request so unexpected, and
Mrs. Claire smiled in return, though from a different cause.

"Yes, dear. I have a reason for asking this. Now, let your thoughts
run back--far back, and recall for me the very first thing you can
recollect."

The countenance of Fanny grew thoughtful, then serious, and then a
half-frightened look flashed over it.

"Why, mother," said she, "what can you mean? What do you want to
know?"

"Your first recollection, dear?" returned Mrs. Claire, with an
assuring smile, although her heart was full, and it required the most
active self-control to prevent her feelings from becoming manifest in
her voice.

"Well, let me see! The first? The first? I was playing on the floor
with a dear little baby? It was our Edie, wasn't it?"

"Yes--so far your memory is correct. I remember the time to which you
refer as perfectly as if but a week had passed. Now, dear, try if you
can recall any thing beyond that."

"Beyond that, mother? Oh, why do you ask? You make me feel so
strangely. Can it be that some things I have thought to be only the
memory of dreams, are indeed realities?"

"What are those things, my child?"

"I have a dim remembrance of a pale, but beautiful woman who often
kissed and caressed me--of being in a sick-room--of a strange
confusion in the house--of riding in a carriage with father to a
funeral. Mother! is there any thing in this; if so, what does it
mean?"

"That woman, Fanny," said Mrs. Claire, speaking with forced composure,
"was your mother."

The face of the young girl grew instantly pale; her lips parted;
and she gasped for breath. Then falling forward on the bosom of Mrs.
Claire, she sobbed--

"Oh, mother! mother! How can you say this? It cannot, it cannot be.
You are my own, my only mother."

"You did not receive your life through me, Fanny," replied Mrs.
Claire, so soon as she could command her voice, for she too was
overcome by feeling--"but in all else I am your mother; and I love you
equally with my other children. If there has ever been a difference,
it has all been in your favour."

"Why, why did you destroy the illusion under which I have so long
rested?" said Fanny, when both were more composed. "Why tell me
a truth from which no good can flow? Why break in upon my happy
ignorance with such a chilling revelation? Oh, mother, mother! Forgive
me, if I say you have been cruel."

"Not so, my child. Believe me, that nothing but duty would have ever
driven me to this avowal. You are now at woman's legal age. You have
a guardian, in whose hands your father, at his death, left, for your
benefit, some property; and this person now desires to settle the
estate, and transfer to you what remains."

Bewildered, like one awakening from a dream, Fanny listened to
this strange announcement. And it was some time before she really
comprehended her true position.

"Not your child--a guardian--property!--What does it all mean? Am I
really awake, mother?"

"Yes, dear, you are awake. It is no dream, believe me," was the tender
reply of Mrs. Claire. "But, remember, that all this does not
diminish our love for you--does not remove you in the least from
our affections. You are still our child, bound to us by a thousand
intertwining chords."

But little more passed between them at this interview. Fanny asked
for no more particulars, and Mrs. Claire did not think it necessary to
give any further information. Fanny soon retired to her own chamber,
there to commune with her thoughts, and to seek, in tears, relief to
her oppressed feelings.

The meeting of Claire with Fanny, on his return home, was affecting.
She met him with a quivering lip and moistened eyes, and, as she
laid her cheek against his breast, murmured in a sad, yet deeply
affectionate voice--

"My father!"

"My own dear child!" quickly replied Claire, with emotion.

And then both stood for some time silent. Leading her to a seat,
Claire said tenderly--

"I have always loved you truly, and now you are dearer to me than
ever."

"My more than father," was her simple response.

"My own dear child!" said Mr. Claire, kissing her fondly. "We have
ever blessed the day on which you came to us from God."

Words would only have mocked their feelings, and so but few words
passed between them, yet how full of thoughts crowding upon thoughts
were their minds--how over-excited their hearts with new emotions of
love.

After the younger members of the family had retired on that evening,
Mr. and Mrs. Claire and Fanny were alone together. All three were in
a calmer state of mind. Fanny listened with deep attention, her hand
shading her countenance so as to conceal its varying expression, to
a brief history of her parentage. Of things subsequent to the time of
her entrance into her present home, but little was said. There was
an instinctive delicacy on the part of Claire and his wife, now that
Fanny was about coming into the possession of property, which kept
back all allusion to the sacrifices they had made, and the pain they
had suffered on her account, in their contentions with her guardian.
In fact, this matter of property produced with them a feeling of
embarrassment. They had no mercenary thoughts in regard to it--had
no wish to profit by their intimate and peculiar relation. And yet,
restricted in their own income, and with a family growing daily more
expensive, they understood but too well the embarrassment which
would follow, if any very important change were made in their present
external relations. To explain every thing to Fanny, would, they knew,
lead to an instant tender of all she possessed. But this they
could not do; nor had they a single selfish desire in regard to her
property. If things could remain as they were, without injustice to
Fanny, they would be contented; but they were not altogether satisfied
as to the amount they were receiving for her maintenance. It struck
them as being too much; and they had more than once conferred together
in regard to its reduction.

The first thing to be done was to make Fanny comprehend her relation
to Mr. Jasper, her guardian, and his wish to settle up the estate of
her father, and transfer to her, or her representative, the property
that remained in his hands.

"I will leave all with you, father," was the very natural response
made to this. "All I have is yours. Do just as you think best."

On the next day a power of attorney in the name of Edward Claire was
executed; and, as Jasper was anxious to get the business settled,
every facility thereto was offered. Claire examined the will of Mr.
Elder, in which certain property was mentioned, and saw that it agreed
with the guardian's statement. All the accounts were scrutinized; and
all the vouchers for expenditure compared with the various entries.
Every thing appeared correct, and Claire expressed himself entirely
satisfied. All legal forms were then complied with; and, in due time,
the necessary documents were prepared ready for the signature of
Claire, by which Jasper would be freed from the nervous anxiety he had
for years felt whenever his thoughts went forward to this particular
point of time.

On the evening preceding the day when a consummation so long and
earnestly looked for was to take place, Jasper, with his mind too much
absorbed in business troubles to mingle with his family, sat alone in
his library, deeply absorbed in plans and calculations. His confidence
in fortune and his own prudence had been growing weaker, daily; and
now it seemed to him as if a great darkness were gathering all around.
He had fully trusted in himself; alas! how weak now seemed to him
his human arm; how dim the vision with which he would penetrate the
future. He was mocked of his own overweening and proud confidence.

This was his state of mind when a servant came to the library-door,
and announced a gentleman who wished to see him.

"What is his name?" asked Jasper.

"He said it was no difference. He was a friend."

"It might make a great difference," Jasper muttered in an undertone.
"Show him up," he said aloud.

The servant retired, and Jasper waited for his visitor to appear. He
was not long in suspense. The door soon reopened, and a man, poorly
clad, and with a face bearing strong marks of intemperance and evil
passions, came in.

"You do not know me," said he, observing that the merchant, who had
risen to his feet, did not recognise him.

Jasper shook his head.

"Look closer." There was an air of familiarity and rude insolence
about the man.

"Martin!" exclaimed Jasper, stepping back a few paces. "Is it
possible!"

"Quite possible, friend Jasper," returned the man, helping himself to
a chair, and sinking into it with the air of one who felt himself at
home.

Surprise and perplexity kept the merchant dumb for some moments. He
would quite as lief have been confronted with a robber, pistol in
hand.

"I do not wish to see you, Martin," said he, at length, speaking in a
severe tone of voice. "Why have you intruded on me again? Are you not
satisfied? Have you no mercy?"

"None, Leonard Jasper, none," replied the man scowling. "I never knew
the meaning of the word--no more than yourself."

"You are nothing better than a robber," said the merchant, bitterly.

"I only share with bolder robbers their richer plunder," retorted the
man.

"I will not bear this, Martin. Leave my presence."

"I will relieve you certainly," said the visitor, rising, "when you
have done for me what I wish. I arrived here, to-day, penniless; and
have called for a trifling loan to help me on my way North."

"Loan! what mockery! I will yield no further to your outrageous
demands. I was a fool ever to have feared the little power you
possess. Go, sir! I do not fear you."

"I want your check for two hundred dollars--no more," said Martin, in
a modified tone--"I will not be hard on you. Necessity drives me to
this resort; but I hope never to trouble you again."

"Not a dollar," replied Jasper, firmly. "And now, my friend, seek
some other mode of sustaining yourself in vice and idleness. You have
received from me your last contribution. In settling the estate
of Reuben Elder to the entire satisfaction of all parties, I have
disarmed you. You have no further power to hurt."

"You may find yourself mistaken in regard to my power," replied
Martin as he made a movement toward the door, and threw back upon the
merchant a side-glance of the keenest malignity. "Many a foot has been
stung by the reptile it spurned."

The word "stay" came not to Jasper's lips. He was fully in earnest.
Martin paused, with his hand on the door, and said--

"One hundred dollars will do."

"Not a copper, if it were to save you from the nether regions!"
cried Jasper, his anger and indignation o'erleaping the boundaries of
self-control.

He was alone in the next moment. As his excitement cooled down, he
felt by no means indifferent to the consequences which might follow
this rupture with Martin. More than one thought presented itself,
which, if it could have been weighed calmly a few minutes before,
would have caused a slightly modified treatment of his unwelcome
visitor.

But having taken his position, Jasper determined to adhere to it, and
brave all consequences.

While Claire was yet seated at the breakfast-table on the next
morning, word was brought that a gentleman was in the parlour and
wished to see him.

On entering the parlour, he found there a man of exceedingly ill
appearance, both as to countenance and apparel.

"My name is Martin," said this person--"though you do not, I presume,
know me."

Claire answered that he was to him an entire stranger.

"I have," said the man, speaking in a low, confidential tone of voice,
"became cognisant of certain facts, which it much concerns you, or at
least your adopted daughter, Fanny Elder, to know."

For a few moments, Claire was overcome with surprise.

"Concerns Fanny Elder to know! What do you mean, sir?"

"Precisely what I say. There has been a great fraud committed; and I
know all the ins and the outs of it!"

"By whom?" asked Claire.

"Ah!" replied the visitor, "that we will come to after a while."

"Upon whom, then?"

"Upon the estate of Ruben Elder, the father of your adopted daughter."

Not liking either the man's appearance or manner, Claire said, after a
moment's reflection--

"Why have you called to see me?"

"To give the information I have indicated--provided, of course, that
you desire to have it."

"On what terms do you propose to act in this matter? Let us understand
each other in the beginning."

"I can put you in the way of recovering for Miss Elder from twenty to
a hundred thousand dollars, out of which she has been cheated. But,
before I give you any information on the subject, I shall require an
honourable pledge on your part, as well as written agreement, to pay
me twenty per cent. of the whole amount recovered. Will you give it?"

Claire bent his head in thought for some moments. When he looked up he
said--

"No, sir. I can make no compact with you of this kind."

"Very well, sir. That closes the matter," replied Martin, rising. "If
you will not buy a fortune at so small a cost, you deserve to be poor.
How far your conscience is clear in respect to Miss Elder, is another
matter. But, perhaps you don't credit what I say. Let me give you a
single hint. Fanny Elder was missing once for three days. I had a hand
in that affair. Do you think she was carried off, and taken to another
city for nothing? If so, you are wonderfully mistaken. But good
morning, sir. If you should, on reflection, change your mind, you can
hear of me by calling at the office of Grind, the lawyer."

"Good morning," returned Claire, showing not the least disposition to
retain the man, toward whom he experienced a strong feeling of dislike
and sense of repulsion.

Martin lingered a few moments, and then went out, leaving Claire
bewildered by a rush of new thoughts.




CHAPTER XX.


The meeting of Claire and Jasper, for the final settlement of Mr.
Elder's estate, was to take place at the office of Grind, at ten
o'clock. Before keeping his appointment, the former turned over in
his mind, with careful deliberation, the circumstances which had just
occurred; and the more he thought of it, the better satisfied was he
that a fraud had been committed. The author of that fraud could be no
one else but the guardian of Fanny; of whose honesty Claire had, with
good reason, no very high opinion. His conclusion was, not to accept,
at present, a settlement of the estate.

With an uneasy foreboding of evil--he was, in fact, rarely now without
that feeling--Leonard Jasper took his way to the office of Grind.
Notwithstanding he had defied Martin, he yet feared him. But he was so
near to the point of comparative safety, that he hoped soon to be past
all real danger from this quarter. Too little time had elapsed, since
he parted with him, for Martin to see Claire, even if a thought
of assailing him in that quarter had crossed his mind. So Jasper
believed. How sadly taken by surprise was he, therefore, when, on
meeting Claire, the latter said--

"Since I saw you yesterday, a matter has come to my knowledge which
I feel bound to investigate, before proceeding any farther in this
business."

As if struck by a heavy blow, Jasper moved a pace or two backward,
while an instant pallor overspread his face. Quickly recovering
himself, he said--

"Explain yourself, Edward. What matter has come to your knowledge?"

"On that subject I would prefer speaking with you alone," replied
Claire.

"This room is at your service," said Grind, rising and retiring toward
his front office. "You will be altogether free from intrusion." And he
passed out, closing the door behind him.

"Edward," said Jasper, in as firm a voice as he could assume, "What is
the meaning of this? You look at me with an expression of countenance,
and have spoken in a tone that implies a belief on your part that I
have not acted fairly in the matter of this guardianship."

"Such, at least, is my impression," replied Claire, firmly.

"Have you come here to insult me, sir?" Jasper drew himself up with an
offended manner.

"No, Mr. Jasper. I have no such intention. All I purpose is, to
ascertain how far certain information received by me this morning is
correct."

"What information?"

The merchant became a good deal agitated.

"A man named Martin called on me"--

"Martin! oh, the wretch! My curses rest on him, for a base betrayer!"

