"I tell him I don't sell it to no one but a Simlins--nor that neither
till I can't live in it no longer myself."

"Is that your fault--or Judge Harrison's?" said Mr. Linden, setting the
basket of Stoutenburgh Sweetings on the little table in the full light
of the lamp. "Miss Faith, if those are 'sweetenings,' they may as well
do their office."

The farmer sat with his elbows on his knees, touching the tips of his
fingers together in thoughtful fashion, and softly blowing the breath
through his lips in a way that might have reached the dignity of a
whistle if it had had a trifle more of musicalness.

"Is them the sort of lessons you give in school?" he said at length
without stirring.

"Why?" said Mr. Linden with a little bit of a smile.

"Ingen-uous," said Mr. Simlins. "It's as good as a book, Mrs. Derrick,"
added he glancing up at the rocking chair, "is Squire Deacon wantin' to
buy your house?"

"My!" said Mrs. Derrick, again laying down her knitting, "can't he be
content with his own? I hope he don't want ours," she added, some fear
mingling with her surprise.

"Miss Faith," said Mr. Linden, "do you think if I gave you an apple you
would give me a knife?"

"I hope he don't," growled Mr. Simlins as he rose up. "I never heerd
that he did. Miss Faith--them Stoutenburgh Sweetings is good eatin'."
Faith after setting a pile of plates and knives on the table, had taken
up her stocking again.

"Yes Mr. Simlins--I know they are."

"Then why don't you eat one?"

"I don't want it just now, Mr. Simlins--I'd rather finish my work."

"Work!" said the farmer taking an apple. "Well--good evening! I'll go
and look after my work. I guess we'll fix it. There's a sight o' work
in the world!"

With which moral reflection Mr. Simlins departed.

"There'll be more work than sight, at this rate," said Mr. Linden when
he came back from the front door. "Mrs. Derrick, how many stockings
does Miss Faith absolutely require for one day?"

"Why I don't know sir--and I don't believe I ever did know since she
was big enough to run about," said Mrs. Derrick, her mind still
dwelling upon the house.

"Miss Faith, my question stands transferred to you."

"Why you know," said Faith, intent upon the motions of her needle,--"I
might require to mend in one day what would last me to wear a good
many--and I do."

"But,

   'The day is done--and the darkness
   Falls from the wing of night.'"

"I never mend stockings till then," said Faith smiling over her work.
"Are Sam's apples good?"

"By reputation."

"I thought you were trying them! Why you asked me for a knife, Mr.
Linden--and I brought it."

"I'm sure I gave you an apple. Perhaps you thought it was a ball of
darning cotton."

"No, I didn't," said Faith laughing. "But what use is my apple to your
knife, Mr. Linden?"

"Not much--it has served the purposes of trade."

"But what is the purpose of trade, Mr. Linden, if the articles aren't
wanted?"

"I see you are dissatisfied with your bargain," he said. "Well, I will
be generous--you shall have the knife too;" and Mr. Linden walked away
from the table and went upstairs.

The parlour was very still after that. Faith's needle, indeed, worked
with more zeal than ever, but Mrs. Derrick rolled up her knitting and
put it in her basket, sighing a little as she did so: then sat and
thought.

"Faith, child," she said after a long pause, "do you think the Squire
would ever take our house?"

Faith hesitated, and the answer when it came was not satisfactory.

"I don't know, mother."

Mrs. Derrick sighed again, and leaned back in her chair, and rocked;
the rockers creaking in rather doleful sympathy with her thoughts. Then
an owl on a tree before the door hooted at the world generally, though
Mrs. Derrick evidently thought his remarks personal.

"I can't think why he should do that to-night, of all nights in the
year!" she said, sitting straight up in her chair. "It never did mean
good. Faith--what should we do if he did?"--this time she meant the
Squire, not the owl.

"Mother!"--said Faith, and then she spoke in her usual tone.--"We'd
find a way."

"Well!--" said Mrs. Derrick, rocking back and forth. Then she started
up. "We've got to have biscuits for breakfast, whether or no! It's good
I remembered 'em!" And she hurried out of the room, coming back to kiss
Faith and say,

"Don't fret, pretty child, whatever happens. Go to bed and to
sleep,--I'll make the biscuit." And alert and busy she left the parlour.

Faith's sleep was quiet, but not unbroken. For at that time when all
well-disposed people, young or old, are generally asleep (in such a
well-ordered community as Pattaquasset) it pleased the younger portion
of said community to be awake. Yet they were well-disposed--and also
ill! For repairing in a body to Mrs. Derrick's house they gave her nine
cheers for her lodger,--thence departing to Squire Deacon's, they gave
him as many groans as he could reasonably want for himself. After which
the younger part of the community retired in triumph.

It was said, by one adventurous boy, that falling in with Mr. Simlins
they impressed him--that his voice helped on the cheers, but not the
groans: and indeed the whole story needs confirmation.

Faith heard the groans but faintly, owing to the distance, but the
cheers were tremendous.

It is painful to add that Joe Deacon was vociferous in both parties.



CHAPTER VII.



"I hope your rest was disturbed last night," said Faith rather gaily,
as she came in to the breakfast-table with a plate of biscuits and set
them down before Mr. Linden.

"Thank you! you have reason to be quite satisfied in that respect."

"But did you hear them after they left our house?"

"I heard them--really or in imagination--all night, thank you again,
Miss Faith--and am as sleepy this morning as you can desire."

"It wasn't I," said Faith. "Now what notice, Mr. Linden, will you think
it proper to take of such a proceeding?"

"That was one thing which kept me awake."

"But as you are sleepy now, I suppose the point is decided?"

"You are as quick at conclusions as Johnny Fax," said Mr. Linden
smiling, "who always supposes that when I am not using my pen myself I
am quite ready to let him have it."

"Does he get it?"

"What should you advise?"

"O Mr. Linden!" said Faith,--"I should advise you to do--just what you
do!"

"Unsound!" he said,--"I thought you were a better adviser. But about
this matter of the boys--I shall probably read them a lecture, wherein
I shall set forth the risk they run of getting sick by such exposure to
the night air; also the danger I am in of being sent away from my
present quarters, because ladies prefer sleep to disturbance. Having
thus wrought up their feelings to the highest pitch, I shall give them
a holiday and come home to dinner."

Faith laughed her little low laugh of pleasure; at least it always
sounded so. It might be pleasure at one thing or at another; but it was
as round and sweet a tone of merry or happy acknowledgment, as is ever
heard in this world of discordances.

"But are you really sleepy, sir?" said Mrs. Derrick. "I'm so sorry! I
thought they were doing nothing but good. I never once thought of their
waking you up."

Mr. Linden laughed too, a little.

"I shall get waked up"--he said,--"in the course of the day. Unless
somebody has drugged my coffee."

"Judge Harrison was here this morning, Mr. Linden, with a message for
you," said Faith. "Mother, will you tell Mr. Linden what Judge Harrison
said?"

"I'd rather hear you, child, by half," said her mother, with a smile
whereon the house cast a little shadow. "Tell him yourself, Faith." And
Mrs. Derrick sighed, and took her napkin and rubbed off a spot on the
coffeepot.

"Judge Harrison came--" said Faith, and paused.

"And went away"--said Mr. Linden.

"Yes," said Faith. "He stopped on his way somewhere, and came into the
kitchen to talk to us. He said he would like, if you would like it, he
would like to have a great exhibition of the boys--he knows about the
school, he says, and there hasn't been such a school in Pattaquasset
since he has been here himself; and he would like to shew it up to the
whole town. So if Mr. Linden approved of it, Judge Harrison said, he
would have a gathering of all the countryside in some nice place--the
Judge has plenty of ground and can get anybody else's besides; and the
boys should have a great examination, and after that there should be an
entertainment under the trees, for boys and all. And he wanted mother
to speak to Mr. Linden, and see whether he would like it. And mother
wouldn't," said Faith as she finished.

Mr. Linden raised his eyebrows slightly--then let them fall and
likewise his eyes. Then sent his cup to be replenished, gravely
remarking to Faith that if she had any drugs, she might put them in now!

"What kind of drugs would you like, Mr. Linden?" said Faith.

"Any that are deeply sedative."

"Sedative?" said Faith, with that look which he often drew from
her,--very earnest, half wistful, half sorrowful,--"I don't know what
it means, Mr. Linden."

"It means," said he, his face relaxing a little, "'such as diminish the
physical energy, without destroying life,'--such in short, as might
qualify a man for the situation of a tame monkey on a pole."

Faith's look changed to a sort of indignant little glance, and her lips
parted; but they closed again and her eyes went down to her plate.

"What were you going to remark, Miss Faith?"

Faith blushed a good deal, however the answer came steadily. "I don't
think any drugs would do that for you."

"I am in a bad way, then," said Mr. Linden with unmoved gravity.
"Because if I survive this trial of what I can bear, I intend to
advertise for the afore-named situation. Have you heard of any vacant
pole, Miss Faith?"

Faith looked at him with a grave, considering wonder, which gradually
broke into a sense of fun; and then she laughed, as she did not often
laugh.

Apparently Mr. Linden was well enough pleased with such answer to his
words, for he not only made no attempt to stop her, but even remarked
that it was good to be of a sympathizing disposition.

The day passed as usual; only of late it had got to be Faith's habit to
spend a good deal of time shut up in her room. It had never been her
habit before. But now, after going through her early household duties,
of which Faith had plenty, she used to be out of sight often for an
hour before dinner; unless when the dinner required just that hour of
her attention. Nothing was left behind her to call her down. Her dairy,
her bread and cake, her pies and cream-cheeses, her dinner
preparations--whatever the things might be--were all ready for the
day's wants; and then Faith was gone. After dinner it was still more
surely the same. Yet though all this was true, it was so quietly and
unobtrusively true that Mrs. Derrick had hardly observed it.

It happened this afternoon that Faith lingered upstairs,--not until
teatime, but until she heard her mother call. Reuben Taylor wanted to
see her. He was at the gate.

"I didn't want to disturb you, Miss Faith. I told Mrs. Derrick so. It's
only some clams,--which I thought maybe you'd like," said Reuben
modestly. "I left 'em in the kitchen."

"Thank you, Reuben--I like them very much. Do you feel better than you
did yesterday?"

"Yes, ma'am--" said Reuben rather slowly,--"I felt a great deal better
last night."

"And to-day--don't you?"

"Yes, ma'am," Reuben answered as before.

"But not so well as last night? What's the matter, Reuben?"

"Didn't you hear what they did last night, ma'am?"

"To be sure I did, but what has made you feel worse to-day?"

"Why you know, ma'am," said Reuben, "last night I forgot all about
everybody but Mr. Linden. But oh Miss Faith! I just wish you could have
been in school to-day for one minute!--when Mr. Linden came in! You
see," said Reuben, excitement conquering reserve, "the boys were all
there--there wasn't one of 'em late, and every one had a sprig of
basswood in his hat and in his buttonhole. And we all kept our hats on
till he got in, and stood up to meet him (though that we do always)
and then we took off our hats together and gave him such a shout!--You
know, Miss Faith," added Reuben with a smile both expressive and sweet,
"basswood's a kind of linden."

"And what did Mr. Linden do?" said Faith with a smile of her own that
very well reflected Reuben's.

"He didn't say much," said Reuben,--"he looked a good deal."

"Well, you foolish boy," said Faith gently, "don't you feel well now,
after all that? What's the matter?"

A heavy, shoe-leathery step came down the street--it was Squire Deacon.
Reuben knew who it was before the Squire came near, for he flushed up,
and for a moment stood with his back resolutely turned towards the
gate; then with an air as resolute, but different, he turned round and
bowed as courteously as he knew how--far more so than the Squire did to
him; for the combination of Faith and Reuben did not seem to fall
pleasantly upon Squire Deacon's organs of vision; nor indeed could he
have quite forgotten last night.

"Reuben, come in," said Faith touching his shoulder and smiling,--"I
want to speak to you. But first answer my question--why don't you feel
quite well now? You ought, Reuben."

"Yes, Miss Faith--I know I ought,--at least I oughtn't to feel just as
I do," Reuben answered. "Mr. Linden told me so to-day."

"Then why do you feel so?" Faith asked with increased earnestness.

Reuben coloured and hesitated.

"Folks vex me--" he said in a low voice. "And--and Mr. Linden says I
love him too well if I'm not willing to let him go when God pleases.
And I know it's true--but--" and Reuben followed Faith into the house
without another word.

"What do you mean about Mr. Linden's going?"

"Just that, ma'am," said Reuben simply. "Because we can't make
ourselves feel well by thinking things are going just as we want 'em
to--he says that's not strong enough ground to rest on."

"But does he talk of going away, Reuben?"

"O no! Miss Faith I never heard him,--he only talked so to me because
of what other folks said."

"Well," said Faith with a change of tone, "you're a foolish boy. You
come and see me whenever you get feeling bad again. Folks can't hurt
Mr. Linden. Now look here--Wait a minute, will you!"--

Faith ran upstairs; speedily came down again with a little blue-covered
book in her hand.

"Is this the arithmetic you study?" she said softly, coming close to
him.

Reuben took the book with some surprise in his face.

"Yes, ma'am, this is the one." And he looked up at her as if to ask,
what next.

"How far have you gone?"

"I am through this now," said Reuben, "but some of the others are
here--and here."

"Then you can tell me," said Faith. She turned over to a certain page,
far on in the book too, and putting it into Reuben's hands, said
quietly,

"I am studying it, and I cannot make anything of this. Do you remember
how it was explained?"

"The book's wrong," said Reuben, after a glance at it,--"I remember,
Miss Faith. See--it ought to be so--and so--" Reuben went on
explaining. "All the books we could get here were just like it, and Mr.
Linden said if he found any more mistakes he would send to Quilipeak
and get good ones. He shewed us how this ought to be."

"That's it!" said Faith. "Thank you, Reuben. And you needn't tell
anybody I asked you about it."

Reuben looked a little surprised again, but he said "No, ma'am," and
made his bow.

It was Faith's turn to be surprised then, for stepping into the
tea-room to look at the clock, she found not only the clock but Mr.
Linden,--the former ticking sundry minutes past teatime, the latter
enjoying the sunset clouds and his own reflections, and (possibly) his
book. Mrs. Derrick, favouring the atmosphere of the little wood fire,
which had burnt itself out to coals and ashes, sat at one corner of the
hearth, taking up the stiches round the heel of her stocking; which
precarious operation engrossed her completely. Mr. Linden however
looked up, and took in the whole of the little picture before him.
Apparently the picture was pleasant, for he smiled.

Faith's look was startled.

"I am late!" she said with a compunctious glance at the clock. And as
soon as it could be made the tea came in smoking. As Faith took her
seat at the table she put her question.

"When did you come in, Mr. Linden?"

"About a quarter of an hour before you did."

"By which way?"

"Why!--by the door. It is simpler than the window."

The next few seconds seemed to be employed by Faith in buttering bread
and eating it, but in reality they were used for carrying on a somewhat
hurried calculation of minutes and distances which brought the colour
in her cheeks to a hue of pretty richness.

"Did I run over anybody in my way?" asked Mr. Linden. "What gives the
question its interest?"

"I had thought you were out," said Faith quietly.

"I know a shorter way to the store than you do," said Mr. Linden with
equal quietness.

"To the store!" said Faith, eye and lip quite putting quietness out of
the question.

"Yes, I found your footprints there the other day, and I have been
wanting to tell you ever since that it is not anything like so far up
to my room. Let me recommend that way to you for the future."

Faith's colour was no matter of degrees now, for it rushed over temples
and cheek in a flood. And seemed inclined to be a permanency.

"There you may take what you like," he went on, with a smile that was
both amused and encouraging, "and I shall be none the wiser--unless you
tell me yourself. If you do tell me, I shall be very glad. Now Miss
Faith--what shall we do about Judge Harrison?"

Faith hesitated, and struggled perhaps, for it did not seem very easy
to speak with that deep flush on her brow; and then she said rather low,

"I am not ungrateful, Mr. Linden."

"Neither am I--but this proposal of his gives me some trouble. I think
if he would have all the fun, without any of the shewing off, it would
answer every good purpose and avoid all the bad ones. And if you will
intimate as much to your mother, Miss Faith, and persuade her to convey
the information to Judge Harrison, it will perhaps be the best way of
reply. Of course as trustee he has still the right of doing as he
likes."

"Mother, do you hear?" said Faith, "or do you want me to repeat it?"

"No, child,"--said her mother abstractedly; "I didn't hear, to be
sure,--how should I? Faith--what do you suppose makes Cindy break the
noses off all our milk pitchers?"

This was an irresistible question. Faith's own face came back, and
during the rest of supper-time she was like herself, only with a shade
more than was usual upon her brow and manner.

The short September day had little twilight to lengthen it out. The
cool western horizon still outshone the setting stars with its clear
light, but in the east and overhead others came out, 'silently, one by
one.' Mr. Linden went to take his evening walk, Faith to light the lamp
in the parlour, watched and gazed at by her mother the while.

"Child," said Mrs. Derrick, "what makes you stay upstairs so? I never
thought of it till I went to call you to see Reuben--but seems to me
you are up there a great deal."

Faith smiled a little and also looked grave, as she was putting on the
shade of the lamp.

"Yes, mother"--she said,--"I am."

"What for, pretty child?" said her mother fondly.

Faith was pretty, in the look with which she answered this appeal. Her
smile dropped its gravity, and only love came in to make the confession.

"Mother, I am trying to learn. I want to be wiser."

"Learn!" said Mrs. Derrick in utter astonishment, and rousing out of
her resting position. "Trying to learn, child?"

"Yes, mother--what about it? I don't know anything; and I want to
know--a great deal!"

"Why you know everything now!" said Mrs. Derrick. "What don't you know,
Faith?--I should like to!"

Faith smiled.

"Mother, I don't know anything!"--and then she added more brightly,
"I've begun with arithmetic, for one thing."

"Arithmetic!" said Mrs. Derrick; and she paused, and leaned back in her
chair, rocking gently to and fro, with a shade of soberness stealing
over her face.

"You never did have much chance,"--she said at length, "because I
couldn't give it to you then. My heart was broke, Faith, and I couldn't
bear to have you out of my sight for a minute. But somehow I thought
you knew everything." And she sat still once more, looking at Faith as
if trying to reinstate herself in her old opinion. Nor altogether
without success; for with a little smile coming over her face, Mrs.
Derrick added,

"You won't be any sweeter--learn as much as you will, child,--you
needn't think it;" and the rockers would have certainly come into play
again if Cindy had not opened the door and claimed attention.

"I s'pose likely you don't want to go down to Widder Stamp's?" she
said. "'Cause she wants you to come. I'm free to confess she's got the
high-strikes wonderful."

"Mother," said Faith, giving her one or two kisses as Mrs. Derrick rose
to prove the contrary of Cindy's supposition, "I shall be a great deal
happier;--and I am getting along nicely."

Which sent Mrs. Derrick off in triumph. But when she was gone, Faith
did not take her basket of stockings, nor yet her arithmetic; but sat
down by the table with her head in her hands and sat very still. Still,
until Mr. Linden came in, laid one paper on the table at her side, and
sat down to read another. Faith's darning-needle came into play then,
and worked quick and silently. Mr. Linden glanced towards it as he laid
down his paper.

"I see you evaded my question last night," he said,--"there could not
be such a constant supply, if there were not also a constant demand."

"Mr. Linden," said Faith, her colour a little raised and her voice
changing somewhat,--"I want to ask you something--if you are not busy
about anything."

"I am not but you might ask just as freely if I were."

"I couldn't," said Faith. She drew her hand out of her stocking and put
her thimble on the table.

"Mr. Linden," she said without looking at him,--"a while ago, when you
were speaking of faith and a cloudy day, and I told you I wasn't like
that,--you said I must read the Bible then, and do what that said. I
have been trying to do it."--

Shading his eyes with his hand, he looked at her--as if waiting to hear
more.

"And I don't understand it," she said.--"I don't know how to get on."

"Do you mean, with the Bible? Is it that you do not understand?"

"I don't understand some things--I don't know exactly what I ought to
do."

"In what respect?--where is the difficulty? Some things in the Bible
you never will understand, perhaps, in this world, and others you must
learn by degrees."

"I don't understand exactly what makes a Christian--and I want to be
one."

It was spoken low, and timidly; but Faith was in earnest. Mr. Linden
sat silent a minute, without changing his position.

"A Christian is one, who trusting in Christ as his only Saviour,
thenceforth obeys him as his only King."

Faith hesitated and thought. "I don't understand," she said folding her
hands, "--about the trusting."

"Suppose there was something you wanted done too hard for your strength
but not for mine,--would you know how to trust it in my hands?"

She bowed her head and said, "Yes!"

"Suppose I consented to do it only upon condition that for the rest of
your life my will and pleasure should be your only rule of
action,--would the great work still be yours or mine?"

"Why, yours," she said, still looking at him.

"Cannot you see Christ--standing between God and man, offering his own
blood where justice demands ours, and with his perfect righteousness
covering our imperfect obedience? So 'that God may be just, and yet the
justifier of him that believeth in Jesus.' Can you apply any words? Can
you see that Christ only is 'mighty to save'?--Are you willing to trust
yourself in his hands?"

Faith dropped her eyes for a minute or two, but the lines of her face
were changing.

"I know what you mean now," she said slowly. "I couldn't see it
before." Then with a little smile she went on--"Yes, Mr. Linden, I am
willing. But what must I do?"

"'Only believe--'" he answered. "Do what you say you are willing to do."

"But," said Faith, looking at him with a face which certainly spoke her
near the 'little child' character which Christians do bear,--"there
must be something else. I must not be like what I have been. I want to
know what I ought to do."

"Christ's own words tell you better than I can,--'My sheep hear my
voice, and I know them, and they follow me'--that is the description of
a Christian on earth. And then it follows--'I give unto them eternal
life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out
of my hand.'"

There was silence; and then Faith said,

"But how am I to follow him?"

"How did the people do to whom he said those words when he was on
earth?"

"I don't know!"

"'They arose, and left all, and followed him.'"

"Well, Mr. Linden?"--

"It is just such a following that we are called to now--only that it
must be in heart and life instead of actual footsteps. Just so must we
rise up from doing our own will and pleasure, fix our eyes upon Christ,
and follow him!"

"But how are we to know--how am I to know," said Faith, "what I
ought to do?"

"Study Christ's summing up of the ten commandments,--does not that
cover the whole ground? And then--do every little duty as it comes to
hand. If we are truly ready to do God's will, he will send us work,--or
if not--

   'They also serve, who only stand and wait.'"


Faith looked an earnest, wistful, sorrowful look at him.

"But then," she said,--"I don't do anything well--how can I know that I
am right? You know what you said--of the two roads only one led to the
shore. I keep thinking of that--ever since."

"A traveller in the right road," said Mr. Linden, "may walk with very
weak and unsteady pace,--yet he knows which way his face is set. Which
way is yours?"

Faith's face was in her hands. But Mrs. Derrick's step just then
sounding at the front door, she sprang away before it could reach the
parlour.



CHAPTER VIII.



The decision of Mr. Linden on the school question was duly communicated
to Judge Harrison; and the time fixed was Thursday, the fifth of
October. The place chosen, after much care, was the Judge's own house
and grounds adjoining, which were spacious enough, and afforded good
opportunity for setting tables and also for spreading them. So all that
was fixed; and all Pattaquasset was a tip-toe; and Mr. Linden submitted
to what he could not help, with as good a grace as he might. And
September was sliding off into October with the gentlest, sunniest,
softliest grace.

With much the same sort of grace Faith Derrick walked up and down in
her mother's household; from the dairy where she made her butter, to
Mr. Linden's room which it was her care to keep in order; and where she
might if she chose amuse herself with Mr. Linden's books. If she did,
it was unknown to their owner; he surely found every volume lying where
he left it. There was chance enough for Faith, in his long absences
from the house; and the books offered temptations. There were a good
many of them, stowed in old-fashioned corner and window cupboards; good
editions, in good bindings, and an excellent very choice selection of
subjects and authors. There were books in various languages of which
Faith could make nothing--but sighs; in her own mother tongue there
were varieties of learning and literature enough to distract her. All
however that the owner could know of other hands about his books, was
that there was no dust upon them.

Perhaps he had a mind to know more--or that there should be more to be
known; for about this time two remarkable things happened. One was,
that Faith found a little French book ensconced among the stockings in
her basket,--and the very next morning as Mr. Linden was setting off
for school, he stopped at the threshold and inquired--

"Miss Faith--whereabouts are you in Prescott?"

That same colour flushed in Faith's face; it did not rise to her
temples this time, but glowed richly in her cheeks. She looked down and
up, and down; words seemed confounded in their utterance.

"You do not mean that you have finished it already?" he said with an
excellent look of astonishment.

"I have almost,"--said Faith. "Mr. Linden, how could you tell?--I don't
know what makes me do so!" she said putting both hands to her
cheeks,--"there's no shame in it."

"I didn't suppose there was," he said smiling, and closed the door.

Very oddly, in spite of morning duties, Faith's next move was to go to
her basket, pull out that little French book and examine it all over
inside and out. Not one word of it could she read, not one sign of it
did she know; what was the meaning of its place in her basket? Faith
pondered that question probably while her cheeks were coming back to
their usual tint; then the book was slipped back again and she hurried
away to help her mother with the dishes.

"You needn't come, child," said Mrs. Derrick,--"what do you think I'll
make of such a handful of things as that? To be sure Cindy's cleaning
up to-day, but I'm pretty smart, yet. Go off and study arithmetic if
you want to. Have you got through that yet?"

"Almost through, mother," Faith answered smiling.

"Well why don't you go and finish?" said her mother.

"Mayn't I finish these first?" said Faith, through whose fingers and
the towel the cups and saucers slipped with a dexterity that was, to
say the least of it, pretty. "Why mother, you were not so keen after
arithmetic the other day."

"Keen after it!" said Mrs. Derrick,--"la, child, I don't pretend to be
keen. But I never could bear to see a thing half done,--I'd rather do
it twice over."

There was something else running in Faith's mind; for after
abstractedly setting down one after another several saucers, polished
from the hot water and huckaback, she dropped her towel and flung both
arms round her mother's neck.

"Mother!--there is one thing I want you to do--I want you to be a
Christian!"

There was persuasion in the soft head that nestled against her, if
Faith's words lacked it.

To the words her mother gave no answer, but she returned the caress
with interest; wrapping Faith in her arms, and drawing her down to the
next chair, as if--literally--she could not stand that.

"Pretty child!" she said--and more than one tear fell upon Faith's
bright hair,--"you're the best child that ever was!--and always were!"

"No, mother," said Faith kissing her.--"But will you?"

"I don't know!" said Mrs. Derrick,--"that's what your father used to
say, Faith,--and I used to think I'd like to, to please him,--but
somehow I never did."

"Never wished it for your own sake, dear mother?"

"Yes--sometimes--when I saw him die--" said Mrs. Derrick. "Hush
child--don't say another word to me now, for I can't bear it." And
giving Faith an embrace which took off all thought of roughness from
her words, Mrs. Derrick rose up and went about her dishes again.

And Faith tried to do as much; but the dropping tears were too fast for
her towel; her hand sought in vain to forbid their coming; she laid
down her work and went away.

Truth however is always at one with itself, and so is right feeling,
and so is duty. Faith as well as her mother had plenty of business on
hand that morning; and it was not long before she was as hard at work
in the kitchen as if there were no other interests in the world. There
was bread to make. That was done. There was an elaborate chicken pie to
concoct for dinner, which Faith would not leave to her mother to-day.
There was a certain kind of muffins which Mrs. Derrick suggested Mr.
Linden would be apt to like, and which they had never had since he was
in Pattaquasset. To hear was to obey, and Faith compounded the muffins.
Then fresh yeast must be made, and Faith always did that. Let it not be
thought that Mrs. Derrick was idle while thus indicating floury fields
of exertion to her daughter. Very far from it. There was all the house
and all the rest of the dinner to see to; besides Cindy, who was one
woman's work. The butcher was to be met, and farm questions settled
with the farmer; and Mrs. Derrick was still deep in vegetables when
Faith quitted the kitchen. How much time she had left for study before
dinner it doesn't appear.

After dinner, this day, there was small study chance--or at least small
chance to get books; for it was Wednesday,--and Wednesday was in every
Pattaquasset school a half holiday. Indeed that arrangement of things
extended beyond the schools; and on this particular Wednesday, Mrs.
Derrick devoted the holiday time to a far-off neighbour--declaring that
she "felt like a good long walk." And after her departure the
dreaminess of a warm fall afternoon settled down upon the house and its
inhabitants. Faith sat sewing by the parlour window, or
reading--stealthily; for Mr. Linden with his book sat in the porch not
three feet from her; but it is not too much to say that neither made
great progress. Who could read or work--or think--vigilantly, in that
hazy sunshine?--the very bees took a siesta on the wing, and rocked to
and fro in the soft air.

About the middle of the afternoon a small white-headed boy was seen
revolving down the main street of Pattaquasset. I say revolving--for
the slight suggestion of a small stone in the road--or a spot of
particular dustiness--was enough to make the boy break the monotony of
his walk with a somerset; by which style of progress he at last arrived
at Mrs. Derrick's door, entered the gate and came up the steps. There
he paused and gazed at Mr. Linden.

"What is your name?" inquired that gentleman, with the benevolent idea
of setting the boy's thoughts in motion in a straight line.

"Charles twelf'" replied the boy promptly.

"Charles twelfth!" said Mr. Linden. "Are there eleven more of you?"

The boy put his finger in his mouth but brought forth no answer.

"Miss Faith," said Mr. Linden, "are you the planet which has attracted
this small star out of its usual orbit?"

Faith came to the door.

"Who are you, little fellow?" said she, eying the dusty white head.

"Who be you?" said the boy.

"The centre of your solar system at present," said Mr. Linden. "Is that
the way satellites generally ask questions?"

"What a queer man!" said the boy looking at Mr. Linden.

"What a queer boy--" said that gentleman gravely.

"What do you want?" said Faith, biting her lips and laughing at both of
them.

The boy gazed at her, but he also gazed at the scraper!--and the
attraction of that was irresistible. Down went his white head, and over
went his dusty feet, and then Charles twelfth was himself again.

"My ma' kep' your 'ma to supper," he said. "And she says you may come
too, if you want ter--and bring him. We've got lots o' pies." And
stimulated by this recollection, the boy turned without delay and began
his revolutions homeward. Faith ran down the two or three porch steps
and laid hold of the little invader.

"Here! You Charles twelfth!--who are you, and where does your ma' live?"

"She lives down to our house."

"Where's that?"

"Down the woody road--" said the boy,--"next after you come to Capting
Samp's blackberry field. There's sunflowers in front."

"Then you are Mrs. Seacomb's boy? Very well," said Faith, letting him
go. "Mr. Linden, there is an invitation for you."

"Is there a carriage road into Sweden? or do we walk?" he replied.

"Sweden?"--said Faith,--"it is in the woods, two or three miles from
here. A woman lives there--the widow of a man that used to sail with my
father. My father was captain of a ship, Mr. Linden. Mr. Seacomb was
one of his mates, and very fond of him; and we go to see Mrs. Seacomb
once in a while. I don't think, perhaps, you would like it. It's a
pretty ride."

"That is a kind of ride I do like."

"But I don't know whether you would like it all. If you say so, I will
have up the wagon."

"Thank you--that I should not like. I prefer to have it up myself,
Miss Faith--if you will have up your bonnet."

Faith's face gave way at that, and the bonnet and the wagon were up
accordingly.

The way led first down the high road, bordered with gardens and farms
and the houses of the village--if village it were called, where the
neighbours looked at each other's distant windows across wide tracts of
meadow, orchards and grain fields. The road was reasonably dusty, in
the warm droughts of September; nevertheless the hedgerows that grew
thick in many places shewed gay tufts of autumn flowering; and the
mellow light lay on every wayside object and sober distance like the
reflection from a butterfly's wing. Except the light, all changed when
they got into the woody road.

It was woody indeed!--except where it was grassy; and woods and grass
played hide and seek with each other. The grass-grown road, its thicker
grass borders--where bright fall flowers raised their proud little
heads; the old fence, broken down in places, where bushes burst through
and half filled the gap; bright hips on the wild rosebushes, tufts of
yellow fern leaves, brilliant handfuls of red and yellow which here a
maple and there a pepperidge held out over the road; the bushy,
bosquey, look which the uncut undergrowth gave the wood on either hand;
the gleams of soft green light, the bands of shadow, the deeper
thickets where the eye looked twice and came back unsatisfied,--over
all the blue sky, with forest leaves for a border. Such was the woody
road that afternoon. Flocks of little birds of passage flitted and
twittered about their night's lodging, or came down to feast on
wintergreen or cedar berries; and Mrs. Derrick's old horse walked
softly on, as if he knew no one was in a hurry.

"'With what a glory comes and goes the year'!" Mr. Linden said.

"And stays all the while, don't it?" said Faith rather timidly and
after an instant's hesitation.

"Yes, in a sort--though to my fancy the other seasons have rather
beauty and splendour, while autumn keeps the glory for itself."

"I think it is glorious all the year round," said Faith;--"though to be
sure," she added with a sudden check, "perhaps I don't use the word
right."

"Yes, it is glorious,--but I think 'glorious' and 'glory' have drifted
a little apart upon the tide of human speech. Glory, always seems to my
mind a warm, glowing, effulgent thing,--but ice-peaks may be glorious.
The old painters encircled the heads of their saints with a 'glory' and
you could not imagine that a cold light."

Faith listened, with the eyes of one first seeing into the world of
wonder and beauty hidden from common vision. She did not answer, till
her thoughts came back to the road they were travelling, and catching
her breath a little she said,

"This isn't a cold light."

"No, truly. And just so far as the saints on earth walk in a cold
light, so far, I think, their light is less glorious."

"I don't see how they can,"--said Faith timidly.

"They do--sometimes,--standing aloof like those ice-peaks. You can see
the white garments, but no glory transfigures them. Such a face as
Stephen's, Miss Faith, is worth a journey to see."

Faith thought so; wondered how many such faces he had seen. Her
meditations plunged her too deep for words.

"What are you musing about?--if I may ask," Mr. Linden said presently.

She coloured but answered, "I was thinking what one must be, to have a
face like Stephen's."

"That is the promise, you know--from 'glory to glory.' 'From grace to
glory' must come first. 'What one must be'--yes, that is it. But it
is good to measure the promises now and then."

Faith laid that last remark up in her heart, enshrining it in gold, as
it were. But she said nothing.

"How is it with you?" he said turning his eyes full upon her,--"you
have not told me lately. Are the clouds all gone?"

Her look met his, wistful, and simple as her answer.

"I see the light through."--

"'Unto the perfect-day'!" Mr. Linden said, his smile--slight as it
was--bringing a sort of illumination with it. After a few minutes he
turned to her again.

"Miss Faith, one whom Christ has called into his army should wear his
uniform."

"What, sir?"--she said, the colour starting readily.

"With the private vows of allegiance, there should be also a public
profession."

"Yes,"--she said, "I suppose so.--I am willing--I am ready."

Timid, modest, even shrinking as she was, more in view of the subject
than of her adviser, her face was as frank as the day. His hand quitted
the reins a moment, taking hers and giving it a sort of
'right-hand-of-fellowship' clasp, glad and warm and earnest, as was his
look.

"I am not going to ask you anymore questions," he said,--"you will tell
me if there are any you wish answered."

Her "Thank you" was a little breathless.

For a while the old horse jogged on in his easy way, through the woods
and the fall flowers and the sunny glow; and the eyes of the two
travellers seemed to be busy therewith. Then Faith said with a little
timid touch upon her voice,

"Mr. Linden--I suppose it was you that put a little green book in my
basket last night?"

"Jumping at conclusions again!" he said. "What sort of a little green
book was it?"

"I don't know! I suppose you can tell me."

