against you before the ship sailed. Now, I advise you not to deny what
is as plain as truth can make it. I am your friend. Own up to me, and I
promise never to betray you."

"Would your friend Langdon, alias Lieutenant Wynkoop, R. N., be
equally considerate?" asked Somers, provoked into making this unguarded
remark by the hypocrisy of Pillgrim.

If the second lieutenant of the Chatauqua had received the bolt from a
thunder cloud he could not have been more astonished. He started back,
turned pale, and quivered with emotion.

"Who?" demanded he, with a tremendous effort to recover his
self-possession.

"Do you think, Mr. Pillgrim, that I am a little lamb, that can be led
round with a silken string?" replied Somers, with energy. "You are my
superior officer, and as such I will respect and obey you
until--until--"

"Until what?"

"Until the day of reckoning comes. When you stand up in my presence and
charge me with being a traitor to my country, you had better remember
that such charges, like chickens, will go home to roost."

"I was not brought up in a barn yard, Mr. Somers, and such comparisons
are beyond my comprehension."

"Wherever you were brought up, I think my language is plain enough to be
understood by a person of your intelligence."

Perhaps it was fortunate for both parties that a knock at the state-room
door disturbed the conference at this exciting moment. Somers opened the
door.

"Mr. Hackleford desires to see Mr. Somers on deck," said a midshipman.

"Excuse me for a few moments, Mr. Pillgrim," said Somers, as he closed
his desk and locked it.

"Certainly, sir; but I should be happy to see you when you are
disengaged. I will remain here if you please."

"I will join you as soon as I can."

It was warm below, and both Pillgrim and Somers had thrown off their
coats, and laid them on the bed. Somers slipped on his own, as he
supposed, and hastened on deck to meet the first lieutenant. The garment
seemed rather large for him, and there were several papers in the breast
pocket which did not belong to him. Then he was aware that he had taken
the second lieutenant's coat instead of his own.

Mr. Hackleford wished to obtain some information from him in regard to
one of the petty officers, and when Somers had answered the questions he
went below again. The papers in the pocket of Pillgrim's coat seemed to
burn his fingers when he touched them. The owner was a traitor, and
perhaps these documents might contain valuable intelligence. Under
ordinary circumstances it would have been the height of perfidy to look
at one of them; but, in the present instance, he felt justified in
glancing at them. The state-room of the second assistant engineers was
open and lighted, but neither of these officers was there. Stepping into
the room, he opened the papers and glanced at their contents. Only one
of them contained anything of importance. This was a note from a person
who signed himself simply "Irvine," but it was in the handwriting of
Langdon. The only clause in the epistle that was intelligible to Somers
was this: "Have just heard from B----. The Ben Nevis, he says, will make
Wilmington after leaving St. John. Plenty of guns there. She will sail
July 4."

Whether "B----" meant Boston or some person's name, Somers could not
determine; but the fact in regard to the Ben Nevis was of the utmost
consequence. Hastily folding up the note, he returned the package of
papers to the pocket where he had found them. Taking off the coat as he
entered the ward-room, he went into the state-room, where Mr. Pillgrim
was still waiting for him, with the garment on his arm. He threw it upon
the bed as he entered, and his companion was not even aware of the
mistake which had been made.

"Mr. Somers, you were making some grave charges against me when you were
called away," said the lieutenant.

"Not half so grave as those you made against me," replied Somers.

"Those can be proved."

"I made no charges. I only mentioned the name of your friend Langdon."

"I don't know him," added Pillgrim, doggedly.

"I beg your pardon, as you did mine, just now."

"Which means that you doubt my word."

"As you did mine."

"Somers, I am not to be trifled with," said Pillgrim, sternly.

"Neither am I."

"Be cautious, or I will denounce you to the captain at once," added the
lieutenant, in low and threatening tones.

"Proceed, and then I shall be at liberty to take the next step."

"What's that?"

"Do you think I intend to show you my hand?" said Somers, with a meaning
smile.

Pillgrim bit his lip with vexation. He seemed to be completely cornered.
He evidently believed that his companion knew more than "the law
allows."

"Mr. Pillgrim, I am no traitor; you know this as well as I do. Whatever
papers I took from your friend Langdon, alias Wynkoop, were taken with
a view to serve my country."

"You signed the oath of allegiance he offered you."

"It is false!" replied Somers, angrily.

"Be calm, Mr. Somers. I am no hypocrite, as you are," added Pillgrim. "I
have heard that you have a talent for overhearing other people's
conversation."

"In the service of my country I am willing to do even this," said
Somers, indignantly.

"No matter about that. You have hinted that I am a traitor."

"If the hint is not sufficient, I declare that such is the fact."

Somers was roused to a high pitch of excitement, and he was not as
prudent as he was wont to be. He was not playing a part now; he was
talking and acting as he wanted to talk and act. He was calling treason
and treachery by their right names.

"Explain, Mr. Somers," said Pillgrim, who grew cooler as his companion
became hotter.

"You are in league with the enemies of your country. You and others have
just started a steamer for St. John, which you intend to fit out as a
Confederate cruiser--the Ben Nevis, of which you and your
fellow-conspirators did me the honor to give me the command."

Pillgrim smiled blandly.

"And you accepted the command?"

"For a purpose, I did."

"You have not explained why you connect me with this affair. You spoke
of some one whom you call Langdon. I don't know him."

"You--do!"

"Prove it."

"He addresses a note to you, calling you 'my dear Pillgrim,' and signs
himself, familiarly, 'Langdon.'"

"Then you have been reading my letters--have you?"

"It was addressed to me, and put in my box at the hotel."

The second lieutenant turned pale, then red. He walked up and down the
state-room several times in silence. He could not deny the fact alleged.
While he walked, Somers explained how he had read the note, and then put
it back in the box. Pillgrim understood it.

"Of course you know Coles," continued Somers, placing a heavy emphasis
on the name of this worthy.

The lieutenant halted before his companion, and looked earnestly and
inquiringly into his face. Somers returned his gaze with unflinching
resolution. There was a smile upon his face, for he believed that he had
thrown a red-hot shot into the enemy.

"Coles!" said Pillgrim.

"Coles!" repeated Somers.

"Mr. Somers, you are a fool!"

"Pray, where were you when human wisdom was distributed?"

"Do you know Coles?" asked Pillgrim.

"I think I should know Coles if I saw him."

"No, you wouldn't."

"He is the greatest villain that ever went unhung."

"Except yourself. Somers, this is child's play. You have made me your
enemy, but let us fight it out like men."

"I will do so with pleasure when you take your place on the deck of a
rebel vessel, where you belong."

"A truce to child's play, I say again. We must settle this matter here
and now."

"It can't be done."

"It must be done, or I will inform Captain Cascabel who and what you are
before the first watch is out. Probably he will wish to see your
Confederate commission and your letter of instructions."

"When he does, I have something else to show him," replied Somers, whose
answer was sufficiently indefinite to make the traitor look very stormy
and anxious.

"Can you show him a Confederate oath of allegiance signed by me?"

"No."

"Then he will be more likely to hear me than you," added the lieutenant,
whose countenance now looked as malignant as that of a demon. "You have
subscribed to that oath; I have not."

"It is false!"

"So you said before."

"Prove it."

"Here," continued Pillgrim, taking from his pocket the document which
had been offered to Somers by Wynkoop.

The young officer glanced at it, and on the line for the signature, he
saw, with horror and indignation, the name of "John Somers," apparently
in his own handwriting. Undoubtedly it was a forgery, but it was so well
done that even the owner of the name could hardly distinguish it from
his usual signature.

"It is a forgery," gasped Somers, appalled at the deadly peril which
seemed to be in his path.

"Prove it," said the lieutenant, with a mocking smile.

Somers groaned in spirit. It would be impossible for him to prove that
the signature was a forgery. Even his best friends would acknowledge it,
so well was it executed.

"I have you, Somers," said Pillgrim, exultingly. "Let us understand each
other. You are mine, Somers, or you hang! Somers, I am Coles!"




CHAPTER X.

THE CHIEF CONSPIRATOR.


Lieutenant Pillgrim rattled off the sentences in which he acknowledged
his complicity with treason with a smile of malignant triumph on his
face. He gloated over his victim as the evil one might be supposed to do
over a soul wrenched from truth and virtue. He believed that he had
Somers in a position where he could not betray him, or even resent his
tyranny.

For the first time Somers realized that he had been imprudent in
exposing himself to the machinations of these evil men. Before he had
only felt a little uncomfortably, and harbored a vague suspicion that,
in attempting to overreach others, he had committed himself. He had
learned in his babyhood that it is dangerous to play with fire, but had
never believed it so fully as at this moment. He had touched the pitch,
and felt that he had been defiled by it. Though his conscience kept
assuring him he was innocent, and protesting against a harsh judgment,
he could not help regretting that he had not exposed the villains
before he left Philadelphia, and permitted the consequences to take care
of themselves.

But stronger than any other impression, at this eventful moment, was the
feeling that he was no match for men so deeply versed in treason and
wickedness as Pillgrim and his confederates. He had played at the game
of strategy, and been beaten. While he thought he was leading them on to
confusion, they were actually entwining the meshes of the net around
him.

Mr. Pillgrim had just declared that he was the mysterious Coles. Somers,
at first, found it very difficult to realize the fact. He had really
seen Coles but once; but they had spent some hours together. At that
time Coles wore long, black whiskers, which concealed two thirds of his
face; Pillgrim wore no beard, not even a mustache. Coles was dressed in
homely garments; Pillgrim, in an elegant uniform. Coles's hair was short
and straight; Pillgrim's, long and curly at the ends.

In height, form, and proportions, they were the same; and the difference
between Coles and Pillgrim was really nothing which might not have been
produced with a razor, a pair of barber's shears, and the contrast of
dress. The familiarity of the lieutenant's expression, before
unexplained, was now accounted for; and before his tyrant spoke again,
Somers was satisfied that he actually stood in the presence of Coles.

Pillgrim stood with folded arms, gazing at his victim, and enjoying the
confusion which Somers could not conceal. The persecutor was a confident
man, and fully believed that he was master of the situation, and that
Somers would do anything he asked of him, even to going over into the
rebel ranks. He was mistaken; for Somers, deep as he felt that he was in
hot water, would have chosen to hang at the fore yard-arm, rather than
betray his country, or be false to her interests.

"You just now remarked that you should know Coles if you saw him,"
sneered Pillgrim.

"I know you now," replied Somers, bitterly.

"I see you do; but you will know me better before we part."

"I know you well enough now. You are a rebel and a traitor; and what I
said of Coles I say of you,--that you are the greatest villain that ever
went unhung."

"I don't like that kind of language, Mr. Somers," replied Pillgrim, with
entire coolness and self-possession. "It isn't the kind of language
which one gentleman should apply to another."

"Gentleman!" said Somers, with curling lip; "I applied it to a rebel and
a traitor."

"In the present instance it is mutiny. I am your superior officer."

"You are out of place; you don't belong here."

"Your place is on the quarter deck of the Ben Nevis; and perhaps it will
be when she goes into commission as a Confederate cruiser."

"Never!" exclaimed Somers, with energy.

"My dear Mr. Somers, be prudent. Some of the officers might hear you."

"I don't care if they all hear me."

"You talk and act like a boy, Somers. I beg you to consider that your
neck and mine are in the same noose. If I hang, you hang with me."

Somers groaned, for he could not see where his vindication was to come
from.

"You seem to understand your situation, and at the same time you appear
to be quite willing to throw yourself into the fire. Let me call your
attention to the fact that fire will burn."

"Better burn or hang, than be a traitor."

"Be reasonable, Somers. I do not propose to ask anything of you which
will compromise your position in the navy; but I repeat, you are mine."

"I don't understand you."

"I have told you my secret. You know that I am in the Confederate
service; that I have fitted out a vessel to cruise for Yankee ships. I
am willing you should know this, for you dare not violate my
confidence."

"Perhaps I dare."

"If you do, you are a dead man."

"Will you kill me?"

"If necessary."

"I have usually been able to defend myself," replied Somers, with
dignity.

"I am not an assassin. A court martial will do all I wish done if you
are not prudent and devoted, as you should be. The Confederate oath of
allegiance signed by you is good testimony."

"I didn't sign it. The signature is a forgery."

"My dear fellow, what possible difference does that make? It is well
done--is it not?"

"Perhaps it is. Where did you get it?"

"Langdon gave it to me."

"Did he sign my name to it?"

"Possibly; but even grant that I did it myself--what then?"

"You are a greater villain than I ever gave Coles the credit of being."

"Thank you!"

"Where is Langdon now?"

"In New York--where he can be reached if you make it necessary to
convene a court martial."

"Is he a naval officer?"

"Yes; he has been a Confederate agent in London for the past two years.
Since the English have become a little particular about letting steamers
out for the Confederates, he buys them on this side."

"What do you want of me, Mr.--Pillgrim? if that is your name?"

"That is my name. I don't want much of you."

"What?"

"I am not ready to tell you until you are in a proper frame of mind. You
are rather childish to-night. After you have thought the matter over,
you will be a man, and be reasonable. Let me see: Garboard has the
forenoon watch to-morrow, and we shall both be off duty after general
quarters. If you please, I will meet you at that time."

Somers considered a moment, and assented to the proposition. Pillgrim
bade him good night, and retired to his own state-room, apparently
without a fear that his victim would struggle in the trap into which he
had fallen.

"And into the counsels of the ungodly enter thou not." This text rang in
the mind of Somers, as though some mighty prophet were thundering it
into his ears. He felt that he had already plunged deep enough into the
pit of treason, and he was anxious to get away from it before he was
scorched by the fire, and before the smell of fire clung to his
garments.

For half an hour the fourth lieutenant of the Chatauqua sat at his desk,
in deep thought. Though in the matter of which he was thinking, he had
not sinned against his country, or the moral law, he was sorely
troubled. He could not conceal from himself the fact that he was afraid
of Pillgrim. The dread of having his name connected with any treasonable
transaction was hard to overcome. That oath of allegiance, with his
signature forged upon it, haunted him like an evil demon. He felt more
timid and fearful than ever before in his life. His faith in Him who
doeth all things well, seemed to be momentarily shaken, and he was
hardly willing to do justly, and leave the consequences to themselves.

He felt weak, and being conscious of his weakness, he looked upward for
strength. Leaning on his desk, he prayed for wisdom to know the right,
and for the power to do it. He was in earnest; and though his prayer was
not spoken, it moved his soul down to the depths of his spiritual being.

Three bells struck while he was thus engaged. He rose from the desk, and
walked up and down the state-room several times. Suddenly he stopped
short. A great thought struck him. In an instant it became a great
resolution. Before it had time to grow cold, he put on his coat and cap,
and went out into the ward-room. Mr. Transit, the master, Mr. Grynbock,
the paymaster, and Dr. De Plesion, the surgeon, were there, discussing
the anticipated attacks on Mobile and Wilmington. Somers felt no
interest in the conversation at this time. He went on deck, where he
found Captain Cascabel and the first lieutenant, smoking their cigars.
Waiting till the captain went below, he touched his cap to Mr.
Hackleford.

"Mr. Somers?"

"Yes, sir."

"Not turned in, Mr. Somers? You have the mid-watch."

"If you will excuse me, sir, for coming to you at such a time, I wish to
have half an hour's conversation with you."

"With me?" said Mr. Hackleford, apparently much surprised at such a
request at such an hour.

"Yes, sir. It is a matter of the utmost consequence, or I would not have
mentioned it at this time."

"Very well, Mr. Somers; I am ready to hear you."

"Excuse me, sir; I would rather not introduce the matter on deck."

"Well, come to my state-room."

"To my state-room, if you please, Mr. Hackleford."

"Why not mine?"

"I am afraid the person most deeply concerned will overhear me. His room
is next to yours."

"Mr. Pillgrim?" exclaimed the first lieutenant.

"Yes, sir."

"Mr. Somers, I have a high regard for you as an officer and a gentleman,
and I am not unacquainted with your past history. I hope you have
nothing to say which will reflect on a brother officer."

"I have, sir."

"Then I advise you to think well before you speak."

"I am entirely prepared to speak, sir."

"Complaints against superior officers, Mr. Somers, are rather
dangerous."

"It is not personal, sir, though I may be the sufferer for making it."

Mr. Hackleford led the way down to the ward-room. The officers had
retired to their apartments, and there was no one to see them enter the
state-room. As it was now nearly ten o'clock, when all officers' lights
must be extinguished, Somers formally asked and obtained permission to
burn his lamp till eleven o'clock. The first lieutenant entered the
room, and Somers closed the door.

"Mr. Hackleford, may I trouble you to read this statement?" said Somers,
as he handed out the paper he had so carefully prepared.

The first lieutenant adjusted his eye-glass, and read the statement
through, asking an explanation of two or three points as he proceeded.
He was deeply absorbed in the narrative, which was drawn up with the
utmost minuteness.

"This is an infernal scheme, Mr. Somers. I hope you did not permit the
vessel to sail without giving information of her character."

"The Ben Nevis sailed from New York before I could do anything or say a
word," said Somers, exhibiting Langdon's letter.

"That was bad. You should have spoken before."

"My paper explains my reasons for keeping still. Perhaps I was wrong,
sir, but I did the best I knew how."

"And this vessel is bound to Mobile. We may pick her up."

"The note says she is bound to Mobile; but it is not true. That is a
blind to deceive me."

"Why should they wish to deceive you, after giving you their
confidence."

"I don't know the reason."

"But what has all this to do with Mr. Pillgrim?" asked Mr. Hackleford.

"Mr. Pillgrim is the person spoken of in that paper as Coles."

"Impossible!" ejaculated Mr. Hackleford, springing to his feet.

"I shall be able to prove it by to-morrow, sir."

Somers then gave him the substance of the conversation between himself
and Mr. Pillgrim.

"Why, this Coles wants something of you."

"Yes, sir; but I don't know what. He engaged to meet me here at four
bells in the forenoon watch to-morrow, when he will tell me what he
wants."

"Very well, Mr. Somers; meet him as agreed. You have played your part
well. When you come together, you must yield the point; lead him along,
and you will bag him,--and the vessel, I hope."

"The Ben Nevis will sail from St. John July 4, for Wilmington."

"Ah, then she is about even with the Chatauqua. I would give a year's
pay for the privilege of catching her."

Until eleven o'clock the two officers consulted charts, and figured up
the time of the Ben Nevis.




CHAPTER XI.

AFTER GENERAL QUARTERS.


At eleven o'clock, when the master-at-arms knocked at the door of the
fourth lieutenant, to inform him that it was time to put out his light,
the calculations in regard to the position of the Ben Nevis had been
made and verified. Mr. Hackleford, after counselling prudence and
precaution, retired to his state-room. Somers threw himself on his cot,
and having eased his mind of the heavy burden which had rested upon it,
he went to sleep. But there was only an hour of rest for him, for at
twelve o'clock he was to take the deck.

When eight bells struck, he turned out, much refreshed by his short nap,
to relieve Mr. Garboard. It was a beautiful night, with only a gentle
breeze from the westward, and the ship was doing her ten knots without
making any fuss about it. Somers took the trumpet, which the officer of
the deck always carries as the emblem of his office, and commenced his
walk on the weather side.

Though he carefully watched the compasses, and saw that the sheets were
hauled close home, he could not help thinking of the startling events
which had transpired on the preceding evening. But he was satisfied with
himself now. He had purged himself of all appearance of complicity with
the enemies of his country, and he fully expected that Pillgrim would be
put under arrest within the next forty-eight hours. The consciousness of
duty done made him happy and contented. The first lieutenant had even
praised him for the manner in which he had conducted the delicate
business, and did not lay any stress on the oath of allegiance, or the
commander's commission.

For his four hours he "planked the deck," thinking of the past and
hopeful of the future. At eight bells he sent a midshipman down to call
Mr. Pillgrim. While he was waiting to be relieved, he could not help
considering what a risk it was to leave that noble ship in the hands of
a traitor; but Somers had given all the information he had to Mr.
Hackleford, and the responsibility did not rest upon himself. The first
lieutenant was an able and discreet officer, and would not permit the
Chatauqua to be imperilled even for a moment.

"Good morning, Mr. Somers," said Lieutenant Pillgrim, as he came on
deck.

"Good morning, Mr. Pillgrim," replied Somers, with all the courtesy due
to the quarter deck.

"A fine morning."

"Beautiful weather."

"You have had a good opportunity to think over our business. How do you
feel about it?"

"Just right, I hope."

"I am glad to hear it. Have you seen anything of the Ben Nevis?"

"Of the Ben Nevis! No, sir; I don't expect to see her here."

"We may," replied Pillgrim, as he took the trumpet.

"Isn't she going to Mobile?"

"We'll talk of her during the forenoon watch," added the second
lieutenant, as he turned on his heel and walked forward.

Somers went below. As he entered the ward-room, Mr. Hackleford came out
of his state-room. This gentleman evidently intended to keep a sharp
lookout for the officer of the deck during his watch. He asked the
relieved officer if anything more had transpired, and the unimportant
conversation which had just taken place was fully reported to him.

"Mr. Somers, I haven't slept an hour during the night. There are one or
two points in your statement which were a little dark to me," said Mr.
Hackleford.

"More than that of it is dark to me. I do not profess to understand the
whole of it. I only state the facts from my own point of view."

"You listened to this talk between Coles and Langdon at the sailors'
boarding-house in Front Street?"

"Yes, sir."

"If you saw Coles there, how could--"

"I didn't see him, sir; I only heard him."

"That accounts for it," said Mr. Hackleford, musing. "Didn't you
recognize Mr. Pillgrim's voice?"

"No, sir; I think he changed it; though the two tones were so similar
that I might have recognized it, if I had suspected they were the same
person."

Mr. Hackleford asked other questions, which Somers answered with strict
regard to the truth, rather than with the intention of removing the
first lieutenant's doubts. He wanted only facts himself, and he was
careful not to distort them, in order to confirm any theory of his own
or of his superior officer.

Mr. Hackleford went on deck, and Somers turned in. He was in condition
to sleep now, and he improved his four hours below to the best
advantage.

After general quarters, when the crew were dismissed, he went down to
his state-room, prepared to meet Mr. Pillgrim. He was surprised to know
how little curiosity he felt to learn what the traitor wanted and
expected of him. Punctual to the appointed time, which exhibited the
interest he felt in the expected interview, the treacherous second
lieutenant made his appearance. Somers received him as one officer
should receive another, though it was hard work for him to disguise the
contempt and detestation with which he regarded the traitor.

"Well, Somers, now I am to tell you what I want of you. It isn't much,
as I warned you before; and I am very glad to see that you are in such a
happy frame of mind."

"I am ready to hear you, and do the best I can," replied Somers,
carefully following the instructions of Mr. Hackleford with regard to
matter and manner.

He had been cautioned to be ready enough in listening to the chief
conspirator, but not too ready, so as to betray his object.

"Good! I think you understand me now."

"I think I do, sir."

"I am sorry to do it, but it is necessary for me to remind you again
that your fate is in my hands; that a word from me would subject you to
a trial by court martial for treason, and probably to more hemp rope
than would feel good about your neck."

"Though I don't think I am in so much danger as you represent, I will
grant your position."

"Don't grant it, if you think it is not correct;" and Mr. Pillgrim
minutely detailed the evidence which could be brought to bear against
him.

Somers appeared to be overwhelmed by this array of testimony. He
groaned, looked hopeless, and finally granted the traitor's position in
full.

"I am in your power. Do with me as you will. Of course the moment I put
my foot on a rebel deck I am ruined."

"You can do as you please about going into the Confederate service. What
I want of you will not compromise you as a loyal man in the slightest
degree."

"What do you want of me?"

"Not quite so loud, if you please, Mr. Somers," said the lieutenant,
glancing at the door. "To me, Somers, you have been a thorn. You lost me
the Snowden, and the valuable cargo of the Theban."

"I only did my duty," pleaded Somers.

"Bah! don't use that word to me again. Through you a fortune slipped
through my fingers. I should have got the Snowden into Wilmington, if
you had not meddled with the matter. I have lost eighty thousand dollars
by you."

"Of course I had no ill will against you personally."

"Very true; if you had, you would have been a dead man before this time.
Phil Kennedy was a fool, but he was my best friend. I have his bond for
forty thousand dollars, which is waste paper just now. Phil fell by your
hand."

"It was in fair fight."

"Nonsense! What matter is it to me how he fell, whether it was in fair
fight or foul? He is dead; that is all."

"What has all this to do with me?" asked Somers, with seeming
impatience.

"Much, my dear fellow. Phil was to marry Kate Portington; was to pocket
her fortune. You have cut him out. You will marry her, and in due time
come into possession of a million. The commodore is apoplectic, and will
not live many years. Do you see my point?"

"I do not," answered Somers, disgusted with this heartless statement.

"As you cheated me out of the Snowden, as you killed Phil Kennedy, as
you will marry Kate Portington, I propose that you assume and pay Phil's
bond."

"I?"

"Certainly--you; Mr. Somers; Kate's prodigy," laughed Pillgrim.

"Never!" exclaimed Somers, jumping to his feet.

"You speak too loud, Mr. Somers."

"Am I a dog, or a snake, or a toad, that I should do such an unclean
thing?"

The traitor took from his pocket the oath of allegiance, opened it, and
in silence thrust it into his companion's face.

"I have sold myself."

"You have, Somers. Think of it. If I have to make out a case against
you, of course you will never see Kate again. Let me add, that the
commodore sets his life by me. We were old friends before the war. You
may marry his daughter with my consent, but not without it."

"I never thought of such a thing."

"Perhaps not. We waste time. Will you sign the bond?"

"The bond is good for nothing. No court--"

"That is my affair. If you agree to it, I will run all risks. I trouble
no courts. If you don't pay, I have only to speak, and hang you then."

"I am lost," groaned Somers.

"No, you are not. Sign, and you have found fortune and a friend."

"I dare not sign."

"You dare not refuse."

Somers walked up and down the state-room, apparently in great mental
agony.

"Shall I sign?" said he, in a loud tone, as though he were speaking to
the empty air.

"Not so loud, man!" interposed Pillgrim, angrily.

At that instant two light raps were distinctly heard.

"What's that?" demanded the traitor, greatly alarmed.

"I will sign it," promptly added Somers, to whom the two raps seemed to
be perfectly intelligible.

"What was that noise?" asked Pillgrim, fearfully. "Is there any one in
Garboard's state-room?"

"I think not."

The second lieutenant was not satisfied. He opened the door and looked
into the adjoining state-room, but there was no person there, and the
ward-room was empty. There was no one within hearing, and the
conspirator recovered his wonted self-possession.

"You will sign?" said he.

"I will."

"I knew you would, and therefore I prepared the document; read it," he
continued, taking a paper from his pocket.

Somers read. It was simply an agreement to pay forty thousand dollars,
when he married Kate Portington, in consideration of certain assistance
rendered the signer, but without any allusion to the circumstances under
which it was given. As a legal document, of course it was good for
nothing, as both parties well understood. Somers signed it.

"Now, Mr. Somers, we are friends," said Pillgrim, as he folded up the
paper, and restored it to his pocket. "You have done me a good turn, and
I have done you one."

Somers, unwilling to regard Pillgrim as a fool, believed that this paper
was intended to ruin him in the estimation of the Portington family, and
that the villain intended to marry her himself when her apparent suitor
was disposed of.

"Is this all you expect of me?" asked Somers.

"This is the principal thing. I may have occasion to use you again; if
I do, I shall not hesitate to call upon you. You are in my confidence
now."

"Will you tell me, then, where the Ben Nevis is bound? I may want to
find her, for I haven't much taste for the old navy now."

"Ah, you make better progress than I anticipated. She is bound to St.
Marks."

This was a lie, as Somers well knew.

"Coles and Langdon said she was to make Mobile."

"The plan was changed. You must not lay much stress on what you heard
that night. It was all a blind,--or most of it was."

"Indeed?"

"The conversation at the house in Front Street was carried on for your
especial benefit," added Pillgrim, laughing and rubbing his hands.
"Langdon wrote both letters about the wounded sailor; there was no such
person. The old woman that kept the house was in my pay. When I spoke so
warmly in your praise to Langdon, I knew that you were listening to all
I said; indeed, I said it to you rather than to Langdon."

"Why did you tell me beforehand, if you intended to catch me with the
treasonable offer?" asked Somers, rather mortified to learn that he had
been duped from the beginning.

"I knew you would pretend to accept it. All I wanted was to get you to
take the commission, orders, and oath. As you agreed to sign the
latter, Langdon did it for you, for I could not wait."

"The Ben Nevis is no humbug?"

"No; I bought her and two other steamers on the Clyde, in Scotland. The
Ben Nevis was captured, but my friends bought her after she was
condemned. As there had been a great deal said about her in the
newspapers, I used her because it was probable you had heard of her."

"I had."

"Everything works as I intended."

"Not exactly," thought Somers.

"The captain of the coaster that pounded you that night was Langdon,"
laughed Pillgrim.

"Why was that done?"

"That I might take you back to the hotel, and be your friend. We did not
intend to hurt you much. It was important that you should think well of
me. You do--don't you?"

"Of course."

"All right now; remember you are mine, Somers," said Pillgrim, as he
left the room.




CHAPTER XII.

THE BEN NEVIS.


The Chatauqua rolled along easily on her course during the rest of the
day, until the dog watch, when Mr. Pillgrim had the deck again. Somers,
having discharged his whole duty in reference to the conspiracy, was
content to leave the matter in the hands of Mr. Hackleford, to whom he
had committed it.

At eight bells, as soon as Somers had been relieved from the afternoon
watch, he was not a little surprised to receive a message from the
captain, inviting him to his cabin. He readily came to the conclusion
that the summons related to the conspiracy. When he entered the cabin,
he saw Captain Cascabel and Mr. Hackleford seated at the table, on which
was spread a general chart of the coast of the United States.

"Say what you wish to Mr. Somers," said the captain to the first
lieutenant.

"Mr. Somers, Captain Cascabel has sent for you in relation to the affair
of which we talked in your state-room last night," Mr. Hackleford began.
"All that you have written out in your statement, and all that you told
me, have been fully confirmed."

"I intended to confine myself strictly to the facts," replied Somers,
modestly.

"You have been very discreet and very prudent," added Mr. Hackleford.

"I fully concur," said Captain Cascabel. "You have exposed yourself to
no little peril, in your zeal to serve your country."

Somers bowed and blushed.

"I confess that I had some doubts in regard to the result of your
operations, Mr. Somers," continued the first lieutenant; "but I am
entirely satisfied now that Mr. Pillgrim is just what you represent him
to be."

"All that you affirmed has been fully verified," added the captain.

He did not say that both himself and Mr. Hackleford had listened to the
entire conversation between Somers and the traitor in the forenoon,
occupying one of the captain's state-rooms, which adjoined the starboard
side of the ward-room, having bored a couple of holes through the
partition, behind the bureau; he did not say this, for it was hardly
dignified for a captain to play the eavesdropper, even in a good cause.
Somers knew that Mr. Hackleford was at hand at the time, and had
arranged a set of signals by which he could advise the young officer, if
he should be in doubt. One rap meant, "No;" two raps, "Yes;" and three
raps, "Give no direct answer." When Somers was in doubt respecting the
bond, he asked the question of the empty air, apparently, but really of
Mr. Hackleford, who had promptly replied in the affirmative by giving
the two knocks, which had startled the traitor.

"Mr. Somers, what do you know of the Ben Nevis?" asked the captain.

"She was to sail from St. John on the 4th of July, to run the blockade
at Wilmington. She is said to make sixteen knots, under favorable
circumstances."

"She has had a head wind part of the time. If she has made twelve on the
average, she has done well," said Mr. Hackleford.

"She will be due off Cape Fear some time after meridian to-morrow,"
added the captain, consulting a paper, on which were several
arithmetical operations.

The calculations were carefully reviewed, and Somers was questioned at
considerable length; but he had already given all the information he
possessed. It was evidently the intention of Captain Cascabel to capture
the Ben Nevis, though he did not announce his purpose.

"After what has occurred, Mr. Somers, you may be surprised that Mr.
Pillgrim has not been relieved from duty and placed under arrest,"
continued Captain Cascabel, after the position of the Ben Nevis had been
carefully estimated.

"I leave the matter entirely in the hands of my superior officers,"
replied Somers. "Having cast the responsibility upon them, I am willing
to obey orders without asking any questions."

"That is a very proper view to take of the subject, and I commend your
moderation," said the captain, with a pleasant smile. "It has been
thought best not to disturb Mr. Pillgrim for a day or two, for other
events may transpire."
