
"After his accession to the Netherlands, the king remained four years in
the country, and then departed for Spain, from which he did not again
return. He made his sister regent, and she was to be assisted by
Granvelle, Bishop of Arras. William, Prince of Orange, and the Counts
Egmont and Horn, were associated with the bishop as councillors, but
they had no real power or influence.

"The despotic conduct of Granvelle, and the attempt on his part to
introduce the Inquisition, by order of his royal master, excited the
most desperate opposition. The people organized under the lead of the
Prince of Orange, and Egmont and Horn, and an insurrection broke out in
Flanders, in 1566. These Protestant rebels have been styled iconoclasts,
or image-breakers, for they broke into the churches, overturned the
images, defaced the valuable paintings, and otherwise injured the church
property.

"The famous Cathedral of Notre Dame, which you can see from the deck of
the ship, was ravaged by the mob. The statues of Christ, the Virgin, and
the Saints were hurled from their pedestals; the rich paintings, the
choicest works of Flemish art, were cut to pieces; the organs were torn
down, the altars overturned, and the gold and silver vessels used in the
mass were carried off. For three days these tumultuous proceedings
continued, and were suppressed only when the fury of the mob had ceased,
by the Knights of the Golden Fleece, of which the Prince of Orange was a
member. The career of this remarkable man is closely identified with the
history of the Netherlands during this period. He was opposed to the
violence of the mob, not only from prudential motives, but because his
own religious views were not yet in sympathy with the Protestant
reformers, though he afterwards fully embraced their doctrines.

"The patriots of the Low Countries were, in the beginning of these
troubles, both Catholic and Protestant; but the sacrilegious conduct of
the mob detached the former from the cause, and as the Catholics were
more numerous in the southern than in the northern provinces, they
finally turned the scale in favor of Philip II. in their own section,
while the people of Holland established their independence.

"Philip then sent the savage and relentless Duke of Alva to suppress the
new religion in the Netherlands. Egmont and Horn were beheaded at
Brussels, and the Prince of Orange retired into Germany, appealing to
the Protestant princes for assistance. With an army he had raised in
Germany, and with money obtained there and of Queen Elizabeth of
England, he marched into the Netherlands, and called his people to arms.
A long and terrible war ensued, in which the Dutch suffered up to the
limit of human endurance, and displayed a heroism which is without
parallel in the history of the nations.

"The Prince of Orange was created Stadtholder; almost unlimited powers
were conferred upon him, and for years he struggled against the most
stupendous obstacles. The Dutch, being a maritime people, established a
navy, which inflicted many heavy blows upon the Spanish power. The
severity of Alva so goaded the Netherlanders that the whole country was
in arms against him. He failed to reduce them to subjection, and was
recalled. His next two eminent successors died of fever, and the Duke of
Parma was then sent as regent of Philip. In 1579 the northern provinces
declared their independence, and established the Dutch Republic, or the
Seven United Provinces, of which the Prince of Orange was stadtholder.

"Philip was so incensed at the success of the Prince of Orange that he
offered a large reward to any one who would take his life, and a
fanatical Burgundian shot him at Delft, in 1584. With this event Mr.
Motley closes his History of the Rise of the Dutch Republic.

"Belgium adhered to Spain, or, rather, the Duke of Parma succeeded in
reducing it to subjection after the murder of the stadtholder. In 1598
Philip gave the Flemish provinces to his daughter Isabella. But on her
death without children, the country again reverted to Spain. After more
than a century of strife, including the Thirty Years' War, the repeated
quarrels between England and Spain, and France and Spain, and the War of
the Spanish Succession, during which period the Low Countries were
often the battle-ground, Belgium passed into the hands of the Austrians.

"In settling up the disastrous strife of the century, the treaty-making
powers had given several of the Belgian fortresses to Holland, in order
to check the ambition of France, and the Dutch closed the Scheldt. After
an interval of peace under Maria Theresa of Austria, her son, Joseph
II., attempted to break through portions of the treaties, and obliged
the troops of Holland to evacuate his territory, but he could not open
the river. He was rash in his proceedings, and a rebellion was organized
against him.

"About this time commenced the French Revolution, whose influence
extended to the Low Countries, and in 1789 the Austrian garrison at
Brussels was forced to surrender. But the people were not united, and
their dissensions enabled the Austrians to regain their power. The
French Directory sent an army to assist the Belgians, the Austrians were
driven from the country, and Belgium was incorporated with France.

"Napoleon, while he controlled the destinies of France, devoted much
attention to the Flemish provinces, and especially to the city of
Antwerp. When you go on shore you will see immense docks and
fortifications built by him. He intended to make it a great naval
station, and it would have been of vast importance to him in carrying
out his plans for the invasion of England. The works on the opposite
side of the river, called 'TÃªte de Flandre,' were the beginning of an
immense military town. During this period England was almost continually
at war with France, and several expeditions were sent against Holland
and Belgium.

"When Napoleon abdicated, the Flemish Provinces were restored to
Austria; but when the allies who had overthrown Napoleon finally
disposed of their conquests, Holland and Belgium were united, and given
to the Stadtholder, who had adhered to the allies. He was styled William
I., King of the Netherlands.

"The two sections could not agree; the Dutch regarded Belgium as a
conquered province, and were not at all conciliatory in their treatment
of the new acquisition. The Belgians were essentially French in their
habits, and disliked the Dutch. In 1830 they revolted against their
masters, the insurrection extended to the principal cities, and the king
called upon the great powers who had given him the country. A congress
assembled in London at his request, which, however, decreed the
independence of Belgium.

"The people first elected a son of Louis Philippe king; but he declined,
and Leopold was then chosen. King William, of Holland, protested, and in
spite of the treaty, held the city of Antwerp. A French army was sent to
the assistance of Leopold; Antwerp capitulated, but it was not till 1839
that Holland made a treaty with Belgium, acknowledging her independence.
Leopold strengthened his position by marrying a daughter of the King of
France; and his son and heir, the Duke of Brabant, was married to Marie,
Archduchess of Austria.

"In 1848, when Louis Philippe was overthrown in France, some disturbance
occurred, and Leopold offered to abdicate; but his proposition was not
accepted, and he wisely and skilfully led his government through all the
troubles of that excitable period. He is a wise and prudent statesman,
and as such has had a great deal of influence in Europe.

"Now, young gentlemen, I trust you will not be satisfied with this
meagre sketch of the interesting country we are now visiting, but will
read up the subject so that you will understand it better."

Mr. Mapps left his position, and the studies of the morning were
commenced. After dinner the usual shore liberty was given, the
allowances paid in French francs, a supply of which had been procured in
London, and the students were landed. Instead of going on shore
immediately, Dr. Winstock and Paul paid a visit to the Victoria and
Albert.

At the gangway they found the steward of the ship, who volunteered to
conduct them through the vessel. There was nothing strikingly peculiar
in the exterior of the yacht, except that she had large, square windows,
composed of a single pane of glass, in her upper saloons and cabins; but
the steward informed the visitors that these were replaced in heavy
weather by wooden shutters, having only the small, round ports in them.

Between the paddle-boxes was a large open space, covered over by the
hurricane deck. On each side, abaft the wheels, was a small apartment,
or pavilion, with large glass windows, elegantly cushioned and
furnished, where the royal passengers could sit in rough weather, and
look out upon the sea. On the hurricane deck was a spacious
dining-saloon.

From the open space between the wheels, the steward conducted Dr.
Winstock and Paul to a passage-way, at the after end of which was a
saloon called the breakfast-room. Its length corresponded with the width
of the vessel, and one side was round, being formed at the stern of the
vessel, in which were several of the large square windows, so that the
apartment was very light and pleasant.

On each side of the passage-way were several apartments, arranged in
suits. Returning to the open space amidships, the party entered the
forward room on the starboard side.

"This is the room of the first lady in waiting," said the steward, as
they went in.

"I should say the first lady in waiting was well accommodated," said
Paul, laughing, as he glanced at the spacious apartment.

"But she may be a countess," replied the steward, leading the way to the
next room. "This is the queen's bed-chamber."

There was a large bed in this room, which looked just like anybody's
bed; but it was by no means so elegant as the young republican had
anticipated. The apartment was rich and costly in its furnishings, but
there was none of the magnificence which one would have expected to find
in the room of a queen.

"This is the dressing-room of Prince Albert," added the steward,
entering the next room. "Her majesty allows no one to occupy it since
the death of his highness."

Beyond this, on the same side, were shown several rooms appropriated to
the use of the princesses. They corresponded in style with those of the
queen; but in nothing connected with the yacht was there any gaudy
display. The party went to the opposite side, and were shown several
rooms like those they had just seen, which were occupied by the princes.
The forward room on the port side was the drawing-room. It was larger
than any other except the breakfast-room, but did not appear to be
extravagantly furnished; everything seemed to be provided for comfort
rather than show.

The conductor then led them forward, where, on each side of a passage,
were four rooms, each provided with a handsome, narrow bedstead, which
the steward said were for the use of the lords and ladies in waiting.
Forward of these, in the bow of the vessel, was the kitchen, a
three-cornered room like that on the Young America, with a large galley
or cooking-range in the middle.

Below the royal apartments, in the after part of the ship, were the
cabins for the servants. As the steward led his guests towards the
gangway, Dr. Winstock took out his purse.

"Never mind that just now," interposed their conductor, "especially as
there is the captain."

Paul wondered if the doctor intended to insult a person of so much
consequence as the steward of the queen's yacht must be, by offering him
money. He glanced at the captain, who was a fine-looking man, in naval
uniform, as the steward led the way to the accommodation steps. The
doctor slyly slipped a couple of English shillings into the man's hand,
and they went down into their boat.

"What did you give him, sir?" asked Paul.

"Two shillings."

"Well, it seems to me the steward of any American passenger steamer
would be angry if you gave him two shillings for his services."

"If I had not met these men before, I should not have dared to do it;
but it is expected," replied the doctor.

The boat pulled up to the Quai Vandyck, and Paul for the first time put
his foot upon the continent of Europe.




CHAPTER VIII.

ANTWERP AND RUBENS.


"Where shall we go first, Paul?" asked Dr. Winstock, when they landed
upon the quay.

"I don't know, sir; I think I shall be interested wherever we go. This
is a big city--isn't it?"

"Its population is hardly more than half of what it was in the days of
its greatest prosperity. In the days of Charles V. it is said that
twenty-five hundred vessels were frequently seen at one time in the
river. It had two hundred thousand inhabitants, and was then the richest
and most thriving commercial city in Europe. You perceive that this long
line of quays affords plenty of wharf room. Indeed the name of the city
is said to be derived from a Flemish phrase, 'aen't werf,' which means
on the wharf, or on the quay."

"Mr. Motley tells another story about its name. He says the people claim
that the city is very old, and that a giant by the name of Antigonus,
established himself on the river at this place, and set up a kind of
custom-house. He required half the merchandise of those who went up the
river. He used to cut off the right hands of those who attempted to
smuggle, and throw them into the river. In this way Hand werpen, or
hand throwing, came to be the name of the place," said the young
commander.

"I suppose that story is as true now as it ever was. But where shall we
go?" asked the doctor.

"I want to get a little nearer to that Cathedral," replied Paul.

"That is really the most noted thing in Antwerp, and we will walk up
there; and I think we shall be able to see the pictures on the church,
which are required to produce an income. The Cathedral used to be open
till one o'clock, free to the public, but the curtains were carefully
drawn over these great works of art; after this hour visitors were
admitted upon the payment of one franc, and the pictures were exhibited.
Doubtless the same regulation is in force now."

A walk of a few moments brought them to the Place Verte, a little park
enclosed, with a colossal statue of Rubens in the centre.

"Everything in Antwerp is Rubens," said the doctor. "The people believe
in him still, and almost worship his memory."

"Why should they? He was only a great painter--was he?" added Paul.

"He was more than that: he was quite distinguished as a statesman and a
diplomatist. He was ambassador to England, Holland, and other countries.
His celebrity as an artist, and his influence with the crowned heads of
several nations, caused him to be regarded with deep interest by the
people. He lived in a splendid mansion, for the immense income which he
derived from his pencil enabled him to support an elegant
establishment. He had a great number of pupils, and at one period in his
career they painted no inconsiderable part of his pictures. He had
orders from all the crowned heads of Europe, and in many of his works he
could only make the designs and give the finishing touches to them. He
was very industrious, and painted rapidly, as he must have done to
produce so many pictures."

"He humbugged his customers then--didn't he?"

"His assistants did only the heavy work, while Rubens furnished the
design, and gave the work its finishing touches. The celebrated
sculptors do not perform all the drudgery of chiselling out a statue.
Wherever you go in Antwerp, you will hear of Rubens. You will find his
works in all the galleries, you will visit his house in the Rue Rubens,
his pictures will be shown to you in every church, and you will see his
tomb in St. Jacques."

"They have Rubens on the brain, as we should say at home," laughed Paul.

"Yes, and they have it badly. From this point you have a good view of
the Cathedral," added the doctor, as they paused near the statue of
Rubens, where they could see the building over the tops of the trees.

"The steeple is very handsome. It is of the most beautiful and delicate
workmanship you will see."

"I should think it would blow down."

"It is banded together with a framework of iron, and the stones are held
together with copper bolts."

"How high is it?" asked Paul, as he gazed up at the lofty spire.

"There you have me, Paul! I don't know. In Murray's Guide-Book it is
set down at four hundred and three feet. The man up in the tower there
says it is four hundred and sixty-six. Other authorities put it at less
than four hundred. My guide assured me it was one hundred and
forty-seven French metres in height; but this, reduced to English
measure, would give four hundred and eighty-three feet. My own idea is,
that Murray is right," replied Dr. Winstock, as they walked over to the
church.

"What's this?" asked Paul, pointing to a beautiful iron canopy in Gothic
style, near the foot of the church tower.

"That's a draw-well. It is the handiwork of Quentin Matsys."

"I don't know him."

"He was a blacksmith until he was twenty years old, when he fell in love
with the fair daughter of a painter. The story goes that the father
would not permit his daughter to marry any man that was not an artist,
and the blacksmith abandoned his anvil for the easel. He had a genius
for art, and soon painted better than his masters. He won his bride, and
achieved a great reputation in his new art. The picture of The Misers,
which you saw at Windsor Castle, was executed by him."

They bought a couple of tickets and were admitted to the church. The
interior was grand and imposing; but the chief attraction was the
pictures, which were now unveiled, and a small audience was present
examining them. Several artists were making copies of them. In the south
transept hangs Reubens's masterpiece, The Descent from the Cross.

Paul did not pretend to be a connoisseur in paintings, and could neither
understand nor appreciate the fine writing he read about them in books,
or the "hifalutin" which affected men bestowed upon them; but in the
presence of the grand old painting, he was awed and silenced. It
produced a deep impression upon his mind and heart, and for the first
time in his life he realized the sublime in art. The figure of The Dead
Christ seemed to be real, so painfully natural were the hanging head of
the Savior, and the relaxed muscles of the body. The young student gazed
long and earnestly at the picture, studying it as a whole and in detail.

It is said that Rubens paid this picture as the price of the land on
which he erected his house in Antwerp. In the north transept of the
Cathedral hangs its companion piece, The Elevation of the Cross; but its
reputation is far inferior to his masterpiece, grand as it is.

Paul walked about the church, and examined other pictures and works of
art; and then, after paying the keeper of the tower a franc, they
commenced the long ascent to the spire and chimes.

"These churches and these pictures are certainly very fine," said Paul,
as they stopped at a window to rest. "We don't have them in our country.
There isn't a church there that will compare with any of these
cathedrals, to say nothing of the celebrated pictures, such as we have
just seen."

"That's very true; and I am thankful that our people make a better use
of their money. Here in Belgium, as in most countries of Europe, poverty
is the curse of the people. They do not receive the reward of their
labor. The government and the church take the lion's share of their
earnings, and thus keep them down. This Cathedral was commenced in 1352,
and finished in 1411, though another spire was to have been built.
Nearly sixty years were employed in its erection, and probably it cost
millions of dollars. Of course the people had to pay for it. The greater
portion of the expense of it lies dormant here, it being merely an
ornamental structure. It gratifies people's tastes, it is true; but God
could be acceptably worshipped in a less costly edifice. If the capital
locked up in this church had been invested in schools, colleges, and
other educational institutions, it would be a blessing to the country.
What is paid in Europe to build these grand structures for worship, and
to support the trappings of royalty, is in our own country appropriated
to public schools; and the nation reaps the benefit of them every year
of its existence."

"That's so," replied Paul, emphatically; "and when any foreigner says
anything to me again about our want of costly cathedrals, I shall call
his attention to our schools."

"That's right; you are an American to the core," laughed the doctor.

"But I don't see any reason why we should not have as great painters in
the United States as in Europe," added Paul.

"I do see the reason. Probably we have just as much talent for art in
our nation, but the people find that it doesn't pay so well as
developing the resources of a new country. When it is possible in
America for a man to win the wealth and distinction which Rubens won,
we shall be as successful in art as Europe has been; for Washington
Allston, Benjamin West, and others have demonstrated the capacity of our
people in this direction. The encouragement which artists receive makes
the men. There are not many persons in our country who are willing to
pay ten, fifty, or a hundred thousand dollars for a picture. So much
money in a painting is dead capital among an energetic people who need
all they can get to carry on agricultural, commercial, and manufacturing
enterprises."

"Of course people will follow that calling which pays best, either in
money or in reputation."

"Certainly, and the number of Dutch and Flemish artists assures us that
painting has been a cherished art in the Low Countries. Vandyck was
another celebrated painter of this country. He was born in Antwerp, and
was a pupil of Rubens. There is a story that The Descent from the Cross
was thrown down by the carelessness of a student, and badly injured by
the fall. Vandyck, who was then a pupil of the great Flemish master,
undertook to repair the mischief with his brush, and did it so well that
Rubens declared the work was superior to his own. This story is current
in the guide-books, and in the mouths of the commissionaires, who
point out the places on the face of the Virgin and on the arm of one of
the Marys where the pupil touched it up. But there is no truth in it,
since the picture was hung up in the Cathedral before Vandyck entered
the studio of Rubens."

"I suppose these people like to tell good stories, whether true or not."

"Yes; and you will find a man up in this steeple who believes that his
spire is the tallest in the world," added Dr. Winstock.

They continued on their long ascent till they reached the region of the
bells, where they found the attendant who glories in magnifying the
wonders of the chimes and the spire. He had a small furnished apartment,
which the visitors were invited to enter, and where he dispensed
refreshments, of which no total abstinence man could partake. The
doctor, knowing what the man had to say, skilfully turned his attention
away from his favorite topic, until they were sufficiently
refreshed--not by the eau de vie and noyau, but by the rest--to
explore the bell towers.

The bells composing the chime were fixed in the lofts, which were filled
with wires, cranks, and other machinery, used in operating them. In one
place there was a bank of keys like those of an organ, where a person
could play any tune he pleased upon the bells. The keeper had a history
to relate of each bell, many of which were contributed by kings,
princes, and lords, and bore their names. In another tower there was an
immense bell, at the baptism of which--for church bells are duly
consecrated in Catholic countries--the Emperor Charles V. stood as
godfather. It requires sixteen men to ring it; but its peals rouse the
Antwerpers only on great occasions, such as a visit of the king.

Dr. Winstock and Paul waited among the chimes till they had played the
hourly tune, and then continued their progress to the heights above.
The custodian of the steeple said there were six hundred and sixteen
steps from the bottom to the top, and a person does not care to make the
journey more than once in his lifetime. The winding stairs passed close
to the Gothic openings of the tower, and they had an opportunity closely
to observe the delicate workmanship of the structure, which Charles V.
said should be kept in a glass case, and Napoleon compared to Mechlin
lace.

At last, out of breath, they reached the highest point of the spire, and
looked far down upon the lofty roof of the church. The buildings of the
city looked like card houses, and a company of Belgian soldiers,
marching in the streets, appeared like the pygmies who inhabited them.
In the distance could be seen the towers of Ghent, Brussels, Mechlin,
and Flushing, the wandering Scheldt, and the low country for a vast
distance. The magnificent view, and the information it afforded, amply
repaid them for the toil of ascending, and Paul made the Cathedral the
subject of an entire letter to Miss Grace Arbuckle.

It was easier to go down than to come up, and when they had passed out
into the Place Verte, the doctor declared that he must lunch before he
walked any farther. The Hotel de l'Europe faced the Park, and Paul was
desirous of seeing the interior of it. They entered through an archway,
there being no doors on the street. There was a spacious area, or
court-yard, through which alone the house could be reached. In other
respects the establishment was similar to those in the United States.

On the continent, as in England, none but working people take breakfast
much before nine o'clock, and the hour varies from this time till noon.
Of late years the practice in American hotels corresponds with that of
European ones. In the dining-room of the Hotel de l'Europe there are
many small tables, and one or two long ones, the latter being used at
table d'hÃ´te, which is served at five o'clock. A hotel bill is added, to
give the reader an idea of the prices:--

   "HOTEL DE L'EUROPE.

   Place Verte.

   ANVERS.

   Note Ã  M. Smith,
   Chambre No. 40, A.


                                       Fr. Cen.

   AoÃ»t 4.   1/2 Poulet et Salade,       3.00
             1 ThÃ© Complet,              1.50
             Appartement,                2.50
             Bougie,                      .50
             Service,                    1.00

        5.   1 DÃ©jeÃ»nÃ© et Bifstek,       3.00
             1 Bifstek, Pomme de Terre,  1.50
                                        -----
                                        13.00

              Pour Acquit,
                                 J. W. BARBER."

"One ThÃ© Complet" consists of simply tea and bread and butter, and as a
franc is about twenty cents, its price is thirty cents. A centime is the
hundredth of a franc, and fifty centimes is ten cents. If the guest adds
a beefsteak and potatoes, or any other dish, to his meal, it just
doubles the cost. The "bougie" is a candle, which is charged all over
Europe, at from a quarter of a franc up to a franc. The traveller also
pays for his soap, or provides it himself. When an "old stager" pays a
franc for a candle, or a piece of soap, he rolls the part unused up in a
paper and puts it into his trunk; and, if at his next stopping-place, he
finds a candle in his room, he orders the waiter to remove it, and will
not submit to be charged for it.

Table d'hÃ´te is a more formal meal, and in some large hotels much parade
is made over it. The bill of fare is usually very meagre compared with
that of the Fifth Avenue Hotel in New York, and every dish in the
programme is presented to the guest. The charge for this meal, at
first-class houses outside of Paris, is usually four francs, or eighty
cents.

Dr. Winstock and Paul took a seat in the Salle Ã  manger. The student
was principally anxious to know what they had to eat, and in what manner
they served it, for he was of an inquiring mind, and fond of making
comparisons. The most common lunch consists of cold chicken and salad,
the latter being simply lettuce prepared with oil and vinegar. Paul was
disappointed, for the lunch differed hardly a shade from the same thing
at home. Even the gentlemanly Belgian waiter, dressed in seemly black,
spoke good English, and the "demi-poulet" was wasted upon him.

"Where shall we go now, Paul?" asked the doctor, as they left the
dining-room.

"I leave that to you, sir. You seem to be quite at home here," replied
Paul.

"We will take a carriage, and we can do up the city in a few hours."

A one-horse barouche was called, and a commissionaire--a kind of guide
or interpreter, who assists strangers in doing their business, or in
seeing the sights of the city--presented himself to be employed; but Dr.
Winstock, who was familiar with the place, declined his services.

"What was that man?" asked Paul, as the carriage drove off to the Rue
des Soeurs Noires, where the Dominican Church of St. Paul is located.

"He is a commissionaire, interpreter, or valet de place. Many
travellers regard such men as swindlers; but for my own part I have
found them very useful. When I first visited Antwerp I employed one. I
found him intelligent and gentlemanly, and, so far as I could judge, not
disposed to swindle me himself or to let others do so. I paid him five
francs a day, and I am sure he saved me more money than I paid him,
besides taking me in the easiest and most convenient way to the various
points in the city."

"I should think such men would be very necessary, especially to those
who cannot speak the language."

"In Amsterdam and Rotterdam I should have been on my beam-ends without
them. I never could imagine where they obtained their bad name, unless
it was from Englishmen, who are generally afraid of being cheated, and
take the alarm before there is any real danger."

The driver stopped before the Church of St. Paul, and the passengers
alighted. There was nothing worthy of note in the church; but outside of
it, in a kind of garden, one of the most singular and remarkable
exhibitions is open to the visitor. It is called "Calvary," and is a
representation of the "several stages," as they are termed, in the life
of Christ. An artificial mound is raised on the side next to the church
edifice, which is covered with a kind of rock-work, in imitation of
Mount Calvary. In various parts of the area are placed the statues of
saints, angels, patriarchs, and prophets.

On the summit of the mound is represented the crucifixion, with a figure
of the Savior on the cross. At the foot of it is the sepulchre, which is
claimed to be a perfect copy of the Holy Sepulchre at Jerusalem, though
travellers who have seen it say it bears no resemblance whatever to the
original. In the tomb, on a kind of shelf, rests the crucified Christ,
represented by a figure clothed in silk and muslin!

Near the tomb an ideal of Purgatory is exhibited, consisting of wood
carvings. The making-up of the scene appears to be a kind of cage, like
those one sees in a menagerie, with bars in front of it to prevent the
escape of the unhappy mortals temporarily confined there. Within the den
are carved and painted several figures of men, in the midst of darting,
leaping flames, upon whose faces there is an expression of intense
anguish. Doubtless the intention of those who conceived this astounding
exhibition was to impress upon the mind of the spectator the sufferings
of the unrepentant wicked. It is hardly possible that this effect could
ever have been produced upon the minds of sensible men. The spectacle is
not only in exceedingly bad taste, but it is positively repulsive, not
to say sacrilegious.

Such was the opinion of Paul Kendall, who could hardly conceal his
disgust; and ten minutes in the place exhausted his patience. He was
silent, so deep was his feeling of dissatisfaction, until he was again
seated in the voiture. The next objects of interest were the docks and
basins, which were reached after a short drive from St. Paul's. They
merely passed along the quay, making no stop, as the works could be seen
from the carriage.

"That is the house of the Hanseatic League," said the doctor, pointing
to a large ancient building.

"What is the Hanseatic League?" asked Paul, who had never even heard of
it.

"It was a commercial alliance between some of the cities of Germany for
the protection and development of their trade. It had its origin in the
thirteenth century, for the purpose of preventing piracy and shipwreck,
and to encourage commerce, and, indeed, all branches of industry. It
established great warehouses or factories in different parts of Europe,
and became an exceedingly powerful association, so much so that it
dictated the policy of sovereigns on their thrones, and even declared
and carried on war with several of the powers of Europe. In the
fourteenth century, the League defeated the King of Norway and Sweden.
It unseated the King of Sweden, and gave his crown to another, and
having declared war against Denmark, sent a fleet of two hundred and
fifty ships, and thousands of troops to carry it on. In fact, the
association prepared for war with England, and Edward IV. made important
concessions to avoid it. Of course the crowned heads were jealous of
its power and influence, and it was eventually broken up; but it laid
the foundation of the commercial policy of the nations. The League died
out in 1630; but Hamburg, Lubec, and Bremen formed a new one, under the
name of the Hanse Towns; and Frankfort-on-the-Main afterwards joined
them."

"I have heard of the Hanse Towns," added Paul; "but I never knew what
the term meant before."

"The docks and basins here are mainly the work of Napoleon. The great
conqueror intended to make Antwerp the first seaport of the north. The
mouth of the Thames is less than a hundred miles from the mouth of the
Scheldt, and he knew that, with a naval station equal to any in the
possession of England, he could, in time of war, cripple or destroy the
commerce of his great rival. He expended ten millions of dollars on
these docks, basins, and fortifications. The English were alarmed, and
in 1809 sent the Walcheren expedition, which obtained a foothold on that
island, but were defeated by disease and death, for seven thousand
British soldiers perished by marsh fever. By the peace of Paris in 1814,
after the battle of Waterloo, it was stipulated that the dock-yards
should be destroyed, for they were a standing threat to the maritime
powers; but these basins were preserved for commercial purposes. The
largest one will accommodate thirty-four ships of the line."

The travellers continued on their way through some of the principal
streets till they arrived at the Church of St. Jacques, which is richer
in its ornaments than the Cathedral, containing exquisitely wrought
marbles, carved wood, painted glass. This magnificent church contains
the burial vaults of the noble families of the city, and among them that
of Rubens, which is marked by a white marble tablet with a long
inscription upon it, embedded in the pavement of his private chapel. The
Holy Family, which forms the altar-piece of the church, was painted by
the great master. In 1793, when the mob, incited by the furious spirit
of the French Revolution, broke into the church, pillaging altars and
tombs alike, that of Rubens was spared from desecration by the universal
respect for his memory, though not another tomb in St. Jacques escaped
their impious touch.

The house of Rubens, situated in a street of the same name, was visited;
an outside view of the Bourse, or Exchange, the Hotel de Ville, or Town
Hall, and of other public buildings, was obtained. The Citadel, built
under the direction of the cruel Duke of Alva, to overawe the rebellious
Antwerpers, was an object of interest. After the expulsion of the
Spaniards in 1577, the people, including those of high and low degree,
men, women, and children, assisted in its demolition; but it was
speedily rebuilt, and has played an important part in subsequent sieges
and insurrections. The city is surrounded by a continuous line of
fortifications and ditches, extending from a point on the river below
the city to a point above it; and outside of this line there are a
number of detached forts to keep a hostile force from approaching near
enough to the city to shell it.

When the carriage reached the Quai Vandyck, most of the students had
returned, and the boats were in waiting. They chattered like magpies
about the wonders they had seen. When Captain Kendall went on board, the
mail-bag was handed to him, and the boys were eager to obtain their
letters from home and elsewhere.

"A letter for you, Mr. Hamblin," said the captain, as he handed the
professor a formidable envelope, postmarked "Anvers."

The learned gentleman seemed to be astonished, and bore the missive to
his state-room.




CHAPTER IX.

TROUBLE ON BOARD THE JOSEPHINE.


Almost every one on board of the Josephine had a letter, and some had
two or three. Paul had one from Grace, dated at Paris, in which she
expressed a hope that, as she was to travel a few months with her
father, she might see him in some of her wanderings. The young captain
hoped so too, and he read the letter a second time. Probably he read it
a third time after he went to his state-room, and a fourth before he
retired; for boys of his age are apt to be enthusiastic in this
direction.

Professor Stoute sat in the cabin. He had been all over Antwerp, and had
walked a larger part of the distance than a man of his obesity could
well endure in a warm day. Though he was very tired, he was very
good-natured; indeed, thus far, nothing had ever occurred to disturb his
equanimity. He was exceedingly popular with the boys, and if he had
fallen overboard, every one of them would have jumped in after him. No
one ever thought of disobeying him, and consequently he never had any
trouble.

While he sat there fanning himself with a newspaper, Mr. Hamblin came
out of his state-room with the huge envelope he had received in his
hand. The learned gentleman looked perplexed; in fact, he always wore
an anxious expression, as though he were in constant fear that somebody
would infringe upon his dignity, or that some of the boys did not
believe he was the wisest man since the days of Solomon. He always
walked just so; he always sat just so; he always moved just so. He never
was guilty of using a doubtful expression. He was stern, rigid, and
precise, and from the beginning all the boys had disliked him; but since
he had behaved so unreasonably in the squall, they could hardly endure
him.

The lean professor walked up to the fat professor, and took a stand
before him. He had removed the letter from the formidable envelope, and
held it unfolded in his hand. He looked at the letter, and then at Mr.
Stoute. The fat professor laughed, but the lean professor frowned. The
jolly one knew just what the precise one wanted, but he waited patiently
for the exordium.

"Mr. Stoute, may I trouble you?" he began, after he had put himself in
proper position.

"Certainly, sir," replied the fat gentleman.

"If this letter had been written in Greek or Latin, I could have read
it," continued Mr. Hamblin, glancing at the sheet.

"Precisely so; if it had been written in Greek or Latin I could not read
it," laughed Mr. Stoute.

"My French, as I have had occasion to acknowledge to you with deep
humiliation, has been neglected for more important studies. This letter
appears to have been written by some distinguished person, but
unfortunately he has chosen to indite it in French."

"In a word, you wish me to read it to you."

"That is what I was about to request of you. May I ask you to retire
with me to our state-room?" continued Professor Hamblin, glancing at the
officers who were reading their letters in the cabin.

"Excuse me, Mr. Hamblin; you forget that I carry round with me two
hundred and odd pounds of flesh, besides bone and muscle, and that I
have been on my feet three hours. I think, sir, if I knew this vessel
was going to the bottom of the Scheldt this instant, I should go down
with her rather than move. Have me excused, I pray you, and have
compassion on mine infirmities," laughed Mr. Stoute.

Mr. Hamblin was vexed, but he gave the letter to his associate, who
turned the sheet and glanced at the signature.

"Ah!" exclaimed he, looking at Mr. Hamblin.

"What is it? Do me the favor to read it," replied the learned gentleman,
impatiently.

"It is from Monsieur Charles Rogier, the president of the council, and
minister of foreign affairs," added Professor Stoute. "He is the man who
organized the revolution of 1830, and the greatest man in Belgium, King
Leopold excepted."

"Is it possible!" ejaculated Mr. Hamblin, struggling to keep down the
smile in which his vanity sought to manifest itself. "What does he say?"

"He says that just as he was leaving Antwerp for Brussels, he heard that
the very learned and distinguished Professor Hamblin was on board of a
vessel at anchor in the river."

"Does he say that?" asked the learned gentleman, who, knowing that Mr.
Stoute had a horrid vein of humor running through his fat frame, had,
perhaps, a suspicion that he was making fun at his expense.

"That is precisely what it says."

"How should Mr. Rogier know me?" queried Mr. Hamblin.

"I was about to read his explanation on that point: he says he heard of
you through a friend who was in London a few weeks since. He wished to
see you and extend to you a welcome to the kingdom of Belgium; but the
command of his royal master required him to leave Antwerp by the next
train; and he was deprived of the pleasure of extending to you in person
the expression of his distinguished consideration. He hopes when you
visit Brussels you will do him the honor to call upon him at the Palais
de la Nation, Rue de la Soie."

"Humph!" ejaculated the learned professor, prolonging the interjection,
and trying to suppress the smile which had a sad tendency to overwhelm
his dignity.

"You are fortunate, Mr. Hamblin," added Mr. Stoute; "of course he will
present you to King Leopold."

"Possibly," replied the Greek savant, stroking his chin, and frowning,
to counteract the sinister influence of the smile he could not wholly
overcome.

Mr. Hamblin took the letter and read the signature. It was certainly
"Charles Rogier," with a flourish extensive enough for any great man.
From the letter he glanced at the fat professor, who, being always
good-natured, was so now. He could not get rid of a lingering suspicion
that his undignified associate was imposing upon him. It was a great
misfortune that his own knowledge of French was so limited, and if it
had not been so late, he would have gone on board of the ship to ask
Professor Badois to translate the epistle to him.

Instead of doing this, he went to the record book of the Josephine, and
ascertained that Duncan was marked among the highest in French. Now
Duncan was a very polite and respectful student, and Mr. Hamblin had a
greater regard for him than for most of his companions. Finding this
promising young man on deck, he invited him to the sacred precincts of
the professor's state-room. Duncan was even more polite and obliging
than usual. At the request of his present host, who did not offer any
explanations, he wrote out a translation of the important letter. Mr.
Hamblin thanked him, and he retired.

There was no material difference between the translations of Mr. Stoute
and Duncan, and the learned professor congratulated himself upon the
distinction he had attained. His fame as a savant had preceded him
across the ocean. The king's chief minister courted his acquaintance.
This was the homage which greatness paid to learning, and Mr. Hamblin
was willing to believe that it was a deserved tribute. He soon worked
himself into a flutter of excitement, in anticipation of being taken by
the hand by the king's chief minister, and he slept but little during
the night, so absorbed was he in the contemplation of the distinguished
honor which awaited him.

"Professor Hamblin is going to court," said Duncan to his old friend
the captain, when they met on deck after supper.

"To court whom?" laughed Paul.

"He has had an invitation to go to court to see the big bugs. I
translated a letter for him from the minister of foreign affairs; and I
suppose he's about the biggest toad in the Belgian puddle," added
Duncan. "You won't be able to touch him with a ten-foot pole after
that."

"We shall get along very well with him, if we only do our duty," said
Paul.

"The fellows are not very fond of him; and if he puts on any more airs,
they won't be able to stand it."

"Why, what's the matter, Duncan? asked Paul, anxiously, for generally
everything had gone on so well on board of the Josephine, that he
dreaded any trouble.

"O, nothing, nothing!" laughed Duncan; "only the fellows don't like
him."

"Ben, there's something up," said Paul, earnestly. "If the fellows think
anything at all of me, they won't make any trouble. If I don't complain
of Mr. Hamblin, they needn't."

"I don't find any fault with him myself," protested Ben. "I don't like
him, but I have always got along very well with him."

"What did you mean by mentioning this matter to me, Ben?" asked Paul.

"Nothing; only I shouldn't be surprised if the fellows were to haze the
venerable patriarch a little in a quiet way. They are all down upon
him."

"I am sorry for that. I hope all the fellows will do their duty, and
not get into any scrapes, replied Paul, very seriously.

"I am sorry, but I can't say that I blame them much."

"I shall blame them if they commit any act of disrespect," said the
captain, decidedly. "I hope you will say what you can forward to keep
the fellows from doing anything that would hurt Mr. Hamblin's feelings."

"What can I do? The old fossil doesn't treat the students like
gentlemen; and if he behaves so, what can you expect of the fellows? He
is cross, crabbed, and tyrannical."

"Have they just found it out?"

"No, but they were willing to bear it rather than make any trouble on
board. After what he did last Saturday, they are not disposed to be so
patient; and I can't blame them much."

"What happened last Saturday was between Mr. Hamblin and me, and the
students needn't trouble themselves about that."

"But the fellows all like you first rate, even the worst ones we have on
board; and there are some pretty hard boys here," laughed Duncan.

"If they like me, they will not get up a row."

"I will take care that all of them know just how you feel," said Duncan,
concluding to end the conversation at this point, for the subject of
these remarks had just come on deck.

The learned gentleman appeared to carry his head even higher, and to be
more dignified, stiff, and reserved, than usual. With an invitation in
his pocket to visit the greatest statesman in Belgium, he felt like a
very exalted personage; for not even Mr. Lowington had been so highly
favored. Mr. Hamblin was puffed up and swelled out by the honor the
great man had done him, and as he walked up and down the deck, the
students might have known by his air, if they had not been told of the
fact, that greatness had suddenly been thrust upon him.

It presently occurred to him that the principal had not been informed of
the distinguished consideration in which the government of Belgium
regarded the Josephine's senior instructor. It was important that he
should know it, for the fact would certainly elevate him in the
estimation of the principal, and cause him to regret that in the recent
difficulty he had not more fully sustained his notable professor.
Besides, he wished to make some arrangements which would permit him to
visit the Palais de la Nation, and to dine with the minister, if he
should be invited, as he had no doubt he should be.

With as much sternness on his wrinkled face as he could assume, he
walked forward to demand a boat of Captain Kendall. As he was passing in
the waist, a coil of signal line dropped down from the gaff above,
square upon the top of his hat, forcing it far down upon his head. Mr.
Hamblin immediately threw himself into an undignified passion. When he
had with some difficulty extricated his head from the linings of his
hat, he looked up to see who had been guilty of this act of flagrant
disrespect.

"I beg your pardon, Mr. Hamblin," shouted Grimme, a seaman, whose legs
were twined around the end of the gaff, while he was in the act of
passing a signal halyard through an eye.

The captain had received orders from the principal to have the Josephine
ready for the visit of a distinguished person on the following day, and
Mr. Cleats was preparing to dress the rigging.

"You scoundrel!" roared Mr. Hamblin, gazing up at the unfortunate youth
who had been the cause of his misfortune.

"Did it hurt you, sir?" asked Paul, stepping up to the professor.

"Was that done by your order, Mr. Kendall?" demanded the irate savant.

"No, sir; it was not," replied Paul, blushing with indignation at such
an insinuation.

"It is very singular that the rope should fall just at the moment I was
passing," added Mr. Hamblin, sourly, as he straightened out his crumpled
tile.

"I am sorry it occurred, sir," said Paul, who uttered no more than the
literal truth.

Mr. Hamblin glanced around the deck at the students who were collected
there. They did not seem to be sorry; on the contrary, there was a look
of diabolical satisfaction in the expression of most of them, and not a
few were actually laughing.

"I demand the immediate punishment of the offender," said Mr. Hamblin,
irritated by this manifestation on the part of the students.

By this time Grimme had descended from his perilous perch, having
completed the reeving of the halyard. Without a moment's delay, he
hastened to the spot where the angry man stood, and touched his cap with
the utmost deference.

"I beg your pardon, Mr. Hamblin. I hope you will excuse me," said
Grimme, who really wore a very troubled look.

"You did it on purpose, you scoundrel!" growled the professor, savagely;
for he could not fail to see the ill-suppressed chuckling of the
students in the waist.

"No, sir! I did not, sir!" protested Grimme. "I had the end in my mouth,
and was just going to drop the coil when I saw you."

