
"Papa, it was at West Point. I never meant it, and never knew
it, until I could not help it."

"At West Point!" said papa.

"Two years ago, when Dr. Sandford took me there."

"It is not Dr. Sandford!"

"Oh, no, papa! He is not to blame. He did everything he could
to take care of me. He knows nothing it all about it."

"Who is it, then?"

"He was a cadet then, papa; he is in the army now."

"Who is he?"

"He is from Vermont; his name is Thorold."

"Not a Southerner?"

"No, papa. Do you care very much for that?"

"Is he in the Northern army, Daisy?"

"He could not help that, papa; being a Vermonter."

Papa let me go; I had been standing in his arms all this
while; and took several turns up and down our little room. I
sat down, for my joints trembled under me. Papa walked and
walked.

"Does your mother know?" he said at last.

"I dared not tell her."

"Who does know?"

"Nobody, papa, but you, and an old friend of mine in New York,
- an aunt of Mr. Thorold's."

"Daisy, what is this young man?"

"Papa, I wish you could know him."

"How comes it that he, as well as you, has kept silence?"

"I don't know, papa. His letter must have miscarried. He was
going to write to you immediately, just before I left
Washington. I was afraid to have him do it, but he insisted
that he must."

"Why were you afraid?"

"Papa, I knew you and mamma would not be I pleased; that it
would not be what you would wish; and I feared mamma, and
perhaps you, would forbid him at once."

"Does he write to you?"

"I would not let him, papa, without your permission; and I was
afraid I could not get that."

"What did you expect to do then, Daisy, if I was never to be
told?"

"I thought to wait only till the war should be over, papa, -
when he might see you himself and you might see him. I thought
that would be the best way."

"He did not?"

"No; he insisted on writing."

"He was right. What is the young man's name, Daisy? you have
not told me yet."

"Christian Thorold."

"Thorold," said papa. "It is an English name. Have you heard
nothing from him, Daisy, since you came to Switzerland?"

"Nothing," - I said.

Papa came over again to where I sat on the divan, bent down
and kissed me.

"Am I such a terror to you, Daisy?"

"Oh, no, papa," I said, bursting into tears at last; - "but
mamma - you know if mamma said a word at first, she would
never go back from it."

"I know," he said. "And I choose, for the present, that this
matter should remain a secret between you and me. You need not
tell your mother until I bid you."

"Yes, papa. Thank you."

"And, Daisy," said he stroking my hair fondly, - "the war is
not ended in America yet, and I am afraid we have a long time
to wait for it. Poor child! - But for the present there are no
storms ahead."

I rose up and kissed papa, with a very tender good-night given
and exchanged; and then I went to my room. The Jerusalem
lights were out. But a peace, deep and wide as the blue arch
of the sky, seemed to have spanned my life and my heart.

CHAPTER XVII.

OUT OF THE SMOKE


There was an immense burden lifted off me. It is difficult to
express the change and the relief in my feelings. The next day
was given to an excursion in the neighbourhood; and I never
can forget how rare the air seemed to be, as if I were
breathing pure life; and how brilliant the sunlight was that
fell on the wonderful Palestine carpet of spring flowers. All
over they were; under foot and everywhere else; flashing from
hidden places, peeping round corners, smiling at us in every
meadow and hillside; a glory upon the land. Papa was in great
delight, as well as I; and as kind as possible to me; also
very good to Mr. Dinwiddie. Mr. Dinwiddie himself seemed to me
transformed. I had gone back now to the free feeling of a
child; and he looked to me again as my childish eyes had seen
him. There was a great amount of fire and vigour and
intellectual life in his countenance; the auburn hair and the
brown eyes glowed together with the hue of a warm temperament;
but that was tempered by a sweet and manly character. I
thought he had grown soberer than the Mr. Dinwiddie of my
remembrance.

That particular day lies in my memory like some far-off lake
that one has seen just under the horizon of a wide landscape,
- a still bit of silvery light. It is not the distance,
though, in this case, that gives it its shining. We were going
that morning to visit Gibeon and Neby Samwil; and the
landscape was full, for me, of the peace which had come into
the relations between me and papa. It was a delicious spring
day; the flowers bursting under our feet with their fresh
smiles; the air perfumed with herby scents and young sweetness
of nature; while associations of old time clustered all about,
like sighs of history. - We went first along the great stony
track which leads from Jerusalem to the north; then turned
aside into the great route from Jaffa to Jerusalem; not the
southern and rougher way which re had taken when we came from
the coast. This was he approach of almost all the armies which
have poured their fury on the devoted city. We went single
file, as one has to go in Palestine; and I liked it. There was
too much to think of to make one want to talk. And the
buoyancy of the air seemed to feed mind as well as body, and
give all the stimulus needed. Mr. Dinwiddie sometimes called
out to me to point my attention to something; and the rest of
the time I kept company with the past and my own musings.

We visited Gibeon first, and stood by the dry pool where Abner
and Joab watched the fight of their twelve picked men; and we
read Solomon's prayer.

"This is a wonderful country," said papa, "for the way its
associations are packed. There is more history here than in
any other region of the world."

"Well, papa, it is the world's history," I said.

"What do you mean, Daisy?"

I hesitated; it was not very easy to tell.

"She is right though," said Mr. Dinwiddie; "it is the very
core of the world's history, round which the other is slowly
gathering and maturing, to the perfected fruit. Or to take it
another way, - ever since God at the first did visit the
Gentiles, to take put of them a people for His name, His
dealings with that people have been an earnest and an image of
His course with His Church at large. We may cut down to the
heart of the world and find the perfect flower here - as we do
in bulbs."

"A blossoming to destruction then, it seems," said my father.

"No!" said Mr. Dinwiddie - "to restoration and glory. The
history of this land is not yet finished."

"And you think that is in store for it yet?"

Mr. Dinwiddie answered, - " 'Thus saith the Lord; If ye can
break my covenant of the day, and my covenant of the night,
and that there should not be day and night in their season;
then may also my covenant be broken with David my servant,
that he should not have a son to reign upon his throne; and
with the Levites the priests, my ministers. As the hosts of
heaven cannot be numbered, neither the sand of the sea
measured: so will I multiply the seed of David my servant, and
the Levites that minister unto me.' "

"Who spoke that?"

"The prophet Jeremiah."

"And when, pray?"

"When Nebuchadnezzar and his army were just upon the point of
completing the destruction of the city - and of the people."

"Then it refers to their return from captivity, does it not?"

"As the type of the other restoration," said Mr. Dinwiddie.
"For 'In those days, and at that time, will I cause the Branch
of righteousness to grow up unto David; and he shall execute
judgment and righteousness in the land. In those days shall
Judah be saved, and Jerusalem shall dwell safely; and this is
the name whereby she shall be called, The Lord our
righteousness.' Moreover, in Ezekiel's vision of a new temple
and city, he gives the dimensions of the temple large enough
to take in all Jerusalem, and the holy city as many times
exceeding its utmost actual limits; and he says, 'The name of
the city from that day shall be, The Lord is there.' Jehovah
shammah. I wish the day were come."

"You take it as entirely figurative!" said papa. "I thought
just now you made it entirely literal."

"What is a figure?" said Mr. Dinwiddie. "And if you take away
the literal, where will the spiritual be?"

"True," said papa. "These are things I have not studied."

And then we mounted to the height of Neby Samwil and sat down
for a good long look. Mr. Dinwiddie was here as elsewhere
invaluable. He told us everything and pointed out everything
to us, that we ought to see or know. The seacoast plain lay
below; - spread out for many a mile, with here a height and
there a cluster of buildings, and the blue sea washing its
western border. We could easily see Jaffa, Ramleh and Lydda;
we picked those spots out first which we knew. Then Mr.
Dinwiddie pointed us to Ashdod, and to Ekron, a little to the
left of Ramleh.

"And that is where Nebuchadnezzar was with his army, before he
went up to Jerusalem," I said.

"The first time," said Mr. Dinwiddie. "Yes; there his hosts of
Chaldeans lay in the plain; and there after the place was
taken he impaled the chiefs of the town; and then flushed with
power, came up to Jerusalem and cast banks against it. So he
says; and we know that so Isaiah prophesied he would do; and
we know that Hezekiah bought him off."

"Did he come up this way of the Beth-horons?" I asked.

"I suppose so. And down this way, Joshua chased the fleeing
kings and their followers and overthrew them as they fled down
the pass - what a rush it must have been! - and down there,
down where the green sweeps into the hills from the plain,
there is Ajalon."

"Papa, do you see?"

"I see; but I do not understand quite so well as you do,
Daisy, what you are talking about."

"It is Miss Randolph's own country," remarked Mr. Dinwiddie.

"She is not a Jewess," said papa.

"Pardon me - we have it on authority that 'he is a Jew which
is one inwardly;' - an Israelite indeed," Mr . Dinwiddie
muttered to himself.

I saw papa was puzzled and half displeased. I hastened to turn
the conversation, and showed him where Bethel lay and the
mountains of Ephraim; and finally ordered our luncheon basket
to be brought forward. But we had to leave our position and
choose a shaded place, the sun was growing so hot.

"How long do you expect to remain here - in Palestine, Mr.
Dinwiddie?" something prompted me to ask. He hesitated a
moment or two and then replied -

"I cannot tell - probably as long as I stay anywhere on this
scene of action."

"You do not mean ever to come home?" I said.

"What is 'home,' Miss Daisy?" he replied, looking at me.

"It is where we were born," said papa.

"Would your daughter say so?"

"No," I answered; for I was born at Magnolia. "But I think
home is where we have lived, - is it not?"

"Melbourne?" Mr. Dinwiddie suggested.

"No," said I; "it is not Melbourne now, to be sure; but
neither could it be possibly any place in Europe, or Asia."

"Are you sure? Not in any circumstances?"

I cannot tell what, in his tone or look, drove his meaning
home. But I felt the colour rise in my face and I could not
answer.

"It is where the heart is, after all," Mr. Dinwiddie resumed.
"The Syrian sky does not make much difference. My home is
waiting for me."

"But we speak of home here, and properly."

"Properly, for those who have it."

"I think, Mr. Dinwiddie, that we say 'home' sometimes, when we
speak only of where the heart was."

"Better not," he said. "Let us have a living home, not a dead
one. And that we can, always."

"What do you know of places where the heart was?" said papa,
looking at me curiously.

"Not much, papa; but I was thinking; and I think people mean
that sometimes."

"We will both trust she will never come nearer to the
knowledge," said Mr. Dinwiddie, with one of his bright looks
at papa and at me. It was assuming a little more interest in
our affairs than I feared papa would like; but he took it
quietly. More quietly than I could, though my reason for
disquietude was different. Mr. Dinwiddie's words had set
vibrating a chord in my heart which could not just then give a
note of pleasure. I wanted it to lie still. The wide fair
landscape took a look to me instantly, which indeed belonged
to it, of "places where the heart was;" and the echo of broken
hopes came up to my ear from the gray ruins near and far. Yet
the flowers of spring were laughing and shouting under my
feet. Was it hope, or mockery?

"What are you questioning, Miss Daisy ?" said Mr. Dinwiddie,
as he offered me some fruit.

"I seemed to hear two voices in nature, Mr. Dinwiddie; - I
wanted to find out which was the true."

"What were the voices? - and I will tell you."

"One came from the old heap of Ekron yonder, and the ruins of
Ramleh, and Jerusalem, and Gibeon, and Bethel; - the other
voice came from the flowers."

"Trust the flowers."

"Why, more than the ruins?"

"Remember," - said he. "One is God's truth; the other is man's
falsehood."

"But the ruins tell truth too, Mr. Dinwiddie."

"What truth? They tell of man's faithlessness, perversity,
wrongheadedness, disobedience; persisted in, till there was no
remedy. And now, to be sure, they are a desolation. But that
is not what God willed for the land."

"Yet surely, Mr. Dinwiddie, there come desolations into
people's lives too."

"By the same reason."

"Surely without it sometimes."

"Nay," he said. " 'The Lord redeemeth the soul of His servants;
and none of them that trust in Him shall be desolate.' "

"But their lives are empty sometimes?"

"That they may be more full, then. Depend on it, the promise
is sure, - they shall not want any good I thing."

"One must let the Lord judge then," I said somewhat
sorrowfully, "what are the good things."

"Will we not?" said Mr. Dinwiddie. "Do we know? We must agree
to his judgment, too; and then we shall find there is no want
to them that fear him. The Lord is my Shepherd! - I shall not
want. But the sheep follow the shepherd, and never dream of
choosing out their own pasture, Miss Daisy."

My voice choked a little and I could not answer. And all the
rest of the day I could not get back my quiet. The talk of
leaving the choice of my life out of my own hands, had roused
my hands to cling to their choice with a terrible grasp lest
it should be taken away from them. The idea that Thorold and I
might be parted from each other, made my heart leap out with
inexpressible longing to be with him. It was not till we got
home to the Mount of Olives again, and I was watching the
glory of the sunset, turning Jerusalem to gold and bringing
out rosy and purple and amethyst hues from the Moab mountains,
that my heart leapt back to its rest and I heard the voice of
nature and God again above the din of my own heart.

As soon as the season was far enough advanced, and Mr.
Dinwiddie could make his arrangements to be with us, we left
Jerusalem and its surroundings and set off northwards. It was
hard to go. Where many a sorrowful traveller has left his
little mound of farewell stones on Scopus, I stood and looked
back; as long as papa would wait for me. Jerusalem looked so
fair, and the thought and prospect of another Jerusalem lay
before me, fairer indeed, but so distant. And I fancied storms
and some rough travelling between. And here, in the actual
Jerusalem, my life had been very sweet; peaceful with a whole
flood tide of peacefulness. I resolved I would not lose nor
forget this ungratefully; but as long as I could I would be
happy. So I turned my face at last to enjoy every foot of the
way to Nablous.

During our stay at Jerusalem and on the Mount of Olives, of
course letters and papers had been received regularly; and
sometimes a bit of news from America had made all our hearts
stir. Mine, with a new throb of hope and possible exultation;
for what we heard was on the side of Northern successes.
Still, papa and Mr. Dinwiddie agreed these were but the
fortune of war, and could not - in the nature of things last.
The South could not be overcome. So they said, and I feared.
But a thrill of possible doubt came over me when I heard of
Fort Donelson, and the battle of Pea Ridge, and the prowess of
the little iron-clad Monitor. And a great throb of another
kind heaved my heart, when we got the news of President
Lincoln's Message, recommending that assistance should be
given by Congress to every Southern State which would abolish
slavery. A light broke in upon the whole struggle; and from
that time the war was a different thing to me. Papa and Mr.
Dinwiddie talked a great deal about it, discussing the subject
in almost all its bearings. I sat by and said nothing.

I would not read the papers myself, all this time. In America
I had studied them, and in Switzerland and in Florence I had
devoured them. Here in the Holy Land, I had made an agreement
with myself to be happy; to leave the care of things which I
could not manage, and not to concern myself with the
fluctuations on the face of affairs which I could not trace
out to their consequences, do what I would. So. I heard the
principal points of news from papa's talk and Mr. Dinwiddie's;
I let the papers alone. Only with one exception. I could not
help it. I could not withhold myself from looking at the lists
of wounded and killed. I looked at nothing more; but the
thought that one name might be there would have incessantly
haunted me, if I had not made sure that it was not there. I
dreaded every arrival from the steamers of a new mail budget.

From Mr. Thorold I got no letter. Nor from Miss Cardigan. From
Mrs. Sandford one; which told me nothing I wanted to know. To
mamma papa had writ- ten, describing to her the pleasure we
were enjoying and the benefit his health was deriving from our
journey, and asking her to join us at Beyrout and spend the
summer on Lebanon.

Towards Beyrout we now journeyed gently on; stopping and
lingering by the way as our custom was. At Nablous, at
Nazareth, at Tiberias, at Safed, at Banias; then across the
country to Sidon, down to Khaiffa and Carmel; finally we went
up to Beyrout. Papa enjoyed every bit of the way; to me it was
a journey scarcely of this earth, the happiness of it was so
great. Mr. Dinwiddie everywhere our kind and skilful guide,
counsellor, helper; knowing all the ground, and teaching us to
use our time to the very best advantage. He made papa more at
ease about me, and me about papa.

At Beyrout, for the first time since we left Jerusalem, we
found ourselves again in a hotel. Mr. Dinwiddie went to find
our despatches that were awaiting us. Papa lay down on the
cushions of a divan. I sat at the window, wondering at what I
saw. I wonder now at the remembrance.

It was afternoon, and the shades and colours on the mountains
and the sea were a labyrinth of delight. Yes, the eye and the
mind lost themselves again and again, to start back again to
the consciousness of an enchanted existence. The mountains
rising from the coast were in full view of my window, shaded
with all sorts of green from the different woods and
cultivation which clothed their sides. The eye followed their
growing heights and ridges, till it rested on the snow summit
of Sunnin; then swept round the range to the southward; but
ever came back again to the lofty, reposeful majesty of that
white mountain top in the blue ether. Little streams I could
see dashing down the rocks; a white thread amongst the green;
castles or buildings of some stately sort were upon every
crag; I found afterwards they were monasteries. The sea waves
breaking on the rocks of the shore gave other touches of
white, and the sea was taking a deep hue, and the town
stretching back from it looked gay and bright, with pretty
houses and palm trees and palaces, and, bright-coloured
dresses flitting here and there in the streets; and white
sails were on the sea. I had never seen, I have never seen,
anything more lovely than Beyrout. I had come to the city
rather anxious; for we expected there to meet a great budget
of news, which I always dreaded; wandering about from place to
place, we had been blissfully separated for some time from all
disturbing intelligence. Now we must meet it, perhaps; but the
glory of the beauty before me wrapped my heart round as with
an unearthly shield. Peace, peace, and good will, - it spoke,
from Him who made the beauty and owned the glory; softly it
reminded me that my Father in heaven could not fail in love
nor in resources. I leaned my head against the frame of the
open window, and rested and was glad.

Mr. Dinwiddie came back with a business step. I looked up, but
I would not fear. He laid a pile of letters and papers before
papa, and then sat down to the consideration of some of his
own.

"What is doing at home, Dinwiddie?" papa asked.

"A good deal, since our last advices."

"What? I am tired of reading about it."

"Yes," said Mr. Dinwiddie. "You want me to save you the
trouble?"

"If it is no trouble to you."

"The news is of several advantages gained by the Yankees."

"That won't last," said papa. "But there are always
fluctuations in these things."

"Back in March," Mr. Dinwiddie went on, "there are reported
two engagements in which our troops came off second best - at
Newhern and at Winchester. It is difficult perhaps to know the
exact truth - the papers on the two sides hold such different
language. But the sixth of April there was a furious battle at
Pittsburg Landing, our men headed by Beauregard, Polk and
Sidney Johnston, when our men got the better very decidedly;
the next day came up a sweeping reinforcement of the enemy
under Grant and others, and took back the fortune of war into
their own hands, it seems."

"Perhaps that is doubtful too," observed my father.

"I see Beauregard asked permission to bury his dead."

"Many killed?" asked my father.

"Terribly many. There were large numbers engaged, and fierce
fighting."

So they can do it, I said to myself, amid all my heart-
beating.

"There will be of course, some variation of success," said my
father.

"The pendulum is swung all to one side, in these last news,"
said Mr. Dinwiddie.

"What next?"

"Fort Pulaski is taken."

"Pulaski!" my father exclaimed.

"Handsomely done, after a bombardment of thirty hours."

"I am surprised, I confess," said papa.

"The House of Representatives has passed a bill for the
abolition of slavery in the District."

"Oh, I am glad!" I exclaimed. "That is good."

"Is that all you think good in the news?" said Mr. Dinwiddie a
little pointedly.

"Daisy is a rebel," said papa.

"No, papa; not I surely. I stand by the President and the
Country."

"Then we are rebels, Dinwiddie," said papa, half wearily.
"Half the country is playing the fool, that is clear; and the
whole must suffer."

"But the half where the seat of war is, suffers the most."

"That will not last," said papa. "I know the South."

"I wonder if we know the North," said Mr. Dinwiddie. "Farragut
has run the gauntlet of the forts at the mouth of the
Mississippi and taken New Orleans."

"Taken New Orleans!" my father exclaimed again, rising half up
as he lay on the cushions of the divan.

"It was done in style," said Mr. Dinwiddie, looking along the
columns of his paper. "Let me read you this, Mr. Randolph."

Papa assented, and he read; while I turned my face to the
window again, and listened to Farragut's guns and looked at
Lebanon. What a strange hour it was! There was hope at work
and rejoicing; but it shook me. And the calmness of the
everlasting hills and the mingled sweetnesses of the air, came
in upon the fever of my heart with cooling and quieting power.
The sea grew a deeper blue as I listened and looked; the
mountains - what words can tell the mantle of their own purple
that enfolded them as the evening came on; and the snowy
heights of Sunnin and Kunisyeh grew rosy. I looked and I drank
it in; and I could not fear for the future.

I believe I had fallen into a great reverie, during which Mr.
Dinwiddie ended his reading and left the room. It was papa's
touch on my shoulder that roused me. He had come to my side.

"Are you happy, Daisy?" was his question.

"Papa? -" I said in bewilderment.

"Your face was as calm as if you had nothing to think about."

"I had been thinking, papa. I was thinking, I believe."

"Does this strange news make you happy?"

"Oh, no, papa; not that."

"What then?"

"Something that is no news, and that never can grow old, papa.
The mountains and the sea were just reminding me of it."

"You mean - what? You speak riddles, Daisy."

"Papa, you would give me everything good for me, if you
could."

He kissed me fondly.

"I would, my child. Whether I can, or no, that troubles me by
its uncertainty."

"Papa, my Father in heaven can, and will. There is no doubt
about His power. And so there is no uncertainty."

"Daisy! -" said papa, looking at me in a strange way.

"Yes, papa, I mean it. Papa, you know it is true."

"I know you deserve all I can give you," he said, taking my
face in his two hands and looking into it. "Daisy - is there
anybody in the world that loves you as well as I do?"

That was a little too much, to bring up my heart in words in
that manner. In spite of my composure, which I thought so
strong, I was very near bursting into tears. I believe my face
flushed and then grew pale with the struggle. Papa took me in
his arms.

"You shall have no trouble that I can shield you from," he
said tenderly. "I will put nothing between you and this young
man if he is worthy of you, Daisy. I will pat nothing. But
others may. My power reaches only a certain distance."

"Papa -" I began, but I could not say what I would.

"Well?3 - said he tenderly, stroking my hair, "what is it? I
would keep all trouble from you, my pet, if I could."

"Papa," I whispered, "that may not be best. We must leave
that. But papa, if you only knew what I know and were glad as
I am glad, - I think I could bear all the rest!"

"How shall I be glad as you are glad, Daisy?" he said, half
sadly.

"Papa, let Jesus make you happy!"

"You are talking Hebrew, my child."

"No, papa; for if you seek Him, He will make you happy."

"Come! we will seek him from to-day," my father said.

And that was my summer on Lebanon. My mother wrote that she
would not join us in Syria; she preferred to remain in Paris,
where she had my aunt Gary's company and could receive the
American news regularly. Her words were bitter and scornful
about the successes of the Northern army and McClellan's
fruitless siege of Yorktown; so bitter, that papa and I passed
them over without a word of comment, knowing how they bore on
my possible future.

But we, we studied the Bible, and we lived on Lebanon. And
when I have said that, I have said all. From one village to
another, higher and higher up, we went; pitching our tents
under the grand old walnut trees, within sight or hearing of
mountain torrents that made witcheries of beauty in the deep
ravines; studying sunrisings, when the light came over the
mountain's brow and lit our broken hillside by degrees, our
walnut tree tops and the thread of the rushing stream; and
sunsets, when the sun looked at us from the far-off
Mediterranean and touched no spot of Lebanon but to make a
glorified place of it. With Mr. Dinwiddie we took rides to
different scenes of wonder and beauty; made excursions
sometimes of a week or two long; we dreamed at Baalbec and
rejoiced under the Cedars. Everywhere papa and I read the
Bible. Mr. Dinwiddie left us for some time during the summer,
and returned again a few days before we left Lebanon and
Syria.

"So you are going to-morrow" - he said the last evening, as he
and I were watching the sunset from the edge of the ravine
which bordered our camping-ground. I made no answer, for my
heart was too full.

"It has been a good summer," he said. I bowed my head in
assent.

"And now," he said, "you push out into the world again. I feel
about you as I did when I saw your little craft just starting
forth, and knew there were breakers ahead."

"You do not know that now, Mr. Dinwiddie?" I said.

"I know there are rocks. If the sea should let you pass them
in quiet, it would be a wonder."

That was too true, I knew. I could only be silent.

"How do you feel?" he next asked.

"I know it is as you say, Mr. Dinwiddie."

"And in view of it? -"

"What can I do, - Mr. Dinwiddie?"

"Nothing to avoid the rocks. The helm is not in your hand."

"But I know in whose hand it is."

"And are willing to have it there?"

"More than willing," I said, meeting his eye.

"Then the boat will go right," he said, with a sort of accent
of relief. "It is the cross pulls with the oar, striving to
undo the work of the rudder, that draw the vessel out of her
course. The Pilot knows, - if you can only leave it to the
Pilot."

There was a pause again.

"But He sometimes takes the boat into the breakers," Mr.
Dinwiddie said.

"Yes," I said. "I know it."

"What then, Daisy, my friend?"

"What then, Mr. Dinwiddie?" I said, looking up at him. "Then
she must be broken to pieces."

"And what then? Can you trust the Pilot still?"

His great eyes were flashing and glittering as he looked at
me. No careless nor aimless thought had caused such an
interrogatory, I knew. I met the eyes which seemed to be
blazing and melting at once, but I answered only by the look.

"You may," he went on, without taking his eyes from mine. "You
may trust safely. Even if the vessel is shaken and broken,
trust even then, when all seems gone. There shall be smooth
waters yet; and a better voyage than if you had gone a less
wearisome way."

"Why do you say all this to me, Mr. Dinwiddie?"

"Not because I am a prophet," he said, looking away now, -
"for I am none. And if I saw such trials ahead for you, I
should have hardly courage to utter them. I asked, to comfort
myself; that I might know of a certainty that you are safe,
whatever comes."

"Thank you," I said, rather faintly.

"I shall stay here," he went on presently, "in the land of my
work; and you will be gone to-morrow for other scenes. It
isn't likely you will ever see me again. But if ever you need
a friend, on the other side of the globe, if you call me, I
will come. It is folly to say that, though," he said plucking
hastily at a spear of grass; - "you will not need nor think of
me. But I suppose you know, Daisy, by this time, that all
those who come near you, love you. I am no exception. You must
have charity for me."

"Dear Mr. Dinwiddie," I said reaching out my hand, - "if I
were in trouble and wanted a friend, there is no one in the
world that I would sooner, or - rather, or as soon or as lief,
ask to help me. Except -" I added, and could not finish my
sentence. For I had remembered there was an exception which
ought to be implied somewhere.

"I know," he said, wringing my hand. "I wish I could heap
blessings on the head of the exception. Now let us go in."

The next day we rode down to Beyrout, and took the steamer
that same evening.

CHAPTER XVIII.

A MASKED BATTERY


My Palestine holiday lasted, in some measure, all the way of
our journey home; and left me at the very moment when we
entered our Parisian hotel and met mamma. It left me then. All
the air of the place, much more all the style of mamma's dress
and manner, said at once that we had come into another world.
She was exquisitely dressed; that was usual; it could not have
been only that, nor the dainty appointments around her; - it
was something in her bearing, an indescribable something even
as she greeted us, which said, You have played your play - now
you will play mine. And it said, I cannot tell how, The cards
are in my hands.

Company engaged her that evening. I saw little of her till the
next day. At our late breakfast then we discussed many things.
Not much of Palestine; mamma did not want to hear much of
that. She had had it in our letters, she said. American
affairs were gone into largely; with great eagerness and
bitterness by both mamma and Aunt Gary; with triumphs over the
disasters of the Union army before Richmond, and other lesser
affairs in which the North had gained no advantage; invectives
against the President's July proclamation, his impudence and
his cowardice; and prophecies of ruin to him and his cause.
Papa listened and said little. I heard and was silent; with
throbbing forebodings of trouble.

"Daisy is handsomer than ever," my aunt remarked, when even
politics had exhausted themselves. But I wondered what she was
thinking of when she said it. Mamma lifted her eyes and
glanced me over.

"Daisy has a rival, newly appeared," she said. "She must do
her best."

"There cannot be rivalry, mamma, where there is no
competition," I said.

"Cannot there?" said mamma. "You never told us, Daisy, of your
successes in the North."

I do not think I flushed at all in answer to this remark; the
blood seemed to me to go all to my heart.

"Who has been Daisy's trumpeter?" papa asked.

"There is a friend of hers here," mamma said, slowly sipping
her coffee. I do not know how I sat at the table; things
seemed to swim in a maze before my eyes; then mamma went on, -
"What have you done with your victim, Daisy?"

"Mamma," I said, "I do not at all know of whom you are
speaking."

"Left him for dead, I suppose," she said. "He has met with a
good Samaritan, I understand, who carried oil and wine."

Papa's eye met mine for a moment.

"Felicia," he said, "you are speaking very unintelligibly. I
beg you will use clearer language, for all our sakes."

"Daisy understands," she said.

"Indeed I do not, mamma."

"Not the good Samaritan's part, of course. That has come since
you were away. But you knew once that a Northern Blue-coat had
been pierced by the fire of your eyes?"

"Mamma," I said, - "if you put it so, I have known it of more
than one."

"Imagine it!" said mamma, with an indescribable gesture of
lip, which yet was gracefully slight.

"Imagine what?" said papa.

"One of those canaille venturing to look at Daisy!"

"My dear," said papa, "pray do not fail to remember, that we
have passed a large portion of our life among those whom you
denominate canaille, and who always were permitted the
privilege of looking at us all. I do not recollect that we
felt it any derogation from anything that belonged to us."

"Did you let him look at you, Daisy?" mamma said, lifting her
own eyes up to me. "It was cruel of you."

"Your friend Miss St. Clair, is here, Daisy," my aunt Gary
said.

"My friend!" I repeated.

"She is your friend," said mamma. "She has bound up the wounds
you have made, Daisy, and saved you from being in the full
sense a destroyer of human life."

"When did Faustina come here?" I asked.

"She has been here a month. Are you glad?"

"She was never a particular friend of mine, mamma."

"You will love her now," said mamma; and the conversation
turned. It had only filled me with vague fears. I could not
understand it.

I met Faustina soon in company. She was as brilliant a vision
as I have often seen; her beauty was perfected in her
womanhood, and was of that type which draws all eyes. She was
not changed, however; and she was not changed towards me. She
met me with the old coldness; with a something besides which I
could not fathom. It gave me a secret feeling of uneasiness; I
suppose, because that in it I read a meaning of exultation, a
secret air of triumph, which, I could not tell how or why,
directed itself towards me and gathered about my head. It grew
disagreeable to me to meet her; but I was forced to do this
constantly. We never talked together more than a few words;
but as we passed each other, as our eyes met and hers went
from me, as she smiled at the next opening of her mouth, I
felt always something sinister, or at least something hidden,
which took the shape of an advantage gained. I tried to meet
her with perfect pleasantness, but it grew difficult. In my
circumstances I was very open to influences of discouragement
or apprehension; indeed the trouble was to fight them off.
This intangible evil however presently took shape.

I thought I had observed that for a day or two my father's
eyes had lingered on me frequently with a tender or wistful
expression, more than usual. I did not know what it meant.
Mamma was pushing me into company all this while, and making
no allusion to my own private affairs, if she had any clue to
them. One morning I had excused myself from an engagement
which carried away my aunt and her, that I might have a quiet
time to read with papa. Our readings had been much broken in
upon - lately. With a glad step I went to papa's room; a
study, I might call it, where he spent all of the time he did
not wish to give to society. He was there, expecting me; a
wood-fire was burning on the hearth; the place had the air of
comfort and seclusion and intelligent leisure; books and
engravings and works of art scattered about, and luxurious
easy-chairs standing ready for the accommodation of papa and
me.

"This is nice, papa!" I said, as the cushions of one of them
received me.

"It is not quite the Mount of Olives," said papa.

"No indeed!" I answered; and my eyes filled. The bustle of the
fashionable world was all around me, the storms of the
political world were shaking the very ground where I stood,
the air of our little social world was not as on Lebanon sweet
and pure. When would it be again? Papa sat thinking in his
easy-chair.

"How do you like Paris, my child?"

"Papa, it does not make much difference, Italy or Paris, so
long as I am where you are, and we can have a little time
together."

"Your English friend has followed you from Florence."

"Yes, papa. At least he is here."

"And your German friend."

"He is here, papa."

There was a silence. I wondered what papa was thinking of, but
I did not speak, for I saw he was thinking.

"You have never heard from your American friend?"

"No, papa."

"Daisy," said papa, tenderly, and looking at me now, - "you
are strong?"

"Am I, papa?"

"I think you are. You can bear the truth, cannot you?"
