can it be at this time of night!"

"It is only half past nine," added the planter, as I took a light to
answer the bell. "I think Mrs. Greenough had better go to the door,
for I don't believe these scoundrels will be satisfied with sixty-five
dollars."

At this suggestion Mrs. Greenough answered the summons, and soon
returned with another note--from me! I opened it, and read that I had
been arrested in connection with the claim of Morgan Blair, and that
when the police sergeant heard there was a note, which represented the
property claimed, in my possession, he thought it was better to have
it deposited with the chief of police for safe keeping.

"These fellows evidently think you have not yet returned to your home,
Phil," said Mr. Rockwood.

"I don't blame them much for thinking so, for I expected to stay on
those roofs all night; and I think I should if you had not been so wise
as to put a hotel in the block," I replied.

"The man asked if Phil was at home before he gave me the note," said
the landlady, "and I evaded the question."

"What shall we do?" asked my father, raising himself in the bed.

"Phil and I will pay a visit to these rascals," answered the planter.
"Have you an envelope?"

"Yes," I replied, producing one, with some paper.

He folded up a sheet of paper, put it in the envelope, and requested
the landlady to direct it to the chief of police.

"Where is this messenger?" asked Mr. Rockwood.

"He is waiting in the kitchen."

"Very well, Mrs. Greenough. If you will close the door, so that we can
get into the street without his knowledge, we will follow him up and
attend to this business."

The landlady went down stairs, and when she had closed the kitchen
door, the planter and myself crept softly down stairs, and went into
the street. We placed ourselves where we could identify the messenger
when he came out of the house. He was evidently satisfied that the
envelope contained the document for which he had been sent, for he
immediately followed us out of the house. He was a well-dressed man, as
we saw by the light of the corner street lamp. He wore a light-colored
overcoat, so that we could easily follow him as he passed through the
streets. Mr. Rockwood went behind him, while I walked on the other side
of the street, and kept up with him. He went, as I supposed he would,
to the house to which I had been enticed earlier in the evening. He
went in by the aid of a night-key, and doubtless believed that he had
fully accomplished the mission upon which he had been sent.

"You are younger and more active than I am, Phil," said Mr. Rockwood,
when the man had entered the house and closed the door behind him.
"If you will stay here, and follow any of the rascals if they come out
again, I will get an officer."

"Very well, sir."

The planter hastened to his hotel, and I stationed myself where I could
see who left the house. My friend was not absent more than a quarter
of an hour, and returned with two officers, whom the landlord of the
hotel had procured for him. One of them was in uniform, and the other
a detective in plain clothes. I concluded that Mr. Rockwood meant
business, and instead of my spending Sunday as a prisoner, this would
be the fate of those who were trying to swindle me.

"That's a gambling-house," said the policeman in uniform, when I
pointed out the door where the man entered.

"Undoubtedly it is a gambling-house," replied the detective, gazing
inquiringly at me, as though he was not quite satisfied with the story
related to him by Mr. Rockwood; "but even a gambling-house has certain
rights, which may not be disturbed without proper cause."

"Proper cause!" exclaimed Mr. Rockwood. "Don't I tell you that this
young man has been robbed and abused by the villains in this house?"

"You will excuse me, sir, but it is possible to be mistaken. If I
understand you, Mr. Rockwood, you met this boy for the first time about
two hours ago."

"But I have entire confidence in him. He is the son of Edward
Farringford."

"Perhaps he is, though I do not believe it; but that is nothing to
recommend him. His story is absurd on the face of it."

"My story is true, sir, every word of it," I interposed, indignantly.

Mr. Bogart, the detective, asked me a few questions in regard to my
escape from the building, and I repeated all the particulars. He shook
his head, and declared that he was unwilling to enter the house upon
the strength of such a story. It would damage his reputation as an
officer, and his superiors would not justify the measure.

"I'll tell you what I will do," he continued.

"Well, what will you do?" demanded Mr. Rockwood, impatiently.

"I will go with this young man to the top of the house, where he left
the chamber of the gambler. I will follow him into the house by the
window through which he came out."

"I don't think you can get in at the window."

"I suppose not," said Mr. Bogart, with a palpable sneer.

"But I will go with you, and show you the window," I added.

"I wish you would," replied the officer, who evidently believed that I
should give him the slip before I verified my position.

Mr. Rockwood and the policeman were to remain in the street and keep
watch of the house during our absence. If the gambler's messenger who
had gone to the house of Mrs. Greenough appeared, he was to be arrested.

Mr. Bogart and myself went to the hotel, where, after my companion had
spoken to the landlord, we ascended to the roof.

"Now, young man, if you will go ahead, I will follow you," said the
detective.

"I hope you are used to climbing," I replied.

"Don't borrow any trouble on my account; I will follow anywhere that
you will lead."

"All right, sir; I hope I shall soon be able to prove all that I have
stated."

"I hope so," replied he, in a tone which assured me that he did not
expect anything of the kind.

I led the way across the flat roof, and at the next block we mounted
the ridge-pole of the pitch roof. Mr. Bogart cautioned me to move with
care, so as not to disturb the inmates of the houses beneath us. I was
soon in position to see the bright light streaming up from the tenement
to which I had been decoyed by the villains.

"That's the house," said I, pointing to the light.

"Did you come up through that scuttle?" he asked.

"No, I came up over the top of the luthern window."

"Impossible!" exclaimed he, glancing at the window.

"It is true; and I suppose I shall have to go in that way," I
continued; and I explained minutely how I had made my exit from the
chamber.

"Lead on. We will examine the house," said Mr. Bogart.

On a nearer approach to the roof of the gambling-house, I discovered
that the glass scuttle was open, and I concluded that Lynch and Blair
had been upon the roof in search of me. When I reached the opening I
found a ladder conveniently placed for my descent, if I chose to avail
myself of its aid. I looked down into the entry, where the gas-light
still blazed cheerfully. The door of Lynch's room was open, and I could
distinctly hear the voices of my late captors.

"They took me into that front room," I whispered to my doubting
companion.

"This looks a little as though your story was true," said Mr. Bogart.

"Will you follow me down this ladder?"

"No, not yet. I wish to get a little better idea of what these fellows
mean. Are you afraid of them?"

"No; not a bit," I answered, raising the poker which I had picked up
where I left it on the roof.

"Will you go down alone?" he asked.

"Yes, if you desire it."

"I will keep the run of you, and see what is done. If you get into
trouble with them, just whistle as loud as you can, and I will join
you."

"But suppose they take away the ladder?"

"Then I will go down as I came up, and enter the house by the front
door. Don't be afraid of anything."

"I'm not afraid."

"I will be near you. I want to know what these fellows mean to do. If
they close the door, I will go down the ladder into the entry."

Suddenly my companion appeared to have become very enthusiastic in the
business upon which we were engaged. Though he did not say so, I was
satisfied that he was convinced of the truth of my statement.

"What shall I do?" I asked, rather puzzled by the tactics of the
detective.

"Do whatever they wish you to do; but don't let them know that you have
been off the roof since you escaped.

"Why not?"

"I cannot stop to explain now; only I don't think these rascals have
taken all this trouble with you for fifty or a hundred dollars; and
they mean to use you as a cat's paw for something else."

"I know they do," I replied, in a whisper. "They want the fifteen
hundred dollars in gold, for which I hold a note signed by Mr.
Gracewood."

"No matter now," said he, impatiently. "Go down, and give them all the
rope they want."

"Shall I give them the note, which I have in my pocket?"

"I haven't heard about the note. If you had told me the whole story
before now, I should have known better what to do."

We retreated a few paces from the skylight, and I told him all about
the note and the object of Lynch. I assured him that Mr. Rockwood was
the legal heir of the property.

"The note is of no consequence then," said Mr. Bogart. "Give it to
them, but don't indorse it, and I will see that it is returned to you.
We have them now. They can't escape us. Now, go down, and let them have
their own way, but with some show of opposition."

I descended the ladder, and stood before the open door of the chamber,
when I saw Lynch, with his feet on the table, smoking. Morgan Blair sat
opposite him. They discovered me as soon as I landed in the hall, and
made haste to place themselves between me and the stairs, in order to
cut off my escape. As I did not wish to escape, I gave them no trouble
in this direction, but entered the chamber.




  CHAPTER XXIII.

  IN WHICH PHIL MEETS A PALE GENTLEMAN WITH ONE ARM IN A SLING.


"I thought you would come back, my dear Phil," said Mr. Leonidas
Lynchpinne, as he placed himself in the doorway before me. "I knew you
had so much respect and regard for us that you would not break our
hearts by being long absent. By the way, Phil, how is the weather on
the roof?"

"It is rather cool," I replied, seating myself in the vacant chair,
"but not quite so cool as you are, Mr. Leonidas Lynchpinne."

"Phil, be virtuous, and you will always be happy; that is the secret of
my uninterrupted cheerfulness; that enables me always and everywhere to
be perfectly calm and collected. Be honest, just, and upright, Phil;
and then the man don't live that can make you tremble, or, in other
words, shake in your boots. But besides being all these, Phil, you
should be charitable and humane, especially the latter. I am humane,
Phil, and that adds to the sum total of my bliss on earth."

"You must be an exceedingly happy man, Mr. Leonidas Lynchpinne," I
added; and I saw that he had been drinking some exhilarating beverage
since I left him.

"O, I am--happy as the day is long, and the night too. You were so
very imprudent, Phil, as to make your exit--in other words, your
departure--from this room by the way of that front window. You might
have fallen upon the hard pavement in the street below; and then how I
should have wept over your brief but wasted life!"

"You are very affectionate."

"Affection is the staple fodder of my existence, Phil. By a process
of reasoning which I need not attempt to develop to your unpractised
understanding, I arrived at the conclusion that you would be compelled
to remain all night on the roof of this and the adjacent houses, unless
something was done for you. Dreading lest, benumbed with cold, you
should attempt the fearful feat of returning to this humble apartment
by the same means you used in leaving it, I placed that ladder at the
skylight for your use. After all the wrongs, injuries, and insults you
have heaped upon me, I took this means to prevent you from sacrificing
yourself on the hard pavement below. That is what I call humanity, and
I offer it to you as an exemplification of that noble attribute."

"Thank you; and I will endeavor to profit by your example, at least so
far as it illustrates the attribute of humanity. If you have nothing
more to say to me, I will take my leave of you."

"Stay, Phil; I have more to say to you," he interposed. "Be honest, and
you will be eccentric--I mean, you will be happy."

"I am glad to hear such lessons of practical wisdom from you, Mr.
Leonidas Lynchpinne," I replied, hoping he would soon come to the
point, if he had any point, as Mr. Bogart had suggested.

"You appreciate true wisdom, Phil. Good! Then you will give that note
to this honest young man."

"Certainly I will give it to him when he proves his claim."

I concluded that he was not satisfied with the blank paper sent in the
envelope.

"I knew you would be just, Phil, after the good advice I have given
you; for you are not a bad boy at heart, though you have been led away
by evil influences. If you stay with me a while, you will be reformed,
and then you will lead a good and true life, and then you will be
eccentric--happy, I mean. Won't you smoke a cigar, Phil?"

"No, I thank you; I never smoke."

"That's right, Phil. It's a filthy practice, besides leading to other
vices more to be condemned," said he, lighting a fresh cigar. "Now,
Phil, about that note, which justly and rightly belongs to my good
friend Morgan Blair. Do you happen to have it about you?"

"Yes; I have it in my pocket," I replied, acting upon the advice of Mr.
Bogart.

"Capital! Things always work right for those who are faithful and
humane. I'm faithful and humane. Now, we are going to bring you two
good and true witnesses, who will convince you that Morgan Blair is the
son of Matt Rockwood's sister. We have taken a great deal of pains to
send to Vandalia for them, and they will be here to-night--this very
night, Phil. That's all we want to see you for."

"Very well; I should like to hear what they have to say."

"You shall hear them. I will go down and bring them up," he added,
rising from the chair.

He had hardly got up before the door was darkened by what to me seemed
to be an apparition. It was a gentleman with an overcoat thrown loosely
over his shoulders. He wore no other coat, and no vest. I saw that
his left arm was suspended in a sling. His face was very pale, and
he looked very much like my excellent friend Mr. Gracewood, though
a second glance assured me it was not he. When he discovered me, he
started back, and was disposed to retreat.

"You have company, Mr. Lynch," said the pale gentleman. "I will come
another time."

"Come in, Mr. Gracewood. Come in!" replied Lynch, placing the
rocking-chair for the visitor, who was evidently an invalid.

Mr. Gracewood! It certainly was not my kind friend; but the resemblance
was strong enough to assure me that he was a relative, if not a brother.

"Is this the way you keep my secret?" said the pale gentleman,
reproachfully, as he retreated a pace into the entry.

"O, it's all right here. This is Phil Farringford, of whom I spoke to
you," added Lynch.

"So much the worse!" exclaimed the invalid, impatiently.

"But he is the very essence of discretion and reserve. Your secret is
as safe with him as with me," protested the gambler.

"The mischief is done, whatever it may be. You have called me by my
name."

"May I ask if you are a relative of Henry Gracewood?" I inquired, so
much interested in the pale gentleman that I forgot everything else.

"His own brother, and his only brother," replied Mr. Gracewood,
bitterly. "I would not have him know that I am here for his fortune
and mine, though I am guilty of no crime against him."

"Mind that, Phil," interposed Lynch; "and remember that discretion is
the better part of valor, and sometimes the better part of virtue. This
honest gentleman has been unfortunate, but not guilty."

I could not understand how a person in his situation, apparently an
invalid, should happen to be in a gambling-house, and it seemed to me
that the secrecy he coveted was an indication of something evil. He
declared that he was guilty of no crime against his brother. Respect
and regard for the good friend of my early years prompted me not to
betray him, at least before I knew more about him. Then it occurred
to me that the detective on the roof, or perhaps in the entry by this
time, might discover more than it was desirable for him to know.

"Do you know where my brother is now, young man?" asked the invalid.

"He is at Delaware City, where his wife is sick," I replied, giving
him the details of the illness of Mrs. Gracewood.

"You can talk it over between you," interposed Lynch. "I have an
engagement with the governor of Missouri and half a dozen congressmen;
and I hope you will excuse me for half an hour."

Mr. Gracewood nodded, and Lynch and Blair left the room. I had no doubt
Mr. Bogart, in the entry, would attend to their movements, and I did
not trouble myself about them. I told my companion all I knew about his
brother.

"I had a letter from him this autumn, saying he expected to return to
St. Louis before winter. He spoke about you, and about his wife and
daughter. I have heard nothing from them since."

"He would have been here a fortnight ago if his wife had not been sick."

"Young man, do you know the character of this house?" said Mr.
Gracewood, looking at me very sharply.

"I do, sir, very well indeed; and the character of the man who has just
left us."

"How do you happen to be in such a place, then?"

"I was enticed here by Lynch, who wanted to plunder me of certain
property in my possession; but I understand him, and he won't make
anything out of me."

"Perhaps you wonder that I am here," he added, looking upon the floor,
as though he considered his own position more equivocal than mine.

"I confess that I do, sir, especially as you look like an invalid, and
I see you have your arm in a sling."

"I would not have my brother know that I am here for all the world,
for I judge from the tone of his letter that a great change has come
over him. He talks to me of the mercies of God, which I feel that I
need more than all else on earth. I am overwhelmed with shame at my
situation."

Mr. Gracewood covered his face with his hand, and I heard him groan in
bitterness of spirit. I pitied him, for whatever he had done, he was a
penitent, and I was sure that God's mercy could reach and comfort him.

"If you wish, I will tell you how I happen to be here," I added,
intending, if possible, to divert his mind from the woe that
overwhelmed him.

"No, young man; I do not care to know. As you may see my brother before
I do, I had better tell you how I happen to be here," he added. "I
have been gambling, and I have lost thousands and tens of thousands of
dollars. I have even impaired my fortune; and if this calamity had not
overtaken me,"--and he pointed to his wounded arm,--"I might even have
spent my brother's fortune, which, perhaps you know, he placed in my
keeping. I sold stocks and bonds in which I had invested his money, and
lost the proceeds at the gambling table.

"In my home at Glencoe, I cursed my own folly and wickedness in wasting
my substance in games of chance; but I hoped to redeem my heavy losses.
I was fully resolved, when I had done so, never to play again. But the
judgment comes when we least expect it. I found, when I looked over
my accounts in the quiet of my chamber at Glencoe, that I had lost
about twenty thousand dollars' worth of stocks and bonds belonging to
my brother. I was appalled, for both his property and mine was largely
invested in real estate, and I had not the ready money to make good
the deficiency. A few days before, an offer was made me for a piece of
property in this city. I proposed to sell it for thirty thousand, and
was offered twenty-five. Under the pressure of this need to repair my
brother's fortune, I hastened to the city, and closed the bargain at
the lower price.

"The purchaser came to me with the money in his hand as soon as I could
have the papers prepared. It was four o'clock in the afternoon when the
business was completed, and I had twenty-five thousand dollars in my
pocket. It was too late to deposit it in the bank that day, and meeting
one whose acquaintance I had made at Forstellar's, I came here. I lost
a thousand dollars before I fully realized what I was doing. Then I
refused to play any more. The one with whom I had come was angry with
me. In a word, we had a quarrel, and in his wrath he attempted to stab
me; but I warded off the blow with my arm, which was severely wounded.

"The ruffian escaped; but I was taken to a chamber, and a surgeon sent
for. Then I thought of the large sum of money in my possession, and the
character of the place, and--"

Mr. Gracewood suddenly placed his hand against his breast, and, without
another word, fled from the room.




  CHAPTER XXIV.

  IN WHICH PHIL MEETS AN OLD FRIEND, AND MR. LEONIDAS LYNCHPINNE COMES
  TO GRIEF.


I could not imagine what had so suddenly driven Mr. Gracewood from the
room. He left as though he had been shot from a gun, and did not utter
a word in explanation of his conduct. On the impulse of the moment I
followed him. In the entry I looked for Mr. Bogart, in order to report
progress to him; but I did not see him. The ladder was still standing
at the skylight, but the detective was not in sight upon the roof, and
though I called his name as loud as I dared to speak he did not respond.

I descended the stairs to the next floor, where I had understood the
room of the invalid was located. The door of his apartment was open,
and I discovered Mr. Gracewood in the act of ransacking his bed. He
was very nervous and excited, and I saw that the hand he was able to
use trembled violently.

  [Illustration: THE LOST MONEY. Page 281.]

"What is the matter, Mr. Gracewood?" I asked, as he continued to tumble
over the mattress and the pillows.

"All is lost!" exclaimed he, in the tones of despair.

"What is lost?"

"My money!" he gasped, in a hoarse whisper.

"Do you mean to say that it is gone!" I asked, startled at the
suggestion.

"All gone!" groaned he. "Twenty-four thousand dollars!"

"But where did you put it, sir?"

"Between the two beds, when Lynch sent for me to come up into his room."

"Did he send for you, sir?" I interposed.

"He did."

"Then it was a plot to rob you, sir."

"I fear that it was; but I was careless. I had hardly been out of my
room before; but when I did leave it, I took my money with me. I had
become accustomed to its possession, and I did not think of it. I did
not believe Lynch was a bad man. He was very kind to me, and attended
to my wants after I was hurt."

"Did he know you had this money?"

"I did not tell him, but I think he did. He must have stolen it."

"Don't be alarmed, sir. I don't think you will lose it," I added.

"It is gone already, and I shall never see it again."

"Perhaps you will, sir."

"No, never! The men in this house are all villains," said he, bitterly,
as he dropped into a chair, apparently from sheer exhaustion, and in
utter despair.

"No, sir; I happen to know that the eyes of a detective were upon him
at the very moment when he left the room above. I have no doubt he has
been arrested by this time."

"Detective?"

"Yes, sir;" and I gave a brief account of the manner in which Lynch had
swindled me, and stated the purpose for which I had returned to the
house.

"But I shall be exposed!" exclaimed Mr. Gracewood, bitterly. "I would
rather lose my money than have my wife and children know that I have
been gambling, and that I frequent such places as this. I wrote them
a miserable lie--that I was obliged to go to Memphis--to explain my
absence. If God will forgive and spare me this time, never will I be
guilty again!"

"Calm yourself, sir. I am sorry you have done wrong; but seeing and
repenting the wrong half undoes it--so your brother taught me."

"I shall never be at peace again in this world," groaned the sufferer.
"But let the money go; I can sell another estate, though a third of all
I had is gone already."

"The money is not gone, Mr. Gracewood. I am satisfied that Lynch is
arrested by this time."

"So much the worse! I shall be exposed."

"Perhaps not. Let us look the matter over. Why did Lynch send for you
to go up into his room?"

"He sent me a note by the young man who was with him. Here it is," he
added, rising and taking a piece of paper from the table.

I took the paper, which contained a few lines, as follows: "I have seen
the young fellow, Phil Farringford, who was with your brother. If you
will come up to my room, I will tell you what he says."

"You seem to have known about me before," I added, when I had read the
note.

"As I said, this Lynch took care of me when I was hurt. I did not
intend that any one here should know my name, but I think he read it
where the tailor had written it on the inside of my coat; at any rate,
he called me by name. I think he must have seen me take the package
of bank notes from my pocket and put it under the pillow, before the
surgeon came. When the doctor left, and I was more comfortable, he told
me that he had met my brother on board of a steamer up the Missouri,
and said there was a boy with him whom he had since seen in the city. I
was very anxious to know when my brother was coming, so that I might be
prepared to see him.

"Lynch did not know where my brother was, and I asked him if he
knew where to find you. He thought he should be able to see you,
and to-night I was very glad to learn that he had succeeded, and I
hastened up stairs to obtain the intelligence of the absent one."

The plan of the villain appeared to me to be past finding out. I
concluded that I had been sent for to assist in some manner in the
plundering of the unhappy gentleman. But they had done the job, so
far as I could see, without any help from me, unless my presence was
intended to lure the victim from his room, and thus enable them to do
the work. Why they had skirmished by robbing me of sixty-five dollars
was not at all clear to me. I explained to Mr. Gracewood that I had
left Mr. Rockwood and an officer outside of the house.

"I will go down and see if they are there now," I added. "Perhaps I
shall be able to tell you something about Lynch."

"Don't leave me, young man. I am miserable."

"But I want to know what has become of Lynch."

"No matter; let him go. Do not allow them to expose me."

I did not wonder that this man's conscience stung him, and that he
dreaded to have his name in the newspapers in connection with his
presence at the gambling-house. The only safety for men, young or old,
is to keep away from evil haunts. Those who enter gambling-houses from
curiosity may be impelled to repeat the visit from stronger motives.

While I was discussing the question with the miserable man, I heard
footsteps in the entry. I opened the door, and found Mr. Rockwood and
the detective, who had come to look for me.

"We have nabbed them both, Phil," said Mr. Rockwood. "They are in irons
at the next station-house. And a big haul it was, too."

"Whose room is that you came out of just now?" asked Mr. Bogart.

"It is occupied by a gentleman who is stopping here," I replied.

"Do you know what Lynch stole from that room?"

"I do--a package containing twenty-four thousand dollars. Did you see
him take it?"

"I did," answered Mr. Bogart. "But I don't understand this business."

"Neither do I."

"Where is the gentleman? I want to see him."

"I wouldn't see him to-night. He is quite sick, and suffering terribly."

"I want to tell him that his money is safe."

"I will tell him that."

"And that the thief is in custody. When he is able, he must appear, and
claim his money."

Fortunately Mr. Bogart was in a great hurry; and when I assured him I
had no fears in regard to my own safety, he left me in the house, with
Mr. Rockwood. Before he went he took the occasion to apologize to me
for doubting my story, earlier in the evening. Leaving Mr. Rockwood in
the entry, I went in to see Mr. Gracewood again. He was exceedingly
nervous and uneasy when I told him that his money was safe.

"And the whole story will be out in the newspapers on Monday morning,"
said he, gloomily.

"I don't know much about these things. I am willing to do anything that
is right for you," I replied.

"I deserved to be exposed, but I have not the courage to meet the
ordeal."

"Mr. Rockwood is waiting for me in the entry. He is a wealthy and
influential gentleman. His brother and your brother were neighbors and
intimate friends on the upper Missouri. If you will see him, I think he
could serve you."

At first he was very unwilling to meet any one, but at last he
consented. I stated the case to Mr. Rockwood in the entry, and then
introduced him to the sufferer.

"Don't distress yourself, my dear sir," said Mr. Rockwood, when the
misery of the other was manifested. "The best of men have their
misfortunes."

"I cannot call that a misfortune which is brought upon me by my own
folly and wickedness," replied Mr. Gracewood.

"But the best of men have their failings. Your secret is safe with me,
and I shall only hope that you may be stronger in the future than in
the past."

"With the help of God, this will be a lesson to me that shall make me
a better man than ever before," added Mr. Gracewood, fervently.

"But you shall not stay another night in such a place as this, my dear
sir," continued Mr. Rockwood, earnestly. "The very atmosphere of the
den is poison."

"I dare not leave it."

"My hotel is only a few steps from here. You shall have my rooms, and
no one need ever know that you are there."

"You are very kind. I had no right to expect such generous treatment
from an entire stranger."

"Your brother and my brother were the best of friends for many years;
we will imitate their example, and be friends for their sake."

Mr. Rockwood insisted upon his arrangement, paid the invalid's bill,
and sent for a carriage to convey him to his new quarters. We dressed
the miserable man, and helped him into the vehicle. The driver was
directed to stop at the private door on the cross-street, and Mr.
Gracewood was conducted to the rooms of his new friend without
attracting any attention.

"I used to stay at this hotel myself," said Mr. Gracewood, when he was
seated in the planter's great arm-chair.

"It is a good house, and you shall have every care you need."

Having seen the invalid so comfortably provided for, I thought it was
about time for me to go home. I promised to call the next day, and left
the room. I felt as though a mighty secret had been confided to me; but
I could not see how Mr. Gracewood could escape the exposure he so much
dreaded. I could not understand how he had thus far escaped it, if he
frequented gambling-houses. Certainly he was thoroughly conscious of
the sin of which he had been guilty, and peace would follow penitence
and reform.

I descended the stairs to the lower floor of the hotel, and was
hastening by the office when I discovered my excellent friend Mr. Henry
Gracewood walking up and down the hall, smoking his pipe. My heart
thrilled with emotion as I hastened to greet him. He grasped my hand
with a warmth that assured me he had lost none of his old regard for
me.

"I am glad to see you, Phil Farringford," said he. "Come right up
stairs, and see Mrs. Gracewood and Ella."

He led the way to a suit of rooms adjoining those of Mr. Rockwood, and
it seemed to me that the catastrophe which the invalid so much dreaded
could not long be postponed.




  CHAPTER XXV.

  IN WHICH PHIL FINDS THE PROSPECT GROWING BRIGHTER.


The meeting with the family of Mr. Gracewood was none the less pleasant
because it was entirely unexpected. I had been expecting and hoping to
see them, till I was afraid the winter would set in and compel them
to remain where they were till spring, for Mrs. Gracewood was too ill
to bear the fatigues of the long journey by land. I thought that Ella
looked prettier than ever, and the welcome she gave me was worth all
the patient waiting I had bestowed upon it.

The lady looked very pale and sick; indeed, a great change had come
over her since we parted, only a few weeks before. I saw that she had
been very sick, and that she was still very far from being in her usual
health. Though she had been brought up tenderly and delicately, she
had done the house-work, with the assistance of Ella and myself, at the
settlement during the summer. For my own part, I felt quite alarmed
about her, she looked so pale and sick. She was reclining upon the
lounge when I entered, but she rose to greet me.

"I am glad to see you, Phil Farringford, for I have thought a great
deal about you since we parted so strangely," said Mr. Gracewood. "Your
letter afforded me a great deal of satisfaction."

"I have worried a great deal about you and your family, sir," I
replied; "and it gives me new life to see you again. When did you
arrive?"

"We did not get ashore till after nine o'clock, too late to go out to
Glencoe, where my brother lives at the present time."

I wanted to tell him that his brother was in the very next room; but I
did not think that I had the right to complicate the affairs of others,
and I said nothing.

"What have you been doing, Phil?" asked Mr. Gracewood.

"I am a carpenter now; I work at the Plane and Plank, and am doing
first rate," I replied.

"I have a long story to tell you, but I suppose it is rather late to
begin it to-night."

"I am afraid it would be rather trying to the nerves of Mrs. Gracewood,
and we will postpone it," he replied, glancing at his wife.

"Do let me hear it, Phil," interposed Ella.

"I shall be very glad to tell you all about it, Ella; but it is too
late to-night; I must go home now."

"Where is your home, Phil?"

"I board with a widow lady, who is one of the best women in the world.
She has acted like a mother to me. I will come in the morning and see
you again."

I took my leave of the family; but as Mr. Gracewood followed me down
stairs, I had no opportunity to see Mr. Rockwood, as I had intended, to
inform him of the new arrival. I hastened home, and found my father and
Mrs. Greenough very much worried at my prolonged absence: but I had a
story that was worth telling to relate, and it was midnight before we
retired.

After breakfast the next morning I dressed myself in my best clothes;
and I could not help thinking that Ella would be willing to believe I
was not a bad-looking young fellow. My father was very feeble, but it
was a satisfaction to know that he was improving. Mrs. Greenough was
unwearied in her efforts to restore him to moral and physical health.
Probably his illness in a measure spared him from the cravings of his
appetite for drink. He sat in his easy chair a large portion of the day
reading the Bible, and such good books as our kind landlady provided
for his needs.

I hastened to the hotel to see my friends as soon as I could get away
from home. I called upon Mr. Rockwood first, and he assured me that his
patient was doing very well, but had not yet left his bed.

"I am afraid things are getting a little tangled here, sir," I
suggested.

"What do you mean, Phil? Does anything go wrong?" asked Mr. Rockwood.

"There was an arrival last night at this hotel," I continued, in a low
tone.

"Who?"

"Mr. Gracewood, from the upper Missouri," I replied, in a whisper.

"Is it possible!"

At this moment the invalid tottered through the open door, and stood
before us.

"I knew it!" said he; "I knew it!"

"What?" inquired Mr. Rockwood.

"That my brother had come. You need not attempt to conceal it from me.
I heard his voice all night long. He is in the next room."

The planter looked at me, and I looked at him. It was not probable
that the invalid had heard his brother's voice all night long; and it
was possible that, whatever the fact might be, he was laboring under a
delusion.

"Be calm, Mr. Gracewood," said the planter.

"Calm? I am as calm as the surface of a summer lake. Don't you see that
I am calm? I fear nothing now. I will not be a knave, and I will not be
a hypocrite. I heard my brother's voice last evening before I went to
sleep, and the sound of it haunted me all night. I will tell him the
whole story, for I will not let him believe that I am better than I am.
If God will forgive me, I know my brother will."

Mr. Gracewood explained the course of his thoughts during the long and
weary night he had passed. It was but the old story, that he who
sins must suffer; and his experience made me resolve anew to be always
true and faithful to the truth and the right; for if the conscience can
sting here, in the midst of the allurements of the world, what will it
not do in the hereafter?

  [Illustration: REUNION OF PHIL AND HIS FRIENDS. Page 292.]

Mr. Gracewood declared that he was ready to see his brother, and the
sooner the better. I was sent to prepare my excellent friend for the
interview. I found the family in their parlor, and was cordially
greeted by all of them. I told Mr. Gracewood that I had made the
acquaintance of old Matt's brother, and that he was a planter. I then
asked him to go with me and see him. He consented, but in the entry I
paused to tell him more.

"There is another brother here," I added, as he closed the door of the
parlor behind him.

"Another of Matt's brothers?"

"No, your brother."

"My brother!"

"Yes, sir; I am sorry to say he is in rather poor health."

"Where is he?"

"In the next room to yours. He is with Mr. Rockwood, who owns this
hotel."

"Let me see him at once. I hope he is not dangerously sick."

"No; but he is more troubled in mind than in body."

"Is he insane?"

"No, sir; he blames himself very much for something he has done."

"What has he done?" asked my friend, very much troubled.

"He has been gambling; but he regrets it so sincerely, that I am sure
he will be a better man than he ever was before. You shall see him now,
and I know you will be very gentle with him."

"It is not for me to condemn him; I can only condemn my own errors,"
said my Christian friend, as I led him into Mr. Rockwood's rooms.

The invalid rose as he entered, and extended his hand to his brother,
while the great tears rolled down his pale, wan cheek.

"I am glad to see you, Robert," said Henry. "I am sorry you are sick."

"I am sick at heart."

But I did not stay to hear the confession of the penitent. Ella went to
church and to Sunday school with me; and after the latter I conducted
her back to the hotel; for, besides the pleasure her company afforded
me, I wished to know the condition of affairs between the brothers. As
I had expected, they were easily reconciled. My excellent friend had no
malice in his heart; and though his brother's error must have given him
a severe shock, he was willing to cover the past with the repentance
that succeeded.

I dined with the family, and went to church in the afternoon; but I
spent the evening with my father. He was more cheerful than he had been
for several days, and assured me he had found a peace in the truths of
the gospel which he had never realized before. He was really happy; and
if there was ever a changed man in the world, he was the one.

"Philip, I am well enough to think of the future," said he. "It worries
me, too."

"It need not."

"I may not be able to do anything for some time, for I am very weak. I
suppose I must be made over anew."

"Don't disturb yourself at all about that," I replied. "I am getting
six dollars a week, and that will pay our board."

"I cannot live on your hard earnings, Philip," he added, shaking his
head. "I feel guilty even now; and I should not have come here to be a
burden to you, if I had not been a wreck of what I was once."

"I assure you, father, it will be the greatest pleasure on earth for me
to do what I can for you. I may not get a dollar a day all the time,
but I have fifteen hundred dollars, sure, now."

"I hope I shall soon be able to do something for myself, Philip. For
the last week I have dared to hope that your mother might come back,
and that we might be as happy as we were before I dashed down all my
earthly hopes."

"I hope so, father; nothing could make me so happy as to live with my
father and mother."

"Perhaps I may get a situation as a clerk, and earn enough to support
me; though it is hard, at my time of life, to go back and commence
where I began twenty years ago. But I deserve all that can befall me,
and I will be as humble as my circumstances are. God has been merciful
to me; he has spared and redeemed me."

"Do you know where my mother is?" I asked, burning with the old desire
to see and know her.

"I do not. They have taken pains to keep all knowledge of her from me.
I was told that she was in Europe, and I have no doubt such is the
case. I should like to let her know that our lost little one has been
mercifully restored, but I cannot do even that; and I will not ask her
to live with me again until I have made myself worthy to do so."

Somehow God always sends good angels to those who, in trust and faith,
are trying to help themselves. The door bell rang, and Mrs. Greenough
admitted Mr. Rockwood.

"I am glad to see you again, Phil," said he. "I wished to see your
father, and I wanted to tell you to be at the police station to-morrow
forenoon at ten o'clock."

"I will be there, sir, if Mr. Clinch will let me off."

"He must let you off. If he won't, I shall send an officer to summon
you."

"I have no doubt he will let me go."
