                        AN UNFASHIONABLE HOTEL.


Tom found at the end of the afternoon that her capital had increased
from twenty-five to fifty cents.

“Granny won’t get none of this,” she soliloquized, complacently. “It’s
all mine.”

Sitting on a doorstep she counted over the money with an entirely
different feeling from what she had experienced when it was to be
transferred to granny. Now it was all her own, and, though but fifty
cents, it made her feel rich.

“What shall I do with it?” thought Tom.

She had a square meal in the middle of the day; but several hours had
passed since then, and she felt hungry again; Tom did not see any
necessity for remaining hungry, with fifty cents in her possession. She
made her way, therefore, to another eating-house, where the prices were
the same with those at the one before mentioned, and partook of another
square meal, leaving out the pie. This reduced her capital to thirty
cents. She felt that she ought to save this, to start in business upon
in the morning. As a street-sweeper she required no capital except her
broom; but though Tom was not troubled with pride, she preferred to sell
papers, or take up some other street vocation. Besides, she knew that as
a street-sweeper on Broadway, she would be more likely to be discovered
by the old woman whom she was now anxious to avoid.

After eating supper Tom went out into the streets, not knowing exactly
how to spend her time. Usually, she had gone down into the court, or the
street, and played with the children of her own and neighboring tenement
houses. But now she did not care to venture back into the old locality.

So she strolled about the streets aimlessly, until she felt sleepy, and
began to consider whereabouts to bestow herself for the night. She might
have gone to the “Girls’ Lodging House,” if she had known of such an
institution; but she had never heard of it. Chance brought her to a
basement, on which was the sign,—

                         “LODGINGS—FIVE CENTS.”

This attracted Tom’s attention. If it had not been a cold night, she
would have been willing to sleep out, which would have been cheaper; but
it was a damp and chilly evening, and her dress was thin.

“Five cents won’t bust me!” thought Tom. “I’ll go in.”

She went down some steps, and opened a door into a room very
low-studded, and very dirty.

A stout woman, in a dirty calico loose-gown, was sitting in a chair,
with a fat, unhealthy-looking baby in her lap.

“What you want, little gal?” she asked.

“Where’s your lodgin’?” asked Tom.

“In back,” answered the woman, pointing to an inner room, partially
revealed through a half-open door. It was dark, having no windows, and
dirtier, if possible, than the front room. The floor was covered with
straw, for beds and bedsteads were looked upon as unnecessary luxuries
in this economical lodging-house.

“Is that the place?” asked Tom.

“Yes. Do you want to stop here to-night?”

Tom had not been accustomed to first-class hotels, still the
accommodations at granny’s were rather better than this. However, the
young Arab did not mind. She had no doubt she could sleep comfortably on
the straw, and intimated her intention of stopping.

“Where’s your money?” asked the woman.

The invariable rule in this establishment was payment in advance, and,
perhaps, considering the character of the customers, it was the safest
rule that could be adopted.

Tom took out her money, and counted out five cents into the woman’s
palm. She then put back the remainder in her pocket. If she had been
less sleepy, she might have noticed the woman’s covetous glance, and
been led to doubt the safety of her small fortune. But Tom was sleepy,
and her main idea was to go to bed as soon as possible.

“Lay down anywhere,” said the landlady, dropping the five cents into her
pocket.

Tom’s preparation for bed did not take long. No undressing was required,
for it was the custom here to sleep with the day’s clothes on. Tom
stowed herself away in a corner, and in five minutes was asleep.

It was but little after eight o’clock, and she was, at present, the only
lodger.

No sooner did her deep, regular breathing indicate slumber, than the
landlady began to indulge in various suspicious movements. She first put
down her baby, and then taking a lantern,—the only light which could
safely be carried into the lodging-room, on account of the straw upon
the floor,—crept quietly into the inner room.

“She’s fast asleep,” she muttered.

She approached Tom with cautious step. She need not have been afraid to
awaken her. Tom was a good sleeper, and not likely to wake up, unless
roughly awakened, until morning.

Tom was lying on her side, with her face resting on one hand.

The woman stooped down, and began to look for the pocket in which she
kept her money; but it was in that part of her dress upon which she was
lying. This embarrassed the woman somewhat, but an idea occurred to her.
She took up a straw, and, bending over, gently tickled Tom’s ear. Tom
shook her head, as a cat would under similar circumstances, and on its
being repeated turned over, muttering, “Don’t, granny!”

This was what her dishonest landlady wanted. She thrust her hand into
Tom’s pocket, and drew out the poor girl’s entire worldly treasure. Tom,
unconscious of the robbery, slept on; and the woman went back to the
front room to wait for more lodgers. They began to come in about ten,
and by twelve the room was full. It was a motley collection, and would
have been a curious, though sad study, to any humane observer. They were
most of them in the last stages of ill-fortune, yet among them was more
than one who had once filled a respectable position in society. Here was
a man of thirty-five, who ten years before had filled a good place, with
a fair salary, in a city bank. But in an evil hour he helped himself to
some of the funds of the bank. He lost his situation, and, though he
escaped imprisonment, found his prospects blasted. So he had gone down
hill, until at length he found himself reduced to such a lodging-house
as this, fortunate if he could command the small sum needful to keep him
from a night in the streets.

[Illustration]

Next him was stretched a man who was deserving still more pity, since
his misfortunes sprang rather from a want of judgment than from his own
fault. He was a scholar, with a fair knowledge of Latin and Greek, and
some ability as a writer. He was an Englishman who had come to the city
in the hope of making his acquisitions available, but had met with very
poor encouragement. He found that both among teachers and writers the
demand exceeded the supply, at least for those of moderate
qualifications; and, having no influential friends, had sought for
employment almost in vain. His small stock of money dwindled, his suit
became shabby, until he found himself, to his deep mortification and
disgust, compelled to resort to such lodging-houses as this, where he
was obliged to herd with the lowest and most abandoned class.

Next to him lay a mechanic, once in profitable employment. But drink had
been his ruin; and now he was a vagabond, spending the little money he
earned, at rum-shops, except what was absolutely necessary for food.

There is no need of cataloguing the remainder of Meg Morely’s lodgers.
Her low rates generally secured her a room-full, and a dozen, sometimes
more, were usually packed away on the floor. On the whole she found it a
paying business, though her charges were low. Sixty cents a day was
quite a respectable addition to her income, and she had occupied the
same place for two years already. Tom’s experience will show that she
had other, and not quite so lawful, ways of swelling her receipts, but
she was cautious not to put them in practice, unless she considered it
prudent, as in the present instance.

It was seven o’clock when Tom awoke. She looked around her in
bewilderment, thinking at first she must be in granny’s room. But a
glance at the prostrate forms around her brought back the events of the
day before, and gave her a realizing sense of her present situation.

“I’ve had a good sleep,” said Tom to herself, stretching, by way of
relief from her constrained position. “I guess it’s time to get up.”

She rubbed her eyes, and shook back her hair, and then rising, went into
the front room. Her landlady was already up and getting breakfast.

“What time is it?” asked Tom.

“It’s just gone seven,” said Meg, looking sharply at Tom to see if she
had discovered the loss of her money. “How did you sleep?”

“Tip-top.”

“Come ag’in.”

“All right!” said Tom. “Maybe I will.”

She climbed up the basement stairs to the street above, and began to
think of what the day had in store for her. Her prospects were not
brilliant certainly; but Tom on the whole felt in good spirits. She had
thrown off the yoke of slavery. She was her own mistress now, and
granny’s power was broken. Tom felt that she could get along somehow.
She had confidence in herself, and was sure something would turn up for
her.

“Now, what’ll I do first?” thought Tom.

With twenty-five cents in her pocket, and a good appetite, breakfast
naturally suggested itself.

She dove her hand into her pocket, but the face of the little Arab
almost instantly expressed deep dismay.

Her money was gone!




                              CHAPTER VII.
                          TOM MAKES A FRIEND.


Twenty-five cents is not a large sum, but it was Tom’s entire fortune.
It was all she had, not only to buy breakfast with, but also to start in
business. She had an excellent appetite, but now there was no hope of
satisfying it until she could earn some more money.

Tom hurried back to the lodging, and entered, looking excited.

“Well, what’s wanted?” asked Meg, who knew well enough without asking.

“I’ve lost some money.”

“Suppose you did,” said the woman, defiantly, “you don’t mean to say I
took it.”

“No,” said Tom, “but I had it when I laid down.”

“Where was it?”

“In my pocket.”

“Might have tumbled out among the straw,” suggested Meg.

This struck Tom as not improbable, and she went back into the bedroom,
and, getting down on her hands and knees, commenced poking about for it.
But even if it had been there, any of my readers who has ever lost money
in this way knows that it is very difficult to find under such
circumstances.

Tom persevered in her search until her next-door neighbor growled out
that he wished she would clear out. At length she was obliged to give it
up.

“Have you found it?” asked Meg.

“No,” said Tom, soberly.

“How much was it?”

“Twenty-five cents.”

“That aint much.”

“It’s enough to bust me. I don’t believe it’s in the straw.”

“What do you believe?” demanded Meg, whose guilty conscience made her
scent an accusation.

“I think some of them took it while I was asleep,” said Tom, indicating
the other lodgers by a jerk of her finger.

“Likely they did,” said Meg, glad to have suspicion diverted elsewhere.

“I wish I knew,” said Tom.

“What’ud you do?”

“I’d get it back again,” said Tom, her black eyes snapping with
resolution.

“No, you wouldn’t. You’re nothin’ but a babby. You couldn’t do nothin’!”

“Couldn’t I?” returned Tom. “I’d let ’em know whether I was a baby.”

“Well, you go along now,” said Meg. “Your money’s gone, and you can’t
get it back. Next time give it to me to keep, and it’ll be safe.”

Being penniless, Tom was in considerable uncertainty when she would
again be mistress of so large a sum. At present she felt in no
particular dread of being robbed. She left the lodgings, realizing that
the money was indeed gone beyond hope of recovery.

There is some comfort in beginning the day with a good breakfast. It
warms one up, and inspires hope and confidence. As a general rule people
are good-natured and cheerful after a hearty breakfast. For ten cents
Tom might have got a cup of coffee, or what passed for such, and a plate
of tea-biscuit. With the other fifteen she could have bought a few
morning papers, and easily earned enough to pay for a square meal in the
middle of the day. Now she must go to work without capital, and on an
empty stomach, which was rather discouraging. She would have fared
better than this at granny’s, though not much, her breakfast there
usually consisting of a piece of stale bread, with perhaps a fragment of
cold sausage. Coffee, granny never indulged in, believing whiskey to be
more healthful. Occasionally, in moments of extreme good nature, she had
given Tom a sip of whiskey; but the young Arab had never got to like it,
fortunately for herself, though she had accepted it as a variation of
her usual beverage, cold water.

In considering what she should do for the day, Tom decided to go to some
of the railway stations or steamboat landings, and try to get a chance
to carry a carpet-bag. “Baggage-smashing” required no capital, and this
was available in her present circumstances.

Tom made her way to the pier where the steamers of the Fall River line
arrive. Ordinarily it would have been too late, but it had been a windy
night, the sound was rough, and the steamer was late, so that Tom
arrived just in the nick of time.

Tom took her place among the hackmen, and the men and boys who, like
her, were bent on turning an honest penny by carrying baggage.

“Clear out of the way here, little gal!” said a stout, overgrown boy.
“Smash your baggage, sir?”

“Clear out yourself!” said Tom, boldly. “I’ve got as much right here as
you.”

Her little, sharp eyes darted this way and that in search of a possible
customer. The boy who had been rude to her got a job, and this gave Tom
a better chance. She offered her services to a lady, who stared at her
with curiosity and returned no answer. Tom began to think she should not
get a job. There seemed a popular sentiment in favor of employing boys,
and Tom, like others of her sex, found herself shut out from an
employment for which she considered herself fitted. But, at length, she
saw approaching a big, burly six-footer, with a good-natured face. There
was something about him which inspired Tom with confidence, and,
pressing forward, she said, “Carry your bag, sir?”

He stopped short and looked down at the queer figure of our heroine.
Then, glancing at his carpet-bag, which was of unusual size and weight,
the idea of his walking through the streets with Tom bending beneath the
weight of his baggage, struck him in so ludicrous a manner that he burst
into a hearty laugh.

“What’s up?” demanded Tom, suspiciously. “Who are you laughin’ at?”

“So you want to carry my carpet-bag?” he asked, laughing again.

“Yes,” said Tom.

“Why, I could put you in it,” said the tall man, his eyes twinkling with
amusement.

“No, you couldn’t,” said Tom.

“Do you think you could carry it?”

“Let me try.”

He set it down, and Tom lifted it from the ground; but it was obviously
too much for her strength.

“You see you can’t do it. Have you found anything to do this morning?”

“No,” said Tom.

“Business isn’t good, hey?”

“No,” said Tom, “but I wouldn’t mind so much if I hadn’t had my money
stole. I’m bust!”

“How’s that? Did the bank break or have you been speculating?”

“Oh, you’re gasin’! I aint got nothing to do with banks. Somebody stole
two shillin’s I had, so I’ve had no breakfast.”

“Come, that’s bad. I guess I must give you a job, after all. You can’t
carry my bag, but you can carry this.”

He had under his arm something wrapped in a paper, making a small
bundle. He handed it to Tom, and she trudged along with it after him.

“You couldn’t guess what that is, I suppose?” said her companion,
sociably.

“No,” said Tom; “it feels soft.”

“It’s a large wax doll, for my little niece,” said her patron. “You
haven’t got any dolls, I suppose?”

“I had one once,” said Tom. “It was made of rags. But granny threw it
into the fire.”

“I suppose you were sorry.”

“I was then; but I’m too old for dolls now.”

“How old are you?”

“I aint sure. Somewheres about twelve.”

“You live with your granny, then?”

“No, I don’t,—not now.”

“Why not?”

“She wanted to lick me, so I run away.”

“Then where do you live now?”

“Nowhere.”

“You have no home?”

“I don’t want no home. I can take care of myself,” said Tom, briskly.

“I see you are an independent, young woman. Now, if you were a boy, I’d
give you a chance on board my ship.”

“Have you got a ship?” asked Tom, becoming interested.

“Yes, I am a sea-captain, and go on long voyages. If you wasn’t a girl,
I’d take you along with me as cabin-boy.”

“I wish you would,” said Tom, eagerly.

“But you are a girl, you know? You couldn’t climb a mast.”

“Try me,” said Tom. “I’m strong. I fit with a boy yesterday, and licked
him.”

Captain Barnes laughed, but shook his head.

“I see you’re spunky, if you are a girl,” he said. “But I never heard of
a girl being cabin-boy, and I don’t think it would do.”

“I’d put on a boy’s clothes,” suggested Tom.

“You’ve begun to do it already,” said the captain, glancing at the cap
and jacket. “I didn’t know at first but you were a boy. What makes you
wear a cap?”

“Granny gave it to me. I like it better than a bonnet.”

They had by this time reached Broadway.

“You may steer across the Park to French’s Hotel,” said the sailor.
“It’s too late to get breakfast at my sister’s.”

“All right,” said Tom.

They crossed the Park, and the street beyond, and reached the door of
the brick hotel on the corner of Frankfort Street.

“I’ll go down into the restaurant first,” said Captain Barnes. “I feel
like laying in a cargo before navigating any farther.”

“Here’s your bundle,” said Tom.

He took it, and handed Tom twenty-five cents, which she received with
gratification, not having expected so much for carrying so small a
bundle.

“Stay a moment,” said the sailor, as she was about to go away. “You
haven’t had any breakfast, I think you said.”

“No.”

“Then you shall come in, and breakfast with me.”

This invitation astonished Tom not a little. It was the first invitation
she had ever received to breakfast with a gentleman. French’s restaurant
being higher priced than those which her class were in the habit of
patronizing, she entered with some hesitation, not feeling quite sure
how her entrance would be regarded by the waiters. She was not generally
wanting in self-possession, but as she descended the stairs and entered
the room, she felt awkward and out of her element.




                             CHAPTER VIII.
                           AT FRENCH’S HOTEL.


“Clear out of here!” said a waiter, arresting Tom’s progress, and
pointing to the steps by which she had descended from the sidewalk.

If Tom had been alone, she would have felt bound to obey the summons;
but being under the protection of Captain Barnes, who, she reflected,
looked a good deal stronger than the waiter, she stood her ground.

“Did you hear what I said?” demanded the waiter angrily, about to take
Tom by the shoulder.

“Avast there!” put in the captain, who thought it time to interfere; “is
that the way you treat your customers?”

“She aint no customer.”

“She is going to take breakfast here, my friend, and I should like to
know what you have got to say about it.”

The waiter seemed taken aback by this unexpected championship of one
whom he had supposed to be an unprotected street girl.

“I didn’t know she was with you,” he stammered.

“Well, you know it now. Come, child, you can sit down here.”

Tom enjoyed her triumph over the waiter, and showed it in a
characteristic manner, by putting her thumb to her nose.

Captain Barnes sat down on one side of a table at one of the windows,
and motioned Tom to sit opposite.

“I don’t think you told me your name,” he said.

“Tom.”

“Then, Tom, let me suggest that you take off your cap. It’s usual in the
best society.”

“I never was there,” said Tom; but she removed her cap. This revealed a
mop of hair, tangled it is true, but of a beautiful brown shade. Her
black eyes sparkled from beneath, giving a bright, keen look to her
face, browned by exposure to all weathers. I regret to say that the face
was by no means clean. If it had been, and the whole expression had not
been so wild and untamed, Tom would certainly have been considered
pretty. As it was, probably no one would have wasted a second glance
upon the little street girl.

“What will you have, sir, you and the young lady?” asked the waiter,
emphasizing the last word, with a grin at Tom.

“What will you have, Tom?” asked the captain.

“Beefsteak, cup o’ coffee, and bread-and-butter,” said Tom, glibly.

Her knowledge of dishes was limited; but she had tried these and liked
them, and this guided her in the selection.

“Very good,” said Captain Barnes; “the same for me, with fried potatoes
and an omelet.”

Tom stared at this munificent order. She fixed her black eyes
meditatively upon her entertainer, and wondered whether he always
indulged in such a superlatively square meal.

“What are you thinking about, Tom?” questioned the captain.

“You must be awful rich,” said Tom.

Captain Barnes laughed.

“What makes you think so?”

“It’ll cost you a lot for breakfast.”

“But you know I don’t always have company to breakfast.”

“Do you call me company?”

“Of course I do.”

“I shouldn’t think you’d want to have me eat with you.”

“Why not?”

“You’re a gentleman.”

“And you’re a young lady. Didn’t you hear the waiter call you so?”

“He was chaffin’.”

“You may be a lady some time.”

“’Taint likely,” said Tom.

“Why not?”

“I haven’t got no good clothes to wear, nor don’t know nothin’.”

“Can you read?”

“A little, but I don’t like to. It’s too hard work.”

“Makes your head ache, eh?”

“Yes,” said Tom, seriously.

Captain Barnes looked attentively at the odd little creature opposite
him. He wondered what would be her fate. She was quick, sharp, pretty,
but withal an untamed Arab of the streets. The chances seemed very much
against her in the warfare of life. Society seemed leagued against her,
and she was likely to be at war with it.

“I’ll make an effort to save her,” he thought. But of this he did not
speak to Tom at present, more especially as the waiter was seen
advancing with the breakfast ordered.

He deposited the various dishes, some before Tom, and the remainder
before the captain.

Tom was not used to restaurants of the better class, and did not see the
necessity of an empty plate in addition to the dish which contained the
meat. Such ceremony was not in vogue at the ten-cent restaurants which
she had hitherto patronized. She fixed her eyes eagerly upon the
beefsteak, which emitted a very savory odor.

“Pass your plate, Tom, and I will give you some meat.”

Tom passed her plate, nothing loath, and the captain transferred to it a
liberal supply of meat.

Tom waited for no ceremony, but, seizing her knife, attacked the meat
vigorously.

“How is it?” asked her companion, amused.

“Bully!” said Tom, too busy to raise her eyes from her plate.

“Let me help you to a little of the omelet.”

Tom extended her plate, and a portion of the omelet was placed upon it.

Tom raised a little to her lips, cautiously, for it was a new dish to
her, and she did not know whether she would like it. It seemed to be
satisfactory, however, none being left upon her plate when she had
finished eating.

Not much conversation went on during the meal. Tom’s entire energies
were given to disposing of the squarest meal in which she had ever
indulged, and the captain’s attention was divided between his breakfast
and the young waif upon whom he was bestowing perfect bliss.

At length Tom’s efforts relaxed. She laid down her knife and fork, and
heaved a sigh of exquisite enjoyment.

“Well,” said the captain, “would you like some more?”

“No,” said Tom, “I’m full.”

“Did you enjoy your breakfast?”

“Didn’t I, just?” and Tom’s tone spoke volumes.

“I’m glad of that. I think it’s very good myself.”

“You’re a brick!” said Tom, in a tone of grateful acknowledgment.

“Thank you,” said Captain Barnes, his eyes twinkling a little; “I try to
be.”

“I wonder what granny would say if she knowed where I was,” soliloquized
Tom, aloud.

“She’d be glad you had enjoyed your breakfast.”

“No, she wouldn’t. She’d be mad.”

“You don’t give your grandmother a very good character. Doesn’t she like
you?”

“No; she hates me, and I hate her. She takes all my money, and then
licks me.”

“That’s unpleasant, to be sure. Then you don’t want to go back to her?”

“Not for Joe!” said Tom, shaking her head very decidedly.

“Then you expect to take care of yourself? Do you think you can?”

Tom nodded confidently.

“What are you going to do this morning, for instance?”

“Buy some papers with the money you give me.”

“What a self-reliant spirit the little chit has!” thought Captain
Barnes. “I’ve known plenty of young men, who had less faith in their
ability to cope with the world, and gain a livelihood, than she. Yet she
has next to no clothes, and her entire capital consists of twenty-five
cents. There is a lesson for the timid and despondent in her
philosophy.”

Tom had no idea of what was passing in the mind of her companion. If she
had been able to read his thoughts, it is not likely she would have
understood them. Her own thoughts had become practical. She had had a
good breakfast,—thanks to the kindness of her new friend,—but for dinner
she must depend upon herself. She felt that it was quite time to enter
upon the business of the day.

She put on her cap and rose to her feet.

“I’m goin’,” she said, abruptly.

“Where are you going?”

“To buy some papers. Thank you for my breakfast.”

It was probably the first time Tom ever thanked anybody for anything. I
am not quite sure whether anybody before this had given her any cause
for gratitude. Certainly, not granny, who had bestowed far less than she
had received from the child, upon whom she had not been ashamed to be a
selfish dependent. There was something, possibly, in her present
companionship with a kind-hearted gentleman, something, perhaps, in her
present more respectable surroundings, which had taught Tom this first
lesson in good manners. She was almost surprised herself at the
expression of gratitude to which she had given utterance.

“Stop a minute, Tom!” said the captain.

Tom had got half way to the door, but she stopped short on being called
back.

“You haven’t asked me whether I have got through with you.”

Tom looked surprised. She knew of no further service in which she could
make herself useful to her companion.

“Haven’t you got through with me?” she asked.

“Not quite. I’m not going to stop here, you know,—I am going to my
sister’s.”

“Where does she live?”

“In Sixteenth Street.”

“Do you want me to carry your carpet-bag?” asked Tom.

“Well, no; I think you couldn’t manage that. But you can carry the
bundle.”

“All right!” said Tom.

It was all one to her whether she sold papers, or carried bundles. The
main thing was to earn the small amount of money necessary to defray her
daily expenses. Of the two she would rather go up to Sixteenth Street;
for as she had seldom found occasion to go up town, the expedition
promised a little novelty.

Captain Barnes paid his bill, and left the restaurant, with Tom at his
heels.




                              CHAPTER IX.
                              MRS. MERTON.

“We’ll go across Broadway, and take the Sixth Avenue cars, Tom,” said
the captain.

“Are we goin’ to ride?” asked Tom, surprised.

“Yes, you don’t catch me lugging this heavy carpet-bag up to Sixteenth
Street.”

Tom was rather surprised at this. She did not understand why her
services were required to carry the bundle if they were going to ride.
However, she very sensibly remained silent, not feeling called upon to
comment on her employer’s arrangements.

At this time in the day there was no difficulty in obtaining a seat in
the cars. Tom, however, was not disposed to sit down quietly:—

“I’ll stand outside,” she said.

“Very well,” said Captain Barnes, and he drew out a copy of a morning
paper which he had purchased on leaving the hotel.

Tom took her position beside the driver. She rather enjoyed the ride,
for, though she had lived in the city for years, she had seldom been on
the car as a passenger, though she had frequently stolen a ride on the
steps of a Broadway omnibus.

“Well, Johnny, are you going up town to look after your family?” asked
the driver, good-naturedly.

“I’d have to look a long time before I found ’em,” said Tom.

“Haven’t you got any relations, then?”

“There’s an old woman that calls herself my granny.”

“Does she live up on Fifth Avenue?”

“Yes,” said Tom; “next door to you.”

“You’ve got me there,” said the driver, laughing. “Give my respects to
your granny, and tell her she’s got a smart grand-daughter.”

“I will, when I see her.”

“Don’t you live with her?”

“Not now. She aint my style.”

Here the conductor tapped Tom on the shoulder.

“He pays for me,” said Tom, pointing back at Captain Barnes.

“I suppose he’s your grandfather,” said the driver, jocosely.

“I wish he was. He’s a trump. He gave me a stunnin’ breakfast.”

“So you like him better than your granny?”

“You can bet on that.”

Captain Barnes, sitting near the door, heard a part of this
conversation, and it amused him.

“I wonder,” he thought, “whether my sister will be willing to assume
charge of this wild little girl? There’s enough in her to make a very
smart woman, if she is placed under the right influences and properly
trained. But I suspect that will require not a little patience and tact.
Well, we shall see.”

After a while the car reached Sixteenth Street, and the captain left it,
with Tom following him. They turned down Sixteenth Street from the
avenue, and finally stopped before a fair-looking brick house. Captain
Barnes went up the steps, and rang the bell.

“Is Mrs. Merton at home?” he asked.

“Yes,” said the servant, looking hard at Tom.

“Then I’ll come in. Tell her her brother wishes to see her. Come in,
Tom.”

Tom followed the captain, the servant continuing to eye her
suspiciously. They entered the parlor, where Captain Barnes took a seat
on the sofa, motioning Tom to sit beside him. Tom obeyed, surveying the
sofa with some curiosity. The families in the tenement house with whom
she had been on visiting terms did not in general possess sofas. She had
sometimes seen them in furniture stores, but this was the first time she
had sat upon one.

“What are you thinking of, Tom?” asked the captain, desiring to draw her
out.

“Does your sister live here?”

“Yes.”

“She’s rich, isn’t she?”

“No, she makes a living by keeping boarders. Perhaps you’d like to board
with her.”

Tom laughed.

“She don’t take the likes of me,” she said.

“Suppose you were rich enough, wouldn’t you like to board here?”

“I don’t know,” said Tom, looking round. “It’s dark.”

“All the rooms are not dark. Besides, you’d get three square meals every
day.”

“I’d like that,” said Tom, seriously.

Their further conversation was interrupted by the entrance of the
captain’s sister, Mrs. Merton. She was rather a stout woman, but there
was an expression of care on her face, which was not surprising, for it
is no light thing to keep a New York boarding-house.

“When did you arrive in the city, Albert?” she asked, giving him her
hand cordially.

“Only just arrived, Martha. How does the world use you?”

“I can’t complain, though it’s a wearing thing looking after a household
like this. Have you had any breakfast?”

“I took some down town.”

Just then Mrs. Merton’s eye fell for the first time upon Tom. She
started in surprise, and looked doubtfully at her brother.

“Who is this?” she asked. “Did she come with you?”

“It’s a young friend of mine. She met me at the wharf, and wanted to
carry my carpet-bag.”

“You didn’t let her do it?”

“Bless you, no. It’s big enough to pack her away in. But I employed her
to carry a bundle. Didn’t I, Tom?”

“What did you call her?” asked his sister.

“Tom. That’s her name, so she says.”

“What made you bring her here?” asked Mrs. Merton, who evidently
regarded her brother’s conduct as very queer.

“I’ll tell you, but not before her. Tom, you can go out into the entry,
and shut the door behind you. I’ll call you in a few minutes.”

Tom went out, and Captain Barnes returned to the subject.

“She’s got no relations except an intemperate old grandmother,” he said.
“I’ve taken a fancy to her, and want to help her along. Can’t you find a
place for her in your kitchen?”

“I take a girl from the street!” ejaculated Mrs. Merton. “Albert, you
must be crazy.”

“Not at all. I am sure you can find something for her to do,—cleaning
knives, running of errands, going to market, or something of that kind.”

“This is a very strange proposal.”

“Why is it? At present she lives in the street, being driven from the
only home she had, by the ill-treatment of a vicious grandmother. You
can see what chance she has of growing up respectably.”

“But there are plenty such. I don’t see that it’s our business to look
after them.”

“I don’t know why it is, but I’ve taken a fancy to this little girl.”

“She looks perfectly wild.”

“I won’t deny that she is rather uncivilized, but there’s a good deal in
her. She’s as smart as a steel trap.”

“Smart enough to steal, probably.”

“Perhaps so, under temptation. I want to remove the temptation.”

“This is a very strange freak on your part, Albert.”

“I don’t know about that. You know I have no child of my own, and am
well off, so far as this world’s goods are concerned. I have long
thought I should like to train up a child in whom I could take an
interest, and who would be a comfort to me when I am older.”

“You can find plenty of attractive children without going into the
street for them.”

“I don’t want a tame child. She wouldn’t interest me. This girl has
spirit. I’ll tell you what I want you to do, Martha. I’m going off on a
year’s voyage. Take her into your house, make her as useful as you can,
civilize her, and I will allow you a fair price for her board.”

“Do you want her to go to school?”

“After a while. At present she needs to be civilized. She is a young
street Arab with very elementary ideas as to the way in which people
live. She needs an apprenticeship in some house like this. My little
niece must be about her age.”

“Mary? How can I trust her to the companionship of such a girl?”

“Tom isn’t bad. She is only untrained. She will learn more than she will
teach at first. Afterwards Mary may learn something of her.”

“I am sure I don’t know what to say,” said Mrs. Merton, irresolutely.

Here the captain named the terms he was willing to pay for Tom’s board.
This was a consideration to Mrs. Merton, who found that she had to
calculate pretty closely to make keeping boarders pay.

“I’ll try her,” she said.

“Thank you, Martha. You can let her go into the kitchen at first, till
she is fit to be promoted.”

“She must have some clothes. She had on a boy’s jacket.”

“Yes, and cap. In fact she is more of a boy than a girl at present.”

“I am not sure but some of Mary’s old dresses may fit her. Mary must be
a little larger than she is.”

“That reminds me I brought a doll for Fanny. She has not grown too large
for dolls yet.”

“No, she is just the age to enjoy them. She will be delighted.”

“I think we may call in Tom now, and inform her of our intention.”

“She must have another name. It won’t do to call a girl Tom.”

“She said her name used to be Jenny, but she has been nicknamed Tom.”

The door was opened, and Captain Barnes called in Tom.

“Come in, Tom,” he said.

“All right!” said Tom. “I’m on hand!”

“We’ve been talking about you, Tom,” pursued the captain.

“What have you been sayin’?” asked Tom, suspiciously.

“I’ve been telling my sister that you had no home, and were obliged to
earn your own living in the streets.”

“I don’t care much,” said Tom. “I’d rather do that than live with
granny, and get licked.”

“But wouldn’t you like better to have a nice home, where you would have
plenty to eat, and a good bed to sleep in?”

“Maybe I would.”
