AN INVITATION TO SUPPER

Tim had raised his fist to strike the young fiddler, when he was
suddenly pushed aside with considerable force, and came near measuring
his length on the ground.

“Who did that?” he cried, angrily, recovering his equilibrium.

“I did it,” said a calm voice.

Tim recognized in the speaker Paul Hoffman, whom some of my readers will
remember as “Paul the Peddler.” Paul was proprietor of a necktie stand
below the Astor House, and was just returning home to supper.

He was a brave and manly boy, and his sympathies were always in favor of
the oppressed. He had met Phil before, and talked with him, and seeing
him in danger came to his assistance.

“What made you push me?” demanded Tim, fiercely.

“What were you going to do to him?” rejoined Paul, indicating the
Italian boy.

“I was only goin’ to borrer his fiddle.”

“He would have broken it,” said Phil.

“You don’t know how to play,” said Paul. “You would have broken his
fiddle, and then he would be beaten.”

“I would pay for it if I did,” said Tim.

“You say so, but you wouldn’t. Even if you did, it would take time, and
the boy would have suffered.”

“What business is that of yours?” demanded Tim, angrily.

“It is always my business when I see a big boy teasing a little one.”

“You’ll get hurt some day,” said Tim, suddenly.

“Not by you,” returned Paul, not particularly alarmed.

Tim would have gladly have punished Paul on the spot for his
interference, but he did not consider it prudent to provoke hostilities.
Paul was as tall as himself, and considerably stronger. He therefore
wisely confined himself to threatening words.

“Come along with me, Phil,” said Paul, kindly, to the little fiddler.

“Thank you for saving me,” said Phil, gratefully. “The padrone would
beat me if the fiddle was broke.”

“Never mind about thanks, Phil. Tim is a bully with small boys, but he
is a coward among large ones. Have you had any supper?”

“No,” said Phil.

“Won’t you come home and take supper with me?”

Phil hesitated.

“You are kind,” he said, “but I fear the padrone.”

“What will he do to you?”

“He will beat me if I don’t bring home enough money.”

“How much more must you get?”

“Sixty cents.”

“You can play better after a good supper. Come along; I won’t keep you
long.”

Phil made no more objection. He was a healthy boy, and his wanderings
had given him a good appetite. So he thanked Paul, and walked along by
his side. One object Paul had in inviting him was, the fear that Tim
Rafferty might take advantage of his absence to renew his assault upon
Phil, and with better success than before.

“How old are you, Phil?” he asked.

“Twelve years.”

“And who taught you to play?”

“No one. I heard the other boys play, and so I learned.”

“Do you like it?”

“Sometimes; but I get tired of it.”

“I don’t wonder. I should think playing day after day might tire you.
What are you going to do when you become a man?”

Phil shrugged his shoulders.

“I don’t know,” he said. “I think I’ll go back to Italy.”

“Have you any relations there?”

“I have a mother and two sisters.”

“And a father?”

“Yes, a father.”

“Why did they let you come away?”

“The padrone gave my father money.”

“Don’t you hear anything from home?”

“No, signore.”

“I am not a signore,” said Paul, smiling. “You may call me Paul. Is that
an Italian name?”

“Me call it Paolo.”

“That sounds queer to me. What’s James in Italian?”

“Giacomo.”

“Then I have a little brother Giacomo.”

“How old is he?”

“Eight years old.”

“My sister Bettina is eight years. I wish I could see her.”

“You will see her again some day, Phil. You will get rich in America,
and go back to sunny Italy.”

“The padrone takes all my money.”

“You’ll get away from the old rascal some day. Keep up good courage,
Phil, and all will come right. But here we are. Follow me upstairs, and
I will introduce you to my mother and Giacomo,” said Paul, laughing at
the Italian name he had given his little brother.

Mrs. Hoffman and Jimmy looked with some surprise at the little fiddler
as he entered with Paul.

“Mother,” said Paul, “this is one of my friends, whom I have invited to
take supper with us.”

“He is welcome,” said Mrs. Hoffman, kindly. “Have you ever spoken to us
of him?”

“I am not sure. His name is Phil--Phil the fiddler, we call him.”

“Filippo,” said the young musician.

“We will call you Phil; it is easier to speak,” said Paul. “This is my
little brother Jimmy. He is a great artist.”

“Now you are laughing at me, Paul,” said the little boy.

“Well, he is going to be a great artist some day, if he isn’t one yet.
Do you think, Jimmy, you could draw Phil, here, with his fiddle?”

“I think I could,” said the little boy, slowly, looking carefully at
their young guest; “but it would take some time.”

“Perhaps Phil will come some day, and give you a sitting.”

“Will you come?” asked Jimmy.

“I will come some day.”

Meanwhile Mrs. Hoffman was preparing supper. Since Paul had become
proprietor of the necktie stand, as described in the last volume, they
were able to live with less regard to economy than before. So, when the
table was spread, it presented quite a tempting appearance. Beefsteak,
rolls, fried potatoes, coffee, and preserves graced the board.

“Supper is ready, Paul,” said his mother, when all was finished.

“Here, Phil, you may sit here at my right hand,” said Paul. “I will put
your violin where it will not be injured.”

Phil sat down as directed, not without feeling a little awkward, yet
with a sense of anticipated pleasure. Accustomed to bread and cheese
alone, the modest repast before him seemed like a royal feast. The meat
especially attracted him, for he had not tasted any for months, indeed
seldom in his life, for in Italy it is seldom eaten by the class to
which Phil’s parents belonged.

“Let me give you some meat, Phil,” said Paul. “Now, shall we drink the
health of the padrone in coffee?”

“I will not drink his health,” said Phil. “He is a bad man.”

“Who is the padrone?” asked Jimmy, curiously.

“He is my master. He sends me out to play for money.”

“And must you give all the money you make to him?”

“Yes; if I do not bring much money, he will beat me.”

“Then he must be a bad man. Why do you live with him?”

“He bought me from my father.”

“He bought you?” repeated Jimmy, puzzled.

“He hires him for so much money,” explained Paul.

“But why did your father let you go with a bad man?” asked Jimmy.

“He wanted the money,” said Phil. “He cared more for money than for me.”

What wonder that the boys sold into such cruel slavery should be
estranged from the fathers who for a few paltry ducats sell the liberty
and happiness of their children. Even where the contract is for a
limited terms of years, the boys in five cases out of ten are not
returned at the appointed time. A part, unable to bear the hardships and
privations of the life upon which they enter, are swept off by death,
while of those that survive, a part are weaned from their homes, or are
not permitted to go back.

“You must not ask too many questions, Jimmy.” said Mrs. Hoffman, fearing
that he might awaken sad thoughts in the little musician.

She was glad to see that Phil ate with a good appetite. In truth he
relished the supper, which was the best he remembered to have tasted for
many a long day.

“Is Italy like America?” asked Jimmy, whose curiosity was excited to
learn something of Phil’s birthplace.

“It is much nicer,” said Phil, with a natural love of country. “There
are olive trees and orange trees, and grapes--very many.”

“Are there really orange trees? Have you seen them grow?”

“I have picked them from the trees many times.”

“I should like that, but I don’t care for olives.”

“They are good, too.”

“I should like the grapes.”

“There are other things in Italy which you would like better, Jimmy,”
 said Paul.

“What do you mean, Paul?”

“The galleries of fine paintings.”

“Yes, I should like to see them. Have you seen them?”

Phil shook his head. The picture galleries are in the cities, and not in
the country district where he was born.

“Sometime, when I am rich, we will all go to Italy, Jimmy; then, if Phil
is at home, we will go and see him.”

“I should like that, Paul.”

Though Jimmy was not yet eight years old, he had already exhibited
a remarkable taste for drawing, and without having received any
instruction, could copy any ordinary picture with great exactness. It
was the little boy’s ambition to become an artist, and in this ambition
he was encouraged by Paul, who intended, as soon as he could afford it,
to engage an instructor for Jimmy.



CHAPTER V

ON THE FERRY BOAT

When supper was over, Phil bethought himself that his day’s work was not
yet over. He had still a considerable sum to obtain before he dared go
home, if such a name can be given to the miserable tenement in Crosby
Street where he herded with his companions. But before going he wished
to show his gratitude to Paul for his protection and the supper which he
had so much and so unexpectedly enjoyed.

“Shall I play for you?” he asked, taking his violin from the top of the
bureau, where Paul had placed it.

“Will you?” asked Jimmy, his eyes lighting up with pleasure.

“We should be very glad to hear you,” said Mrs. Hoffman.

Phil played his best, for he felt that he was playing for friends. After
a short prelude, he struck into an Italian song. Though the words were
unintelligible, the little party enjoyed the song.

“Bravo, Phil!” said Paul. “You sing almost as well as I do.”

Jimmy laughed.

“You sing about as well as you draw,” said the little boy.

“There you go again with your envy and jealousy,” said Paul, in an
injured tone. “Others appreciate me better.”

“Sing something, and we will judge of your merits,” said his mother.

“Not now,” said Paul, shaking his head. “My feelings are too deeply
injured. But if he has time, Phil will favor us with another song.”

So the little fiddler once more touched the strings of his violin, and
sang the hymn of Garibaldi.

“He has a beautiful voice,” said Mrs. Hoffman to Paul.

“Yes, Phil sings much better than most of his class. Shall I bring him
up here again?”

“Any time, Paul. We shall always be glad to see him.”

Here Phil took his cap and prepared to depart.

“Good-by,” he said in English. “I thank you all for your kindness.”

“Will you come again?” said Mrs. Hoffman. “We shall be glad to have
you.”

“Do come,” pleaded Jimmy, who had taken a fancy to the dark-eyed Italian
boy, whose brilliant brown complexion contrasted strongly with his own
pale face and blue eyes.

These words gave Phil a strange pleasure. Since his arrival in America
he had become accustomed to harsh words and blows; but words of kindness
were strangers to his ears. For an hour he forgot the street and his
uninviting home, and felt himself surrounded by a true home atmosphere.
He almost fancied himself in his Calabrian home, with his mother and
sisters about him--in his home as it was before cupidity entered his
father’s heart and impelled him to sell his own flesh and blood into
slavery in a foreign land. Phil could not analyze his own emotions,
but these were the feelings which rose in his heart, and filed it with
transient sadness.

“I thank you much,” he said. “I will come again some day.”

“Come soon, Phil,” said Paul. “You know where my necktie stand is. Come
there any afternoon between four and five, and I will take you home to
supper. Do you know the way out, or shall I go with you?”

“I know the way,” said Phil.

He went downstairs and once more found himself on the sidewalk. It was
but six o’clock, and five or six hours were still before him before he
could feel at liberty to go home. Should he return too early, he would
be punished for losing the possible gains of the hour he had lost, even
if the sum he brought home were otherwise satisfactory. So, whatever may
be his fatigue, or however inclement the weather, the poor Italian boy
is compelled to stay out till near midnight, before he is permitted to
return to the hard pallet on which only he can sleep off his fatigues.

Again in the street, Phil felt that he must make up for lost time. Now
six o’clock is not a very favorable time for street music; citizens who
do business downtown have mostly gone home to dinner. Those who have
not started are in haste, and little disposed to heed the appeal of
the young minstrel. Later the saloons will be well frequented, and not
seldom the young fiddlers may pick up a few, sometimes a considerable
number of pennies, by playing at the doors of these places, or within,
if they should be invited to enter; but at six there is not much to be
done.

After a little reflection, Phil determined to go down to Fulton Ferry
and got on board the Brooklyn steamboat. He might get a chance to play
to the passengers, and some, no doubt, would give him something. At any
rate, the investment would be small, since for one fare, or two cents,
he might ride back and forward several times, as long as he did not step
off the boat. He, therefore, directed his steps toward the ferry, and
arrived just in time to go on board the boat.

The boat was very full. So large a number of the people in Brooklyn are
drawn to New York by business and pleasure, that the boats, particularly
in the morning from seven to nine, and in the afternoon, from five to
seven, go loaded down with foot passengers and carriages.

Phil entered the ladies’ cabin. Though ostensibly confined to ladies’
use, it was largely occupied also by gentlemen who did not enjoy the
smoke which usually affects disagreeably the atmosphere of the cabin
appropriated to their own sex. Our young musician knew that to children
the hearts and purses of ladies are more likely to open than those of
gentlemen, and this guided him.

Entering, he found every seat taken. He waited till the boat had
started, and then, taking his position in the center of the rear
cabin, he began to play and sing, fixing at once the attention of the
passengers upon himself.

“That boy’s a nuisance; he ought not to be allowed to play on the boat,”
 muttered an old gentleman, looking up from the columns of the Evening
Post.

“Now, papa,” said a young lady at his side, “why need you object to the
poor boy? I am sure he sings very nicely. I like to hear him.”

“I don’t.”

“You know, papa, you have no taste for music. Why, you went to sleep at
the opera the other evening.”

“I tried to,” said her father, in whom musical taste had a very limited
development. “It was all nonsense to me.”

“He is singing the Hymn of Garibaldi. What a sweet voice he has! Such a
handsome little fellow, too!”

“He has a dirty face, and his clothes are quite ragged.”

“But he has beautiful eyes; see how brilliant they are. No wonder he is
dirty and ragged; it isn’t his fault, poor boy. I have no doubt he has a
miserable home. I’m going to give him something.”

“Just as you like, Florence; as I am not a romantic young damsel, I
shall not follow your example.”’

By this time the song was finished, and Phil, taking off his cap, went
the rounds. None of the contributions were larger than five cents,
until he came to the young lady of whom we have spoken above. She drew
a twenty-five-cent piece from her portemonnaie, and put it into Phil’s
hand, with a gracious smile, which pleased the young fiddler as much as
the gift, welcome though that undoubtedly was.

“Thank you, lady,” he said.

“You sing very nicely,” she replied.

Phil smiled, and dirty though his face was, the smile lighted it up with
rare beauty.

“Do you often come on these boats?” asked the young lady.

“Sometimes, but they do not always let me play,” said Phil.

“I hope I shall hear you again. You have a good voice.”

“Thank you, signorina.”

“You can speak English. I tried to speak with one of you the other day,
but he could only speak Italian.”

“I know a few words, signorina.”

“I hope I shall see you again,” and the young lady, prompted by a
natural impulse of kindness, held out her hand to the little musician.
He took it respectfully, and bending over, touched it with his lips.

The young lady, to whom this was quite unexpected, smiled and blushed,
by no means offended, but she glanced round her to see whether it was
observed by others.

“Upon my word, Florence,” said her father, as Phil moved away, “you have
got up quite a scene with this little ragged musician. I am rather
glad he is not ten or twelve years older, or there might be a romantic
elopement.”

“Now, papa, you are too bad,” said Florence. “Just because I choose to
be kind to a poor, neglected child, you fancy all sorts of improbable
things.”

“I don’t know where you get all your foolish romance from--not from me,
I am sure.”

“I should think not,” said Florence, laughing merrily. “Your worst enemy
won’t charge you with being romantic, papa.”

“I hope not,” said her father, shrugging his shoulders. “But the boat
has touched the pier. Shall we go on shore, or have you any further
business with your young Italian friend?”

“Not to-day, papa.”

The passengers vacated the boat, and were replaced by a smaller number,
on their way from Brooklyn to New York.



CHAPTER VI

THE BARROOM

Phil did not leave the boat. He lingered in the cabin until the
passengers were seated, and after the boat was again under way began to
play. This time, however, he was not as fortunate as before. While in
the midst of a tune one of the men employed on the boat entered the
cabin. At times he would not have interfered with him, but he happened
to be in ill humor, and this proved unfortunate for Phil.

“Stop your noise, boy,” he said.

Phil looked up.

“May I not play?”

“No; nobody wants to hear you.”

The young fiddler did not dare to disobey. He saw that for the present
his gains were at an end. However, he had enough to satisfy the rapacity
of the padrone, and could afford to stop. He took a seat, and waited
quietly till the boat landed. One of the lady passengers, as she passed
him on her way out of the cabin, placed ten cents in his hand. This
led him to count up his gains. He found they amounted to precisely two
dollars and fifty cents.

“I need not play any more,” he thought. “I shall not be beaten
to-night.”

He found his seat so comfortable, especially after wandering about the
streets all day, that he remained on the boat for two more trips. Then,
taking his violin under his arm, he went out on the pier.

It was half-past seven o’clock. He would like to have gone to his
lodging, but knew that it would not be permitted. In this respect the
Italian fiddler is not as well off as those who ply other street trades.
Newsboys and bootblacks are their own masters, and, whether their
earnings are little or great, reap the benefit of them themselves. They
can stop work at six if they like, or earlier; but the little Italian
musician must remain in the street till near midnight, and then, after
a long and fatiguing day, he is liable to be beaten and sent to bed
without his supper, unless he brings home a satisfactory sum of money.

Phil walked about here and there in the lower part of the city. As he
was passing a barroom he was called in by the barkeeper.

“Give us a tune, boy,” he said.

It was a low barroom, frequented by sailors and a rough set of customers
of similar character. The red face of the barkeeper showed that he drank
very liberally, and the atmosphere was filled with the fumes of bad
cigars and bad liquor. The men were ready for a good time, as they
called it, and it was at the suggestion of one of them that Phil had
been invited in.

“Play a tune on your fiddle, you little ragamuffin,” said one.

Phil cared little how he was addressed. He was at the service of the
public, and what he chiefly cared for was that he be paid for his
services.

“What shall I play?” he asked.

“Anything,” hiccoughed one. “It’s all the same to me. I don’t know one
tune from another.”

The young fiddler played one of the popular airs of the day. He did not
undertake to sing, for the atmosphere was so bad that he could hardly
avoid coughing. He was anxious to get out into the street, but he did
not wish to refuse playing. When he had finished his tune, one of
those present, a sailor, cried, “That’s good. Step up, boys, and have a
drink.”

The invitation was readily accepted by all except Phil. Noticing that
the boy kept his place, the sailor said, “Step up, boy, and wet your
whistle.”

Phil liked the weak wines of his native land, but he did not care for
the poisonous decoctions of be found in such places.

“I am not thirsty,” he said.

“Yes, you are; here, give this boy a glass of brandy.”

“I do not want it,” said Phil.

“You won’t drink with us,” exclaimed the sailor, who had then enough to
be quarrelsome. “Then I’ll make you;” and he brought down his fist so
heavily upon the counter as to make the glasses rattle. “Then I’ll make
you. Here, give me a glass, and I’ll pour it down his throat.”

The fiddler was frightened at his vehemence, and darted to the door. But
the sailor was too quick for him. Overtaking Phil, he dragged him
back with a rough grasp, and held out his hand for the glass. But an
unexpected friend now turned up.

“Oh, let the boy go, Jack,” said a fellow sailor. “If he don’t want to
drink, don’t force him.”

But his persecutor was made ugly by his potations, and swore that Phil
should drink before he left the barroom.

“That he shall not,” said his new friend.

“Who is to prevent it?” demanded Jack, fiercely.

“I will.”

“Then I’ll pour a glass down your throat, too,” returned Jack,
menacingly.

“No need of that. I am ready enough to drink. But the boy shan’t drink,
if he don’t want to.”

“He shall!” retorted the first sailor, with an oath.

Still holding Phil by the shoulder with one hand, with the other he took
a glass which had just been filled with brandy; he was about to pour it
down his throat, when the glass was suddenly dashed from his hand and
broke upon the floor.

With a fresh oath Jack released his hold on Phil, and, maddened with
rage, threw himself upon the other. Instantly there was a general melee.
Phil did not wait to see the result. He ran to the door, and, emerging
into the street, ran away till he had placed a considerable distance
between himself and the disorderly and drunken party in the barroom. The
fight there continued until the police, attracted by the noise, forced
an entrance and carried away the whole party to the station-house, where
they had a chance to sleep off their potations.

Freed from immediate danger, the young fiddler kept on his way. He had
witnessed such scenes before, as he had often been into barrooms to
play in the evening. He had not been paid for his trouble, but he cared
little for that, as the money would have done him no good. He would only
have been compelled to pass it over to the padrone. These boys, even
at a tender age, are necessarily made familiar with the darker side of
metropolitan life. Vice and crime are displayed before their young eyes,
and if they do not themselves become vicious, it is not for the want of
knowledge and example.

It would be tedious to follow Phil in his wanderings. We have already
had a glimpse of the manner in which the days passed with him; only
it is to be said that this was a favorable specimen. He had been more
fortunate in collecting money than usual. Besides, he had had a better
dinner than usual, thanks to the apple, and a supper such as he had not
tasted for months.

About ten o’clock, as he was walking on the Bowery, he met Giacomo, his
companion of the morning.

The little boy was dragging one foot after the other wearily. There was
a sad look on his young face, for he had not been successful, and he
knew too well how he would be received by the padrone. Yet his face
lighted up as he saw Phil. Often before Phil had encouraged him when he
was despondent. He looked upon our young hero as his only friend; for
there was no other of the boys who seemed to care for him or able to
help him.

“Is it you, Filippo?” he said.

“Yes, Giacomo. What luck have you had?”

“Not much. I have only a little more than a dollar. I am so tired; but I
don’t dare go back. The padrone will beat me.”

An idea came to Phil. He did not know how much money he had; but he was
sure it must be considerably more than two dollars, Why should he not
give some to his friend to make up his deficiencies, and so perhaps save
him from punishment?

“I have had better luck,” he said. “I have almost three dollars.”

“You are always luckier than I, Filippo.”

“I am stronger, Giacomo. It does not tire me so much to walk about.”

“You can sing, too. I cannot sing very much, and I do not get so much
money.”

“Tell me just how much money you have, Giacomo.”

“I have a dollar and thirty cents,” said Giacomo, after counting the
contents of his pockets.

Meanwhile Phil had been doing the same thing. The result of his count
was that he found he had two dollars and eighty cents.

“Listen, Giacomo,” he said. “I will give you enough to make two
dollars.”

“But then you will be beaten.”

“No; I shall have two dollars and five cents left. Then neither of us
will get beaten.”

“How kind you are, Filippo!”

“Oh, it is nothing. Besides, I do not want to carry too much, or the
padrone will expect me to bring as much every day, and that I cannot do.
So it will be better for us both.”

The transfer was quickly made, and the two boys kept together until they
heard the clock strike eleven. It was now so late that they determined
to return to their miserable lodging, for both were tired and longed for
sleep.



CHAPTER VII

THE HOME OF THE BOYS

It was a quarter-past eleven when Phil and Giacomo entered the shabby
brick house which they called home, for want of a better. From fifteen
to twenty of their companions had already arrived, and the padrone was
occupied in receiving their several contributions. The apartment was
a mean one, miserably furnished, but seemed befitting the principal
occupant, whose dark face was marked by an expression of greed, and
alternately showed satisfaction or disappointment as the contents of the
boys’ pockets were satisfactory or otherwise. Those who had done badly
were set apart for punishment.

He looked up as the two boys entered.

“Well, Filippo,” he said, harshly, “how much have you got?”

Phil handed over his earnings. They were up to the required limit, but
the padrone looked only half satisfied.

“Is that all you have?” he asked, suspiciously.

“It is all, signore.”

“You have not done well this afternoon, then. When I met you at twelve
o’clock you had more than a dollar.”

“It was because a good signora gave me fifty cents.”

The padrone, still suspicious, plunging his hands into Phil’s pockets,
but in vain. He could not find another penny.

“Take off your shoes and stockings,” he said, still unsatisfied.

Phil obediently removed his shoes and stockings, but no money was found
concealed, as the padrone half suspected. Sometimes these poor boys,
beset by a natural temptation, secrete a portion of their daily
earnings. Whenever they are detected, woe betide them. The padrone makes
an example of them, inflicting a cruel punishment, in order to deter
other boys from imitating them.

Having discovered nothing, he took Phil’s violin, and proceeded to
Giacomo.

“Now for you,” he said.

Giacomo handed over his money. The padrone was surprised in turn, but
his surprise was of a different nature. He had expected to find him
deficient, knowing that he was less enterprising than Phil. He was glad
to get more money than he expected, but a little disappointed that he
had no good excuse for beating him; for he had one of those hard, cruel
natures that delight in inflicting pain and anguish upon others.

“Take care that you do as well to-morrow,” he said. “Go and get your
supper.”

One of the larger boys was distributing bread and cheese to the hungry
boys. Nearly all ate as if famished, plain and uninviting as was the
supper, for they had been many hours without food. But Phil, who, as
we know, had eaten a good supper at Mrs. Hoffman’s, felt very little
appetite. He slyly gave his bread to one of the boys, who, on account of
the small sum he brought home, had been sentenced to go without. But the
sharp eyes of the padrone, which, despite his occupation, managed to see
all that was going on, detected this action, and he became suspicious
that Phil had bought supper out of his earnings.

“Why did you give your bread to Giuseppe?” he demanded.

“Because I was not hungry,” answered Phil.

“Why were you not hungry? Did you buy some supper?”

“No, signore.”

“Then you should be hungry.”

“A kind lady gave me some supper.”

“How did it happen?”

“I knew her son. His name is Paolo. He asked me to go home with him.
Then he gave me a good supper.”

“How long were you there? You might have been playing and brought me
some more money,” said the padrone, who, with characteristic meanness,
grudged the young fiddler time to eat the meal that cost him nothing.

“It was not long, signore.”

“You can eat what is given you, but you must not waste too much time.”

A boy entered next, who showed by his hesitating manner that he did
not anticipate a good reception. The padrone, accustomed to judge by
appearances, instantly divined this.

“Well, Ludovico,” he said, sharply, “what do you bring me?”

“Pardon, padrone,” said Ludovico, producing a small sum of money.

“I could not help it.”

“Seventy-five cents,” repeated the padrone, indignantly. “You have been
idle, you little wretch!”

“No, padrone. Indeed, I did my best. The people would not give me
money.”

“Where did you go?”

“I was in Brooklyn.”

“You have spent some of the money.”

“No, padrone.”

“You have been idle, then. No supper to-night. Pietro, my stick!”

Pietro was one of the older boys. He was ugly physically, and his
disposition corresponded with his appearance. He could have few good
traits, or he would not have possessed the confidence of the padrone.
He was an efficient assistant of the latter, and co-operated with him in
oppressing the other boys. Indeed, he was a nephew of the padrone’s,
and for this reason, as well as his similarity of disposition, he was
treated with unusual indulgence. Whenever the padrone felt suspicious
of any of the boys, he usually sent them out in company with Pietro, who
acted as a spy, faithfully reporting all that happened to his principal.

Pietro responded with alacrity to the command of the padrone, and
produced a stout stick, which he handed to his uncle.

“Now strip off your jacket,” said the padrone, harshly.

“Spare me, padrone! Do not beat me! It was not my fault,” said the
unhappy Ludovico, imploringly.

“Take off your jacket!” repeated the padrone, pitilessly.

One look of that hard face might have taught Ludovico, even if he had
not witnessed the punishment so often inflicted on other boys, that
there was no hope for him.

“Help him, Pietro,” said the padrone.

Pietro seized Ludovico’s jacket, and pulled it off roughly. Then he drew
off the ragged shirt which the boy wore underneath, and his bare back
was exposed to view.

“Hold him, Pietro!”

In Pietro’s firm grasp, the boy was unable to stir. The padrone whirled
the stick aloft, and brought it down upon the naked flesh, leaving
behind a fearful wheal.

Ludovico shrieked aloud, and again implored mercy, but in vain, for the
stick descended again and again.

Meanwhile the other boys looked on, helpless to interfere. The more
selfish were glad that they had escaped, though not at all sure but it
would be their turn next evening. There were others who felt a passive
sympathy for their unlucky comrade. Others were filled with indignation
at the padrone, knowing how cruel and unjust were his exactions. Among
these was Phil. Possessed of a warm and sympathetic heart, he never
witnessed these cruel punishments without feeling that he would like to
see the padrone suffering such pain as he inflicted upon others.

“If I were only a man,” he often thought, “I would wrench the stick from
his hand, and give him a chance to feel it.”

But he knew too well the danger of permitting his real sentiments to be
reflected in his face. It would only bring upon him a share of the same
punishment, without benefiting those who were unfortunate enough to
receive it.

When Ludovico’s punishment was ended, he was permitted to go to bed,
but without his supper. Nor was his the only case. Five other boys were
subjected to the same punishment. The stick had no want of exercise
on that evening. Here were nearly forty boys, subjected to excessive
fatigue, privation, and brutal treatment daily, on account of the greed
of one man. The hours that should been given in part to instruction, and
partly to such recreation as the youthful heart craves, were devoted to
a pursuit that did nothing to prepare them for the duties of life. And
this white slavery--for it merits no better name--is permitted by the
law of two great nations. Italy is in fault in suffering this traffic
in her children of tender years, and America is guilty as well in not
interfering, as she might, at all events, to abridge the long hours of
labor required of these boys, and forcing their cruel guardians to give
them some instruction.

One by one the boys straggled in. By midnight all had returned, and the
boys were permitted to retire to their beds, which were poor enough.
This, however, was the least of their troubles. Sound are the slumbers
of young however hard the couch on which it rests, especially when, as
with all the young Italian boys, the day has been one of fatigue.



CHAPTER VIII

A COLD DAY

The events thus far recorded in the life of our young hero took place
on a day toward the middle of October, when the temperature was
sufficiently mild to produce no particular discomfort in those exposed
to it. We advance our story two months, and behold Phil setting out for
his day’s wandering on a morning in December, when the keen blasts swept
through the streets, sending a shiver through the frames even of those
who were well protected. How much more, then, must it be felt by the
young street musician, who, with the exception of a woolen tippet, wore
nothing more or warmer than in the warmer months! Yet, Phil, with his
natural vigorous frame, was better able to bear the rigor of the winter
weather than some of his comrades, as Giacomo, to whom the long hours
spent in the streets were laden with suffering and misery.

The two boys went about together when they dared to do so, though the
padrone objected, but for what reason it did not seem manifest, unless
because he suspected that two would plan something prejudicial to his
interests. Phil, who was generally more successful than Giacomo, often
made up his smaller comrade’s deficiencies by giving him a portion of
his own gains.

It was a raw day. Only those who felt absolutely obliged to be out were
to be seen in the streets; but among these were our two little fiddlers.
Whatever might be the weather, they were compelled to expose themselves
to its severity. However the boys might suffer, they must bring home
the usual amount. But at eleven o’clock the prospects seemed rather
discouraging. They had but twenty-five cents between them, nor would
anyone stop to listen to their playing.

“I wish it were night, Filippo,” said Giacomo, shivering with cold.

“So do I, Giacomo. Are you very cold?”

“Yes,” said the little boy, his teeth chattering. “I wish I were back in
Italy. It is never so cold there.”

“No, Giacomo; you are right. But I would not mind the cold so much, if
I had a warm overcoat like that boy,” pointing out a boy clad in a thick
overcoat, and a fur cap drawn over his ears, while his hands were snugly
incased in warm gloves.

He, too, looked at the two fiddlers, and he could not help noticing how
cold they looked.

“Look here, you little chaps, are you cold? You look as if you had just
come from Greenland.”

“Yes,” said Phil. “We are cold.”

“Your hands look red enough. Here is an old pair of gloves for one of
you. I wish I had another pair. They are not very thick, but they are
better than none.”

He drew a pair of worsted gloves from his pocket, and handed them to
Phil.

“Thank you,” said Phil; but having received them, he gave them to
Giacomo.

“You are colder than I am, Giacomo,” he said. “Take them.”

“But you are cold, too, Filippo.”

“I will put my hands in my pockets. Don’t mind me.”

Of course this conversation took place in Italian; for, though Phil had
learned considerable English, Giacomo understood but a few words of it.

The gloves afforded some protection, but still both boys were very cold.
They were in Brooklyn, having crossed the ferry in the morning. They had
wandered to a part not closely built up, where they were less sheltered,
and experienced greater discomfort.

“Can’t we go in somewhere and get warm? pleaded Giacomo.

“Here is a grocery store. We will go in there.”

Phil opened the door and entered. The shopkeeper, a peevish-looking man,
with lightish hair, stood behind the counter weighing out a pound of tea
for a customer.

“What do you want here, you little vagabonds?” he exclaimed, harshly, as
he saw the two boys enter.

“We are cold,” said Phil. “May we stand by your stove and get warm?”

“Do you think I provide a fire for all the vagabonds in the city?” said
the grocer, with a brutal disregard of their evident suffering.

Phil hesitated, not knowing whether he was ordered out or not.

“Clear out of my store, I say!” said the grocer, harshly. “I don’t want
you in here. Do you understand?”

At this moment a gentleman of prepossessing appearance entered the
store. He heard the grocer’s last words, and their inhumanity made him
indignant.

“What do these boys want, Mr. Perkins?” he said.

“They want to spend their time in my shop. I have no room for such
vagabonds.”

“We are cold,” said Phil. “We only want to warm ourselves by the fire.”

“I don’t want you here,” said the grocer, irritably.

“Mr. Perkins,” said the gentleman, sharply, “have you no humanity? What
harm can it do you to let these poor boys get warm by your fire? It will
