
"Then we won't work here any more to-day!" said Sam, brightening up.

"Yes, we will; but it's no way to leave the hoe in the fields. Some
cat might come along and steal it," he added, with unwonted sarcasm.

Sam laughed as he thought of the idea of a cat stealing a hoe, and the
deacon smiled at his own joke.

Dinner was on the table. It was the fashion there to put all on at
once, and Sam, to his great satisfaction, saw on one side a pie like
that which had tempted him the night before. The deacon saw his look,
and it suggested a fitting punishment. But the time was not yet.

Sam did ample justice to the first course of meat and potatoes. When
that was despatched, Mrs. Hopkins began to cut the pie.

The deacon cleared his throat.

"Samuel is to have no pie, Martha," he said.

His wife thought it was for his misdeeds of the night before, and so
did Sam.

"I couldn't help walkin' in my sleep," he said, with a blank look of
disappointment.

"It aint that," said the deacon.

"What is it, then?" asked his wife.

"Samuel ran away from his work this mornin', and was gone nigh on to
two hours," said her husband.

"You are quite right, Deacon Hopkins," said his wife, emphatically.
"He don't deserve any dinner at all."

"Can't I have some pie?" asked Sam, who could not bear to lose so
tempting a portion of the repast.

"No, Samuel. What I say I mean. He that will not work shall not eat."

"I worked hard enough afterwards," muttered Sam.

"After I came back--yes, I know that. You worked well part of the
time, so I gave you part of your dinner. Next time let the cats
alone."

"Can I have some more meat, then?" asked Sam.

"Ye-es," said the deacon, hesitating. "You need strength to work this
afternoon."

"I s'pose I get that catechism this afternoon instead of goin to work,"
suggested Sam.

"That will do after supper, Samuel. All things in their place. The
afternoon is for work; the evening for readin' and study, and
improvin' the mind."

Sam reflected that the deacon was a very obstinate man, and decided
that his arrangements were very foolish. What was the use of living if
you'd got to work all the time? A good many people, older than Sam,
are of the same opinion, and it is not wholly without reason; but
then, it should be borne in mind that Sam was opposed to all work. He
believed in enjoying himself, and the work might take care of itself.
But how could it be avoided?

As Sam was reflecting, a way opened itself. He placed his hand on his
stomach, and began to roll his eyes, groaning meanwhile.

"What's the matter?" asked Mrs. Hopkins.

"I feel sick," said Sam, screwing up his face into strange
contortions.

"It's very sudden," said Mrs. Hopkins, suspiciously.

"So 'tis," said Sam. "I'm afraid I'm going to be very sick. Can I lay
down?"

"What do you think it is, Martha?" asked the deacon, looking
disturbed.

"I know what it is," said his wife, calmly. "I've treated such attacks
before. Yes, you may lay down in your room, and I'll bring you some
tea, as soon as I can make it."

"All right," said Sam, elated at the success of his little trick. It
was very much pleasanter to lie down than to hoe potatoes on a hot
day.

"How easy I took in the old woman!" he thought.

It was not long before he changed his mind, as we shall see in The
next chapter.




CHAPTER VII.

SAM MEETS HIS MATCH.

Sam went upstairs with alacrity, and lay down on the bed,--not that he
was particularly tired, but because he found it more agreeable to lie
down than to work in the field.

"I wish I had something to read," he thought,--"some nice dime novel
like 'The Demon of the Danube.' That was splendid. I like it a good
deal better than Dickens. It's more excitin'."

But there was no library in Sam's room, and it was very doubtful
whether there were any dime novels in the house. The deacon belonged
to the old school of moralists, and looked with suspicion upon all
works of fiction, with a very few exceptions, such as Pilgrim's
Progress, and Robinson Crusoe, which, however, he supposed to be true
stories.

Soon Sam heard the step of Mrs. Hopkins on the stairs. He immediately
began to twist his features in such a way as to express pain.

Mrs. Hopkins entered the room with a cup of hot liquid in her hand.

"How do you feel?" she asked.

"I feel bad," said Sam.

"Are you in pain?"

"Yes, I've got a good deal of pain."

"Whereabouts?"

Sam placed his hand on his stomach, and looked sad.

"Yes, I know exactly what is the matter with you," said the deacon's
wife.

"Then you know a good deal," thought Sam, "for I don't know of
anything at all myself."

This was what he thought, but he said, "Do you?"

"Oh, yes; I've had a good deal of experience. I know what is good for
you."

Sam looked curiously at the cup.

"What is it?" he asked.

"It's hot tea; it's very healin'."

Sam supposed it to be ordinary tea, and he had no objection to take
it. But when he put it to his lips there was something about the odor
that did not please him.

"It doesn't smell good," he said, looking up in the face of Mrs.
Hopkins.

"Medicine generally doesn't," she said, quietly.

"I thought it was tea," said Sam.

"So it is; it is wormwood-tea."

"I don't think I shall like it," hesitated Sam.

"No matter if you don't, it will do you good," said Mrs. Hopkins.

Sam tasted it, and his face assumed an expression of disgust.

"I can't drink it," he said.

"You must," said Mrs. Hopkins, firmly.

"I guess I'll get well without," said our hero, feeling that he was in
a scrape.

"No, you won't. You're quite unwell. I can see it by your face."

"Can you?" said Sam, beginning to be alarmed about his health.

"You must take this tea," said the lady, firmly.

"I'd rather not."

"That's neither here nor there. The deacon needs you well, so you can
go to work, and this will cure you as quick as anything."

"Suppose it doesn't?" said Sam.

"Then I shall bring you up some castor-oil in two hours."

Castor-oil! This was even worse than wormwood-tea, and Sam's heart
sank within him.

"The old woman's too much for me," he thought, with a sigh.

"Come, take the tea," said Mrs. Hopkins. "I can't wait here all day."

Thus adjured, Sam made a virtue of necessity, and, shutting his eyes,
gulped down the wormwood. He shuddered slightly when it was all done,
and his face was a study.

"Well done!" said Mrs. Hopkins. "It's sure to do you good."

"I think I'd have got well without," said Sam. "I'm afraid it won't
agree with me."

"If it don't," said Mrs. Hopkins, cheerfully, "I'll try some
castor-oil."

"I guess I won't need it," said Sam, hastily.

"It was awful," said Sam to himself, as his nurse left him alone. "I'd
rather hoe potatoes than take it again. I never see such a terrible
old woman. She would make me do it, when I wasn't no more sick than
she is."

Mrs. Hopkins smiled to herself as she went downstairs.

"Served him right," she said to herself. "I'll l'arn him to be sick.
Guess he won't try it again very soon."

Two hours later Mrs. Hopkins presented herself at Sam's door. He had
been looking out of the window; but he bundled into bed as soon as he
heard her. Appearances must be kept up.

"How do you feel now, Sam?" asked Mrs. Hopkins.

"A good deal better," said Sam, surveying in alarm a cup of some awful
decoction in her hand.

"Do you feel ready to go to work again?"

"Almost," said Sam, hesitating.

"The wormwood-tea did you good, it seems; but you're not quite well
yet."

"I'll soon be well," said Sam, hastily.

"I mean you shall be," said his visitor. "I've brought you some more
medicine."

"Is it tea?"

"No, castor-oil."

"I don't need it," said Sam, getting up quickly. "I'm well."

"If you are not well enough to go to work, you must take some oil."

"Yes, I am," said Sam. "I'll go right out into the field."

"I don't want you to go unless you are quite recovered. I'm sure the
oil will bring you 'round."

"I'm all right, now," said Sam, hastily.

"Very well; if you think so, you can go to work."

Rather ruefully Sam made his way to the potato-field, with his hoe on
his shoulder.

"Tea and castor-oil are worse than work," he thought. "The old woman's
got the best of me, after all. I wonder whether she knew I was makin'
believe."

On this point Sam could not make up his mind. She certainly seemed in
earnest, and never expressed a doubt about his being really sick. But
all the same, she made sickness very disagreeable to him, and he felt
that in future he should not pretend sickness when she was at home. It
made him almost sick to think of the bitter tea he had already drunk,
and the oil would have been even worse.

The deacon looked up as he caught sight of Sam.

"Have you got well?" he asked innocently, for he had not been as
clear-sighted as his wife in regard to the character of Sam's malady.

"Yes," said Sam, "I'm a good deal better, but I don't feel quite so
strong as I did."

"Mebbe it would be well for you to fast a little," said the deacon, in
all sincerity, for fasting was one of his specifics in case of
sickness.

"No, I don't think it would," said Sam, quickly. "I'll feel better by
supper-time."

"I hope you will," said the deacon.

"I wish I had a piece of pie or somethin' to take the awful taste out
of my mouth," thought Sam. "I can taste that wormwood jist as plain! I
wonder why such things are allowed to grow."

For the rest of the afternoon Sam worked unusually well. He was under
the the deacon's eye, and unable to get away, though he tried at least
once. After they had been at work for about an hour, Sam said
suddenly, "Don't you feel thirsty, Deacon Hopkins?"

"What makes you ask?" said the deacon;

"Because I'd jist as lieves go to the house and get some water," said
Sam, with a very obliging air.

"You're very considerate, Samuel; but I don't think it's healthy to
drink between meals."

"Supposin' you're thirsty," suggested Sam, disappointed.

"It's only fancy. You don't need drink railly. You only think you do,"
said the deacon, and he made some further remarks on the subject to
which Sam listened discontentedly. He began to think his situation a
very hard one.

"It's work--work all the time," he said to himself. "What's the good
of workin' yourself to death? When I'm a man I'll work only when I
want to."

Sam did not consider that there might be some difficulty in earning a
living unless he were willing to work for it. The present discomfort
was all he thought of.

At last, much to Sam's joy, the deacon gave the signal to return to
the house.

"If you hadn't been sick, we'd have got through more," he said; "but
to-morrow we must make up for lost time."

"I hope it'll rain to-morrow," thought Sam. "We can't work in the
rain."

At supper the wormwood seemed to give him additional appetite.

"I'm afraid you'll make yourself sick again, Samuel," said the
deacon.

"There aint no danger," said Sam, looking alarmed at the suggestion.
"I feel all right now."

"The wormwood did you good," said Mrs. Hopkins, drily.

"I wonder if she means anything," thought Sam




CHAPTER VIII.

SAM'S TEMPTATION.

A month passed, a month which it is safe to say was neither
satisfactory to Sam nor his employer. The deacon discovered that the
boy needed constant watching. When he was left to himself, he was sure
to shirk his work, and indulge his natural love of living at ease. His
appetite showed no signs of decrease, and the deacon was led to remark
that "Samuel had the stiddyest appetite of any boy he ever knew. He
never seemed to know when he had eaten enough."

As for Mrs. Hopkins, Sam failed to produce a favorable impression upon
her. He was by no means her ideal of a boy, though it must be added
that this ideal was so high that few living boys could expect to
attain it. He must have an old head on young shoulders, and in fact be
an angel in all respects except the wings. On these Mrs. Hopkins
probably would not insist. Being only a boy, and considerably lazier
and more mischievous than the average, there was not much prospect of
Sam's satisfying her requirements.

"You'd better send him to the poorhouse, deacon." she said more than
once. "He's the most shif'less boy I ever see, and it's awful the
amount he eats."

"I guess I'll try him a leetle longer," said the deacon. "He aint had
no sort of bringin' up, you know."

So at the end of four weeks Sam still continued a member of the
deacon's household.

As for Sam, things were not wholly satisfactory to him. In spite of
all his adroit evasions of duty, he found himself obliged to work more
than he found agreeable. He didn't see the fun of trudging after the
deacon up and down the fields in the warm summer days. Even his meals
did not yield unmingled satisfaction, as he had learned from
experience that Mrs. Hopkins did not approve of giving him a second
slice of pie, and in other cases interfered to check the complete
gratification of his appetite, alleging that it wasn't good for boys
to eat too much.

Sam took a different view of the matter, and felt that if he was
willing to take the consequences, he ought to be allowed to eat as
much as he pleased. He was not troubled with the catechism any more.
The deacon found him so stolid and unteachable that he was forced to
give up in despair, and Sam became master of his own time in the
evening. He usually strayed into the village, where he found company
at the village store. Here it was that he met a youth who was destined
to exercise an important influence upon his career. This was Ben
Barker, who had for a few months filled a position in a small retail
store in New York city. Coming home, he found himself a great man.
Country boys have generally a great curiosity about life in the great
cities, and are eager to interview any one who can give them authentic
details concerning it. For this reason Ben found himself much sought
after by the village boys, and gave dazzling descriptions of life in
the metropolis, about which he professed to be fully informed. Among
his interested listeners was Sam, whose travels had been limited by a
very narrow circle, but who, like the majority of boys, was possessed
by a strong desire to see the world.

"I suppose there as many as a thousand houses in New York," he said to
Ben.

"A thousand!" repeated Ben, in derision. "There's a million!"

"Honest?"

"Yes, they reach for miles and miles. There's about twenty thousand
streets."

"It must be awfully big. I'd like to go there."

"Oh, you!" said Ben, contemptuously. "It wouldn't do for you to go
there."

"Why not?"

"You couldn't get along nohow."

"I'd like to know why not?" said Sam, rather nettled at this
depreciation.

"Oh, you're a country greenhorn. You'd get taken in right and left."

"I don't believe I would," said Sam. "I aint as green as you think."

"You'd better stay with the deacon, and hoe potatoes," said Ben,
disparagingly. "It takes a smart fellow to succeed in New York."

"Is that the reason you had to come home?" retorted Sam.

"I'm going back pretty soon," said Ben. "I shan't stay long in such a
one-horse place as this."

"Is it far to New York?" asked Sam, thoughtfully.

"Over a hundred miles."

"Does it cost much to go there?"

"Three dollars by the cars."

"That isn't so very much."

"No, but you've got to pay your expenses when you get there."

"I could work."

"What could you do? You might, perhaps, black boots in the City Hall
Park."

"What pay do boys get for doing that?" asked Sam, seriously.

"Sometimes five cents, sometimes ten."

"I'd like it better than farmin'!"

"It might do for you," said Ben, turning up his nose.

"What were you doing when you were in New York, Ben?"

"I was chief salesman in a dry goods store," said Ben, with an air of
importance.

"Was it a good place?"

"Of course it was, or I wouldn't have stayed there."

"What made you leave it?"

"I had so much care and responsibility that the doctor told me I must
have rest. When the boss was away, I run the store all alone."

There was no one to contradict Ben's confident assertions, and though
some doubt was entertained by his listener none was expressed.
Considering Ben's large claims, it was surprising that his services
were not sought by leading New York firms, but, then, merit is not
always appreciated at once. That was Ben's way of accounting for it.

Sam was never tired of asking Ben fresh questions about New York. His
imagination had been inflamed by the glowing descriptions of the
latter, and he was anxious to pass through a similar experience. In
fact, he was slowly making up his mind to leave the deacon, and set
out for the brilliant Paradise which so dazzled his youthful fancy.
There was one drawback, however, and that a serious one,--the lack of
funds. Though the deacon supplied him with board, and would doubtless
keep him in wearing apparel, there was no hint or intimation of any
further compensation for his services, and Sam's whole available money
capital at this moment amounted to only three cents. Now three cents
would purchase three sticks of candy, and Sam intended to appropriate
them in this way, but they formed a slender fund for travelling
expenses; and the worst of it was that Sam knew of no possible way of
increasing them. If his journey depended upon that, it would be
indefinitely postponed.

But circumstances favored his bold design, as we shall see.

One evening as Sam was returning from the store, a man from a
neighboring town, who was driving by, reined up his horse, and said,
"You live with Deacon Hopkins, don't you?"

"Yes, sir."

"Are you going home now?"

"Yes, sir."

"Then I'll hand you a note for him. Will you think to give it to
him?"

"Yes, sir."

"I would stop myself, but I haven't time this evening."

"All right. I'll give it to him."

"Take good care of it, for there's money in it," said the man, as he
passed it to the boy.

Money in it! This attracted Sam's attention, and excited his
curiosity.

"I wonder how much there is in it," he thought to himself. "I wish it
was mine. I could go to New York to-morrow if I only had it."

With this thought prominent in his mind, Sam entered the house. Mrs.
Hopkins was at the table knitting, but the deacon was not to be seen.

"Where is the deacon?" asked Sam.

"He's gone to bed," said Mrs. Hopkins. "Did you want to see him?"

"No," said Sam, slowly.

"It's time you were abed too, Sam," said the lady. "You're out too
late, as I was tellin' the deacon to-night. Boys like you ought to be
abed at eight o'clock instead of settin' up half the night."

"I guess I'll go to bed now," said Sam, taking a lamp from the table.

"You'd better, and mind you get up early in the mornin'."

Sam did not answer, for he was busy thinking.

He went upstairs, fastened his door inside, and taking out the letter
surveyed the outside critically. The envelope was not very securely
fastened and came open. Sam could not resist the temptation presented,
and drew out the inclosure. His face flushed with excitement, as he
spread out two five-dollar bills on the table before him.

"Ten dollars!" ejaculated Sam. "What a lot of money! If it was only
mine, I'd have enough to go to New York."




CHAPTER IX.

SAM TAKES FRENCH LEAVE.

If Sam had been brought up to entertain strict ideas on the subject of
taking the property of others, and appropriating it to his own use,
the temporary possession of the deacon's money would not have exposed
him to temptation. But his conscience had never been awakened to the
iniquity of theft. So when it occurred to him that he had in his
possession money enough to gratify his secret desire, and carry him to
New York, there to enter upon a brilliant career, it did not occur to
him that it would be morally wrong to do so. He did realize the danger
of detection, however, and balanced in his mind whether the risk was
worth incurring. He decided that it was.

"The deacon don't know I've got the money," he reflected. "He won't
find out for a good while; when he does I shall be in New York, where
he won't think of going to find me."

This was the way Sam reasoned, and from his point of view the scheme
looked very plausible. Sam had a shrewd idea that his services were
not sufficiently valuable to the deacon to induce him to make any
extraordinary efforts for his capture. So, on the whole, he made up
his mind to run away.

"Shall I go now, or wait till mornin'?" thought Sam.

He looked out of his window. There was no moon, and the night was
therefore dark. It would not be very agreeable to roam about in the
darkness. Besides, he was liable to lose his way. Again, he felt
sleepy, and the bed looked very inviting.

"I'll wait till mornin'," thought Sam. "I'll start about four, and go
over to Wendell, and take the train for New York. I'll be awful hungry
when I get there. I wish I could wait till after breakfast; but it
won't do."

Sam was not usually awake at four. Indeed he generally depended on
being waked up by the deacon knocking on his door. But when boys or
men have some pleasure in view it is apt to act upon the mind even
when wrapped in slumber, and produce wakefulness. So Sam woke up about
quarter of four. His plan flashed upon him, and he jumped out of bed.
He dressed quickly, and, taking his shoes in his hand so that he might
make no noise, he crept downstairs, and unlocked the front door, and
then, after shutting it behind him, sat down on the front door-stone
and put on his shoes.

"I guess they didn't hear me," he said to himself. "Now I'll be
going."

The sun had not risen, but it was light with the gray light which
precedes dawn. There was every promise of a fine day, and this helped
to raise Sam's spirits.

"What'll the deacon say when he comes to wake me up?" thought our
hero, though I am almost ashamed to give Sam such a name, for I am
afraid he is acting in a manner very unlike the well-behaved heroes of
most juvenile stories, my own among the number. However, since I have
chosen to write about a "young outlaw," I must describe him as he is,
and warn my boy readers that I by no means recommend them to pattern
after him.

Before accompanying Sam on his travels, let us see how the deacon was
affected by his flight.

At five o'clock he went up to Sam's door and knocked.

There was no answer.

The deacon knocked louder.

Still there was no answer.

"How sound the boy sleeps!" muttered the old man, and he applied his
knuckles vigorously to the door. Still without effect. Thereupon he
tried the door, and found that it was unlocked. He opened it, and
walked to the bed, not doubting that he would see Sam fast asleep. But
a surprise awaited him. The bed was empty, though it had evidently
been occupied during the night.

"Bless my soul! the boy's up," ejaculated the deacon.

A wild idea came to him that Sam had voluntarily got up at this early
hour, and gone to work, but he dismissed it at once as absurd. He knew
Sam far too well for that.

Why, then, had he got up? Perhaps he was unwell, and could not sleep.
Not dreaming of his running away, this seemed to the deacon the most
plausible way of accounting for Sam's disappearance, but he decided to
go down and communicate the news to his wife.

"Why were you gone so long, deacon?" asked Mrs. Hopkins. "Couldn't you
wake him up?"

"He wasn't there."

"Wasn't where?"

"In bed."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean that Sam's got up already. I couldn't find him."

"Couldn't find him?"

"No, Martha."

"Had the bed been slept in?"

"Of course. I s'pose he was sick, and couldn't sleep, so he went
downstairs."

"Perhaps he's gone down to the pantry," said Mrs. Hopkins,
suspiciously. "I'll go down and see."

She went downstairs, followed by the deacon. She instituted an
examination, but found Sam guiltless of a fresh attempt upon the
provision department. She went to the front door, and found it
unlocked.

"He's gone out," she said.

"So he has, but I guess he'll be back to breakfast," said the deacon.

"I don't," said the lady.

"Why not?"

"Because I think he's run away."

"Run away!" exclaimed the deacon. "Why, I never had a boy run away
from me."

"Well, you have now."

"Where would he go? He aint no home. He wouldn't go to the
poorhouse."

"Of course not. I never heard of anybody that had a comfortable home
running away to the poorhouse."

"But why should he run away?" argued the deacon.

"Boys often run away," said his wife, sententiously.

"He had no cause."

"Yes, he had. You made him work, and he's lazy, and don't like work.
I'm not surprised at all."

"I s'pose I'd better go after him," said the deacon.

"Don't you stir a step to go, deacon. He aint worth going after. I'm
glad we've got rid of him."

"Well, he didn't do much work," admitted the deacon.

"While he ate enough for two boys. Good riddance to bad rubbish, I
say."

"I don't know how he's goin' to get along. He didn't have no money."

"I don't care how he gets along, as long as he don't come back.
There's plenty of better boys you can get."

Sam would not have felt flattered, if he had heard this final verdict
upon his merits. It must be confessed, however, that it was well
deserved.

A few days afterwards, the deacon obtained the services of another
boy, whom he found more satisfactory than the runaway, and Sam was no
longer missed. It was not till the tenth day that he learned of the
theft. While riding on that day, he met Mr. Comstock, who had confided
to Sam the money-letter.

"Good-morning, Deacon Hopkins," said he, stopping his horse.

"Good-morning," said the deacon.

"I suppose your boy handed you a letter from me."

"I haven't received any letter," said the deacon, surprised.

"It was early last week that I met a boy who said he lived with you.
As I was in a hurry, I gave him a letter containing ten dollars, which
I asked him to give to you."

"What day was it?" asked the deacon, eagerly.

"Monday. Do you mean to say he didn't give it to you?"

"No; he ran away the next morning, and I haven't seen him since."

"Then he ran away with the money--the young thief! I told him there
was money in it."

"Bless my soul! I didn't think Sam was so bad," ejaculated the
deacon.

"Didn't you go after him?"

"No; he wasn't very good to work, and I thought I'd let him run. Ef
I'd knowed about the money, I'd have gone after him."

"It isn't too late, now."

"I'll ask my wife what I'd better do."

The deacon conferred with his wife, who was greatly incensed against
Sam, and would have advised pursuit, but they had no clue to his
present whereabouts.

"He'll come back some time, deacon," said she. "When he does, have him
took up."

But years passed, and Sam did not come back, nor did the deacon set
eyes on him for four years, and then under the circumstances recorded
in the first chapter.




CHAPTER X.

SAM'S ADVENTURES AT THE DEPOT.

It was six miles to the station at Wendell, where Sam proposed to take
the cars for New York. He had to travel on an empty stomach, and
naturally got ravenously hungry before he reached his destination.
About half a mile this side of the depot he passed a grocery-store,
and it occurred to him that he might get something to eat there.

Entering he saw a young man in his shirt-sleeves engaged in sweeping.

"Have you got anything good to eat?" asked Sam.

"This aint a hotel," said the young man, taking Sam for a penniless
adventurer.

"I knew that before," said Sam, "but haven't you got some crackers or
something, to stay a feller's stomach?"

"Haven't you had any breakfast?" asked the clerk, curiously.

"No."

"Don't they give you breakfast where you live?"

"Not so early in the morning. You see I had to take an early start,
'cause I'm goin' to attend my grandmother's funeral."

This of course was a story trumped up for the occasion.

"We've got some raw potatoes," said the clerk, grinning.

"I've had enough to do with potatoes," said Sam. "Haven't you got some
crackers?"

"Come to think of it, we have. How many will you have?"

"About a dozen."

While they were being put up in a paper bag, the clerk inquired, "How
far off does your grandmother live?"

"About twenty miles from here, on the railroad," answered Sam, who
didn't care to mention that he was bound for New York.

"Warwick, I suppose."

"Yes," said Sam, at a venture. "How soon does the train start?"

"In about half an hour. Hold on, though; that's the New York train,
and don't stop at Warwick."

"I guess I'll be goin," said Sam, hurriedly. "Where's the depot?"

"Half a mile straight ahead, but you needn't hurry. The train for
Warwick don't go till ten."

"Never mind. I want to see the New York train start;" and Sam hurried
off eating crackers as he walked.

"I'm glad the train starts so quick," thought Sam. "I don't want to
wait round here long. I might meet somebody that knows me."

He had no difficulty in finding the depot. It was a plain building,
about twenty by thirty feet, with a piazza on the side towards the
track. He entered, and going up to the ticket-office asked for a
ticket to New York.

"For yourself?" asked the station-master.

"Yes," said Sam.

"How old are you?"

"Twelve."

"Then you'll have to pay for a whole ticket. Three dollars."

"All right," said Sam, promptly, and he drew out a five-dollar bill,
receiving in return two dollars and a ticket.

"Do you live in New York, sonny?" asked the station-master.

"No, I'm only goin to see my aunt," answered Sam, with another
impromptu falsehood.

"I know something about New York. In what street does your aunt
live?"

Sam was posed, for he did not know the name of even one street in the
city he was going to.

"I don't exactly remember," he was forced to admit.

"Then how do you expect to find her if you don't know where she
lives?"

"Oh, she'll meet me at the depot," said Sam, readily.

"Suppose she don't?"

"I'll find her somehow. But she's sure to meet me."

"Going to stay long in the city?"

"I hope so. Perhaps my aunt'll adopt me. How soon will the train be
along?"

"In about fifteen minutes."

Here an old lady came up, and asked for a ticket to New York.

"Three dollars, ma'am."

"Three dollars! Can't you take less?" asked the old lady, fumbling in
her pocket for her purse.

"No ma'am, the price is fixed."

"It's a sight of money. Seems throwed away, too, jest for travellin'.
You haint got anything to show for it. I never was to York in my
life."

"Please hurry, ma'am, there are others waiting."

"Massy sakes, don't be so hasty! There's the money."

"And there's your ticket."

"I wish I know'd somebody goin to New York. I'm afeared to travel
alone."

"There's a boy going," said the station-master, pointing to Sam.

"Are you goin to York?" asked the old lady, peering over her
spectacles at Sam.

"Yes, ma'am."

"Was you ever there afore?"

"No, ma'am."

"Aint your folks afeared to have you go alone?"

"Oh, no, they don't mind."

"I wish you was older, so's you could look after me."

Sam was rather flattered by the idea of having a lady under his
charge, and said, "I'll take care of you, if you want me to."

"Will you? That's a good boy. What's your name?"

"Sam Barker," answered our hero, with some hesitation, not feeling
sure whether it was politic to mention his real name.

"Do you live in New York?"

"No, ma'am; but I'm goin to."

"When will the cars git along?"

"In about ten minutes."

"You'll help me get in, won't you? I've got two bandboxes, and I don't
know how to manage."

"Yes, ma'am, I'll help you. I'm goin out on the platform, but I'll
come in when the cars come along."

Sam went out on the platform, and watched eagerly for the approach of
the cars. Up they came, thundering along the track, and Sam rushed
into the depot in excitement.

"Come along, ma'am," he said. "The cars are here."

The old lady was in a flutter of excitement also. She seized one
bandbox, and Sam the other, and they hurried out on the platform. They
were just climbing up the steps, when the conductor asked, "Where are
you going?"

"To York, of course."

"Then this isn't the train. It is going in the opposite direction."

"Lawful suz!" ejaculated the old lady in dismay. "What made you tell
me wrong, you bad boy?" and she glared at him reproachfully over her
glasses.

"How should I know?" said Sam, rather abashed. "I didn't know about no
other train."

"You come near makin' me go wrong."

"I can't help it. It would be just as bad for me."

"When does the train go to York, somebody?" asked the old lady,
looking about her in a general way.

"Next train; comes round in about five minutes."

Sam helped the old lady back into the depot, rather ashamed of the
mistake he had made. He saw that she had lost some of her confidence
in him, and it mortified him somewhat.

It was nearly ten minutes afterwards,--for the train was late, before
the right cars came up.

Sam dashed into the depot again, and seized a bandbox.
