"All right, Christy; and if the order don't come as soon as you expect
it, we can bank the fires, and no harm will be done," replied the oiler,
for such was his position on board, though he was evidently expecting
something better.

By this time Captain Carboneer had finished taking the measure of the
gun-carriage, though he had not been able to see anything. But he had
been through all the forms, and that answered his purpose just as well.
He declared that he had no further business on board, and the trio went
to the accommodation ladder. Sampson had called his sleeping companion,
and already the black smoke began to pour out of the smokestack.

"That was all very handsomely done," said Major Pierson, as they stepped
on board of the Florence.

"Everything worked very well; but it was all owing to the fact that the
ship-keeper thought that Corny was some other person," replied the
captain.

"I know that he took him for Christy Passford, and I have had some
experience with Christy," replied the major, recalling his attempts to
prevent the Bellevite from escaping from Mobile Bay. "He is a smart
fellow, as the Yankees would say, and it is fortunate that he is not
here at the present time."

"He can't be very far off," suggested Corny. "He was expected back to
supper, and I wanted to see him, for he is my cousin. He must be about
here somewhere."

"Never mind whether he is or not; we have finished our business here,
and the harvest is ripe for the sickle. We will leave this boat just
where we found it, for I have a rowboat a little farther down the
river," continued Captain Carboneer.

"I suppose I ought to return to my uncle's house," suggested Corny.
"If they miss me they will be looking about here to ascertain what has
become of me."

"I think you had better not try to relieve their anxiety to-night.
If they are worried about you, they will get over it in the morning
when they find the steamer is missing," said Captain Carboneer, with
something like a chuckle in his tones when he pictured the surprise of
the "Yankees" in making the discovery that the Bellevite had taken to
herself wings, and sped on her way to the South.

"I don't think they will worry about me," added Corny, laughing. "I was
afraid they might think I was here to capture the city of New York, or
something of that sort."

"I think you had better not undeceive them to-night," replied the
captain, as he ran the yacht upon the beach near where he had found her.

"Everything looks exceedingly well for our enterprise."

"If you get that steamer into Mobile Bay"--

"I don't intend to get her into the bay; that would be folly, and I
shall run no risks among the blockaders, for a single shot might give
her back to her present owners."

"No matter; if you only get her, and she is under the flag of the
Confederacy, it will put me back where I was when she went into the
bay by a Yankee trick," added Major Pierson.

"After the war, if you wish to see the young lady, you will have more
time to attend to the affair, and I shall wish you every success then,"
said the captain lightly.

"How long do you think the war will last, Captain Carboneer?" asked the
major, in this connection.

"Possibly it may last a year, though if we can break up that blockade,
it will not last six months longer."

The trio landed on the beach, and the naval officer made sure that the
Florence was securely fixed in the gravel. The party walked down stream,
embarked in the boat of which the captain had spoken. It was pulled by
two men, and after they had gone about a mile, the captain began to blow
a boatswain's whistle which he took from his pocket.

But they had hardly jumped down on the beach before Christy Passford
opened the cabin door of the yacht, and crept out with the utmost care.




CHAPTER V

CAPTAIN CARBONEER AND HIS PARTY


As Captain Carboneer blew his whistle, a mile below the moorings of the
Bellevite, an occasional response came from the shore. Everything was
remarkably quiet on the river, though at long intervals a steamer passed
on its way up or down the stream. The signals made by the naval officer
were not loud, and the replies, made without the aid of any instrument,
were quite feeble. One might have taken them for some frolic on the part
of the boys.

"I don't quite understand this business," said Major Pierson, after he
had listened a while to the signals. "I suppose from the answers you
get, that your men are all along the river, and the woods seem to be
full of them."

"I have no doubt they are all here," replied Captain Carboneer. "I have
been in this vicinity all day, and I have made good use of my time.
I believe the Bellevite belongs to the Confederacy, and it shall be
no fault of mine if the goods are not delivered in good order and
condition."

"My father was confident that he should obtain her at Nassau, though he
was mistaken," added the major.

"But when she went within our lines, we were all satisfied that she was
ours. I have not yet been able to understand why she was permitted to
escape."

"If you mean by that to cast any blame upon those who did their best
to prevent her escape, Captain Carboneer, you wrong them grossly,"
said Major Pierson. "She came on a friendly visit to the plantation of
Colonel Passford; but this gentleman, though the owner of the steamer
was his own brother, promptly gave information of her presence in the
creek, and did all he could to have her captured. No man could have
sacrificed more to his patriotism than he did."

"I do not reflect on him or on any one; I only wonder how the Bellevite
contrived to escape when several steamers were sent out to capture her,"
added the captain.

"The son of the owner of the Bellevite was a prisoner of mine, for when
I had my brother arrested for desertion, this young man was with him.
The only mistake I made was in not putting him in irons. The captain of
my tug proved to be a traitor to the Confederacy, and this fellow, with
Christy Passford, did the most of the mischief in preventing the capture
of the steamer."

"I was told that he was a smart boy," added the naval officer.

"He is all of that; and I think it was very fortunate that he did not
happen to be at home when we visited the Bellevite just now," said Major
Pierson, who evidently had a proper respect for the abilities of the
millionnaire's son.

"I do not see that his presence in his father's mansion, if he had been
there, could have made any difference," added the captain, as he sounded
his whistle again, and heard a faint response from the shore. "As long
as he was not actually on board of the steamer, he was harmless."

"Perhaps he was, though I have the feeling that it would have been
otherwise. There was a whistle from the shore."

"I heard it, and I understand it. Haslett has done his whole duty,
I judge," replied Captain Carboneer.

"Who is Haslett?" asked the major curiously. "I never heard of him
before."

"He is to be the first lieutenant of the Bellevite."

"You seem to have a full supply of officers and men, Captain Carboneer,"
added Major Pierson, apparently a little disconcerted. "I do not see
that I am of the least use here, for you seem to have done everything
without consulting me."

"In naval matters I have; but I give you full credit for the planning of
the enterprise," replied the captain, in his softest tones.

"When I was removed from my command because I allowed the steamer to
pass the forts, I felt that a great injustice had been done to me. I did
all I could to effect the capture of the vessel, but the attempt was a
failure," argued the major. "The shot hole through the bow of the Belle
utterly wrecked her, and the force on board of her could do nothing, and
Christy Passford had brought my own tug to bear against me. Why, the
Bellevite actually saved the force on board of the Belle from drowning.
A violent gale came up, and that did a great deal to nullify all our
efforts. But I think I did my whole duty."

"I have no doubt of it, Major Pierson; and for that reason you were sent
on this mission; and I am confident that the success of the enterprise
will restore you to your former command, or give you another quite as
good," said Captain Carboneer, as consolation to the military arm of the
expedition.

"But I cannot see that I have been of any use to this enterprise, and I
might as well have staid at home."

"You are too modest by half, major. You planned the expedition, and
suggested that Corny should take part in it, as he would have the
entr√©e to the residence of Captain Passford. But, being a mere boy,
he could not be sent alone, and your services were likely to be of
the most important character. It is no fault of yours that we found
everything made ready for us, as it were. It might have been quite
different, and the burden of the action might have rested upon you.
It is all right as it is."

"I am satisfied," added the major, "though I think it was no more than
right that you should have consulted me in regard to your methods, of
which I am still profoundly ignorant. In getting up the scheme, I based
everything on the fact that Corny could go into his uncle's house and
obtain all the information we needed."

"The scheme was well concocted; and I shall have the pleasure of
reporting to the government that the military arm of the expedition
conducted the enterprise to a perfect success, the naval force only
doing the duty pointed out by the military."

"You are very kind, Captain Carboneer," said Major Pierson, who could
not well help being entirely satisfied, and even greatly pleased, with
this happy showing of the final result.

"By daylight in the morning we shall be outside of Sandy Hook, I expect.
We have no time to waste, and you can see for yourself how the affair of
the young lady would have complicated our operations."

"How do you intend to convey these men, who seem to be scattered all
along the shores of the river, to the steamer?"

"They understand my signals, and they will all be ready within an hour
to take a small steamer which will pick them up."

"But where is the steamer?"

"She is farther down the river. As you seem to be a little sensitive to
the fact that I have not consulted you in regard to the naval operations
of this enterprise, I can tell you in a few words all there is of them,"
continued Captain Carboneer. "As you are aware, as soon as our plan was
matured by you, I left Mobile with Lieutenant Haslett, though you knew
nothing about him, for Nassau. We had no difficulty in getting out of
the bay, for the blockade was not then enforced. At Nassau I engaged a
couple of English engineers, and a few other officers, with thirty
seamen, mostly English, who were looking for prize-money. I had to take
my force to Quebec, for no steamer offered for New York. I sent them all
here in small parties, and Haslett posted them along the river when I
told him they would be needed to-night."

"I did not leave Mobile till two weeks later with Corny," added the
major. "But I got here sooner than you did."

"You were more fortunate in finding a steamer. I believe I have a
capital crew, though I shall obtain more men at Bermuda, or some other
port. There are plenty of good English sailors who are willing to fight
on either side if there is a good showing for prize-money; and I have
no doubt I shall capture a dozen vessels before we reach the Bermudas,
which will fully satisfy them, especially as the government will pay
the value of all vessels we are compelled to burn on the high seas."

"You will have the advantage over everything that floats, for I was told
that the Bellevite made twenty knots an hour, and had done twenty-two,"
said Major Pierson. "At what time do you think you will get on board of
the steamer?"

"By one or two in the morning, I hope; but it will depend upon the
steamer Haslett engages, though he told me he had bargained for an old
one with a walking-beam; but that will answer our purpose. I believe he
had to buy her, though she was of no great value."

At a creek which appeared to be the rendezvous of the conspirators,
the boat left the river; but there was no steamer, though quite a number
of men had gathered there. Leaving the party in the boat to follow out
the remaining details of their enterprise, which, by this time, in the
absence of anything like an obstacle, they regarded as so many mere
formalities, it becomes necessary to make another visit to the mansion
of Captain Passford. This gentleman had gone to the city upon important
business connected with the fitting out of the Bellevite, and he had not
returned when the clock in the great hall struck ten, which was at about
the time Captain Carboneer and his companions went into the creek five
miles down the river.

"There is no knowing when your father will come home, Florry," said Mrs.
Passford, as she suspended her work on a stocking she was knitting for
the soldiers. "But I can't imagine what has become of Christy. He never
stays out as late as this unless he tells us of it beforehand."

"I am really worried about him, mother," replied the beautiful daughter,
looking up from the stocking on which she was employed. "He went away in
the Florence, and something may have happened to him."

"I think not, Florry: there has been no storm, or heavy blow, and
he thinks he is as safe in his boat as he is on shore," added Mrs.
Passford, with an effort to control the fears of the daughter. "He may
have gone down to the city. He is very indignant at the delay in giving
the order to have the steamer sent to the navy yard, and wherever he is,
I am confident he is doing something in connection with the steamer."

"I wish I knew whether the Florence was at the boathouse," continued
Florry. "He said he was going out in the boat; but perhaps he did not.
Perhaps he is with father."

"There is the front-door bell," added Mrs. Passford, with a start.
"It cannot be your father or Christy, for both of them have latch-keys.
Who could come here at this time in the evening?"

"Mr. Paul Vapoor," said the man-servant, who answered the bell.

The gentleman announced walked into the sitting-room without any
ceremony, for he had long been a familiar visitor. He was dressed in
the full uniform of a chief engineer of the navy. Removing his cap, he
politely bowed to the two ladies; and any one who was looking might have
seen that Miss Florry blushed a little when she saw him; and very likely
if Major Pierson had witnessed the roses on her fair cheek, he might
possibly have concluded that it would have been useless to postpone the
capture of the Bellevite to enable him to fortify his position near her.

"I beg your pardon, ladies, for calling so late," said Mr. Vapoor, as he
drew a long envelope from his pocket. "But I thought Christy might wish
to see what is in this envelope before he retired."

"Why, what is in it?" asked Mrs. Passford.

"Christy's commission as a midshipman in the navy."

"But Christy is not at home, and we are somewhat anxious about him,"
added the mother, stating the facts in regard to her son.

Paul Vapoor volunteered to go in search of him, and left the house.




CHAPTER VI

THE CABIN OF THE FLORENCE


If Captain Carboneer had felt any especial interest in the Florence as
a sailing yacht, he might have desired to see the cabin of the craft,
which had always been the delight of Christy Passford. He had expended
a great deal of his pocket-money upon the arrangement and furnishing of
the cabin of his yacht, not only because he spent a considerable portion
of his vacation hours in it, but because it had been a perpetual study
with him to enlarge and improve it.

It is very difficult to get three pints of liquid into a quart measure,
and it was a conundrum of this sort that Christy was studying upon
when he tried to make a parlor, bedroom, and dining-saloon of the very
limited space in the forward part of the Florence. Though he could
hardly get the three pints into the quart measure, he had done the best
he could, and succeeded to a rather remarkable degree. But spite of the
miracle which had been wrought in the cabin, Captain Carboneer did not
even try the door of the apartment when he and his companions went on
board of the yacht. He was so absorbed in the enterprise in which he was
engaged, that his indifference to the miracle of the cabin may be
excused.

Even the double doors of the cabin were of handsome wood, elaborately
polished; and they were not secured with the usual appliance of a
padlock, but were provided with an expensive mortise-lock, which could
be operated upon either side. If Captain Carboneer had tried to open
that door, he would have found that it was fastened; but perhaps he
could not have discovered that it had been secured upon the inside.
Unless, therefore, he had taken the trouble to break open the door, he
could not have ascertained that Christy Passford was actually in the
cabin.

Possibly, if he had opened the door by any means, he would not have
discovered that the proprietor of the boat was in this dainty apartment,
for the skipper had taken a great deal of pains to conceal himself so
that he should not be seen, even if the intruders in the Florence had
succeeded in opening the doors without the aid of the key in his pocket.
Though he had two very nice berths in the cabin, miraculously arranged
as to space, Christy did not occupy one on the present occasion, for in
that case the unbidden visitors would have seen him if their curiosity
had led them to force the doors.

When the cook of the Florence, usually the skipper of the craft, was
engaged in the practice of the culinary art, he seated himself on what
looked like a box in front of the stove. But the interior of this box
was really a part of the cabin, for it contained the feet of any one
occupying the berth on the starboard side. The cookroom had no end of
bins, lockers and drawers to contain the variety of provisions and
stores necessary to get up a dinner for the skipper and his guests, when
he had any. And even all these places could not contain everything that
was needed on board. Under the two berths were large, though not very
deep, lockers, one of which contained the jib-topsail of the craft, and
other spare sails, while the opposite one was the fuel locker of the
sloop.

As the boat had not been used for a long time in cruising, the fuel
receptacle was empty, though a spare gaff-topsail had been thrown
into it. This locker was big enough to admit the body-corporate of
the skipper. It was not a particularly clean place, for a portion of it
had been economized for the stowage of the charcoal, which the skipper
preferred to wood. But he did not rebel at the blackness of the retreat
he had chosen, for he wore his boating dress, which was hardly stylish
enough for a dude or a dandy.

But Skipper Passford did not crawl into this black hole for the fun of
the thing. He had been spending his time in waiting for a movement to be
made in regard to the Bellevite. He staid in the house all the forenoon,
and, after lunch, he sailed down the river in the Florence, though with
no object in doing so beyond passing the time. Not far from the beach
where he had afterwards left the yacht, he discovered a boat rowed by
two men with a third in the stern sheets.

The breeze was quite gentle, though the Florence would sail at a very
tolerable speed when there was the least apology for a wind. She was
doing so on the present occasion, and Christy had stretched himself out
on the cushioned seat, with the spokes of the wheel where he could steer
without any exertion, or next to none. The idleness of his days since
his return from the eventful cruise of the Bellevite seemed to have
infected him with an unnatural indolence.

He felt as though he was rather more than half asleep when he saw the
boat with the two oarsmen. It was going up the river, while he was going
down. He had to luff a little to keep clear of the oars, but he did not
move from his half-recumbent posture. When the boat was alongside, he
glanced idly and carelessly at the person in the stern sheets. Instantly
he was wide awake, though he did not change his position. The person
looked like a gentleman, and Christy was sure that he had seen him
before. A couple of minutes of earnest cudgelling of his brain assured
him that he had seen the stranger in Nassau; that he was one of the many
who wanted to purchase the Bellevite, ostensibly for a merchant vessel,
but really for the Confederate navy.

After he had run a short distance farther down the river, Christy came
about, the boat being some distance from him, but the gentleman soon
landed and walked up the river on the shore, or very near it. In a short
time, he was joined by another person, whose form looked familiar to the
skipper of the Florence. He could not identify him, for he was not near
enough to him to see his face. A puff of air came from across the river,
and the Florence darted ahead, and Christy was soon out of sight of the
two strangers.

Near the boundary of his father's estate, he ran the yacht on the sandy
beach, letting her strike the sand hard enough to stick where she was
for half an hour, though she was not likely to get adrift, for the
gentle breeze was blowing her farther on the shore as the tide rose.

Christy hauled down the jib of the sloop, and then seated himself, or
rather reclined upon the cushions, though in such a position that he
could see the shore, or any persons who came upon it. No one was in
sight, and he had no one to watch. The swash of a great steamer passing
in the channel made his boat roll heavily for a moment, with the forward
part of the bottom resting on the sand. For the want of something better
to think of, he began to put conundrums to himself in the absence of any
other person to perplex with them. What was the gentleman that wanted to
buy a steamer in Nassau doing up the Hudson? This was the principal one:
he could not answer it. He gave it up; as the French have it, he had to
"throw his tongue to the dogs," having no use for it in this connection.

But while he was dreaming of the possible mission of the stranger,
he heard voices on the beach. Not deeming it wise to show himself, he
rolled off the cushion upon the floor of the standing-room, and then
fixed himself in a position where he could see and hear what passed
between the speakers. He could see without being seen. It did not
require a second look for him to decide that the second person on the
beach was Major Pierson, though his companion called him Mulgate.

If Christy had been interested before, he was excited now. The two
speakers were within earshot of the boat, and in the stillness of the
scene he could hear every word that was said. In a few moments he was in
full possession of the statements of the captain and the major in regard
to their intentions; and it appeared that the gentleman he had seen in
Nassau still desired to obtain a steamer.

Before it was dark, Christy was astonished to behold his cousin Corny on
the other side of the fence; and he readily understood that he was to
take part in the enterprise in hand. As yet the listener had obtained
but little more than the information in regard to the intention of the
visitors. When he found that they were disposed to take possession of
the Florence, and make their visit to the Bellevite in her, the skipper
retired from the standing-room of the boat to the cabin, where he locked
the door, and put the key in his pocket. When he realized that they
really meant to come on board, he crawled into the space under the
starboard berth, and arranged the sail so that it would conceal him
in case the intruders pushed their investigation into the cabin.

When he had completed his preparations, he was quite satisfied that
he should not be discovered. The trio came on board, and Christy fixed
himself so that he could hear every word that was said, for there was a
small opening under the berth through which the superfluous length of a
pair of oars could be thrust when not in use.

Christy, without the remotest suspicion on the part of the plotters
that they could be heard by any living being, and especially not by so
dangerous a character as Christy had proved himself to be to the peace
and dignity of the Confederacy, heard all that was said, and he obtained
a full idea of the intentions of the conspirators. When they went on
board of the Bellevite, he was so excited that he could no longer remain
in his prison, but came out, and crept up the accommodation ladder to
the deck of the steamer. But he was careful not to show himself, and,
having a key to the cabin, he went into it, locking the door after him.
Then he had a chance to think.

What should he do? He had no force at hand to beat off such a party as
Captain Carboneer mentioned. They might carry out their plot that very
night, as they had talked of doing. Perhaps it would be executed at
once, even while he was on board, and he would then be a prisoner. This
idea was too galling to be considered, and he left the cabin to visit
the wardroom. Going still farther forward, he was surprised to hear the
roar of the flames in the furnaces below. It looked at that moment as
though the Bellevite was doomed to sail under a Confederate flag. But if
he could do nothing more, he could save himself, even if he had to jump
into the river and swim to the shore.

Christy lost no time in making his way to the main deck of the vessel;
but he was careful to avoid the visitors. He went back to the cabin, and
went on deck from it. Then he discovered that the trio were in the act
of descending the accommodation steps. Mounting the rail he saw them
embark in the Florence, and sail down the river. Dismounting from the
rail, he hastened to the engine-room, where he found Sampson getting the
engine ready to be put in motion.

"Ah, Christy, I thought you had gone," said the oiler.

"Who were those two men who were on board?" asked Christy, not a little
excited.

"They were two gentlemen you brought on board, Christy," replied
Sampson, innocently enough.

"That I brought on board!" exclaimed the skipper of the Florence.

"Yes, sir: and I thought you had gone ashore with them," added the
oiler.

"I brought no men on board, Sampson! What are you talking about?"
demanded Christy impatiently.

"Didn't you bring two gentlemen on board, and didn't one of them want to
measure the carriage of the big gun?"

"No! I did not! I have not seen you before now this evening," protested
Christy.

"Then I have lost my senses. Didn't you tell me to get up steam, because
the steamer would be moved to the navy yard before daylight in the
morning?" demanded Sampson, bewildered by the denial of the young man.

"I see now," added Christy. "You mistook Corny for me."

Sampson gave him all the details of the visit of the strangers.




CHAPTER VII

MIDSHIPMAN CHRISTY PASSFORD


"In a word, Sampson, an attempt will be made to-night to capture the
Bellevite, and you have been getting up steam for the conspirators,"
said Christy, when the ship-keeper had finished his narrative of the
visit of the trio to the ship.

"Is that so?" exclaimed Sampson, opening his mouth and his eyes very
wide at the same time. "Why, I had no more doubt that the young man who
was talking to me was Christy than I have that he is talking to me now."

"You had better look at me again, and be sure that you make no mistake,"
replied Christy, rather disgusted at the failure of the man to identify
him.

"I never once thought that it was not you. When the sailboat came
alongside, I knew it was the Florence, and I supposed you were in her,"
pleaded Sampson. "But I spoke to you, as I supposed, when the boat came
alongside."

"Did you? What did you say?" asked Christy.

"I said 'Is that you, Christy?' And you said 'Yes.'"

"Of course I did! What else could I say after you had told the enemy
just how to proceed. You could not have expected any other answer."

"I suppose I was very stupid; but I hope no harm has been done, for they
have not got the steamer yet," added Sampson, very much disconcerted at
the blunder he had made, though an older officer than Christy might have
had more charity for the ship-keeper.

Seen in broad daylight, there was no striking resemblance between Corny
and Christy, though they were of about the same size, and had some
traits in common. As Corny and his companions came in the Florence,
it was not very strange that Sampson should take it for granted that
Christy was one of the evening visitors. The voices of the two cousins
were not unlike, and the sound was all he had to guide his judgment.
Then he was not in the enemy's country, and he could hardly have been
on the lookout for an enemy several miles up the river.

"Certainly no harm has been done, Sampson; but it is yet to be decided
whether or not the Bellevite is to go into the navy of the United States
or the navy of the Confederate States," added Christy, leaving the
engine-room.

"If we have snuffed the whole thing, I don't believe this steamer will
ever wear anything but the Stars and Stripes," said Sampson stoutly; and
there could be no doubt in regard to his loyalty, judging from his
speech, though that is not always to be trusted in time of war.

"Bellevite, ahoy!" shouted some one at the foot of the accommodation
steps.

"Have they come again so soon?" asked Sampson, as he rushed to the rail.
"It is only a small canoe."

"Is Christy on board?" called the visitor alongside.

"That is Mr. Vapoor: tell him I am on board," added Christy.

"Christy is on board, sir," replied Sampson to the hail. "Will you come
on board, sir?"

Paul Vapoor would and did come on board, and Christy gave him a hearty
welcome, for he was more glad to see him than he had ever been before in
his life.

"Where have you been all day and all the evening, Christy?" asked the
engineer. "Your mother and sister are very much worried about you, for
they have not seen you for a long time, and they fear that something has
happened to you."

"Something is likely to happen to me and all the rest of us who expect
to go to sea in this steamer," replied Christy, as he proceeded to
inform his friend as briefly as he could of the great event of the
evening.

"Well, if we are not in the enemy's country, the enemy are in ours,"
replied Paul. "What is to be done?"

"That is what I have been thinking of. I listened very attentively to
all that passed between Major Pierson and Captain Carboneer, and I am
satisfied that the latter has a considerable force somewhere on the
river, and their headquarters are at the mouth of a creek five miles
down the river."

"How many have they?" asked the engineer.

"I don't know; they did not mention the number in figures, but they have
enough to work the ship, and even to fight her," replied Christy, very
seriously.

"That means forty or fifty, at least," added Paul. "This looks like a
heavy matter, and it is quite time that something was done about it."

"But what shall we do is the question," said Christy anxiously. "We have
two men on board beside ourselves, and we can hardly expect to hold our
own against fifty."

"Who is this Captain Carboneer?"

"I saw him at Nassau, and he looked like a man of decision and
character. I don't know anything about him, but I have no doubt he is
a naval officer, both from the circumstances and from what I heard.
I should say that he knows what he is about. You said that my father
has not yet returned from the city?"

"He had not come at ten o'clock, and if he comes at all, the late train
does not arrive till after twelve."

"It may be too late to do anything at that time," said Christy. "But I
don't mean to give up the ship."

"Good! I am with you on that point, Christy. I called at your house to
inform you that you had been appointed a midshipman in the navy, and you
are likely to have a chance to christen your commission to-night. This
was all the rank they could give you, though you will really be a passed
midshipman, and be a master very soon."

Christy was delighted with this news, though he had no time to make a
demonstration of delight over it. He had narrowly escaped being the
third officer of the Bellevite the year before, because his father did
not believe in putting him forward as fast as his abilities would have
warranted him in doing. Captain Breaker and Paul Vapoor had made the
application for a position in the navy; for his father would not do it,
for the reason that he did not wish to ask any favors for a member of
his own family.

"I thank you and Captain Breaker for all you have done for me, Paul, and
I hope I shall be able to give a good account of myself. But we have no
time to talk about that now. Captain Carboneer was waiting for a steamer
which his naval associate, Lieutenant Haslett, was to charter or buy for
the use of the party," said Christy, as he led the way to the forward
deck of the steamer.

He and the engineer mounted the top-gallant forecastle, and looked
intently down the river. The tide was coming in, so that the vessel, in
coming up to her cable, pointed in that direction. But they could see
nothing, not a craft of any description. Then Christy led the way to
the long gun mounted amidships. He sighted across the piece, and, in a
moment more, his mind seemed to have settled on the policy to be pursued
in the present dangerous emergency. Perhaps the capture of a steamer
under such circumstances was a thing unheard of at that time, but
doubtless it looked simple enough to those who were engaged in the
enterprise.

"Do you think of engaging the enemy at long range, Christy?" asked Paul,
with a smile on his fine face, as seen by the light of the lantern which
Sampson had brought to the place.

"I think of beating them off in any way we can," replied the middy,
as his friends all called him from that time. "I have the gun pointing
to a certain object on the river, which Captain Carboneer's steamer must
pass. He can't help putting his craft where the muzzle of this piece
will cover it; and if we pull the lock-string at that instant, the shot
will knock his steamer all to pieces, and spill the conspirators into
the river."

"If you hit her," suggested Paul.

"You can't very well help hitting her. Just squint along that gun, and
see where the shot will bring up."

Paul complied with this request, and took a long look over the great
gun.

"I should say that it was pointed a little too high," said he.

"Perhaps it is; I have not fixed it just as I mean to have it. We will
put in the charge before we do that," added Christy, who was now as
self-possessed as though there was no excitement attending the operation
he was arranging.

"Do you know what steamer Captain Carbine will have?" asked Paul.

"Not Carbine; Carboneer. No, I don't know what steamer he will have;
only that she is an old one, and has a walking-beam," replied Christy.

"That is rather indefinite, midshipman," added Paul, with a smile. "You
can't always tell what a steamer is by looking at her, especially in the
night; and a walking-beam is not a novelty on a steamer upon this river.
You may send that shot through the wrong vessel; and if you should
happen to kill a dozen or two of loyal citizens of the State of New
York, they might be mean enough to hang you, or send you to the State
prison for life for it. It won't do to fire off a shotted gun like that
baby without knowing pretty well what you are shooting at."

"That is a long argument, Paul; and I have not the remotest idea of
doing any such thing as you describe. I am going to know what we are
firing at before we pull the lock-string," replied Christy, rather
impatiently. "But we have no time to dig up mare's nests. We will get
up the ammunition and load this gun; then we will do the rest of the
business."

As ship-keeper and a member of the engineer's department for the last
year, Sampson knew where everything was to be found. With all the usual
precautions, the magazine was opened, and ammunition enough for three
charges was conveyed to the deck, Warping having been called in to
assist in the work. The gun was carefully loaded under the direction of
Christy, who had been fully instructed and drilled in the duty. It was
pointed as nearly as practicable to the point in the channel which the
hostile steamer must pass, though the aim was to be rectified at the
last moment.

Paul went to his stateroom and took off his handsome uniform, replacing
it with a suit of his working garments. Then he hastened to the engine,
examined it, and satisfied himself that it was in good condition for the
office which was soon to be required of it. He gave Sampson particular
directions for his duty, and then went down the accommodation steps with
the midshipman.

"What are you going to do next, Christy?" asked Paul, for the young
naval officer had been too busy with his preparations to develop his
plan in full.

"We will go ashore first, and I will take the Florence to the
boat-house," replied Christy. "The next thing to be done is to make
a reconnoissance down the river."

"Why not go down in the Florence?" suggested Paul.

"Because that would be too simple and innocent altogether," replied the
middy; and perhaps he felt some of the dignity of his new rank. "I think
we had better see without being seen, especially as Captain Carboneer
has seen and sailed the sloop. I have no doubt he has a sharp, nautical
eye, and that he will recognize her. He might be rash enough to capture
her, and thus deprive the United States Navy of two young, but able and
hopeful officers, to say nothing of bottling them up so that he could
make short work of the Bellevite."

"You are right, Christy, as you always are. But see your mother before
you do anything, and I will obey orders. She worries about you."

They landed and hastened to the mansion.




CHAPTER VIII

ARRANGING THE SIGNALS


Mrs. Passford was astounded at the news brought in by her son, and Miss
Florry was terrified when informed that Major Pierson was not far from
the mansion. But Paul Vapoor assured the latter that there was no
danger, and Christy convinced his mother, who had a great deal of
confidence in him, that he was fully equal to the occasion.

"But I do not see that you can beat off the assailants if they happen
to get alongside of the Bellevite," suggested Mrs. Passford. "There are
only four of you at the most."

"I hope for re-enforcements," replied Christy, as he rang a bell for
a servant. "Beeks and Thayer, two of the quartermasters, live in the
village; Mr. Watts, the chief steward, and three others of the old
ship's company, live near here, and I think we can raise half a dozen
more, making ten in all."

"I know where to find half a dozen coal-passers," added Paul.

"Then we shall do very well if we succeed in finding all these," added
Christy, as the man-servant came to the door.

"Call up all the stablemen, and have two horses saddled as quick as
possible," continued Christy to the man.

"What's that for, Christy?" asked Paul, who had succeeded in quieting
the fears of Miss Florry.

He was not altogether inexperienced in this duty, for the young lady
had been alarmed more than once on board of the steam yacht, and he was
always more successful than any other person at these times.

"I can't stop to talk it all over, Paul; but if you will trust me,
I will tell you as we go along what I think of doing," replied Christy.

"All right, midshipman; I belong to the engine department, and we always
obey orders even if the ship goes down," added Paul, laughing.

"I am willing enough to tell you, but I have not the time to spin a long
yarn, and perhaps answer objections, just now. We will mount the horses
as soon as they come to the door, and drum up the force we have
mentioned."

Christy continued by giving Paul the names of those he was to visit and
summon to the deck of the Bellevite, and then they were to meet at a
given place. They mounted the two fleet horses which Christy had
selected for the occasion, and dashed off to the town, a short distance
from the river. The middy found the two quartermasters, who boarded in
the same house. They were to go on board of the steamer at once; but
Beeks was to bring a canoe from the boat-house to the point on the shore
nearest to the Bellevite before he went on board. Both of these men were
cautioned not to say anything about any person they might see, and the
same instruction was given to all the others whose services were
required.

Mr. Watts had not retired when Christy called at his house, and he was
duly startled by the information the young officer gave him. He was as
ready to take part in the enterprise as even the middy himself, and he
was conducted to the place where Paul was to meet the leader. He had
more calls to make than Christy, and they had to wait some time for him;
but when he did come, he reported that he had found and sent on board
all the firemen and coal-passers he had named, and a few more, besides
the old sailors who had sailed for years in the yachts of the owner of
the Bellevite.

The services of about a dozen had been procured, but half of these
were to do duty in connection with the engine, and the party so hastily
gathered were not strong enough to beat off the force of the enemy if
they attempted to board the vessel.

"Now, Paul, I want you to understand the whole affair before we go any
farther; and I wish you would go on board and take the command there,"
said the midshipman, as soon as the engineer had reported the result of
his mission.

"But are you not going to be on board, Christy? I don't pretend to be a
sailor or a gunner," said Paul.

"I shall go on board as soon as I can," replied Christy. "You will find
a boat on the shore, near the steamer, and you will go on board in that;
but have the boat sent back for me."

"All right, Christy; I will obey orders," added Paul, as he dismounted
from his horse.

"Mr. Watts will take your horse, and ride with me down the shore. We can
see the river all the way, for we shall not stick to the road when it
leads us away from it. As soon as we discover the steamer that is to
bring up the enemy, I will run my horse back to this point, and go on
board."

"That is all easy enough," added Paul.

"Easy enough; but I can form no idea as to when the steamer will come.
We may have to wait till morning for it, and perhaps the plan of the
enemy will fail, and they will not come at all."

"If they don't come to-night, they never will; and there will be time
enough for the home guard to scour the woods, and arrest all suspicious
persons."

"I said what I did so that you need not be impatient if you have to
wait a long time. You will have a watch kept from the moment you get
on board, and no stranger is to be allowed to put a foot on the deck.
Captain Carboneer may send some one of his party to see that everything
is working right on board for his side of the affair."

"I will do that."

"See that the steam is well up, so that we can move off in good time if
we find it necessary to get under way," continued Christy.

"I thought that was a settled point, and the ship was to be taken down
the river in any case," said Paul.

"I supposed so myself in the beginning; but if it is not necessary to
run away, I don't care to do so. Let Boxie see that the cable is buoyed
and ready to run out at a moment's notice."

"All right, midshipman," replied Paul, as he hastened to the boat.

"Why does he call you midshipman?--that is a new name," said the chief
steward.

"He brought me the news this evening that I had been appointed in the
navy with that rank," replied Christy. "Now we will ride down the river.
Do you happen to know what time it is, Mr. Watts?"

"I don't know, but I think it is about half-past eleven. I am not much
of an equestrian," replied the steward, as he mounted the horse, "for I
have been to sea all my life; but I think I can stay on if the beast
don't run away with me."

"He is perfectly gentle, and he will not run away with you. We have no
occasion to ride fast, and we may not have to go more than two or three
miles."

They rode along the river for a few minutes, and then Christy reined in
his steed and dismounted. He went to the water side, at a point where
there was a bend, and carefully examined the surroundings, both above
and below. He could not see the Bellevite in the darkness, for he had
directed the engineer to allow no light to be shown on board of her.
He had brought a little mathematics into his calculations, and he had
pointed the big gun of the steamer so as to cover the craft with the
walking-beam when she came in sight around this turn of the stream. By
this plan she was sure to come into the range of the piece, no matter on
which side of the channel she was moving.

"Now, Mr. Watts, I have a further duty for you to perform," said
Christy, as he explained his plan to the steward. "We shall go down the
river till we meet this steamer which conveys the enemy. As you are a
sailor as well as a caterer, you have a nautical eye, and when you have
seen this steamer you will know her again."

"Trust me for that. If it is the old tub I think it is, I know her
already," answered the steward.

"What steamer do you think it is?"

"The old Vampire; and if you give her much of a rap, she will go to the
bottom without the least difficulty."

"I don't care where she goes to, provided she don't put her passengers
on board of the Bellevite. But I am taking you down the river with me in
order that you may see her and know her."

"I shall know her as soon as I see her."

"As I said before, I shall run my horse back and get aboard of the
Bellevite as soon as I am satisfied that the enemy are moving up the
river," continued Christy.

"I am afraid I shall not be able to keep up with you if you run your
horse," suggested the steward.

"I don't want you to keep up with me. You can come along as leisurely as
you please, though you must not let the enemy get ahead of you."

"If the enemy are in the old Vampire, I could keep ahead of her on
foot."

"You had better keep ahead of her on your horse about a quarter of a
mile, or more; but your main duty will be here. I have brought with me
half a dozen Roman candles, and I am going to fix them in the ground on
this spot. Here is a bunch of matches," said Christy, handing it to him.

The steward watched the midshipman while he planted the fireworks in the
sand, and particularly marked the spot where they were located, for his
companion told him he was to fire them, and he must be ready to do so
without any delay.

"A boy could do that and like the fun of it," said Mr. Watts, laughing
at the simple duty he was to perform.

"But it is the time that you are to do it, and the boy might be
skylarking, or become impatient. This signal of the fireworks is to
assure us at the right moment that the Vampire, if it should be she,
is in the place where I expect her to be."

"I understand it perfectly."

"After I leave you, another steamer may come along, and get to this
point ahead of the Vampire; and I should be very sorry to blow her out
of the water, or sink her under it. You are to let us know by this
signal that it is the Vampire, and no other, that is coming round the
bend. You had better leave your horse a short distance from the river,
for that gun will make every pane of glass within a mile of it shake
when it is discharged."

"You may be sure that I will not be on his back at that time."

"Still further: I have planted six candles in the sand. You will light
only one of them when the steamer begins to round the bend. That will be
enough to inform us of the fact on board of the Bellevite."

"What are the others for?" asked the steward, taking a memorandum-book
from his pocket as though he intended to write his instructions.

