and followed us, split the captain's skull with his cutlass. The
lieutenant was my bird, and I had nearly finished him, when he
suddenly drew a pistol from his belt and shot me through the shoulder.
I felt no pain except a sharp twinge, and then a sensation of cold, as
if some one had poured water over my neck.

Our fellows fought with the accustomed bravery of British sailors, but
for some time the chances of the combat were doubtful. At last our
opponents began to waver, and finally gave way; but at this moment
some fifty blacks, armed with muskets, sprang suddenly upon deck, and
rushed to the aid of the Spaniards. I now gave up all as lost. My men,
disheartened at this accession to the number of their foes, began to
give way, whilst the Spanish crew fought with renewed courage.
Moreover, we found that we were now fighting not for glory, but for
life itself; for, on looking round, we saw to our horror that the
grapnels had been loosened, and thus all retreat cut off. Our vessel
was no longer lying alongside of the brig, but across its bows, so
that the bowsprit of the latter crossed its deck. We could not,
therefore, reach it, since the Spaniards had possession of the
forecastle of their own vessel. At this critical moment we received
unexpected aid in the shape of a shower of grape shot from our
schooner, which swept away many of the negroes, besides wounding a
large number of them, whilst at the same time a new party of
combatants sprang on deck to our rescue.


V.

When we boarded the slaver, we left on board our vessel the helmsman
Peter Mangrave, the black quarter-master Pearl, five negroes who were
on board as passengers, little Reefpoint, who was wounded, and Bangs,
Gelid, and Wagtail. At the moment when I had given up all as lost,
honest Pearl sprang on deck, his cutlass in his hand, accompanied by
the five blacks and Peter Mangrave, whilst behind him came no less a
person than Aaron Bangs, with the three negro servants, whom he had
armed with pikes.

"Now Pearl, my beauty," cried Bangs, waving his cutlass, "give them a
touch of their own lingo."

Immediately the black quarter-master called out:

"Coramantee Sheik Cowloo kokemoni pepulorum fir."

Which I afterwards found out meant, "See the Sultan Cowloo, the great
ostrich, with a feather on his back as big as a palm leaf; fight for
him, you dogs."

Immediately the blacks joined Bangs' party, and commenced so fierce an
attack on their former masters, that they soon drove them down the
hatchway, leaving half their number on the bloody deck, dead or
dangerously wounded. But, driven to desperation, they still resisted,
firing up the hatchway, and paying no attention to my repeated demands
to them to surrender.

"God in Heaven!" cried Jigmaree, "that is the sound of hammers; they
are freeing the blacks."

"If you unchain the negroes," cried I, in the Spanish language, "by
the Heaven above us, I will blow you into the air, if I have to go
with you. Stop, Spanairds! think madmen, what you are doing."

"Cover the hatches," cried Tailtackle.

But the covers must have been lost overboard, for they were nowhere to
be found. The firing from the hold still continued.

"Loosen the gun, and load it with grape," cried I. "Forward with it,
and fire down the hatchway."

The shot struck among the closely packed slaves, and a fearful,
heart-rending cry rent the air. Oh God! I shall never forget it. Yet
still the madmen continued their fire.

"Load, and fire again."

My men were now mad with rage, and fought more like devils than human
beings.

"Once more, my lads," cried I; but this time they pushed the gun so
madly forward, that both it and the carriage were precipitated with a
fearful crash into the hold. At the same moment a cloud of smoke burst
forth from the hold.

"They have fired the brig," cried Jigmaree. "Back to the schooner, or
we shall be blown into the air like onion peels."

But the schooner had got loose, and was fast leaving us. Gelid,
Wagtail, and Reefpoint, were on board; the latter, though badly
wounded, had crept out of his hammock, and on deck. They made us
understand, by signs, that they could not hoist the sails, and that,
moreover, the rudder was shot away, and the vessel unmanageable in
consequence.

"Up with the foresail, men," cried I; "hoist the foresail, and get the
brig under way, or we are lost."

My men obeyed my orders with the calmness of desperation. I took hold
of the wheel myself, and in a few moments we lay alongside of our
vessel once more. It was high time, for already some hundred and fifty
unfettered slaves had rushed on deck, and we had hardly time to spring
on board, to escape the furious charge they made on us from the hinder
part of the vessel. The murderous fire of grape shot they had endured,
had made them perfectly mad with rage, and had they been able to get
at us we should undoubtedly have been torn to pieces.

But the fire was quicker than they. The smoke, which rose like a
pillar of clouds through the hatchway, was now mingled with red
tongues of flame, which, like fiery serpents, twined themselves round
the crackling masts and rigging, that shrivelled in their hot
embrace. The sea, too, vied with its fierce brother element in
destroying the ill-fated vessel. Either through our shots, or from the
falling of the gun into its hold, some of the planks had been started,
and the water rushed in in torrents. The flames increase, the guns
become heated and go off, and at last the ship suddenly sinks from our
view, whilst the loud and awful death-cry of five hundred helpless
beings, imprisoned in the burning vessel, rings in our ears, curdling
our blood, and seeming as if it would burst the very vault of Heaven
with its appalling tones. It was a fitting knell to be rung over the
slaver's grave.

And now the brilliant rays of the setting sun, streaming brightly over
the waters, gild with an unearthly glare the whirling clouds of smoke,
that rising towards the blue sky, grow fainter and fainter until they
are lost in the clear ether. The sea no longer dances and flashes in
the red light, as if exulting with the glee of fiends at the mortal
agony of its victims. Calm and smooth as a polished mirror, it lies
spread out over the spot where the slaver sank.

Suddenly a huge cloud of thick black smoke rises from the bosom of the
deep. It mounts upward until it rivals in height our vessel's masts,
and then it spreads itself over the scene like a sable pall, as if it
would prevent the fumes of such unclean and hideous offering from
rising to Heaven, and hurl them down on our accursed heads, as
witnesses of the wrath of that Being, who has said: "Thou shalt not
kill." And now for a moment all is still as the grave, and it seems to
me that the air is too hot and close to breathe; it stifles me, and I
feel like a second Cain.

At this moment a crowd of slaves, men, women, and little children, who
had been drawn down by the sinking vessel, appeared struggling on the
surface of the sea. The strongest cried like very devils in their
despair, whilst the women and children, the weak and the helpless,
gasped vainly for breath, and worn out by their efforts to sustain
themselves above the water, sank at last to the bottom with a look of
mute agony I shall never forget. Among the whole number, we did not
see one of the ship's crew. Like desperate men, they had sunk with
their vessel. We fished up about one half of the unhappy blacks, but
the direst necessity compelled us to leave the rest of them, as it was
impossible for us to take them on board. Oh that I could for ever blot
this scene from my memory!

It chanced that among those saved, was a young and pretty girl, who,
weak and exhausted, was lying on deck, her head resting on a block of
wood. A powerful negro swam to that part of the vessel where she lay.
Seeing him in the water, she sprang up and held out her hand to him,
to help him on board. As he was about to grasp it, he was struck in
the breast by a shot, and mortally wounded. With a shriek the poor
girl sprang overboard, clasped him in her arms, and they sank
together.

"Oh, woman, woman," said Aaron, "whatever may be the color of thy
skin, thy heart is always the same."

Soon all was still again; here and there a wounded negro still
struggled for a moment ere he sank into his watery grave. A few spars
from the ill-fated vessel, were yet tossed about on the surface of
the sea, whilst the blood-red rays of the setting sun poured a flood
of light over the bloody deck, shattered hull, and torn rigging of the
schooner, lighting up the faces of the dead with an unearthly glare.
At this moment some drops of rain fell from a passing cloud, like
tears from the pitying eyes of an angel, who, sailing through the
skies, had stopped for a moment in her flight to look down sorrowfully
on the scene of desolation which man, the worm of a day, had caused in
a moment of power and savage madness.

On a gun-carriage, close to me, sat Aaron, whilst the surgeon bound up
a cut in his neck. He looked solemnly at me for a moment, and then
pointing towards the brilliant luminary, which, as it sank beneath the
waves, lit up the western sky with a crimson and golden light, said:

"Remember this morning, captain, and thank the Almighty, who whilst
sending so many poor creatures to their final account, has in his
great mercy permitted us to see the end of this fearful day. Oh, thank
him, captain, that you have once more seen the sun set."


VI.

The wound in Bangs' neck, which had been made by a boarding pike, was
not deep, but still it was an ugly cut, and if, as he himself
expressed it, he had not been bull-necked, it would have gone hard
with him.

"Captain, my boy," said he, when the surgeon had finished dressing his
wound, "I'm pretty well patched up now, and feel as good as new,
except a little stiffness, but I'm very thankful I have such a strong
bundle of muscles, or some of the arteries would have been in danger.
Come, and get mended yourself now, and I will hold the light."

A calm had fallen on the sea, which rendered all work unnecessary at
present, and the cabin, which was again used as a cockpit, was filled
with poor fellows waiting to have their wounds dressed. When it came
to my turn I took off my clothes and seated myself on a tub. The
pistol bullet which had struck me, was sticking in the fleshy part of
my left shoulder, just below the skin, and made a small protuberance
resembling a sloe in form and colour. The collar bone which it had
first struck, but glanced off from, to bury itself in the muscles of
the arm, was somewhat injured, and my breast was not a little bruised.
The opening in the skin, caused by the bullet, was so small that one
could hardly introduce a pea into it, and scarcely any blood flowed
therefrom.

"It is a very simple thing, sir," said the surgeon, as he introduced a
small probe into the wound; putting a finger on each side of the ball,
he pressed them together, causing it to fly out.

"It is a lucky thing, captain," said Bangs, "that your collar bone can
bear something, as well as my neck, but this bruise on your breast is
of more consequence; you must go to bed, and take care of yourself."

But there was no bed on which I could lie down. The cabin was filled
with the wounded, and the surgeon had plenty of work before him, for
out of our little crew of forty-two men, nine were killed and eleven
wounded. Accordingly I had a tent erected on deck, in which I and my
friends determined to take up our quarters for the night. It was now
eight o'clock. I could only remain in the tent until I saw my friends
provided for, for my presence was constantly required to direct the
repairing of the injuries we had sustained. The greatest part of our
rigging was shot away, and the tired sailors were busy in mending it
as well as they were able. Our mainmast was much injured near the
deck, and we were obliged as well as circumstances would permit, to
steady it with wooden props. Our foremast had fortunately come off
with a whole skin, but we had received thirteen shots in our hull,
three of them between wind and water.

When all was done that skill and the most determined perseverance
could do, I returned to our tent. Not far from it, near the stern of
the vessel, sat Wagtail, preparing our supper with the help of the
cook. This meal, as you may imagine, was uncommonly simple--salt beef,
biscuits and cold grog, but I doubt if any of us before or since, ever
partook of a meal with such an appetite as we did then. The beef
disappeared as if by magic; the bones were polished off until they
were as white as ivory, whilst the rum sank in the flask like the
quicksilver in a barometer, on the approach of a hurricane.

"Holloa captain," cried Bangs, when he had stopped to take breath,
"how do you feel, my boy?"

"Well, not as easy as I could wish for; this day has been a day of
fearful responsibility to me."

"Just so," replied he, "I shall sleep with a heavy heart myself, for
though I am no butcher by profession, I have this day shed the blood
of more than one fellow creature; it is a dreadful reflection, and
what was it all for, captain? You meet a large vessel in the night,
and sing out 'heave to.' The large vessel says 'I won't.' You say 'You
shall.' The large vessel replies 'I'll be damned if I do.' And
immediately you take measures to make the large vessel heave to, and
thereby some five hundred human beings, who a few hours ago were in
possession of life and health, are now food for fishes."

I felt hurt. "I had not expected this from you, sir, and----"

"Hush!" said he, "I do not blame you. You have done right; but why
will not the government at home take some decisive measures to put an
end to this horrible traffic, and so prevent scenes like this from
occurring?"

We spoke for some time on this subject, and my friends grew so warm
that many bitter speeches were made, and the conversation became
unpleasant.

"Well, gentlemen," said I at last, "I don't know how you feel, but I
am completely knocked up; fortunately it is now calm, and I think we
shall sleep well, and so, good night."

We went to bed, and the sun was already some distance above the
horizon when we awoke on the next morning. It had been perfectly calm
during the night, and we found ourselves still so near the scene of
the preceding day's combat, that several corpses were swimming around
the vessel. As I went forward I was not a little alarmed to see the
number of black faces that were there.

"Master Tailtackle, how many of these poor creatures have we on
board?"

"Fifty-nine in the hold, sir, and thirty-five on deck."

At this moment Bangs walked out of the tent and approached the spot
where I stood. Hardly was he perceived by the blacks, when the cry of
"Shiek Cowloo," rent the air. Bangs was greatly startled at this
unexpected salute, for he had forgotten his heroic deeds of yesterday,
and did not know what to attribute it to; at last the cause of it
seemed to strike him, for he rushed back to the tent with a roar of
laughter. I went down into the cabin and sat down to breakfast with
Gelid and Wagtail. Suddenly we heard Bangs cry out, "Pegtop! come
here, Pegtop--do you hear? Help me to tie my cravat--that's right. Now
I will go on deck."

Here Pearl, the black quarter-master, was impatiently waiting for
him.

"Well Pearl, my boy, what is the matter?" and then before Pearl could
reply, "I say, Pearl, go to the other end of the vessel and tell your
black friends that it was all a humbug--that I am neither the Sultan
Cowloo, nor have a feather as big as a palm leaf on my back, of which
I can easily satisfy them if they wish it."

"Oh, sir," said Pearl, bowing, "I think the less we say about that the
better, because we have not half enough fetters for the savages, and
if they were undeceived, they could easily rise, as our crew are much
diminished, and murder the whole of us."

"The devil!" muttered Aaron; "well then go and tell them that I am a
bigger ostrich than ever, and that I will very soon astonish them;
they may take my word for it."

"Pegtop, you rascal," continued he, "come here. I say, Pegtop, bring
me my uniform--that's right--now my sword--never mind the pantaloons,
I want them to see that it's all fudge about the feather--now my
hat--that's right--now go before me, and fan me with the lid of that
box of herrings."

Pegtop did as he was bid, and Bangs followed him, affecting the most
majestic walk and gravest look. But hardly had he left the tent, when
the blacks again set up a wild cry, and those who were not chained,
flocked around him, dancing and shouting, and whilst some of them
rubbed their flat noses and wooly heads against him, others seized
hold of his clothes, so that after several vain attempts to shake them
off, he took to his heels and fled back to the tent, amid the laughter
of the whole crew. Bangs laughed louder than any of them.

"I say, captain," said he, lying down on the deck and looking through
the window into the cabin where we were just beginning to breakfast,
"how the deuce am I to get down there? If I stir outside of the tent,
these black barbarians swarm round me. Ah! I see----"

Without further reflection, he put his legs through the small hatchway
which was directly over the breakfast table, in order to get into the
cabin in that way, but unluckily he trod in a bowl of broth, with
which Wagtail used always to begin his breakfast. The broth happening
to be broiling hot, he jerked his foot out of it, striking Gelid in
the face as he did so.

"Oh! oh!" cried Paul, whilst Wagtail threw himself on the sofa, and
roared with laughter. But the next moment Bangs gave another kick, and
this time Pepperpot got a sound blow on the side of the head, whilst
down came the great ostrich, clattering among cups and dishes, and
making an awful havoc amongst them. After indulging in peals of
laughter for a while longer, we collected the fragments of our
breakfast, and ate it with undiminished appetites.

About this time a light breeze sprang up, and we crept slowly forward
to the place of our destination.


VII.

"Land ahead!" cried the lookout, from the mast head.

"What does it look like?" asked I.

"Low hills, sir, and now I see houses on the highest peaks."

"Hurrah, New Providence, Fort Nassau, ho!"

Soon we saw the shores of the British island, New Providence, but the
wind lulled, and we were soon nearly becalmed again.

"I say, captain," said Bangs, "we must be your guests for this night
at least, and trouble you for lodgings on board your nut-shell. No
hopes, as I see, of getting into port to-night, and if we did it would
be too late to land."

He was right, and we sat down to our rude and homely meal in the
little broiling hot cabin. We were all in a very good humor. I
flattered myself that my conduct in our late combat with the slaver,
would advance me several steps up the ladder of promotion, whilst my
friends were overjoyed at the thoughts of soon being on terra firma
once more.

"Captain, my boy," said Bangs, "I honor your profession; but,
nevertheless, have no great desire to belong to it. I am satisfied
that no persuasion or bribery can ever induce me to make my home on
the deep; and, indeed, viewing the thing closely----"

"By the mark two fathoms less three quarters," called out the
leadsman.

We ran into the harbor of Nassau, where we saw the glimmering of
lights, but as it was too late to land that night, we dropped anchor,
and after taking a parting glass of grog, went to bed. As I was
convinced of the perfect security of the harbor, I ran the schooner,
as she needed repairing badly, quite near to the shore, in order to be
close to the dock-yard. During the night the little vessel softly
touched the bottom. The shock woke me and several of the men, for
though a seaman is accustomed to the swell and motion of the heaving
ocean, yet the slightest touch of any hard, opposing substance, rouses
him quick as lightning. I could hear, through the thin partition, the
officers in earnest conversation.

"We are aground," said one.

"Well, what of it," said another; "there is no sea here; all is still
and calm, and shut in by the land."

However, we were all soon snoring again, for during the last few days
we had over-tasked our strength considerably, and since the late
action had deprived us of the services of one half of the crew, the
other half had had still harder duty to perform, and were almost
exhausted. It might have been about four o'clock in the morning, when
I was suddenly roused by the sound of voices in the apartment next to
the cabin. I heard one person call to another, and then a cry of
murder reached my ears. Pretty soon Wagtail, who was sleeping on a
mattrass below me, coughed loudly and hastily. A heavy splash
followed, and immediately some of the men in the forecastle called
out:

"The vessel is full of water--water up to our hammocks."

"I am drunk," roared Wagtail, who with might and main was rolling
about his little bed. "Captain, I am drunk--Gelid, Bangs, we are all
drunk."

"To the pumps!" cried Tailtackle, who had hastened on deck.

"It is useless," said I, springing out of bed, and sinking up to my
knees in water. "Bring a light, Tailtackle, one of the planks must
have started, and as the tide is rising, get out the boats, and put
the wounded into them. Don't be alarmed men, the vessel is aground,
and as it is nearly high tide, there is no danger."

The sailors were now quiet, and busied themselves in putting bedding
and provisions into the boats belonging to the vessel, and those
which, on hearing the alarm given, had come from the shore to our
rescue. As there was no immediate danger, I returned to the cabin,
wading through the water, which rose to my body. Bangs was sitting up
in bed, busily engaged in putting on his breeches, which luckily he
had put under his pillow. The rest of his own clothes, and those of
his friends, were swimming about the cabin, saturated with water.
Gelid, who during all the tumult had slept soundly, was now awake. He
put one of his legs out of bed, with a view of rising, and plunged it
into the water.

"Heavens! Wagtail," he exclaimed, "the cabin is full of water--we are
sinking! Ah! it is deuced hard to be drowned in this puddle, like
potatoes in a tub."

"Captain, captain," cried Bangs, looking over the side of his bed,
"did you ever see the like of that? There, just under your light--look
at it; why it's a bird's nest, with a thrush in it, swimming about."

"Damn your bird's nest," growled little Pepperpot, "by Jove, it's my
wig with a live rat in it."

"The deuce take your wig," said Paul; "Zounds! take care of my
boots."

"Hang the wig and boots, too," cried Bangs, "there goes my Sunday
coat. Captain, who has sunk the ship?"

Here his eyes met mine, and a few words served to explain our
situation; the only question now was, how to get ashore, as nothing
could be done until daybreak. My determination was soon made. I put my
friends into one of the boats, which were lying alongside of the
schooner, gave their wet chests into the care of their black servants,
and let them find a lodging as well as they could. Then the wounded,
and afterwards the rest of the crew were put on board a couple of
merchant vessels lying near us, and as their captains were obliging
fellows, I easily persuaded them to take the schooner between them, at
ebb-tide, and raise it with the flood. When it was pumped out, and
afloat again, I took it into port, where it received a thorough
overhauling. As there remained nothing more to be done, I put on dry
clothes, and towards evening went ashore. Thus ended my first cruise.




A Winter in the Frozen Ocean.


One stormy winter's evening, in the year 1579, Gerhard de Ver was
sitting in the warm and cheerful parlor of his plain but comfortable
dwelling, in the city of Amsterdam. He was a pleasant, good-natured
man, but evidently weak, and suffering from hardships recently
undergone. As he sat before the fire, in his easy chair, his eye
rested, with evident satisfaction, on a group of young sailors, who
were accustomed to visit him, both to show the sympathy they felt for
the sufferings he had undergone in the service of his native land, and
to gain information from his rich store of experience. After a lively
conversation, in which they had now and then, to their no little joy,
succeeded in bringing a smile to the care-worn face of their patron,
they began to converse together in a low tone of voice, and to show by
their manner that they were about to prefer a very unusual request.

"Father Gerhard," at last began one of the party, "you are well aware
that nothing would give us greater pleasure than the restoration of
your health, and that with you we are impatiently waiting for the
moment when you shall be able to leave your room again, but we know
well enough that when that moment arrives, the irresistible desire of
being useful to your native land, will drive you to distant parts of
the earth, and separate us for a long time again; do not, therefore,
consider it indiscreet if we now remind you of a promise formerly made
to us, and beg you to relate the history of your last voyage to the
Frozen Ocean, which must certainly be as astonishing as instructive;
indeed, the reports which circulate among the neighbors concerning it,
are so incredible that we find it almost impossible to believe them,
without having them confirmed by yourself."

"Truly," replied Gerhard, "you could have chosen no more appropriate
time to remind me of my promise than this evening. The storm, which
now sweeps through the street, and drives the snow against the
windows, brings most vividly to my recollection the wretched hut in
which I and my unhappy companions, of whom few ever saw their homes
again, passed the most miserable portion of our lives, tormented by
hunger and sickness, and in continual dread of the fierce and ravenous
polar bears; shut up in that distant part of the world, where the
winter lasts for eight months, and there is unbroken night from the
beginning of November to the end of January; where the cold is so
intense that it is impossible, even when wrapped up in thick furs, to
remain in the open air for any length of time; where the breath is
changed to rime; where one's hands, nose, and ears, freeze if exposed
to the air for a moment; where brandy is quickly congealed, and
quicksilver becomes hard enough to be struck with a hammer."

"You have roused our curiosity so," remarked the young man, when
Gerhard, who had betrayed considerable warmth of manner, suddenly
ceased speaking, "that it will really be an act of kindness to satisfy
it; therefore, pray commence, at least this evening, a recital of your
adventures, but steer your course so as not to fatigue yourself too
much; sail along gently, for a day's journey, more or less you know,
is of little consequence. But heave the anchor, Father Gerhard, if it
please you."

"In God's name then," said Gerhard, and commenced as follows:

"You all know the difficulties and dangers of a voyage to the East
Indies, but you do not know what wealth may be gained by a commercial
intercourse with those distant regions, or that, as is very natural,
men for a long time have had their attention turned to the discovery
of a nearer route than any one at present known of. At first, repeated
attempts were made to find out a strait which, as many still believe,
divides the continent of America, but as the voyagers met with no
success whatever, their attention was drawn to the Arctic Ocean, which
washes the northern coasts of Asia and Europe. The enterprising
merchants who had been engaged in former expeditions, now resolved to
send one to that part of the world which though so near to them was so
little known. It is true that a small squadron which was sent out for
the purpose, and with which I sailed, failed in reaching its
destination, owing to the advanced state of the season, but it was
found that the northern coast of the continent ran off in a
southeasternly direction, and great hopes were entertained that an
expedition sent out at a more favourable season, would be attended
with the happiest results. Although many who had engaged in
enterprises like these, had lost both money and courage, yet, induced
by the accounts which we brought home, and by my advice, the city of
Amsterdam resolved to make another and final attempt. It fitted out at
its own expense, a couple of vessels, and having provided them with
all things necessary, entrusted them to the care of myself and three
others, viz: Jacob Heemskerk, John Cornelius Ryp, and William
Barents.

"On the 10th of May, 1569, we left Amsterdam, accompanied by the good
wishes of the whole town, and as a favourable wind filled our sails,
we made our way so rapidly towards the north, that by the 5th of June,
we encountered vast floes of ice, which covered the sea as far as the
eye could reach. Four days later, we discovered land, which was not
noted down on the chart; it proved to be an island some four miles
long, and evidently hitherto unknown. Some of the men took one of the
boats and went ashore; they found many gull's eggs, and had a narrow
escape from losing their lives. They ascended a hill of snow which was
as solid as a block of marble, but in attempting to descend, they
found themselves obliged to slide to the bottom, and were in imminent
danger of being hurled upon the sharp rocks by which it was
surrounded; happily, they received no injury. The next day we had a
hard struggle with a polar bear, for dangerous as these creatures
were, we always felt desirous of attacking them, and we now undertook
to take one alive. Accordingly, seeing a big fellow not far from us,
we took a boat, and set out with the intention of capturing him, by
throwing a noose over his head, but when we came near to him we did
not dare to attack him, on account of the ferocity he exhibited, but
returned for more men, muskets, and pikes. Ryp's people were coming to
our aid; we went after him again, but we were obliged to fight for
more than four hours, as our shots did him very little harm. After
having received a blow in the back with a hatchet, which was wielded
by such a strong arm that it remained sticking in him, he attempted to
swim off, but a cut on the head finished him. We took the carcase on
board Ryp's vessel, and stripped off the hide, which measured twelve
feet in length. The flesh we cooked, and some of us liked it as well
as beef. In consequence of this adventure we named the island 'Bear's
Island.'

"After remaining here for a few days, we continued our journey towards
the north, and after sailing for ten days, through a sea blocked up
with masses of ice, we arrived at a coast which ran off in an easterly
direction, where we determined to cast anchor. We imagined it to be a
part of Greenland, and as it was formed of sharp pointed hills, we
gave it the name of 'Spitzbergen,' (pointed mountains.) We were not a
little surprised to find an active vegetation existing in this high
latitude, and went on shore to gather sorrel and scurvy grass, which
are excellent preventatives against the scurvy, a disease which, as
you know, breaks out with great violence on board of vessels going so
far north, and is occasioned by a want of fresh meat. We saw also a
great many bears, foxes, and reindeers, and also immense flocks of
wild geese, which we drove from their nests in order to procure their
eggs, which we found excellent.

"As the wind remained unfavorable, and the masses of ice continued
to press closer together, we were obliged to give up our plan of
reaching the most northern point of Spitzbergen, and then sailing
towards the east, and return to Bear's Island. The two captains now
differed in their opinion as to the best course to be pursued; Ryp
persisted that if we were to keep on towards the north, we would
without doubt, reach an open sea, while Barents thought we were
already too far north; so it was finally determined that each
should go his own way. Accordingly, on the 1st of July, the two
vessels parted company, Ryp sailing for Spitzbergen, whilst we
steered towards the south coast. From this moment commenced all the
suffering and danger, which we experienced on our adventurous
voyage."


II.

"After having with great difficulty and danger, worked our way between
huge blocks of ice, for two weeks, we at last, on the 16th of July, at
noon, came in sight of Nova Zembla, a spot very frequently visited by
whalers, and steered our course along the western shore, as our object
was to sail round the island, in order to make our way towards the
east. But although it was now the middle of summer, we were much
impeded by floating masses of ice, which covered the sea in every
direction, as far as the eye could reach, and obliged us to wait until
an opening offered, through which we might sail. We arrived at last at
an island which from the number of crosses the whalers have there set
up, is called the "Isle of Crosses." Here we anchored to take in a
supply of fresh water. Heemskerk took one of the boats and went
ashore to visit the crosses. I accompanied him, and we were walking
along, not dreaming of danger, when suddenly we came upon a couple of
bears, who were hid near by. As we were totally unprovided with
weapons, we were not a little alarmed at the sight. The bears, as is
customary with these animals, raised themselves on their hind legs, to
find out what was going on, as they can smell further than they can
see. As soon as they became aware of our presence, they came running
towards us. Our hair now actually stood on end at the frightful danger
we ran, and we started off for our boats as fast as we could go. But
Heemskerk, who had far more presence of mind and courage, stood still,
and swore that he would put a boat hook he held in his hand, into the
first man who attempted to fly. 'If we run away one by one in this
way,' cried he, 'some of us will most assuredly be torn to pieces, but
if we stand still and raise a shrill cry all together, the bears will
be frightened and retreat.' We followed his advice, and it turned out
exactly as he predicted, so that whilst the bears stood stupified, we
regained our boat. This shows how good a thing presence of mind is;
fear always rushes into danger sooner than courage.

"After much suffering and danger, we at last reached the northern
extremity of the island, and began to double it. Some of the men, who
had been sent on shore to ascend a mountain, and report what was
visible from it, surprised us with the joyful information that they
believed the sea to be free from ice towards the east. But, alas, the
next day showed how much they had been deceived; we had not sailed
but a few miles further, when we encountered a huge bank of ice, which
rendered further progress in that direction impossible. As the snow
storm every hour raged more fiercely, and the cold grew more intense,
we determined to retrace our course along the eastern shore, in order
to reach the continent, there in some secure harbor to wait for more
favorable weather. But we had only gone a short distance in this
direction, when the ice closed in all around us, and on the
twenty-sixth of August we remained firmly fixed in it. All our
endeavors to float our vessel again, were in vain, and we very nearly
lost three of our best men in the attempt; the ice on which they were
standing suddenly gave way, but fortunately they were near the vessel,
and very active, so they seized hold of the ropes which hung down from
the yards, and clambered on board. It was an anxious moment for all
parties, for they would most assuredly have been driven away with the
ice and lost, had they not been saved by the aid of God, and their own
activity.

"The ice was often in motion, but did not break up; but masses of it
piled themselves up in all directions. In consequence of this, our
vessel was hoisted up as if by pulleys, and then thrown on its side
with such a fearful crash, that we expected every moment to see it go
to pieces. We found it necessary to bring the boat and shallop to
land, as in case of the ship's going to pieces, we depended on them
for our safety. We also stored away, under a tent hastily constructed
of sails, provisions, ammunition, and useful tools. The sea was now
covered with ice as far as the eye could reach; part of it swam about
in huge masses, whilst the rest was smooth and firm as a frozen
mill-pond. The cold was now so intense, that we found it impossible to
keep ourselves warm under the upper deck, where the kitchen was, but
were obliged to remove the stove to the hold, and were almost
smothered by the smoke in consequence.

"Some of the men, who had been sent further into the country, to
ascertain its character, brought back the welcome news that there was
a stream of excellent fresh water not far distant, and that along its
banks lay piles of drift wood. As we considered it possible, after
this discovery, to pass the winter here, we gave up the desperate plan
we had formed, of making our way back to the continent in our two
miserable boats, and commenced erecting a roomy and substantial hut.
While thus occupied, we were much troubled by the increasing cold, and
the hungry bears, who lay in wait for us in every direction. In order
to give you a correct picture of our hardships, and miserable life, I
will endeavor to relate to you the most note-worthy events as they
occurred day by day, and in this way to keep the thread of my
narrative unbroken.

"September 1st.--This day we began to build our hut, and transported
to it, on sledges, sufficient drift wood to be used for fires during
the winter, which we piled up in convenient places. Whilst part of the
men were occupied in this arduous task, the rest remained on board the
vessel to prepare the meals, and keep a watch for the safety of those
on shore. One day we received a visit from three huge bears; two of
them came towards the ship, but the third remained hidden behind a
piece of ice. It happened that a tub of salt meat, which we intended
to soak in fresh water, was standing on the shore; one of the bears
ran up to it, and putting his muzzle in, was about to help himself to
a piece, when a shot struck him in the head so cleverly that he fell
dead without a groan. It was curious to see how the second bear stood
gazing at his motionless companion, with a stupified look, and then
walked round him, trying to discover what was the matter with him.
When he found that he could make nothing of him, he left him, and went
away. But we had no idea of trusting the fellow, and as we wished to
go ashore, we armed ourselves with muskets and pikes, in case he
should come back, which he pretty soon did. He raised himself on his
hind legs, in a threatening manner, but one of us shot him in the
stomach, which caused him to sink down with a howl on all fours again,
and make off as fast as he could go. We now took out the entrails of
the dead bear, and placed him on his legs, in order that he might be
frozen, and so preserved until spring, when we intended to take him
home with us. Some time afterwards, one of the men was chased by a
bear, and happened to come by this spot. His pursuer was close on his
heels, but as soon as he saw his immovable companion, who was covered
with snow, his front paws alone being visible, he stopped short, and
approached him. In this way the sailor gained sufficient time to reach
the ship, and alarm us with the cry of 'a bear! a bear!' We hastened
on deck, but not one of us could see, so much had our eyes suffered
with the thick smoke in which we had been obliged to remain during
the bad weather, in order to escape being frozen. Our aid, however,
was not needed, as the bear, when he saw the number of his opponents,
made off in great haste.

"September 24th.--On this day we began to put up the beams of our hut,
as the idea of being obliged to pass a winter here, filled us with
great anxiety; but as the vessel was now firmly embedded in the ice,
and we saw no prospect of getting it free again until the return of
fine weather, we were obliged to make a virtue of necessity, and
submit quietly to our hard fate. We tore up a part of the deck of our
vessel, and made a roof for our hut of it; then we plastered the walls
with pitch, and when, on the second of October, the building was
finished, instead of putting on the roof, as is customary, a pole or
bush, we erected a kind of staff, made of hard snow. We now took our
sleds, and drew tools and provisions to it; but the cold was so
intense that the beer casks burst, and their contents became a solid
mass of ice. After we had, for greater security, drawn the boats on
shore, and turned them upside down, we betook ourselves to our hut,
and arranged every thing within it as well as we were able.


III.

"With the beginning of November, the cold became so intense, that we
could venture out into the air for a very short time only, long enough
merely to collect what fuel we needed, and to set the traps which we
had placed round the hut to catch foxes, which I assure you were
considered quite a dainty by us poor wretches, greedy as we were after
fresh meat. On the 4th of November, the sun was no longer visible,
and a long and dreary night set in. All the light we had came from the
moon, aurora borealis, and the lamps which we hung around our hut, and
fed with bear's fat. The only consolation left us was that with the
sun the bears had left us, and we could now leave the hut without
danger of being devoured. The cold still continued to increase hourly,
and we were obliged to distribute our stock of clothing among the men,
in order to protect them better against the frost, yet in spite of
every precaution, hands and feet which were wrapped up in thick furs
and cloths, became stiff and numb, when only a few paces from the
fire. The best protection against the cold, we found to be heated
stones. We felt the want of spirituous liquors sadly; those we had,
froze, and when thawed lost both strength and flavour. Our health,
however, was much better than we had reason to expect, when our mode
of life is taken into consideration; but this, I imagine was owing to
the good advice of the surgeon to bathe daily, which we always did.
One morning, towards the end of November, one of us wishing to leave
the hut, found the door tightly closed by the snow, and was obliged to
dig through it. This work we had to repeat daily, or otherwise we
should have been completely buried. On the 16th of November, we found
that we had used all the fuel that was in the hut, and were therefore,
obliged to dig out of the snow the rest of what we had gathered for
use, and bring it into our dwelling. We worked alternately in couples,
and had to make all the haste we could, for in spite of fox-skins and
extra clothing, we were not able to endure the cold long. Until the
29th of December, we experienced dreadful weather; snow fell in
abundance, and for three days we were unable to leave the hut. On the
evening of the fourth day, it moderated somewhat, and one of the
sailors ventured to make a hole through the wall, near to the door,
and creep through it in order to see how things stood without. He came
back pretty soon and told us that the snow was piled up higher than
the hut, and that it was just as cold as ever; he said that if he had
not returned, his ears would have been frozen. On the 29th of
December, some of the men dug the door free again, and made a kind of
a tunnel through the snow, out of which we emerged as from a cellar.
But all our trouble was in vain, for the next day another fall of snow
blocked up the door, and made us prisoners again. Stormy days were the
more unendurable, as the fire would not burn, but filled the hut with
smoke. At such times we commonly lay in our beds, which like the walls
of the hut, were covered with a thick coating of ice, whenever the
fire did not burn brightly. Whilst in this unpleasant situation, one
of us happened to remember that there was a good store of coals on
board the vessel, and the most hardy of the party immediately made an
attempt to bring them to the hut, and after great exertions, succeeded
in their attempt. We immediately kindled a good fire, and for the
first time an agreeable warmth spread through the room. In order
better to retain it, we stopped up the hole we had made to let the
smoke escape, and merrier than usual, went to bed and began chatting
together; but soon, giddiness and then stupefaction attacked us, and
had not one of the party had the presence of mind to crawl to the
door and open it, we would soon have been suffocated by the poisonous
gas which came from the coal. Thus ended the year 1596. The next year
commenced with the same unpleasant weather, so that we were obliged to
pass New Year's day in the house. We had now used up all our split
wood, and on account of the cold, were unable to go out to procure
more. On the 5th of January, the weather at last moderated, and we got
the door open, cleaned the house out, and split some more wood, as we
were afraid that we should again be buried by the snow. After working
hard all day, we began in the evening to talk about home, and it
occurred to us that our countrymen were at that very moment
celebrating one of their merriest festivals, namely, that of the Three
Kings. We determined, therefore, to forget our sad lot for a while,
and prepare a little feast. Each one of the men put by some of his
biscuit, and the captain gave some wine. We now made a good wine soup,
and prepared also some pancakes, which we made of a couple of pounds
of starch which had been taken on board for the purpose of pasting
cartridges, and some oil; the biscuits we soaked in wine. We now
celebrated the evening in fine style, and for the time, forgot our sad
lot, and imagined ourselves once more surrounded by our friends and
relations. In this way we enjoyed our humble meal as much as if it had
been a sumptuous feast. We got into such a good humor that we chose a
king, as it is customary to do on such occasions, and saluted him by
the title of "Lord of Nova Zembla," a kingdom which though of
considerable size, is not very well provided with either inhabitants
or revenue.

"On leaving the hut next day, we found the air a little less keen, and
felt that since the snow had ceased to fall, the cold had somewhat
abated. We could now hope to see the sun before long, and on the 8th
of January we really perceived a faint glimmering in the sky, at which
we rejoiced not a little. Eight days later we perceived a reddish
tinge, which we hailed as the harbinger of the near approach of the
sun. We perceived, also, a slight warmth in the wind, which, joined to
the heat of our fire, partially melted the ice on the walls of the
hut, which, until now, had remained perfectly solid. As the glimmering
light grew stronger every day, we at length ventured, well-armed, to
the ship, which still remained in the same position as formerly, but
had been frequently visited by bears, as their footsteps in the snow
plainly showed. We took a light, and descended into the hold, where we
found the water a foot in depth, and frozen perfectly tight.

"As the weather remained fair, we went out into the open air daily.
Our usual resort was a hill about a half mile distant, from which we
brought stones to our hut, and heated them, in order to warm our beds.
It now grew brighter every day, and we were soon able to amuse
ourselves by shooting with a cross-bow, using for a mark the top of
our snowy flag-staff, which, until now, we had been unable to see.
Indeed, we took exercise in any way possible, and endeavored by
throwing, running, and other gymnastic sports, to restore strength and
suppleness to our half frozen limbs. The foxes, in capturing whom we
had formerly been so busily engaged, now suddenly vanished, a sure
sign of the re-appearance of the bears. These dangerous beasts soon
visited us again, and the war against them was renewed; they evidently
came from some more southerly climate, where they had been passing the
long winter, as they were very fat. They often endeavored to break
open the door of the hut, and one of them even clambered upon the
roof, and endeavored to get inside through the hole we had made to
allow the smoke to escape; it required the united energies of all of
us to defeat his intentions.

"The 27th of January was a sad day for us, for on it one of our party
died. He had been sick at the building of the hut, and we had been
obliged to convey him to it on a sled. We buried him in the snow, with
a prayer, and held a funeral feast to his honor; but we soon recovered
our wonted flow of spirits, as we were now confidently expecting a
speedy release from the wretched situation in which we had been
placed.

"The cold continued unbroken for three months longer, although it was
not so severe as formerly. Our provisions now gave out, and on the 3rd
of May we cooked our last piece of pork. During the latter part of May
we began to make preparations for our journey, and as we found our
ship was no longer sea-worthy, we dug out the shallop and boat, which
had been protected by the deep snow. We spent all the month of May in
mending and fitting out these two vessels. Whilst we were prosecuting
this work, we were more than once in great danger of being torn to
pieces by the bears. We shot a great many of them, but it happened we
found them more dangerous when dead than when alive. Being greatly in
want of food we cooked a liver of one of them, and found it very
palatable, but all of us fell sick in consequence, and some were so
very ill that their lives were despaired of; they were covered from
head to foot with a loathsome eruption. However, they at last
recovered, for which we thanked God most sincerely, for had we lost
them, the rest of us would not have had sufficient strength to launch
the boats. In spite of this warning one of the men was imprudent
enough, one day, to bring a pot of bear's liver to the fire, as he was
hungry; but Heemskerk, who was standing by, threw it out of the
window.

"The weather often grew milder, and the sea began to be free from ice,
but a single north wind brought back the most intense cold, and the
sea was again covered with ice. In the meanwhile we worked hard to get
out of our leaky vessel all that was necessary for our dangerous
voyage, but suddenly we experienced a more dreadful storm of snow,
hail, and rain, than had yet overtaken us, and which we did not expect
at this time of the year. The weather was so bad that we were obliged
to leave every thing and retreat to the hut. But we found this in a
miserable condition, for we had used the boards, of which the roof was
composed, to mend our vessels, and a piece of sail, which had taken
their place, answered its purpose so badly that the hut was full of
water. Often and often did our courage sink, and we give up in
despair, but Heemskerk always cried, 'If you do not wish to remain in
Nova Zembla, and dig your graves in the snow, you must exert all your
remaining strength to equip the boats, on which depend all our hopes
of safety.' These words acted like an electrical shock on us, and
spurred us on to do what seemed almost impossible.

"In the beginning of June, we dragged the two boats to the vessel, in
order, when all was ready, to take them from there to the edge of the
ice and launch them into the sea. Suddenly another storm arose
unexpectedly, and we were in constant dread lest the ice should break
up, and all our property be lost. In that case there would be no hope
for us; but Providence watched over us, and the storm passed by, and
did us not the slightest harm. We had now to perform our last but most
difficult task, viz: to open a passage through the ice from the ship
to the open sea, through which we might take the shallop. This, after
incredible toil, we accomplished, and loaded our two boats with the
tools and provisions we had just taken from the wreck, which consisted
of thirteen casks of biscuits, and several more of bacon, oil, and
wine. Then being all ready, we started on our voyage on the morning of
the 14th of June, 1597.


IV.

"In high spirits and full of courage, we now began a voyage, which
certainly was the most remarkable ever undertaken. Crowded together in
two wretched, open, and heavily laden boats, we had to cross a space
of not less than two hundred miles, in order to reach the nearest
shore, and this in a climate where the middle of summer is as cold as
our severest winters, and upon a sea covered with huge masses of ice,
which at one moment are stationary, and in the next hurled together by
a storm, with terrific force. Besides, we were weak from our previous
exertions, and had not really the strength to strive successfully
against the dangers which threatened us.

"As the eastern shore of Nova Zembla appeared to be bound up with
unbroken ice, Barents, with admirable prudence, had advised us to
steer towards the north, so that having passed round the northern
point of land, we might reach the western coast, and from there run
for some Russian port, where we might hope to meet some vessel bound
for the Netherlands. We had not gone far on this projected route, when
we found ourselves so hemmed in by icebergs, as to be totally unable
to make any further progress. Such an unpropitious commencement would
have disheartened many men, but fortunately, we were accustomed to
danger and disappointment in every shape; so we kept up our spirits,
and cast anchor in order to wait until the breaking up of the ice
should afford us an opportunity of proceeding on our journey again. In
the meantime we employed ourselves in seeking bird's eggs for our
sick, of whom we now had several, and in melting snow by the fire for
drinking water. On the 15th of June, the ice in which we were
embedded, broke up, and a favorable wind springing up, our men handled
their oars so well, that by the 17th we had reached the most northerly
point of the island. But, unfortunately, on the same day the icebergs
were put in such violent agitation by a storm, and struck the boats
with such force, that the boldest grew disheartened. We took a last
farewell of each other, and expected every moment would be our last.
In this fearful extremity we held a consultation as to what was best
to be done; no other means of safety could we see, than to work our
way out of the floating ice, and get upon some iceberg. But all our
endeavors to get alongside of one of these were in vain, and unable to
endure longer the lamentations of my companions, I caught hold of the
end of a rope, and leaped like a frog from one place to another, until
I reached the firm ice. As the rope was fastened to the two boats,
they were quickly drawn to the spot I had reached, when the men took
out their cargoes and pulled them upon the ice. We found they were so
much injured by striking against the ice, as to need a thorough
overhauling, which we set about without delay. The driftwood, which
lay along the shore in considerable quantities, now stood us in good
need, as by means of it we were enabled to boil our pitch and tar.

"For four long and dreary days had we lain among ice and snow, when a
south wind sprang up, and once more opened a passage for us. We
hastily launched our boats again, and put their cargoes into them; but
hardly had we commenced to row when we found ourselves surrounded by
masses of ice again, and were obliged to pick our way out of them with
great difficulty; at last we reached the open sea once more, and were
able to continue our voyage until the 25th of June, when we were
obliged to cast anchor again near a field of ice. At the same time a
violent storm arose, and drove our miserable crafts to sea, where they
were tossed about in great danger of being dashed to pieces against an
iceberg, or upset by the wind. Our men now employed what little
strength they had left in striving to get back to the land, but as
