Nevitt was next in succession, after an old great-uncle, who sent for
the boy to be brought up in English ways and usages. Sir Wyndham Nevitt
was not a Friend, though several branches of the family were. And if
Philemon Henry failed, the next heir was a dissolute fellow up in
London, who would soon make ducks and drakes of the fine old estate.

"It does seem a pity that it should be destroyed," said the young wife.
"If only the boy were old enough to choose! But, you see, he is next in
the succession, and it would come to him even if he were here. English
laws are curious. I should hate to give up the boy. He is a sweet child
and a great comfort to me when thou art away. But his welfare ought to
be considered."

"And thou dost spoil him every hour in the day. I should have to send
him away presently for some sterner training. And then"--she blushed
scarlet at the hope--"there may be other sons and daughters."

Friend Henry took counsel of several respected and judicious men, and
the weight of it lay with sending the child abroad. It would be a hard
wrench, but if he was called upon to do it? Many that he knew had sent
their children abroad for education, the advantages being limited at
home. And it was true that the settlers below New York had a much warmer
affection for the mother country than the Puritans of New England.

It ended by little Philemon Henry being sent abroad with many tears and
much reluctance, and a safe convoy. The boy went quite readily, under
the impression that he could come back frequently, and having no idea of
the length of the journey, but being an adventurous little fellow.

Bessy Henry sorrowed deeply. "The house was as if one had been buried
out of it," she said. Then her own baby was born.

Philemon Henry was disappointed that it should be a girl.

"Do not mind, husband," she said in her winsome way, "this shall be my
child, for its head is full of yellow fuzz like mine, and its eyes are
blue. Presently there will be a son with dark eyes, and no doubt a
houseful of sons and daughters," laughing merrily. "And Phil, I think,
will be better pleased about a sister. He might be jealous if we filled
his place so soon."

There was some wisdom in that, and quite a comfort to the father's
heart.

The baby's name was the first real disagreement. She grew rapidly and
was a bright, smiling little thing. Bessy loved her child extravagantly,
jealously. But she would have none of the plain or biblical names her
husband suggested. She laughed at them with her bright humor and made
merry amusement over them, calling the child by endearing and fanciful
appellations. To-day she was one kind of a flower, to-morrow another,
and Rosebud a great deal of the time.

She was often at the house of Madam Wetherill. Indeed, she was generally
spoken of as the gay little Quaker, but it was only her slim
gracefulness and dainty ways that gained this description, for she was
quite tall. She discarded her thees and thous here, though at that day
all language was much more formal. Sometimes, when her husband was to be
away all day, she would take the child and its nurse and spend the time
with her relative.

It was after one of these occasions that she took off a little of the
worldly frippery she had indulged in and put on her very plainest cap,
but she could not disguise the arch, pretty face, and this evening it
really seemed more beguiling than ever. Caresses of all kinds were
frowned upon as being not only undignified, but savoring of the world
and the flesh. Still, Philemon Henry would have sorely missed the
greeting and parting kiss his wife gave him. She had a certain
adroitness, too, and the tact to make no show of this before the
brethren, or any of the sober-minded sisters. He sometimes wondered if
it was not "stolen waters," it had such an extraordinary flavor of
sweetness. Then he would resolve to forget it, but he never did.

She kissed him tenderly this evening. His dinner was excellent, his
day's work had been very profitable, and he was in high good humor.

"Husband," she began afterward, leaning her head on his shoulder, "I
must make a confession to thee of my day's doings. Thou wilt be angry at
first, but it is done now," smilingly.

"Hast thou been up to some mischief?" His tone had a sense of amusement
in it.

"Very serious mischief. For a brief while I felt like going back to the
faith of my childhood, but my love for thee will keep me in the straight
and narrow faith. But to-day I have had my babe christened in Christ
Church, and named Primrose."

"Bessy!" in a horror-stricken tone.

He strove to put her from him, but she clung the more tightly.

"Bessy! woman! To do such an unlawful thing!"

"It is not unlawful to give a Christian name."

"A vain, trifling, heathenish name!" he interrupted fiercely. "I will
have none of it! I will----"

"God made a Primrose and many another beautiful thing in this world of
His. He has even given me a prettiness that plain Quaker garb cannot
wholly disguise. Suppose I scarred my face and deformed my body, would
my praise be any more acceptable to Him? And people do not all think
alike. They look at religion in divers ways, and so they who deal
justly and are kind to the poor and outcast, and keep the Commandments
are, I think, true Christians in any garb. And her name is writ in the
Church books, her legal, lawful name that only the law can change. And
see, husband, thou shalt call thy son whatever pleaseth thee. But the
little daughter is mine own."

"She is my child as well. And to go through all this mummery that we
believe not in, that we have come to this new country to escape! It is
wicked, sinful!"

"And some consider that discarding all forms and sacraments is sinful. I
am sure God ordained many for the Jews, his chosen race!"

"Which they could not keep, which were of no importance to real
salvation. Then Christ came and all was abrogated."

"Nay, He added to the Commandments the one tenderer rule--thou shalt
love thy neighbor as thyself."

"Woman, thou art full of excusing subtleties. Thou art no true Friend,
methinks. Is there any real conviction under thy plain garb, or was it
only put on for----"

"For love of thee," she interrupted with brave sweetness shining in her
appealing eyes. "I was in Christ's household before I knew thee. I
worshiped God and prayed to Him and gave thanks. He hath not made the
world all alike, one tree differeth from another, and the lowly Primrose
groweth where other flowers might not find sustenance, but God careth
for them all, and gives to each its need and its exquisite coloring. So
he will care for the child, never fear."

"But I am very angry at thy disobedience."

"Nay, it was not that," and a glimmering light like a smile crossed her
sweet face. "I did not ask and thou didst not deny."

"Sophistry again. Thou art still in the bonds of iniquity."

"And thou must forgive seventy times seven. Thou must do good to those
that despitefully use thee. If thou art so much wiser and stronger than
I, then set this example. I have done many things to please thee. And,
husband, thou canst call the little one Prim. I am sure that is plain
enough, but to me she will be Rose, the blended sweetness of three
lives."

He broke away from her. She had softened many points in his character,
he knew, and just now she was a temptress to him. He must assert his own
supremacy and deliver himself from these dangerous charms. Just now it
looked sinful to him that she had come over to the Friends' persuasion
for love of him.

She had been a sweet, thoughtful wife, he could not deny that. But he
had been weak to yield to so much happiness. And when the brethren heard
of this outrage put upon their usages there would be hard times for her.
Suddenly his whole soul protested against having her haled before the
meeting. Oh, what had her spirit of willfulness led her into!

She went back to her baby, kissed it and caressed it, prepared it for
the night, and sang it to sleep. Philemon Henry wrote long in his little
office at home, where he kept sundry business matters he did not want
his clerks gossiping about. There were only two discreet friends that he
had taken into his confidence and his ventures. Just now there was a
slight, uneasy feeling that if he were brought to the strictest
account--and yet there was nothing really unlawful in his gains. There
were many curious questions in the world, there were diverse people,
many religions. And the Friends had sought out liberty of conscience.
Was it liberty to compel another?

Bessy and her child were sleeping sweetly when he glanced at them, and
his heart did soften. But he would never call her by that name. He would
give her another.

Bessy was up betimes and made some delicacy with her own hands for her
husband's breakfast. She came around and kissed him on the forehead as
was her morning custom, and though she was a little more grave than
usual, she was serene and charming. But he must show her how displeased
he was.

The christening had been very quiet. Madam Wetherill had been godmother,
and the godfather was a distant relative who resided in New York. Good
Parson Duch√© had been asked to keep the matter private. And so, if the
meeting came to know, Philemon Henry must be the accuser. It was his
duty, of course, but he put it off month after month. The babe grew
sweet and winsome, and there were many things beside family cares to
distract men's minds: The friction between the mother country and grave
questions coming to the fore; the following out of Mr. Penn's plans for
the improvement of the city, the bridging of creeks and the filling up
of streets, for there was much marsh land; the building of docks for the
trade that was rapidly enlarging, and the public spirit that was
beginning to animate the staid citizens.

Philemon Henry called his babe little one, child, and daughter, and the
mother was too wise to flaunt the name in his face. She had great faith
in the future.

"For if you keep stirring your rising continually, you will have no good
bread," she said. "Many things are best left alone, until the right
time."

She dressed the child quaintly, and she grew sweeter every day. But they
talked about the son they were to have, and other daughters. Little Phil
wrote occasionally. He was studying in an English school, but he had
spells of homesickness now and then, and his uncle said if he learned
smartly he should take a voyage to America when he was older. Nevitt
Grange was a great, beautiful place with a castle and a church and
peasants working in the fields. And he was to go up to London to see the
king.

One damp, drizzling November night Philemon Henry came home with so
severe a cold that he could hardly speak. He had been on the dock all
day, supervising the unloading of a vessel of choice goods. He could eat
no supper. Bessy made him a brew of choice herbs and had him hold his
feet in hot water while she covered him with a blanket and made a steam
by pouring some medicaments on a hot brick. Then he was bundled up in
bed, but all night long he was restless, muttering and tumbling about.
He would get up in the morning, but before he was dressed he fell across
the bed like a log, and Bessy in great fright summoned the doctor.

He had never been ill before, and for a few days no one dreamed of
danger. Then his brother James was summoned, and his clerk from the
warehouse, and there were grave consultations. Bessy's buoyant nature
could not at first take in the seriousness of the case. Of course he
would recover. He was so large and strong, and not an old man.

Alas! In a brief fortnight Philemon Henry lay dead in the house, and
Bessy was so stunned that she, too, seemed half bereft of life. She had
loved him sincerely, and for months they had forgotten their unfortunate
difference over the child's name. And when he was laid in the burying
ground beside his first wife, there was a strange feeling that he no
longer belonged to her, and she was all alone; that somehow the bond had
snapped that united her with the Friends.

Philemon Henry had made a will in the lucid intervals of his fever. His
brother was appointed guardian of the child and trustee of the property.
To Bessy was left an income in no wise extravagant, so long as she
remained a widow. The remainder was to be invested for the child, who
was not to come into possession until she was twenty-one. She and her
mother were to spend half of every year on the farm, and in case of the
mother's death she was to be consigned to the sole guardianship of her
uncle. There were a few outside bequests and remembrances to faithful
clerks.

The other trustee was Philemon's business partner, who had lately
returned from Holland. If Friend Henry had lived a few years longer he
would have been a rich man, but in process of settlement his worldly
wealth shrank greatly.

Uncle James proposed that the house should be sold, and she be free from
the expense of maintaining it.

"Nay," she protested. "Surely thou hast not the heart to deprive me of
the little joy remaining to my life. The place is dear to me, for I can
see him in every room, and the garden he tended with so much care. Thou
wilt kill me by insisting, and a murder will be on thy hands."

She spent the winter and spring in the house. One day in every week she
went to cousin Wetherill's.

The elder lady, a stickler for fashion, suggested that she should wear
mourning.

"I like not dismal sables," declared Bessy. "And it is not the custom of
Friends. I shall no doubt do many things I should be restricted from
were my husband alive, but I will honor him in this."

She attended the Friends' meeting on Sunday afternoon, but the evening
assemblies that had convened at the Henrys' once a fortnight were
transferred to another house. And in summer, although she went to the
Henry farm, she made visits in town and resumed some of her old
friendships.

The next autumn there came an opportunity to sell the house and the
business, and James Henry urged it.

"Then her home will be here with us," he said to his wife. "Philemon was
anxious to have the child brought up under the godly counsel of Friends,
and she will be less likely to stray. I think she is not a whole-hearted
Friend, and her relatives are worldly people."

But when the place was sold she went at once to Madam Wetherill's. And
she began to lay aside her Quaker plainness and frequented Christ
Church; indeed, though she was not very gay as yet, she was a great
attraction at the house of her relative.

Before the summer ended an event occurred that gave her still greater
freedom of action. This was a legacy from England left to the Wardour
branch in the New World, and as there were but three heirs, her portion
was a very fair one. There was some talk of Madam Wetherill taking her
to England, but the cold weather came on, and there seemed so many
things to settle. That winter she went over to the world's people
altogether.

"I think, Bessy, you should make a will," said Madam Wetherill as they
were talking seriously one day. "It will not bring about death any
sooner. I have had mine made this fifteen years, and am hale and hearty.
But, if anything should happen, the child will be delivered over to the
Henrys and brought up in the drab-colored mode of belief. It seems hard
for little ones so full of life."

"She must have her free choice of religion. Having tried both," and
Bessy gave a dainty smile, "I like my own Church the best. If she should
grow up and fall in love with a Friend, she can do as she likes. There
are not many as manly and handsome as was Philemon. Indeed I think they
make their lives too sad-colored, too full of work. I should go wild if
I lost my little one, but Lois Henry goes about as if nothing had
happened. I found it a luxury to grieve for Philemon. There is wisdom in
thy suggestion."

A lawyer was sent for and the matter laid before him. She could appoint
another guardian now that she had money of her own to leave the child,
and she could consign it part of the time to that guardian's care.

There was much consultation before the matter was settled. And though,
when the time came, she moved some chests of goods out to the farm and
made a pretense of settling, she and Madam Wetherill soon after went up
to New York and were gone three full months.

James Henry found himself circumvented in a good many ways by woman's
wit. There was no dispute between them, and much as he objected to the
ways of the world's people, he had no mind to defraud his small niece
out of a considerable fortune that might reasonably come to her. Indeed
he began to be a little afraid of Bessy Henry's willfulness. And she
might marry and leave all of her money to a new set of children.

But fate ordered it otherwise. Bessy went for a visit to Trenton, and
though she was rarely separated from her darling, this time she left her
behind. She did not return as soon as she expected, on account of a
feverish illness which would be over in a few days, her friends
insisted, but instead developed into the scourge of smallpox, the
treatment of which was not well understood at that time, and though she
was healthy ordinarily, the bleeding so reduced her strength that she
sank rapidly and in a week had followed her husband.

Madam Wetherill was cut to the very heart by the sad incident, for she
loved Bessy as if she had been her own daughter, and she was tenderly
attached to baby Primrose, who was too little to realize all she had
lost.

When Friend Henry preferred his claim to his brother's child, he was met
by some very decided opposition. In the first place the child had been
christened in the church, and was, according to her mother's wishes, to
be left in Madam Wetherill's charge for six months every year and be
instructed in the tenets of her own church, and to remain perfectly free
to make her choice when she was eighteen. If her mother's wishes could
not be carried out, her fortune was to revert to Madam Wetherill, and
she would inherit only what her father bequeathed her.

"I cannot believe my brother was knowing to this nefarious scheme!"
cried Friend Henry in a temper. "And I always thought Primrose a most
ungodly name. It was his wish she should become a Friend."

"And if your son marries among the world's people and leaves the faith
what will you do?" asked Madam Wetherill.

"I should disown him," was the hasty reply.

"Then Bessy had a right to disown her child if she left the faith. See
how unreasonable you are, Friend Henry, and how little true love is in
your mind. Now if you have any regard for the little child do not let us
quite dismember her after the fashion of Solomon's judgment. You may
have her next summer, and I in the winter. I warn you, if you do not
agree, I shall fight to the end. I have no children of my own to deprive
if I go on lawing, and my purse will surely hold out as long as yours."

That was true enough; longer, he knew. So, after a while, he assented
ungraciously, and the matter was adjusted.

But it was not a happy omen that the child's name should cause one
quarrel and the possession of her another. She herself was bright and
joyous, with much of her mother's merry nature and her clear, frank,
beguiling blue eyes.




CHAPTER III.

IN A NEW WORLD.


A very homesick little girl was Primrose Henry when she went out to her
uncle's farm. The nurse went with her, but Lois Henry preferred that she
should not stay. The child was old enough to wait upon herself. She had
a longing for it to fill the vacant place of her own little girls, but
she knew that was carnal and sinful, and strove against it. Since God
had deprived her of them it was not right to put aught else in their
place. So it was a continual struggle between love and duty, and she was
cold to the little stranger.

The name, too, was a stumbling block. They had to accept it, however,
and called her Primrose with the soberest accent. Uncle James felt sore
about being worsted in his suit, for he had desired supreme control of
the child.

She soon found things to love. There was the big house dog Rover. Tiger,
the watch dog, was kept chained in the daytime and let loose at night to
ward off marauders. But he soon came to know her voice and wagged his
tail joyously at her approach. She was quite afraid of the cows, but a
pretty-faced one with no horns became a favorite, and she used to carry
it tid-bits to eat. The cats, too, would come at her call, though they
were not allowed in the house.

And there was Andrew. She was very shy of him at first, but he coaxed
her to look at a bird's nest with its small, blue-speckled eggs. And
there were the chickens that, as they grew larger, followed her about.
Andrew found the first ripe early pear for her, and the delicious, sweet
July apple; he took her when he went fishing on the creek, but she
always felt sorry for the poor fish so cruelly caught, it seemed to her.
He taught her to ride bareback behind him, and some boyish tricks that
amused her wonderfully.

Aunt Lois trained her in spelling, in sums in addition, sewing
patchwork, and spinning on the small wheel. But there was not enough in
the simple living to keep a child busy half the time, and she soon found
ways of roaming about, generally guarded by Rover. Aunt Wetherill had
said, "In six months you are coming back to us," so at first she was
very glad she was not to stay always.

It is the province of happy and wholesome childhood to forget the things
that are behind, or even a future in which there is dread. The life of
childhood is in the present, and it finds many pleasures. So now
Primrose had almost forgotten her joyous and sorrowful past, and really
dreaded the next change. She hated to leave Andrew, the dogs and the
chickens, the cows that she did not fear quite so much, the great
orchard, the long reaches of meadows, and the woods where the birds sang
so enchantingly. But Aunt Lois had not grown into her heart, and she
stood greatly in awe of Uncle James, who had a way of speaking sharply
to her.

But black Cato came with Madam Wetherill in the lumbering chaise, which
was a great rarity at that period. Primrose was dressed in a white
homespun linen frock. At this early stage of the country's industries
they were doing a good deal of weaving at Germantown, though many
people had small looms in their houses. Imported goods were high, and
now that so much of the land was cleared and houses built, they had time
for other things, and were ingenious in discoveries.

Madam Wetherill was very grand in her satin petticoat and brocade gown,
that fell away at the sides and made a train at the back. Her imported
hat of Leghorn, very costly at that period but lasting half a lifetime,
had a big bow of green satin on top, and the high front was filled in
with quilled lace and pink bows. From its side depended a long white
lace veil with a deep worked border of flowers. Her shoes had glittering
buckles, and she wore a great brooch in her stomacher.

Primrose was dreadfully shy, she saw so few strangers. She scarcely
raised her eyes to the rustling dame, and her heart beat with unwonted
agitation.

Madam Wetherill wanted to laugh at the queer little figure, but she was
better bred, and kept a lingering fondness for the child's mother.
Besides, she was one of the possible heirs to her fortune, and some of
the grandnieces and nephews were not altogether to her fancy. And though
she was high-spirited and could both resent and argue fiercely, she had
the Wardour suavity, and some early training abroad in the Court.

"Come hither, little one," and she held out her jeweled hand. "Friend
Henry, I should have called to see my grandniece, but you remember we
thought it best not so to do. You have had the uninterrupted six months,
and I can see you have kept her well. What a clear complexion the child
hath! A little sun-burned, perhaps. Her mother was a fine hearty woman,
and it was a thousand pities she had not been inoculated and cared for
carefully, instead of being attacked in that blind way no one suspected.
She was a sweet thing and I loved her as a daughter of my own, though I
would fain not have had her marry Philemon Henry. But la! love rules us
all, at least us worldly people. I am thankful for thy good care of
Primrose. And now, child, put on thy hood or cap or whatever 'tis, and
come to thy new home, where we promise to treat thee well."

"And return her to us," subjoined Lois Henry, almost afraid to let her
go now that the time had come. "Get thy hat, child."

Chloe entered just then with a glass of home-made wine of excellent
flavor and age, and some newly baked cake that was quite enough in its
very appearance to make one long to taste it. And the napkin she spread
on my lady's lap was fine and soft, if it had not been woven in English
air and taken a sea voyage.

Primrose had glanced up at the lady when she began to address her, and
one by one old memories returned. Friend Henry never spoke of her mother
or Madam Wetherill, and in six months a good deal drops out of a child's
mind, but she smiled a little as the stream of remembrance swept over
her, and recalled her pretty mother's kisses and fondness and a
beautiful house that had made this seem like a desert to her. And Madam
Wetherill squeezed the small hand in a friendly manner, then began to
eat her cake and praise it as well, though Friend Henry protested
against that.

"Chloe, bring the child's hat," she said in so calm a tone it hardly
seemed a command.

Then Madam took her by the hand and they walked out together and the
black servant put her in the chaise. Madam Wetherill spread out her fine
gown so that it almost covered the plain garments of the child.

Lois Henry had merely uttered the briefest of good-byes, with no parting
kiss. She had given her some counsel before. Yet when she shut the main
door that opened into the sitting room, for the strictest of Friends
would have no parlor, she sat down suddenly and put both hands to her
face. It would be very hard to part thus every year, to know one's
sincere efforts in training the child to a godly life would be uprooted
by the vain show of the world, so attractive to youth, and the vision of
the two little girls gone out never to return, swept over her with a
pang. Why could she not give them wholly to the Lord, and be glad they
were in His fold, safe from evil? And this little one--Madam Wetherill
was quite at middle life--she herself was surely younger and might
outlive the other. But at eighteen the child could choose, and she would
be likely to choose the ways of the world, so seductive to youth.

They did not go in to the city house, which was being repaired and
cleaned. Many people owned farms along the banks of the Schuylkill and
in the outlying places, where choice fruits of all kinds were
cultivated, melons and vegetables for winter use as well as summer
luxury. For people had to provide for winter, and there was much
pickling and preserving and candying of fruits, and storing commoner
things so that they would keep well.

The houses were large, if rambling and rather plain, with porches wide
enough to dance on on the beautiful moonlight nights. And there were
sailing and rowing on the river, lovely indeed then with its shaded
winding banks, mysterious nooks, and little creeks that meandered gently
through sedgy grass and rested on the bosom of their mother, lost in her
tenderness.

Parties of young people often met for the afternoon and evening. There
would be boating and dancing and much merrymaking. The people of this
section were less strenuous than the New Englanders. They affiliated
largely with their neighbors to the South. Indeed, many of the business
men owned tobacco plantations in Maryland and Virginia. They kept in
closer contact with the mother country as well. Madam Wetherill herself
had crossed the ocean several times and brought home new fashions and
court gowns and manners. The English novelists and poets were quite well
read, and, though the higher education of women was not approved of,
there were bright young girls who could turn an apt quotation, were
quick at repartee, and confided to their bosom friend that they had
looked over Sterne and Swift. They could indite a few verses on the
marriage of a friend, or the death of some loved infant, but pretty,
attractive manners and a few accomplishments went farther in the gentler
sex than much learning.

The Friends who were in society were not so over strict as to their
attire. Those who lived much alone on the farms, like Lois Henry, or led
restricted lives in the town, pondered much on how little they could
give to the world. But they took from it all they could in thriftiness
and saving.

Young Mrs. Penn and Mrs. Logan and many another indulged in pretty gear,
and grays that went near to lavender and peachy tints. There were
pearl-colored brocades and satins, and dainty caps of sheerest material
that allowed the well-dressed hair to show quite distinctly. There was
also a certain gayety and sprightliness in entertaining, since there
were no matin√©es or shows to visit. Both hostess and guest were expected
to contribute of their best.

Madam Wetherill had long been a well-to-do widow and conducted her large
estate with ability, though she employed a sort of overseer or
confidential clerk. She had inherited a good deal in her own right from
the Wardours and sundry English relatives. Some of the Wetherills were
of the Quaker persuasion, but her husband had wandered a little from the
fold. She had been a Churchwoman, and still considered herself so, but
she was of a very independent turn, and on her last visit to England had
come home rather affronted with the light esteem in which many professed
to hold the colonies.

"They talk as if we were a set of ignoramuses," she declared in high
dudgeon. "We are worthy of nothing but the tillage of fields and
whatever industries the will of the mother country directs. Are we,
their own offspring, to be always considered children and servants, and
have masters appointed over us without any say of our own? We can build
ships. Why can we not trade with any port in the world? What if we have
raised up no Master Chaucer nor Shakspere nor Ben Jonson, nor wise Lord
Bacon and divers storytellers--did England do this in her early years
when she was hard bestead with the hordes from the Continent? We have
had to make our way against Indian savages, and did we not conquer the
French in our mother's behalf? And then to be set down as ignorant
children, forsooth, and told what we must do and from what we must
refrain. The colonies have outgrown swaddling-clothes!"

But she was fond of gayety and pleasure as well, and having no children
to place in the world and no really near kindred but first and second
cousins she saw no need of being penurious, and lived with a free hand.
She was very fond of young people also, and it seemed a great pity she
had not been mother of a family. Her city house was a great rendezvous,
and her farmhouse was the stopping place of many a gay party, and often
a crowd to supper with a good deal of impromptu dancing afterward.

The porch was full of young people now, with two or three men in
military costume, so they drove around to the side entrance. Mistress
Janice was busy ordering refreshments and making a new kind of frozen
custard. A pleasant-faced, youngish woman came to receive them.

"Here is the little Quaker, Patty, in her homespun gown. I might as well
have sent you, for Friend Henry made no time at all, but was as meek as
a mild-mannered mother sheep. It is the law, of course, and they had no
right to refuse, but I was a little afraid of a fuss, and that perhaps
they had set up the child against such ungodly people."

"Oh, how she has grown!" cried Patty. "Child, have you forgotten me?"

"Oh, no!" said Primrose a little shyly. "And my own mother liked you so.
You were my nurse----"

She slipped her hand within that of the woman.

"She was a sweet person, poor dear! It will always be a great loss to
thee, little child. Oh, madam, the eyes are the same; blue as a bit of
sky between mountains. But she is not as fair----"

"Thou must bleach her up with sour cream and softening lotions that will
not hurt the skin. There, child, go with Patty, who will get thee into
something proper. But she is like her mother in this respect, common
garb does not disfigure her."

Patty led her upstairs and through the hall into a sort of ell part
where there were two rooms. The first had a great work table with
drawers, and some patterns pinned up to the window casings that seemed
like parts of ghosts. The floor was bare, but painted yellow. There was
a high bureau full of drawers with a small oblong looking-glass on top,
a set of shelves with a few books, and numerous odds and ends, a long
bench with a chintz-covered pallet, and some chairs, beside a sort of
washing stand in the corner. The adjoining room was smaller and had two
cot beds covered with patchwork spreads.

"Yes, thou hast grown wonderfully," repeated Patty. "And who cut thy
lovely hair so short? But it curls like thy mother's. I find myself
talking Quaker to thee, though to be sure the best quality use it."

"I had so much hair and it was so warm that it hath been cut several
times this summer."

"Oh, you charming little Friend!" Patty gave her a hug and half a dozen
kisses. "I'll warrant thou hast forgotten the old times!"

"It comes back to me," and the blue eyes kindled with a soft light that
would have been entrancing in a woman. "Aunt Lois checked me when I
would have talked about them. And when I was here--it was in the other
house, I remember--I was so sad and lonely without my dear mamma."

She gave a sigh and her bosom swelled.

"Patty, I cannot understand clearly. What is death, and why does God
want people when He has so many in heaven? And a little girl has but one
mother."

"Law, child! I do not know myself. The catechism may explain it, but I
was ever a dull scholar at reading and liked not study. Yes, thy face
must be bleached up, and I will begin this very night. They were good to
thee"--tentatively.

"I always felt afraid of Uncle James, though he never slapped me but
once, when I ran after the little chickens. They were such balls of
yellow down that I wanted to hug them. Afterward I asked Andrew what I
might do. He was very good to me, and he wished I had been his little
sister."

Patty laughed. "And did you wish it too?"

"I liked my own dear mother best. When I was out in the woods alone I
talked to her. Do you think she could hear in the sky? Aunt Lois said it
was wrong to wish her back again, or to wish for anything that God took
away. And so I ceased to wish for anybody, but learned to put on my
clothes and tie my strings and button, and do what Aunt Lois told me. I
can wipe cups and saucers and make my bed and sweep my room and weed in
the garden, and sew, and spin a little, but I cannot make very even
thread yet. And to knit--I have knit a pair of stockings, Patty. Aunt
Lois said those I brought were vanity."

"Stuff and nonsense! These Quakers would have the world go in hodden
gray, and clumsy shoes and stockings. Let us see thine. Oh, ridiculous!
We will give them to little Catty, the scrubwoman's child. Now I will
put thee in something decent."

She began to disrobe her and bathed her shoulders and arms in some
fragrant water.

"Oh, how delightful! It smells like roses," and she pressed the cloth to
her face.

"It is rose-water. What was in the garden at the Henrys'? Or is
everything wicked that does not grow to eat?"

"The roses were saved to make something to put in cake. But the lavender
was laid in the press and the drawers. It was very fragrant, but not
like the roses."

She combed out the child's hair until it fell in rings about her head.
Then she put on some fine, pretty garments and a slip of pink silk, cut
over from a petticoat of Madam Wetherill's. Her stockings were fine, cut
over as well, and her low shoes had little heels and buckles.

"Oh," she cried with sudden gayety that still had a pathos in it, "it
brings back mamma and so many things! Were they packed away, Patty, like
one's best clothes? It is as if I could pull them out of a trunk where
they had been shut up in the dark. And there were so many pretty
garments, and a picture of father that I used to wear sometimes about my
neck with a ribbon."

"Yes, yes; madam has a boxful, saving for you, unless you turn Quaker.
But we shall keep a sharp eye on you that you do not fall in love with
any of the broadbrims. But your father was one of the handsomest of his
sect, and a gentleman. It was whispered that his trade made him full
lenient of many things, and your mother looked like a picture just
stepped out of a frame. She had such an air that her dressing never made
her plain. I am afraid you will not be as handsome. Oh, fie! what
nonsense I am talking! I shall make thee as vain as a peacock!"

Primrose laughed gayly. She felt happy and unafraid, as if she had been
released from bondage. And yet everything seemed so strange she hardly
dared stir. Why, this was the way she felt at Aunt Lois' the first week
or two.

There was a rustle in the little hall, and the child turned.

"I declare, Patty, thou hast transformed our small Quaker, and improved
her beyond belief. She is not so bad when all's said and done!"

"But all isn't done yet, madam. When she comes to be bleached, and her
hair grown out, but la! it's just a cloud now, a little too rough for
silk, but we will soon mend that, and such a soft color."

"Canst thou courtesy, child? Let me see?"

Primrose looked a little frightened and glanced from one to the other.

"This way." Patty held up a bit of the skirt of her gown, took a step
forward with one foot, and made a graceful inclination. "Now try. Surely
you knew before you fell into the hands of that strait sect who consider
respectable manners a vanity. Try--now again. That does fairly well, my
lady."

Primrose was so used to obeying that, although her face turned red, she
went through the evolution in a rather shy but not ungraceful manner.

"Thou has done well with the frock, Patty, and it is becoming. My! but
she looks another child. Now I am going to lead thee downstairs and thou
must not be silly, nor frighted of folks. They knew thy dear mother."

Madame Wetherill took her by the hand and led her through another hall
and down a wide staircase to the main hall that ran through the house. A
great rug lay in the front square, and on one side was a mahogany settle
with feather cushions in gay flowered chintz.

Out on the porch was a girlish group laughing and jesting, sipping mead,
and eating cake and confections. Little tables placed here and there
held the refreshments. The sun was dropping down and the Schuylkill
seemed a mass of molten crimson and gold commingled. The fresh wind blew
up through the old-fashioned garden of sweet herbs and made the air
about fragrant.

"This is my little grandniece, Primrose Henry," she exclaimed,
presenting the child. "Some of you have seen her mother, no doubt, who
died so sadly at Trenton of that miserable smallpox."

"Oh, and her father, too!" exclaimed Mrs. Pemberton, putting down her
glass and coming forward.

Primrose had made her courtesy and now half buried her face in Madame
Wetherill's voluminous brocade.

"A fine man indeed was Philemon Henry, with the air of good descent, and
the manner of courts. And we always wondered if he would not have come
over to us if his sweetheart had stood firm. Girls do not realize all
their power. But it was a happy marriage, what there was of it. Alas!
that it should have ended so soon! But I think the child favors her
mother."

"And it will not do to say all the sweet things we know about her
mother," laughed pretty Miss Chew. "Sweet diet is bad for infants and
had better be saved for their years of appreciation. You see we may
never reach discretion."

"Come hither, little maid," said a persuasive voice. "I have two at home
not unlike thee, and shall be glad to bring them when Madam comes home
to Arch Street. Primrose! What an odd name, savoring of English
gardens."

Some of the younger women pulled her hither and thither and kissed her,
and one pinned a posy on her shoulder. Then Madam Wetherill led her down
quite to the edge of the porch, where sat a rather thin, fretted-looking
woman, gowned in the latest style, and a girl of ten, much more
furbelowed than was the custom of attiring children.

"This is the child I was telling thee of, Bessy Wardour's little one
that she had to leave with such regrets. This is a relative of thy
mother's, Primrose, and this is Anabella. I hope you two children may be
friends."

There was a certain curious suavity in Madam Wetherill's tone that was
not quite like her every-day utterances.

"A Wardour--yes; was there not something about her marriage----"

"She became a Friend for love's sake," laughed Madam Wetherill. "Others
stood ready to marry her, but she would have none of them--girls are
willful."

The lady rose with a high dignity.

"It grows late," she said, "and if you will keep your promise, dear
aunt, I should like to be sent home, since it is not well for children
to be out in the evening dews. And I hope the little girls may indeed be
friends."

"Yes, I will order the chaise."

Others had risen. Mrs. Pemberton and her daughter, and two or three
more, had been bidden to supper. Some of the ladies had come on
horseback, the ordinary mode of traveling. They clustered about Madam
Wetherill and praised her cake and said how glad they would be to get
her in the city again. Then they pinned up their pretty skirts and put
on their safeguard petticoats and were mounted by Cato and went off,
nodding. The chaise took in two other ladies.

The little girls had simply eyed each other curiously, but neither made
any advance, and parted formally.

Then Patty came and took Primrose upstairs and gave her a supper of
bread and milk and a dish of cut peaches and cream. Afterward she
undressed her and put her in one of the cots, bidding her go to sleep at
once. She was needed elsewhere.

But Primrose felt desperately, disobediently wide awake. It had been
such an afternoon of adventure after six months of the quietest routine
that had made memory almost lethargic. The remembrances came trooping
back--the long time it seemed to her when she had yearned and cried in
secret for her mother, the two little girls that in some degree
comforted her, and then the half terror and loneliness on the farm until
she had come to love the dumb animals and her Cousin Andrew. This was
all so different. A long, long while and then she must go back. What
made people so unlike? What made goodness and badness? And what was God
that she stood dreadfully in awe of, who could see her while she could
not see Him?

Thus, swinging back and forth amid unanswerable questions, she fell
asleep.




CHAPTER IV.

OF MANY THINGS.


Madam Wetherill was much engrossed with visitors and overseeing the farm
work, ordering what of the produce was to be sold, what of the flax and
the wool sent away to be spun and woven, and the jars and boxes and
barrels set aside to be taken into the town later on. Patty was busy
sewing for the little girl and her mistress, and sometimes, when she was
bothered, she was apt to be rather sharp. At others she proved
entertaining.

Primrose learned to know her way about the great house and the garden
and orchard. Now she must go with a bonnet to protect her from the sun
and linen gloves to keep her hands white, or to get them that color. At
night she was anointed with cosmetics, and her hair was brushed and
scented, but needed no help from curling tongs or pins.

It was like a strange dream to her, and in the morning when she awoke
she wondered first if she had not overslept and missed the call of Aunt
Lois; then she would laugh, remembering. She was a very cheerful,
tractable child, and Madam Wetherill was much drawn to her. Sometimes
she went riding with her in the coach, which was a rather extravagant
luxury in those days.

And then they came into town and it was stranger still to the little
girl. But now she began to be busy.

There were some schools where boys and girls went together, but many of
the best people had their daughters educated at home. It seemed quite
desirable that they should learn French, as it was useful to have a
language servants could not understand. They began with Latin, as that
gave a better foundation for all else. Then there was enough of
arithmetic to keep household accounts and to compute interest. Madam
Wetherill had found her knowledge most useful, as she had a large estate
to manage and had no such objections as many of the women of that
period.

There was the spinet and singing of songs, dancing and doing fine
needlework. Anabella Morris was to come in for the accomplishments.

Her mother professed to hold the weightier knowledge in slight esteem.

"Anabella will no doubt have a husband to manage for her," her mother
said with a high sort of indifference. "Women make but a poor fist at
money affairs."

"Indeed, Niece Mary, I do not see but what I have managed my affairs as
well as most men could have done them for me. And look at Hester Morris,
left with a handsome patrimony by an easy husband, and now dependent on
relatives. I am glad there is talk of her second marriage."

"Mere talk, it may be." With her nose in the air, Mary Morris was not a
little jealous that her almost penniless sister-in-law should capture
the prize she had been angling for.

"Let us hope it will be something more. I hear Miss Morris hath promised
her a wedding gown, and I will add a brocade with a satin petticoat.
Hester is a pleasant body, if not overdowered with wisdom."

Mrs. Mary Morris was not poor, though it needed much contriving to get
along on her income. She was very fond of play, one of the vices of the
time, and though she was often successful, at others she lost heavily.
She was fond of being considered much richer than she really was, and
kept her pinches to herself. One of her dreams had been the possibility
of being asked to stay at Wetherill House for the winter, at least, but
this had not happened. She was not as near a connection as Bessy Wardour
had been, but she made the most of the relationship, and there were not
a great many near heirs; so all might reasonably count on having
something by and by.

She had received a goodly supply of provisions from the farm, and the
offer had been made for Anabella to share Primrose Henry's teachers with
no extra charge.

"You are very generous to the child," she said in a complaining tone. "I
thought Philemon Henry was in excellent circumstances."

"So he was."

"And is not her guardian, the other one, a well-to-do Quaker? Why must
you be so regardful of her?"

"Yes, she will have a nice sum, doubtless. I want her brought up to fit
her station, which the Henrys, being strict Friends, would not do. Her
mother appointed me her guardian, you know. I do nothing beside my duty.
But if you do not care----"

"Oh, 'tis a real charity to offer it for Anabella, and I am glad to
accept. She is well trained, I suppose, so no harm can come of the
association."

"Oh, no harm indeed," returned the elder dryly.

After the simplicity of life at the Henrys' there seemed such a
confusion of servants that Primrose was almost frightened. Mistress
Janice Kent kept them in order, and next to Madam Wetherill ruled the
house. Patty was a seamstress, a little higher than the maid who made
her mistress ready for all occasions, looked after her clothes, did up
her laces, and crimped her ruffles. But Patty wrote her invitations and
answered the ordinary notes; and she was appointed to look after and
care for Primrose, who was too old for a nurse and not old enough for a
maid.

Patty was a woman of some education, while Mistress Kent had been to
France and Holland, and could both write and speak French. Patty's
advantages had been rather limited, but she was quick and shrewd and
made the most of them, though the feeling between her and Janice Kent
rather amused Madam Wetherill. Janice was always trying to "set her down
in her proper place," but what that was exactly it would have been hard
to tell. Janice would not have had time to look after the child, and
this responsibility rather raised her. Then she had wonderful skill with
caps and gowns, and could imitate any imported garment, for even then
those who could sent abroad for garments made up in the latest style,
though it was London and not Paris style.

Primrose kept her bed in Patty's room. There were plain little gowns for
her daily wear, but white aprons instead of homespun ginghams. She came
to breakfast with Madam Wetherill when there were no guests, or only one
or two intimates. For the people of the town had much of the Southern
ways of hospitality, and when on their farms in summer often invited
their less fortunate friends. It was not always lack of money, but many
of the merchants in trade and commerce between the home ports had no
time to spend upon country places, and were not averse to having their
wives and daughters enjoy some of the more trying summer weeks in the
cooler suburban places.

So Primrose sat like a mouse unless someone spoke to her, and it was
considered not best to take too much notice of children, as it made them
forward. Then there were two hours devoted to studying, and sewing with
Patty until dinner, which was often taken upstairs in the sewing room.
Twice a week the tutor came for Latin and French, the former first; and
then Anabella came for French, and after that the little girls could
have a play or a walk, or a ride with Madam Wetherill. Then there was a
dancing lesson twice a week, on alternate days, and a young woman came
to teach the spinet, which was a rather unusual thing, as women were not
considered to know anything except housekeeping well enough to teach it.
But this was one of Madam Wetherill's whims. For the girl's family had
been unfortunate, and the elder woman saw in this scheme a way to assist
them without offering charity.

"Do you suppose the little girls I knew last winter will ever come
back?" she asked of Patty one day.

"Oh, la, no!" was the reply. "Five years of school lies before them--not
like Master Dove's school, where one goes every morning, but a great
boarding house where they are housed and fed and study, and have only
half of Saturday for a holiday. And they study from morning to night."

"It must be very hard," sighed Primrose. "And why do they learn so
much?"

"To be sure, that's the puzzle! And they say women don't need to know.
They can't be lawyers nor doctors nor ministers, nor officers in case of
war, nor hold offices."

"But they can be queens. There was Queen Elizabeth, and Queen Anne. I
