
"I have known Mr. Carver a long time," said Dan, smiling.

"Indeed!" said Mr. Rogers, surprised.

"We used to sit together at school."

"You didn't tell me that, Tom," said Julia Rogers, turning to Tom.

"No," said Tom, embarrassed; "it is a good while ago."

"I won't detain you any longer from your friends," said Mr. Rogers,
politely. "I shall see you at the office in the morning."

Dan bowed and withdrew.

"Where did you meet him, papa?" asked Julia.

Her father told the story of Dan's exploit on the ferry-boat.

"He is a very smart boy," he said. "I shall probably take him into my
employ."

"I hope you will, papa. He is a very gentlemanly boy."

All this was very disagreeable to Tom Carver, but he did not venture to
say all that he felt, being somewhat in awe of Mr. Rogers.

"They are making a great fuss over a common newsboy," he muttered to
himself.

After supper, Dan prepared to take Althea home with him. She felt so
well acquainted already that she made no objection, but, hand-in-hand,
left the hotel with Dan. He halted a Broadway stage, and they got in.

"Are you carrying me to where you live, Dan?" asked the little girl.

"Yes, Althea."

"Will your mother be glad to see me?"

"Yes, she will be very glad. She wants a little girl to keep her
company."

"Then I'm glad I'm going."




CHAPTER XIV.

A NEW HOME.


Mrs. Mordaunt was apprised by Fanny that Dan had gone up town with a
lady, and therefore was not alarmed when he did not return home at the
usual time. She hoped he would clear fifty cents, but had no idea to
what extent their fortunes would be advanced by Dan's evening's work.

"I will save Dan some supper," she said to herself. "He will be hungry."

So, mother-like, she supped economically herself, on a cup of tea and
some dry bread, and bought a bit of steak for Dan's supper, for she
thought he would be very hungry at so late an hour.

It was nearly half-past eight when she heard Dan's well known step on
the stairs.

She opened the door to welcome him, but the cheerful welcome upon her
lips died away in surprise when she saw his companion.

"Who is this, Dan?" she asked.

"She is going to be my little sister, mother," said Dan, gayly.

"Will you be my mother?" said Althea, releasing Dan's hand, and putting
her own confidingly in that of Mrs. Mordaunt.

"Yes, my dear," said the widow, her heart quite won by the little girl's
innocent confidence, and she bent over and kissed her.

"What does it all mean, Dan?" she asked, in bewilderment.

"It means that Althea is to board with us, and be company for you. I
have agreed with her aunt that you will take her."

"But does her aunt know that we live in such a poor place?" asked his
mother in a tone of hesitation.

"Yes, mother, but that makes no difference, as we shall move up town
to-morrow."

"I am sure you have acted for the best, Dan, but it seems so strange."

"Will it seem strange to receive fifty dollars a month for Althea's
board?" asked Dan.

"Fifty dollars a month!" repeated the widow, incredulously.

"That's the figure, mother. I didn't suppose we ought to charge more."

"More, Dan! Why, it is a fortune!"

"I don't know. That depends on Althea's appetite. Are you a great eater,
Althea?"

"Sometimes I am," said the little girl, naively.

"Never mind, I guess there will be enough."

"I nearly forgot, Dan. You will want some supper. I didn't know there
would be two, but I will go cut and buy some more meat, if you can
wait."

"I have had supper, mother, or dinner rather. I dined with Althea and
her aunt at the Fifth Avenue Hotel."

Here was another surprise.

"Has Althea been stopping there, Dan?"

"Yes, mother."

"Then how can she stay even one night in this poor place?"

"I will ask her. Althea, do you mind stopping here just one night? We
will go to a better place to-morrow."

"No, Dan, I don't care."

"There, mother, I told you so, Althea is a brick."

"What a funny boy you are, Dan! How can I be a brick? A brick is red and
ugly, and I am not."

"No, Althea, you are not ugly, but your cheeks are red."

"They don't look like a brick, Dan."

"No, they don't. I take it all back."

"I had got your supper all ready, Dan," said his mother, regretfully.

"Then eat it yourself, mother."

"I have had my supper."

"You didn't have any meat, I'll warrant. Now, like a good mother, sit
down and eat the steak."

Assured that Dan had supped well, Mrs. Mordaunt didn't resist his
advice.

Dan looked on, and saw with pleasure that his mother relished the meat.

"We will be able to live better hereafter, mother," he said. "There
won't be any stinting. Fifty dollars will go a good ways, and then,
besides, there will be my earnings. I forgot to tell you, mother, that I
have probably got a place."

"Our good fortune is coming all at once, Dan," said Mrs. Mordaunt,
cheerfully.

"So it seems, mother. I think it has come to stay, too."

"I feel so tired," said Althea, at this point. "Can I go to bed?"

"Certainly, my dear child. You can go at once."

In twenty minutes the little girl was in a sound sleep. Dan was not
sorry, for he wanted to tell his mother about the days adventures, and
he could do so more freely without any one to listen.

"So, mother," he concluded, "we are going to turn over a new leaf. We
can't go back to our old style of living just yet, but we can get out of
this tenement-house, and live in a respectable neighborhood."

"God has been good to us, Dan. We ought to feel grateful to Him."

"I know it, mother, but somehow I don't think of that as quick as you.
Who do you think I saw in the supper-room at the Fifth Avenue? Who but
Tom Carver. He was wonderfully puzzled to know how I happened to be
there. He told the party he was with that I was a common newsboy."

"He is a very mean boy," said Mrs. Mordaunt, indignantly. "After being
so intimate with you too."

"Never mind, mother. He can't do me any harm, and I don't care for his
friendship. The time may come when I can meet him on even terms."

"You can now, Dan."

"I mean in a worldly way. I shall work along, and if I get rich I
sha'n't be the first rich man that has risen from the ranks."

"God grant you success, my son!"

Early the next morning Dan started out in search of a new home.

He and his mother decided that they would like to live somewhere near
Union Square, as that would be a pleasant afternoon resort for their
young boarder.

"Will you go with me, mother?" he asked.

"No, Dan, I have not time this morning. Besides you know what will suit
us."

"Very well, mother; I will do my best."

Dan crossed Broadway, and took a horse-car up town.

In West Sixteenth street his attention was drawn to the notice,
"Furnished Rooms to Let," upon a good-looking brick house.

He rang the bell, and asked to see the lady of the house.

A stout, matronly looking woman, with a pleasant face, answered the
servant's call.

"I called to inquire for rooms," said Dan.

"For yourself?" asked Mrs. Brown.

"For my mother, and sister, and myself."

"I have a large back room on the third floor, and a small room on the
fourth floor."

"May I see them?"

"Come up stairs, sir."

First Dan went into the large room.

It was neatly carpeted and furnished, and had a cheerful outlook.

"This will do for mother and Althea," he said.

"Will you look at the little room?"

"Yes, ma'am, but I am sure that will suit. It is for me, and I am not
particular. But there's one thing that may trouble us."

"What is that?"

"Where can mother prepare our meals? She can't cook in the bedroom."

"I will give her the privilege of using my kitchen. I don't care to
take boarders, as it would be too much care, but your mother is welcome
to use my kitchen stove."

"Won't it interfere with you?"

"Leave that to your mother and myself," said Mrs. Brown, with a pleasant
smile. "We can make some satisfactory arrangement."

"How much do you want for your rooms?" asked Dan.

"Will you be permanent?"

"We will be permanent, if suited."

"Of course; that is all I ask. Will four dollars a week suit you?"

"We will pay it," said Dan, quite relieved, for he feared he should have
to pay more. "Can we move in to-day?"

"Any time, sir."

"Thank you."

"I generally ask a week's rent in advance," said Mrs. Brown, "but in
your case I won't insist upon it."

"Oh, it is perfectly convenient," said Dan, and he drew out his
pocket-book containing the money--over a hundred dollars--which Althea's
aunt had given him.

Mrs. Brown's respect for Dan was considerably increased by this display
of wealth, and she congratulated herself on securing such substantial
lodgers.

This business accomplished Dan went down town, and informed his mother
of the arrangement he had made. Before night Mrs. Mordaunt, Althea, and
he were installed in their new home, much to the regret of Mrs.
Rafferty, who regretted losing so good a neighbor. Before this, however,
Dan sought the counting-room of Barton & Rogers.




CHAPTER XV.

DAN BECOMES A DETECTIVE.


Barton & Rogers evidently did business in a large way. They occupied an
imposing-looking building of five stories, the greater part being used
to store goods. Dan entered and looked around him. A spare,
dark-complexioned man of about thirty-five, with a pen behind his ear,
was issuing orders to a couple of workmen.

Dan approached him.

"Is Mr. Rogers in?" he asked.

"No, he is not," said the dark man, curtly.

"Will he be in soon?"

"I don't know."

"You might be more civil," thought our hero.

He stood his ground, feeling authorized to do so because he had come by
appointment.

Observing this, the book-keeper turned and said, sharply:

"Didn't you hear? I said Mr. Rogers was out."

"I heard you," said Dan, quietly.

"Then why do you remain? Do you doubt my word?"

"Not at all, sir; but Mr. Rogers asked me to call this morning. I can
wait."

"You can tell me your business."

"Thank you, but I don't think that would do."

The book-keeper eyed him sharply, and his face lighted up with a sudden
discovery.

"I know you now," he said. "You sell papers in front of the Astor House,
don't you?"

"That has been my business."

"I thought so; I have bought papers of you."

"Thank you for your patronage."

"What can you want of Mr. Rogers?"

"Mr. Rogers wants me, I suppose, or he would not have asked me to call,"
returned Dan.

"You are a cool hand."

"Not always," said Dan, with a smile. "Some hot days I am far from
cool."

"I suppose Mr. Rogers wishes you to supply him with an evening paper?"

"Perhaps he does," returned Dan, with a smile.

"Confound the fellow! I can't make anything of him. When did you see Mr.
Rogers last?"

"In the supper-room of the Fifth Avenue Hotel."

"How happened you to be there?" demanded Talbot, the book-keeper, in
surprise.

"I was taking supper," said Dan, rather enjoying the others surprise,
"and Mr. Rogers saw me from another table."

"Humph! Do you often take supper at the Fifth Avenue Hotel?"

"Not often."

"Selling papers must be very profitable."

"I'm willing to change places with you."

Just then Mr. Rogers entered the warehouse.

"Ah! you are here before me, Dan," he remarked, pleasantly. "Have you
been here long?"

"No, sir; only about five minutes."

"I must keep you waiting a few minutes longer while I look at my
letters. The letters have arrived, have they not, Mr. Talbot?"

"Yes, sir."

"Amuse yourself as you like while you are waiting, Dan," said the
merchant.

Mr. Talbot, the book-keeper, followed the merchant into the
counting-room, and Dan was left alone. He looked about him with
interest, thinking it probable that this was to be his future business
home. It would certainly be a piece of good fortune to become attached
to so large and important a house, and he felt in very good spirits,
though he foresaw that Mr. Talbot would not make it very pleasant for
him. But with his employer on his side he need not be alarmed.

Fifteen minutes passed, and Mr. Rogers emerged from the counting-room.

"I have to go out a few minutes," he said to Dan. "Come with me, and we
can talk on the way."

"Certainly, sir."

Mr. Talbot followed the two with a frown upon his brow.

"How on earth has that boy managed to get round Mr. Rogers?" he asked
himself. "I hope he won't be foolish enough to take him in here."

Talbot had a nephew whom he was anxious to get into the business, and
Dan's engagement would interfere with his little plan. This partly
accounts for his brusque reception of Dan on his first arrival.

"Well, how do you like our place of business, Dan?" asked Mr. Rogers.

"Very much, sir."

"Would you rather sell papers or take employment with me?"

"I should like very much to be in your employ, sir."

"How much did you earn as a newsboy?"

"When I was lucky I made a dollar a day."

"Then I ought to give you six dollars a week."

"I will come for less, sir."

"I will pay you what I said. It is more than boys generally get at the
start, but I am willing to pay a good sum to a boy who suits me."

"I will try to suit you, sir."

"Do you know why I take you into my employ?"

"Out of kindness, sir."

"I feel kindly disposed to you, Dan, but that is not my chief reason."

Dan was puzzled, and waited to hear more.

"My attention was drawn to you on the ferry-boat. I observed your
detection of the mean scamp who cheated a poor flower-girl by offering
her bad money, and I inferred that you were sharp and keen."

"I hope I am, sir."

"That is the sort of boy I want just now. Did you observe Mr. Talbot, my
book-keeper?"

"Yes, sir."

"What did you think of him?"

Dan smiled.

"I don't think he admires me much," he answered. "He wanted to clear me
out before you came in."

"Did he?"

"Yes; he recognized me as a newsboy."

"I understand his reception of you. He has a nephew whom he wishes me to
engage. He is jealous of all possible rivals."

"Perhaps his nephew would suit you better, sir," said Dan, modestly.

"Are you willing to resign in his favor?"

"I prefer to leave that to you, sir."

"You can do so safely. The nephew is a disagreeable boy, who would not
suit me at all. He thinks more of dress than of duty, and, if I read him
aright, is lazy and incompetent. Nevertheless, Mr. Talbot has spoken to
me about taking him."

"Perhaps he doesn't know his nephew's faults."

"He knows them well enough, but is desirous of promoting his interests.
He won't look upon you very favorably when he learns that I have engaged
you."

"If you are satisfied, I won't care for that."

"Well spoken, my lad. And now for a few words in confidence," and Mr.
Rogers lowered his voice. "Our business is a large one, and the sums of
money handled are necessarily large. Three months since I ascertained
that somewhere in my establishment there was a leak. We are losing money
in some unexplained way. I believe that some one in whom I repose
confidence is betraying me."

Dan listened in earnest attention.

"Do you suspect any one, sir?" he asked.

"I suspect Mr. Talbot," he said, in the same low voice.

Dan started in surprise.

"It seems strange, perhaps, that I should speak so confidentially to
you--a mere boy--but I am impressed with the idea that you can help me."

"If I can, sir, I will," said Dan, earnestly.

"I don't doubt it. My first injunction is to say no word, even to your
nearest relations, of what I have told you."

"I won't, sir."

"Next, keep a watch over Mr. Talbot. I want to know what are his habits,
whether he uses money freely, with whom he associates. Can you, without
betraying to him that he is watched, find out some information for me on
these points?"

"I will try, sir."

"If you secure any information, never communicate it to me in the
office. Either come to my house, or write me there."

"Yes, sir."

"You understand that I am employing you in a detective capacity, and
that your time will partly be taken up out of business hours. I intend
to pay you extra, according to results. Is that satisfactory?"

"Perfectly so, Mr. Rogers, but I am afraid you will be disappointed in
me."

"I will take my risk of that."

"Have you any directions to give me, sir, as to how to go to work?"

"No; I am nothing of a detective myself. I leave that to you. I might,
of course, employ a professional detective, but Talbot is sharp, and he
would suspect. You he will not suspect. He won't dream of my employing a
boy. That is all I have to say for the present. When can you come to
work?"

"I can come to-morrow morning. To-day we are going to move."

"To-morrow let it be, then. Good-morning, Dan."

Mr. Rogers shook hands with our hero, and walked away.

"I am afraid I have a hard job on my hands," thought Dan, "but I will do
my best."




CHAPTER XVI.

DAN MAKES A DISCOVERY.


Dan's mother was much pleased with her new quarters. The large room,
occupied by Althea and herself, was bright and cheerful, and well
furnished. Besides the ordinary chamber furniture, there was a
comfortable arm-chair and a lounge. Mrs. Mordaunt felt that she would
not be ashamed now to receive a visit from some of her former friends.

She had anticipated some trouble about the preparation of meals, but
Mrs. Brown made a proposition which wonderfully removed all
difficulties.

"Mrs. Mordaunt," she said, "your family is about the same as mine. I
have a son who is employed in a newspaper office down town, and you have
two young children. Now, suppose we club together, and each pay half of
the table supplies. Then one day you can superintend the cooking--you
will only have to direct my servant Maggie--and the next day I will do
it. Then, every other day, each of us will be a lady of leisure, and not
have to go into the kitchen at all. What do you say?"

"The arrangement will be so much to my advantage that I can say only
one thing--I accept with thanks. But won't you be doing more than your
share? You will be furnishing the fuel, and pay Maggie's wages."

"I should have to do that at any rate. The plan is perfectly
satisfactory to me, if it suits you."

Mrs. Mordaunt found that the expense was not beyond her means. Her
income for the care of Althea was fifty dollars a month, and Dan paid
her four dollars a week out of his wages, reserving the balance as a
fund to purchase clothes. She went herself to market and selected
articles for the table, and, for the first time since her husband's
failure, found herself in easy circumstances.

There was no need now to make vests at starvation prices. She had
thought of continuing, but Dan insisted upon her giving it up entirely.

"If you want to sew, mother," he said, "you can make some of Althea's
clothes, and pay yourself out of the ten dollars a month allowed for her
clothes."

This was sensible and proper, and Mrs. Mordaunt decided to follow Dan's
advice. She lost no time in obtaining books for the little girl, and
commencing her education. Althea knew her letters, but nothing more. She
was bright and eager to learn, and gained rapidly under her new teacher.

Naturally, Dan and his mother were curious as to Althea's early
history, but from the little girl they obtained little information.

"Do you remember your mother, Althea?" asked Dan, one evening.

"Yes," said the little girl.

"When did you see her last?"

"Not long ago. Only a little while before you brought me here."

"Your mother isn't dead, is she?"

"No; but she's gone away."

"Why did she go away?"

"She is sick. That's what auntie told me. Poor mamma cried very much
when she went away. She kissed me, and called me her darling."

"Do you know where she went?"

"No; I don't know."

"Perhaps her lungs are affected, and she has gone to a warmer climate,"
suggested Mrs. Mordaunt. "She may have gone to Florida, or even to
Italy."

"Where is your father?" asked Dan, turning to Althea.

"Father is a bad man," said the child, positively. "He made mamma cry.
He went away a good while ago."

"And didn't he come back?"

"He came back once, and then mamma cried again. I think he wanted mamma
to give him some money."

Dan and his mother talked over the little girl's revelations, and
thought they had obtained a clew to the mystery in which the child's
history was involved. Althea's mother might have married a man of bad
habits, who wanted to get possession of her fortune, and rendered a
separation necessary. Ill health might have required her to leave home
and shift the care of the little girl upon strangers. It seemed rather
odd that she should have been handed over to utter strangers, but there
might have been reasons of which they knew nothing.

"We won't trouble ourselves about it," said Dan. "It's good luck for us,
even if it was bad luck for Althea's mother. I like the idea of having a
little sister."

Althea's last name was not known to her new protector. When Dan
inquired, he was told that she could pass by his name, so Althea
Mordaunt she became.

Both Dan and his mother had feared that she might become homesick, but
the fear seemed groundless. She was of a happy disposition, and almost
immediately began to call Mrs. Mordaunt mother.

"I call you mother," she said, "but I have a mamma besides; but she has
gone away."

"You must not forget your mamma, my dear," said the widow.

"No, I won't. She will come back some day; she said she would."

"And I will take care of you till she does, Althea."

"Yes," said the child, nodding. "I am glad I came to you, for now I have
a brother Dan."

"And I have a little sister," said Dan.

While Dan was away, and now he was away after supper regularly, Althea
was a great deal of company for Mrs. Mordaunt.

In the pleasant afternoons she took the little girl out to walk,
frequently to Union Square Park, where she made acquaintance with other
little girls, and had a merry time, while her new mother sat on one of
the benches.

One day a dark-complexioned gentleman, who had been looking earnestly at
Althea, addressed Mrs. Mordaunt.

"That is a fine little girl of yours, madam," he said.

"Thank you," said Mrs. Mordaunt.

"She does not resemble you much," he said, inquiringly.

"No; there is very little resemblance," answered Mrs. Mordaunt, quietly,
feeling that she must be on her guard.

"Probably she resembles her father?" again essayed the stranger.

Mrs. Mordaunt did not reply, and the stranger thought she was offended.

"I beg your pardon," he said, "but she resembles a friend of mine, and
that called my attention to her."

Mrs. Mordaunt bowed, but thought it wisest not to protract the
conversation. She feared that the inquirer might be a friend of the
father, and hostile to the true interests of the child.

For a week to come she did not again bring Althea to the park, but
walked with her in a different direction. When, after a week, she
returned to the square, the stranger had disappeared. At all events, he
was not to be seen.

We pass now to Dan and his interests.

Mr. Talbot heard of his engagement with anything but satisfaction. He
even ventured to remonstrate with Mr. Rogers.

"Do you know that this boy whom you have engaged is a common newsboy?"
he asked. "I have bought a paper more than once of him, in front of the
Astor House."

"So have I," answered Mr. Rogers, quietly.

"Then you know all about him?"

"Yes."

"It is none of my business, but I think you could easily get a better
boy. There is my nephew----"

"Your nephew would not suit me, Mr. Talbot."

The book-keeper bit his lip.

"Won't you give him a trial?" he asked.

"I have engaged Dan."

"If Dan should prove unsatisfactory, would you try my nephew?"

"Perhaps so."

It was an incautious concession, for it was an inducement to the
book-keeper to get Dan into trouble.

It was Dan's duty to go to the post-office, sometimes to go on errands,
and to make himself generally useful about the warehouses. As we know,
however, he had other duties of a more important character, of which Mr.
Talbot knew nothing.

The first discovery Dan made was made through the book-keeper's
carelessness.

Mr. Rogers was absent in Philadelphia, when Talbot received a note which
evidently disturbed him. Dan saw him knitting his brows, and looking
moody. Finally he hastily wrote a note, and called Dan.

"Take that to -- Wall street," he said, "and don't loiter on the way."

The note was directed to Jones & Robinson.

On reaching the address, Dan found that Jones & Robinson were stock
brokers.

Jones read the note.

"You come from Mr. Talbot?" he asked.

"Yes, sir."

"Tell him we will carry the stocks for him a week longer, but can't
exceed that time."

"Perhaps you had better write him a note," suggested Dan, "as he may not
like to have me know his business."

"Very well."

So Dan carried back the note.

"I believe I have made a discovery," he said to himself. "Mr. Talbot is
speculating in Wall street. I wonder if he speculates with his own money
or the firm's?"

His face, however, betrayed nothing as he handed the note to the
book-keeper, and the latter, after a searching glance, decided that
there was nothing to fear in that quarter.




CHAPTER XVII.

TALBOT'S SECRET.


Some light may be thrown upon Mr. Talbot's operations, if the reader
will accompany him to a brownstone house on Lexington avenue, on the
evening of the day when Dan was sent to the office of the Wall street
brokers.

Mr. Talbot ascended the steps, not with the elastic step of a man with
whom the world is prospering, but with the slow step of a man who is
burdened with care.

"Is Miss Conway at home?" he inquired of the servant who answered the
bell.

"Yes, sir."

"Will you tell her I should like to speak with her?"

"Yes, sir."

Talbot walked in with the air of one who was familiar with the house,
and entering a small front room, took a seat.

The furniture was plain, and the general appearance was that of a
boarding-house.

Talbot seemed immersed in thought, and only raised his eyes from the
carpet when he heard the entrance of a young lady. His face lighted up,
and he rose eagerly.

"My dear Virginia," he said, "it seems a long time since I saw you."

"It is only four days," returned the young lady, coolly.

"Four days without seeing you is an eternity."

The young lady smiled. It was easy to see that Talbot was in love, and
she was not.

"A very pretty compliment," she said. "Well, have you any news?"

"Not good news," said he, soberly.

She shrugged her shoulders, and looked disappointed.

Before going further, it may be as well to describe briefly the young
lady who had so enthralled the book-keeper.

She had the advantage of youth, a complexion clear red and white, and
decidedly pretty features. If there was a defect, it was the expression
of her eyes. There was nothing soft or winning in her glance. She
seemed, and was, of a cold, calculating, unsympathetic nature. She was
intensely selfish, and was resolved only to marry a man who could
gratify her taste for finery and luxurious living.

She was the niece of Mrs. Sinclair, who kept the boarding-house, and
though living in dependence upon her aunt, did nothing to relieve her
from the care and drudgery incidental to her business.

"It's too provoking," she said, pouting.

"So it is, Virginia;" and Talbot tried to take her hand, but she quietly
withdrew it.

"You told me that you would have plenty of money by this time, Mr.
Talbot."

"I expected it, but a man can't foresee the fluctuations of Wall street.
I am afraid I shall meet with a loss."

"I don't believe you are as smart as Sam Eustis--he's engaged to my
cousin. He made ten thousand dollars last month on Lake Shore."

"It's the fools that blunder into luck," said Talbot, irritated.

"Then you'd better turn fool; it seems to pay," said Virginia, rather
sharply.

"No need of that--I'm fool enough already," said Talbot, bitterly.

"Oh, well, if you've only come here to make yourself disagreeable, I'm
sure you'd better stay away," said the young lady, tossing her head.

"I came here expecting sympathy and encouragement," said Talbot.
"Instead, you receive me with taunts and coldness."

"You are unreasonable, Mr. Talbot," said Virginia. "I will be cheerful
and pleasant when you bring me agreeable news."

"Oh, Virginia!" exclaimed Talbot, impulsively. "Why will you require
impossibilities of me? Take me as I am. I have an income of two thousand
dollars a year. We can live comfortably on that, and be happy in a snug
little home."

"Snug little home!" repeated the young lady, scornfully. "Thank you; I'd
rather not. I know just what that means. It means that I am to be a
household drudge, afraid to spend an extra sixpence--perhaps obliged to
take lodgers, like my aunt."

"Not so bad as that, Virginia."

"It would come to that in time."

"I am sure you cannot love me when you so coolly give me up for money."

"I haven't given you up, but I want you to get money."

"Would to Heaven I could!"

"You could if you were in earnest."

"Do you doubt that?"

"Where there's a will, there's a way, Mr. Talbot. If you really care so
much for me, you will try to support me as I want to live."

"Tell me, in a word, what you want."

"Well," said Virginia, slowly, "I want to go to Europe for my
honey-moon. I've heard so much of Paris, I know I should like it ever
so much. Then I want to live respectably when I get back."

"What do you call living respectably?" asked Talbot.

"Well, we must have a nice little house to ourselves, and I think, just
at first, I could get along with three servants; and I should want to go
to the opera, and the theater, and to concerts."

"You have not been accustomed to live in that way, Virginia."

"No; and that's why I have made up my mind not to marry unless my
husband can gratify me."

"Suppose this is impossible?"

"Impossible for you!" said Miss Conway, significantly.

"You mean you will look elsewhere?" said Talbot, hastily.

"Yes, I think so," said Virginia, coolly.

"And you would desert me for a richer suitor?" he demanded, quickly.

"Of course I would rather marry you--you know that," said Virginia, with
perfect self-possession; "but if you can't meet my conditions, perhaps
it is better that we should part."

"You are cruel--heartless!" exclaimed Talbot, angrily.

"No; only sensible," she returned, calmly. "I don't mean to marry you
and be unhappy all my life; and I can't be happy living in the stuffy
way my aunt does. We should both be sorry for such a marriage when it
was too late."

"I will take the risk, Virginia," said Talbot, fixing his eyes with
passionate love on the cold-hearted girl.

"But I will not," said Virginia, decidedly. "I am sure you needn't take
it to heart, Mr. Talbot. Why don't you exert yourself and win a fortune,
as other people do? I am sure plenty of money is made in Wall street."

"And lost."

"Not if you are smart. Come now, smooth your face, and tell me you will
try," she said, coaxingly.

"Yes, Virginia, I will try," he answered, his face clearing. "And if I
try----"

"You will succeed," she said, smiling.

"Well, I hope I may."

"And now don't let us talk about disagreeable things. Do you know, sir,
it is a week since you took me to any place of amusement? And here I
have been moping at home every evening with my aunt, who is terribly
tiresome, poor old soul!"

"I would rather spend the evening here with you, Virginia, than go to
any place of amusement."

"Then I can't agree with you. One gets tired of spooning."

"I don't--if you call by that name being in the company of one you
love."

"You would, if you had as little variety as I have."

"Tell me one thing, Virginia--you love me, don't you?" asked Talbot, in
whose mind sometimes there rose an unpleasant suspicion that his love
was not returned.

"Why, of course I do, you foolish man," she said, carelessly. "And now,
where are you going to take me?"

"Where do you want to go, my darling?"

"To the Italian opera. To-morrow they play 'The Huguenots.'"

"I thought you didn't care for music, Virginia?"

"I don't go for that. I want to go because it's fashionable, and I want
to be seen. So, be a good boy, and get some nice seats for to-morrow
evening."
