him!” to the wondering observer.

The plan was ingenious, but Homer’s dexterity in carrying it out,
and the sangfroid he maintained throughout, betokened an amount of
practice at which March’s soul recoiled. It was frightfully realistic.
Mr. Wayt was laid in the middle of the big plaid; the two ends were
knotted tightly upon his chest, inclosing his arms, the other two about
his ankles.

“I’ll hitch on to the heavy eend,” quoth the bunch of muscle and bone
March had begun to admire. “Me bein’ useter to it nor what you be. You
take holt on his feet.”

In such style the stately saint was borne up the back steps and laid
upon the settee in the parsonage hall.

Mrs. Wayt was upon the porch. Her first words gave one of the bearers
his cue.

“Oh, Mr. Gilchrist! This is dreadful! And he seemed so well at dinner
time! The heat often affects him seriously. He had a sunstroke some
years ago, and every summer he feels the effects of it. Lay him down
here and rest before taking him upstairs. There. Thank you.”

While she undid and removed the clerical cravat and collar from his
throat, March straightened his spine and looked around for Hetty. The
house was as still as a grave. The front door was closed; the rooms on
both sides of the hall were dark and silent. It was Thursday night,
the universal “evening out” for Fairhill servants. March recollected
it in the mechanical way in which one thinks of trifles at important
junctures. He was glad—mechanically—that Mary Ann was not there to
carry the tale of Mr. Wayt’s fainting fit, or semi-sunstroke, or
whatever name his wife chose to put to it, to Mrs. Gilchrist. He was
beginning to ask himself what he should say at home of what he had done
with himself between nine and ten o’clock that evening.

The transportation up to the second story was slow and difficult. Mrs.
Wayt supported her husband’s head, and, like a flash, recurred to March
Hester’s sneer of the task laid upon “his wife, his wife’s sister, and
the family factotum.” It must have been barely accomplished on the July
night when he and May brought Hester home, and Hetty ran down out of
breath, her hair disheveled and eyes scared! That her hands should be
fouled by such a burden!

His face was set whitely, as, having deposited the load upon the bed,
he accosted the wife:

“Would you like to have a physician?”

His tone was hard and constrained. She did not look up.

“You are very good but it is not necessary—thank you! I have seen him
as ill before from the same cause and know what to do for him. And he
is morbidly sensitive with regard to these attacks. He thinks it would
injure him in his profession if the impression were to get abroad that
his health is unsound or his constitution breaking up. I shall not
even dare tell him that you have seen him to-night.”

She was putting extraordinary force upon herself, but she could not
meet his eye.

“I cannot thank you just now as I would, Mr. Gilchrist. I am all
unnerved, and although I know this seizure is not dangerous, it is
a terrible ordeal to me to witness it. May I ask that you will not
mention it, even to Judge and Mrs. Gilchrist? My husband would be
mortified and distressed beyond measure were his illness the subject of
even friendly remark.”

March hesitated, and she turned upon him quickly. Her face was that of
an old woman—gray, withered, and scored with lines, each one of which
meant an agony.

His resolution dissolved like the frost before fire.

“You may depend upon my discretion and friendship,” he said impulsively.

She burst into tears, the low, convulsive sobbing he had heard above
stairs on that other night.

Unable to bear more he ran down the staircase, and recognized before he
reached the foot that he had committed himself to a lie.

“Mr. Gilchrist!”

His hand was upon the lock of the front door when he caught the low
call.

Hetty stood upon the threshold of the library, a shadowy figure in
white that seemed to waver in the uncertain light.

“I should like to speak to you, if you can spare a few minutes,” she
pursued, leading the way into the room.

With a bow of acquiescence he sat down and waited for her to begin. His
mind was in a tumult; dumb pain devoured him. He felt as any honorable
man might feel who condones a felony.




CHAPTER IX


“MY sister has begged you to keep secret what you have seen
to-night—has she not?” was Hetty’s first inquiry, spoken without haste
and without excitement.

A mute bow replied.

“And you have promised to do it?”

“I told Mrs. Wayt that she might depend upon my discretion.”

“Which she construes into a pledge to connive at a wrong done to a
church and a community,” in precisely the same tone and manner as
before.

March stared at her perplexedly. What did the girl mean? And was this
resolute, impassive woman of business the blushing trembler who, a
month ago, could not deny her love for him? She was very serious now,
but apparently very tranquil.

“You would say, if you were not too kind-hearted, that this is what I
am doing—what I have been doing for nearly ten years—and you would be
right. It would not exculpate me in your opinion if I were to represent
that Mr. Wayt’s profession is all that stands between his family and
the poorhouse; that I do not habitually attend the church in which he
officiates, and that my name has never appeared upon the record of any
one of the parishes of which he has had charge since I became a member
of his family. Mr. Wayt and I have not exchanged a syllable directly
for over five years. I neither respect nor like him. He can never
forgive my knowledge of his character, and my interference with his
habits. These were confirmed before I came to my sister.”

“Let me beg,” interposed March, “that you will not go on with what
cannot but be distressing to you. You need no justification in my
sight. If you will permit me to call to-morrow morning we can talk
matters over calmly and at leisure. It is late, and you have had a
severe nervous strain.”

“Unless you insist upon the postponement I would rather speak now,
while my mind is steady in the purpose to make an end of subterfuge and
concealment. I am weary, but it is of falsehoods, acted and spoken.
Hester has told me of your generous pretense of misunderstanding the
nature of Mr. Wayt’s attack. There it is again!”—relapsing into her
usual tone, and with whimsical vexation that made March smile. “I
am afraid I have forgotten how to be frank! My poor sister’s eager
talk of ‘attacks’ and ‘seizures’ and ‘turns’ and ‘sunstroke’ and
‘constitutional headaches’ has unbalanced my perceptions of right and
wrong.”

“You cannot expect me to agree with you there?” the suppressed smile
becoming visible.

She was not to be turned aside from the straight track.

“Nothing so perverts conscience as a systematic course of concealment,
even when it is practiced for what seem to be noble ends. I have felt
this for a long time. Lately the sense of guilt has been insupportable.
It may be relief—if not expiation—to tell the truth in the plainest
terms I can use. It may leave me more wretched than I am now. But right
is right.”

Her chin trembled and she raised her hand to cover it. Her admirable
composure was smoldering excitement, kept under by will and the
conscience whose rectitude she undervalued. With a sub-pang, March
perceived that this disclosure was not a confidence, but a duty.

“Mr. Wayt was a confirmed opium eater and drinker, twelve years ago,”
she resumed in a cold monotone. “He would drink intoxicating liquors,
too, when narcotics were not to be had. I believe the appetite for the
two is a common symptom of the habit. His wife shielded him, then, as
she does now, and so successfully that he kept a church in Cincinnati
for four years. Hester was a beautiful, active child, eight years old,
and a great pet with her father. He does not care for children, as a
rule, but she was pretty and clever and amused him. One day she begged
her mother to let her take ‘dear papa’s’ lunch up to him. It was
always ‘dear papa’ with her. He had a way of locking himself in his
study from morning until night Saturday. Even his wife did not suspect
that he wrote his Sunday sermon with a glass of laudanum and brandy at
his side. He was busy upon a set of popular discourses on ‘Crying Sins
of the Day.’ They drew immense crowds.”

A sarcastic gleam passed over her face, and for the first time the
listener saw a likeness to the witty and wise cripple.

“Hester knocked again and again without getting answered. Then her
father called out that he was busy and did not want any lunch. She was
always willful, and he had indulged her unreasonably. So she declared
that she would not go away until he opened the door and took the
tray—not if she had to stand there and knock all day. He tore open the
door in a fury, threw the tray and the lunch downstairs, and flung the
child after it. The drugged drink had made him crazy.”

March shuddered.

“And that was the cause——”

“It left her what you see, now. The effect upon her character and
feelings was, if possible, more deplorable. From that hour she has
never spoken to her father at all, or of him as ‘papa.’ It is always
‘he’ and ‘him’ to the family, ‘Mr. Wayt’ to strangers. It seems
horribly unnatural, but she loathes and despises him. While she lay
crushed and suffering for the months that passed before she left her
bed, she would go into convulsions at sight of him. Her mother begged
her, on her knees, to ‘forgive poor papa, who had a delirious headache
when he pushed her away from the door.’ Hester refused passionately.
She is no more forgiving now. Yet she was so proud and shrewd, even
then, that she never betrayed to the doctors how she was hurt. She let
everybody believe that it was an accident. I had been her nurse for six
months before she told me the fearful story.

“The truth never got abroad in Cincinnati, but flying rumors of Mr.
Wayt’s growing eccentricities and the possible cause gathered an
opposition party in the church. It was headed by a prominent druggist,
who had talked with others in the trade from whom Mr. Wayt had bought
opium, laudanum, and brandy. He has been more cunning in his purchases
since then. He was obliged to resign his charge, and became what poor
Hester calls ‘an ecclesiastical tramp.’ He controls his appetite within
tolerably safe bounds for a while, sometimes for months, then gives
way, and we live on the verge of discovery and disgrace until the
crisis comes. The end is always the same. We break camp and ‘move on.’”

“Yet he brought clean papers to the Fairhill church.”

A dreary smile went with the answer.

“Clerical charity suffereth long and is kind! Out of curiosity I
attended once a meeting of a presbytery that dismissed him from his
church and commended him to another presbytery. We had narrowly
escaped public exposure at that time. The sexton found Mr. Wayt in the
condition you have seen this evening upon the floor of the lecture room
and called in a physician, who boldly proclaimed that the man was ‘dead
drunk.’ The accused put in a plea of indisposition and an overdose of
brandy, inadvertently swallowed. His brethren, assembled in solemn
session, spoke of his faithful work in the vineyard and the leadings of
Divine Providence, and said that their prayers went with him to his new
field of labor.

“I don’t want to be unjust or cynical, Mr. Gilchrist, and I can see
that there is a pleasanter side to the case. There is such a thing
as Christian charity, and more of it in the world than we are willing
to admit. However church people may gossip about an unpopular pastor,
and maneuver to get rid of him, when the parting comes they will not
brand him in the eyes of others. And clergymen are very faithful to
one another. It is really beautiful to see how they try to hide faults
and foibles. It is a literal fulfillment of the command, ‘Bear ye one
another’s burdens.’ In some—in most of Mr. Wayt’s charges—the secret of
his frequent change of pastorate was not told. He was ‘odd,’ and ‘had
nomadic tastes.’ Sometimes the climate did not agree with his health.
The air was too strong or too weak. Twice poor Hester’s condition
demanded an immediate change. We went to Chicago to be near an eminent
surgeon, who, after all, never saw her.

“I will not weary you with the details of a life such as I pray God
few families know. After a few years Hester and I became hopeless of
anything better. Wherever we might go, change, and the probability of
disgrace, were a mere question of time. My sister never loses faith
in her husband and in an overruling Power that will not forsake the
righteous. For, strange as it may seem, she believes in the piety of a
man whose sacred profession is a continual lie.

“Oh, Mr. Gilchrist!” the enforced monotony of her tone wavering into
a cry of pain—“I think that is the worst of all! When I recollect
my mother’s pure religion—when I see your mother’s beneficent life
and firm faith in goodness and in God—when I know that, in spite of
the seeming untruthfulness which is, she thinks, necessary to protect
her husband—my sister holds fast to her love and trust in an Almighty
Friend, and walks humbly with her God, I feel such indignation against
a man who is the slave of passion, selfish, vain, and conscienceless,
and yet assumes to show such souls the way to heaven, that I dare not
enter the church where he is allowed to preach, lest I should cry out
in the face of his hearers against the monstrous cheat!”

Her eyes flamed clear; the torrent of feeling swept away reserve and
coldness.

“I understand!” March said, with sympathetic warmth. “You never
disappoint me. Tell me what I can do to help you. I cannot let you
endure all this alone any longer.”

“Nobody can take my share of the burden. I would hardly know myself
without it. It will be the heavier for my sister’s distress and
Hester’s anger when they hear what I have decided to do. Hester was on
her way over to your house when you met her, full of news she could not
wait until to-morrow to tell. My mother’s only brother went to Japan
thirty years ago and became rich. He died last March, leaving most of
his fortune to benevolent institutions in America. To each of us, his
sister’s children, he bequeathed ten thousand dollars. It is not a
fortune, but with our modest tastes, and when joined to the little I
already have, it will support us decently. My first thought, when the
news reached us, a week ago, was ‘Now, Mr. Wayt need never take another
charge! We need not live upon tainted food!’”

“You are a noble woman, Hetty——”

She interrupted him.

“I am not! This is not self-sacrifice, but self-preservation. If the
money had not been given to us, I must have found some way out of a
false position. I want you to tell your father all you know. Keep back
nothing I have told you. He is a good and a merciful man. Let him
speak openly to Mr. Wayt and forbid him ever to enter the pulpit again
upon penalty of public exposure and suspension from the ministry. What
Judge Gilchrist says will have weight. With all his high looks and
sounding talk, Mr. Wayt is a coward. He would not venture to resist
the decision. Then we will go away quietly. I have thought of the
little town in which my sister and I were born. Living is cheap there
and there are excellent schools for the children. Twenty-five thousand
dollars will go very far in that region, and we can be honest people
once more.”

“You have arranged it all, have you?” said March, not at all in the
tone she had expected to hear. “Give them the cheap town, and the good
schools, and the twenty-five thousand dollars by all means. They can
have everything but you!”




CHAPTER X.


THE long storm in August set in next day. A fine, close drizzle veiled
the world by 7 o’clock. At 8.30, the twins and Fanny needed their
waterproof cloaks for the walk to school. By noon the patter on the
piazza roof and falling floods upon lawn and garden and streets were
slow, but abundant. It was scrubbing day and closet day, and, as Hester
fretted sometimes to methodical Mary Ann on Friday, “all the rest of
the week,” below stairs. Hetty had to prepare a dessert and to set the
lunch table. Before going down she made up a little fire in the sewing
room, and put out Hester’s color-box, glass of water, stretching board,
paper, and easel within easy reach, should she decide to use them.
Silently, and not too suggestively, she set upon the table near by a
vase containing some fine specimens of the moccasin flower sent in
by May Gilchrist, with a note addressed to “Queen Mab.” Hester hated
hints, but if she lacked a study she would not have to look far for it.

It was “a bad day” with her. Her mother attributed it partly to her
disappointment at not seeing her crony teacher.

Hetty, who had put the excited child to bed as soon as she got into the
house the night before, held her peace. Mrs. Wayt, hovering from the
nursery and her husband’s chamber to the sewing room, saw that in her
taciturn daughter’s countenance that warned and kept her aloof. Another
of Hester’s biting sayings was that her mother, on the day succeeding
one of her spouse’s “seizures” was “betwixt the devil and the deep
sea.” She never admitted, even to her sister, that “dear Percy” was
more than “unfortunate,” yet read Hetty’s disapprobation in averted
looks and studiously commonplace talk.

Wan and limp the cripple reclined among the cushions Hetty packed about
her in her wheeled chair. Blue shadows ringed mouth and eyes, and
stretched themselves in the hollowed temples; the deft fingers were
nerveless. Most of the time she seemed to watch the rain under drooping
eyelids, so transparent as to show the dark irides beneath.

At half past eleven her mother stole in like a bit of drifted down.

“Dear, I have promised papa to go up to your room and lie down for half
an hour. Annie is with him. She amuses him, and will be very good, she
says. I told her to let you know if she wanted anything. May I leave
the door open? She cannot turn this stiff bolt.”

Annie was one of Hester’s weak points. “Baby” never made her nervous
or impatient, and much of the little one’s precocity was due to
intimate companionship with the disabled sister, whose plaything she
was.

“Yes. All right!” murmured Hester, closing her eyes entirely.

She was deathly pallid in the uncolored gloom of a rainy noon.

“Or—if you feel like taking a nap, yourself?” hesitated Mrs. Wayt.

Tactful with her husband, and tender with all her household, she
yet had the misfortune often to rub Hester’s fur the wrong way. The
delicately pencilled brows met over frowning eyes.

“No! no! you know I never sleep in the day! If you would never bother
yourself with my peace and comfort, mamma, we should be on better
terms. I am not a baby, or a—husband!”

She was not sorry for her ill humor or for the long gap between the
last article and noun, when left to herself.

She lay upon a bed of thorns, each of which was endued with intelligent
vitality. Earth was a waste. Heaven had never been. Hate herself for
it as she might she had never, in all her rueful existence, known
suffering comparable to that condensed into the three little minutes
she had lived twelve hours ago.

When Hetty had come up to bed her face was beautiful with a strange
white peace, at sight of which Hester held her breath. Coming swiftly,
but without bustle, across the room, she kneeled by the bed and
gathered the frail form in the dear, strong arms that had cradled it
a thousand times. Her eyes sparkled, her lips were parted by quick
breaths, but she tried to speak quietly.

“Precious child! you should be asleep. But I am glad you are not, for I
have a message for you. We—you and I—are to take no anxious thought for
to-morrow, or for any more of the to-morrows we are to spend together.
March told me to say that and to give you this!” laying a kiss upon her
lips. “For he loves me, Hester, darling, and you are to live with us!
Just as we planned, ever and ever so long ago! But what day dream was
ever so beautiful as this?”

For one of the three awful minutes Hester thought and hoped she was
dying. The frightened blood ebbed back with turbulence that threw her
into a spasm of trembling and weeping. She recollected pushing Hetty
away, then clutching her frantically to pull her down for a storm of
passionate kisses given between tearless sobs. Then she gave way to
wheezing shrieks of laughter, which Hetty tried to check. She would not
let her move or speak after that.

“How thoughtless in me not to know that you were too much unnerved to
bear another shock—even of happiness!” said the loving nurse. “No!
don’t try to offer so much as a word of congratulation. It will
keep! All we have to do to-night is to obey the order of our superior
officer, and not think—only trust!”

In the morning there was no opportunity for speech-making. A night of
suffering had beaten Hester dumb.

“Nobody could be surprised at that!” cooed Hetty, as she rubbed and
bathed the throbbing spine. “If I could but pour down this aching
column some of my redundant vitality!”

Hester detested herself in acknowledging the fervent sincerity of the
wish. Hetty would willingly divide her life with her, as she had said
yesterday that she meant to divide her fortune.

“Half for you while I live! All for you when I am gone!”

The sad sweetness of the smile accompanying the words was as
little like the wonderful white shining of last night as the lot
cast for Hetty was like that of the deformed dwarf whose height of
grotesque folly was attained when she loved—first, in dreams and
in “drifting”—then, all unconsciously, in actual scenes and waking
moments—one whose whole heart belonged to the woman who had “made her
over,” to whom she owed life, brain, and soul!

She was to live with them! Hetty must make her partaker of her every
good. By force of long habit, Hester fell to planning the house the
three would inhabit. She was herself—always helpless, never less a
burden than now—a piece of rubbish in the pretty rooms, a clog upon
domestic machinery—a barrier to social pleasure—the inadmissible third
in the married tête-à-tête.

She writhed impotently. More useless than a toy; more troublesome than
a baby—uglier than the meanest insect that crawls—she must yet submit
to the fate that fastened her upon the young lives of her custodians.

“I doubt if I could even take my own life!” she meditated darkly. “In
my fits of rage and despair, I used to threaten to roll my chair down
the stairs and break my neck to ‘finish the job.’ I said it once to
mamma. I wonder sometimes if that is the reason Tony puts up gates
across the top of the stairs wherever we go? He says it is to keep baby
Annie from tumbling down. I haven’t cared to die lately, but to-day
I wish my soul had floated clean out of my body in that five minute
make-believe under the pink tent of the apple tree, three months ago.

“I suppose he will be coming here constantly, now. Hetty won’t belong
to me anymore. I am very wicked! I am jealous of her with him, and of
him with her! I am a spiteful, malicious, broken-backed toad! Oh, how I
despise Hester Wayt! And I owe it all to him!”

She glowered revengefully at the door her mother had left unclosed.

Baby Annie was having a lovely hour with “dee papa.” He had not left
his bed, but the nausea and sense of goneness with which he had
awakened, were yielding to the administration of minute potions of
opium by his wife, at stated intervals. A fit of delirium tremens,
induced by the failure to “cool him off” secundum artem, had brought
about Homer’s introduction to his nominal employer. Routed from his
secret lodgings under the roof-tree at one o’clock of a winter morning,
Hetty’s waif had first run for a doctor, and, pending his arrival,
pinioned the raving patient with his sinewy arms until the man of
intelligent measures took charge of the case. Mrs. Wayt had run no such
risks since.

Her lord never confessed that he took opium or ardent spirits. Indeed,
he made capital of his total abstinence even from tobacco. There was
always a cause, natural or violent, for his attacks. The Chicago
seizure followed upon his rashness in swallowing, “mistaking it for
mineral water,” a pint of spirits of wine, bought for cleaning his
Sunday suit. Other turns he attributed, severally, to dyspepsia, to
vertigo, to over-study, and to extreme heat. A sunstroke, suffered when
he was in college, rendered him peculiarly sensitive to hot weather.
His wife never gainsaid his elaborate explanations. He was her Percy,
her conscience, her king. She not only went backward with the cloak of
love to conceal his shame, but she affected to forget the degradation
when he became sober.

Many women in a thousand, and about one man in twenty millions, are
“built so.” The policy—or principle—may be humane. It is not Godlike.
The All-Merciful calls sinners to repentance before offering pardon.
The Church insists upon conviction as a preliminary to conversion. Mrs.
Wayt was a Christian and a churchwoman, but she clung pathetically to
belief in the efficacy of her plan for the reclamation of her husband.
In life, or in death, she would not have upon her soul the weight of
a reproach addressed to him whom she had sworn to “honor.” Love was
omnipotent. In time he would learn the depth of hers and be lured back
to the right way.

He was plaintive this forenoon, but not peevish. His eyes were
bloodshot; his tongue was furry; there was a gnawing in the pit of his
stomach and an unaccountable ache at the base of the brain.

“I have missed another sunstroke by a hair’s breadth,” he informed his
wife. “I almost regret that we did not go to the seashore. My summer
labors are exhausting the reserves of vital energy.”

“Why not run down to the beach for a day or two next week?” suggested
Mrs. Wayt. “Now that your wife is an heiress, you can afford a change
of air, now and then.”

A dull red arose in the sallow cheek. He pulled her down to kiss her.

“The best, sweetest wife ever given to man!” he said.

After that he bade her get a little rest. She must have slept little
the night before. Annie would keep him company. While his head was so
light and his tongue so thick Annie’s was the best society for him. She
made no demand upon intellectual forces. He sent the best wife ever
given to man off lightened in spirit, and grateful for the effort he
made to appease her anxiety and to affect the gayety he could not be
supposed to feel. She looked back at the door to exchange affectionate
smiles with the dear, unselfish fellow.

He watched the baby’s pretty, quaint pretense of “being mamma,” and
hearkened to the drip and plash of the rain until the gnawing in his
stomach re-asserted itself importunately. He knew what it meant. It
was the demand of the devil-appetite he had created long ago—his
Frankenstein, his Old Man of the Sea, his body of death, lashed fast to
him, lying down when he lay down, rising up at his awakening, keeping
step with him, however he might try to flee. The lust he had courted
rashly—now become flesh of his flesh and bone of his bone.

His wife had carried off the phial of opium. But he had secreted a
supply of the drug for such emergencies since she had found out the
phosphate device and privately confiscated the stout blue bottle. He
always carried a small Greek Testament in his hip pocket. Mrs. Wayt’s
furtive search of his clothes every night, after making sure that he
was asleep, had not extended to the removal of the sacred volume.

He arose stealthily, steadied his reeling head by holding hard to the
back of his neck with one hand, while the other caught at the chairs
and bed-foot; tiptoed to the closet, found his black cloth pantaloons,
drew out the Testament, and extracted from the depths beneath a wad of
silken, rustleless paper. Within was a lump of dark brown paste.

“Tan’y! tan’y!” twittered Annie’s sweet, small pipe. “Give baby a
piece! p’ease, dee papa!”

He hurried back into bed. If the child were overheard Hetty might look
in. And Hester’s sharp ears were across the hall.

“No, baby; papa has no candy.” He was so startled and unmanned that he
had to wet his lips with a tongue almost as parched before he could
articulate. “Papa’s head aches badly. Will Annie sing him to sleep?”

Hester heard, through her stupor of misery, the weak little voice and
the thump of the low rocking chair as baby crooned to the dolly cuddled
in her arms and to “dee papa,” the song learned from Hester’s self:

        “S’eep, baby, s’eep.
        The angels watch ’y s’eep.
    The fairies s’ake ’e d’eamland t’ee,
    An’ all’e d’eams ’ey fall ow’ee.
        S’eep, baby, s’eep!”

The rain fell straight and strong. The heavy pour had beaten all motion
out of the air, but the gurgling of water pipes and the resonance of
the tinned roof gave the impression of a tumultuous storm. Through the
register and chimney arose a far-off humming from the cellar, where
Homer was “redding up.” Hester’s acute ears divided the sound into
notes and words:

    “An’ we buried her deep, yes! deep among the rocks.
      On the banks of the Oma-ha!”

Annie stopped singing. “Dolly mus’ lie down in her twadle, an’ mamma
mate her some tea!” Hester heard her say. At another time she would
have speculated, perhaps anxiously, as to the processes going on when
the clatter of metal and the tinkle of china arose, accompanied by the
fitful bursts of song and a monologue of exclamations.

“Oh! oh! tate tare, dee papa!” came presently in a frightened tone.
Then louder: “Papa! dee papa! wate up! you’ll det afire!”

Wee feet raced across the hall, a round face, red and scared, appeared
in the doorway.

“Hetter! Hetter! tum, wate up dee papa! ’E bed is on fire!”

Through the doors left open behind her Hester saw a lurid glare, a
column of smoke.

Shrieking for help at the top of her feeble lungs she plied the levers
of her chair and rolled rapidly into the burning room. Upon the table
at the foot of the bed had stood the spirit lamp and copper teakettle
used by Mrs. Wayt in heating her husband’s phosphate draughts at night.
Annie had lighted the lamp and contrived to knock it over upon the bed.
The alcohol had ignited and poured over the counterpane.

Mr. Wayt lay, unstirring, amid the running flames. Hester made straight
for him, leaned far out of her chair, to pull off the blazing covers,
“Papa! papa! papa!”

He had not heard the word from her in ten years. He was not to hear it
now.

Mrs. Wayt, Hetty, March Gilchrist, and the servants, rushing to the
spot, found father and child enwrapped in the same scorching pall.

      

“Mr. Wayt died at midnight,” reported the Fairhill papers. “He never
regained consciousness. The heroic daughter who lost her life in
attempting to rescue a beloved parent lived until daybreak.

“‘They were lovely and pleasant in their lives, and in their deaths
they were not divided.’”

      

“I must be going, dear heart!” whispered Hetty’s namechild, as the
August dawn, made faint by showers, glimmered through the windows. “I
cannot see you. Would Mr. March mind kissing me ‘good-by’?”

“Mind?” He could not restrain the great sob. A tear fell with the kiss.

“Dear little friend! my sweet sister!”

The glorious eyes, darkened by death and almost sightless, widened in
turning toward him. She smiled radiantly.

“Thank you for calling me that. Now, Miss May! And poor mamma! I wish
I had been a better child to you! Hetty, dearest! hold me fast and kiss
me last of all! You will be very happy, darling! But you won’t forget
me—will you? I heard the doctors say”—a gleam of the old fantastic
humor playing about her mouth—“that I had swallowed the flame. I think
they were right—for the—bitterness is all—burned—out—of my heart!”




A SOCIAL SUCCESS.




PART I.


“I KNOW it is horrid to swoop down upon you at this barbarously early
hour, but I couldn’t help coming the minute I received your card. We
get our mail at the breakfast table, and I fairly screamed with joy
when I opened the envelope. ‘Jack!’ I said, ‘who do you think has
come to New York to live?’

“‘The Picanninnies and the Joblillies and the Garyulies, and probably
the grand Panjandrum himself,’ said my gentleman.

“You know what a tease he is. Oh, no, you don’t! for you never met
him. But you will before long! ‘Better than all of them put together,
with the little round button on top,’ said I. (You see I am used to
his chaff!) ‘My very dearest school friend, of whom you have heard me
talk ten thousand times—Susie Barnes, now Mrs. Cornell. She has been
living five years in Brooklyn (and I’ve always declared I’d rather go
to Canada than to Brooklyn) and here’s her card telling me that she
has returned to civilization. Mrs. Arthur Hayward Cornell, No. — West
Sixty-seventh St.’ At that he pricked up his ears.

“‘That’s the new cashier in the Pin and Needle Bank,’ says he.
‘Somebody was talking of him at the Club last night.’ And nothing would
do but I must tell him all about you. In going over the story and
thinking of the dear old times, my heart got so warm and full that I
rushed off by the time he was out of the house.”

Mrs. John Hitt, a well-dressed, prettyish woman, whom the cold morning
light showed to be also a trifle society-worn, embraced her hostess
anew, and then held her off at arm’s length for inspection.

“You sweet old girl! what sort of life have you led that you have
kept your roses, your dimples, and the sparkle in your eyes all these
years? Do you know that you are absolutely bewitching?”

The lately recovered friend smiled, coloring as a woman of Mrs. Hitt’s
world could not have done.

“You are the same impulsive Kitty!” she said affectionately. “I have
had a quiet, busy, happy life with Arthur and the children. Three
babies in five years do not give a housekeeper much time for anything
but domestic duties.”

“I should think not, indeed!” The shiver of shoulders was
well-executed, the heavenward cast of eyes and hands dramatic. “I
wonder you live to tell it! One child in six years has been enough to
unsettle my wits. Now that you are once more within my reach (Oh,
you darling!) we must make up for lost time and see a great deal
of each other! Do you ever sing nowadays? Or have you let your music
go to the dogs? I suppose so, if Providence has interfered to save
your wild-rose complexion. I was raving to Jack this morning over
the voice you used to have, and your genius for theatricals and all
that. ‘Indeed,’ said I, ‘there was nothing that girl couldn’t do.’ To
think of wasting such an organ, or wearing it thin in crooning nursery
ditties.”

Mrs. Cornell laughed a soft, merry burst of amusement, at which the
other eyed her curiously.

“You behave less like an exhumed corpse than anybody could imagine who
knew of your five years in Brooklyn, and the three younglings. What
amuses you?”

“Nothing, except your determination to regard me as dead, buried,
and resurrected. So far from giving up my music, I have practiced
more steadily than if I had spent more evenings abroad. You know I
studied vocal and instrumental music with the intention of making it
my profession. Arthur agrees with me that what is once learned should
never be lost. Then, when my little girls are ready to be taught,
I can instruct them myself. We had a number of musical friends in
Brooklyn, and a pleasant circle of acquaintances. We have not lived
in—Hoboken,” cried the hostess in whimsical vexation. “I don’t see
why New Yorkers always talk of Brooklyn as if it were as far off and as
much a terra incognita as the moon. We are inhabitants of the same
planet as yourselves.”

The visitor patted the back of her companion’s hand, soothingly. “You
are a New Yorker now—one of us!” she purred. “In six months you would
as soon cross the Styx as the East River, even on that overgrown,
preposterous Bridge the Brooklynites give themselves such airs over.
How prettily settled you are!” staring, rather than glancing about the
apartment. “These are nice drawing rooms and furnished in excellent
taste.”

Mrs. Cornell had regarded them as “parlors,” but her first concession
to Mrs. Hitt’s better knowledge was to look accustomed to the new term.
She fought down with equal success the impulse to classify Kitty’s open
admiration with the amiable patronage of which Brooklyn people are
inclined to suspect New Yorkers. She plumed herself modestly upon her
taste in house-furnishing and upon the ability to make cheap things
look as if they had cost a good deal. She had withheld the fact of the
change of residence from metropolitan acquaintances until her house was
in order that might defy unfavorable criticism. It was kind in Kitty to
run in so unceremoniously and to be glad of the chance to renew their
early intimacy. In spite of Arthur and the children, she had begun to
be somewhat homesick in the great whirling world about her.

“Like a chip in the Atlantic Ocean!” Thus she had described her
sensations to her husband that very morning. “I suppose I shall get
used to it after a while, especially as Brooklyn and New York are, to
all intents and purposes, one and the same city.”

She asserted it stoutly, knowing all the while that Moscow and New
Orleans were as nearly homogeneous.

Yes! Kitty was heartily welcome to the stranger in an unknown
territory. Mrs. Hitt was not intellectual, and judged by standards
Arthur Cornell’s wife had come to revere sincerely, she was not
especially refined in speech and bearing. Or were Susie’s tastes too
quiet and her ideas old-fashioned, that her interlocutor’s crisp
sayings sounded pert, and the bright brown eyes and fixed flush upon
the cheekbones were artificially aggressive? Her former chum had
always been warm-hearted, if inconveniently outspoken. And she was
a New Yorker, and fashionable. Susie’s cherished ambition, unavowed
even to Arthur while it was expedient for them to live simply, was to
be fashionable, brilliant, and courted—a member in good and regular
standing in the Society of which Mrs. Sherwood lectured, and Ellen
Olney Kirk wrote, and to which Jenkyns Knickerbocker was au fait.
A certain something that was not air or tone, deportment or attire,
and yet partook of all these as pot-pourri of rose-breath, spices,
and perfumed oils—marked Kitty Hitt as an habituée of the charmed
Reserve. She was not, perhaps, one of the Four Hundred selected from
the Upper Ten Thousand by processes as arbitrary, to human judgment, as
those by which Gideon’s three hundred were picked out from the hosts
of Israel. Susie was no simpleton, albeit ambitious. Mr. Hitt was a
stockbroker; hence manifestly in the line of promotion, but there were
degrees of elevation upon even Olympus. Her imagination durst not lift
eyes to the cloud-wreathed summit where chief gods held revel, guarded
from vulgar intrusion by Gabriel Macallister. The climate and manner
of life a few leagues lower down would, as she felt, suit her better
than the rarified atmosphere of the extremest heights. She had always
meant to climb, and successfully, when time and opportunity should
serve. From the moment the passage of the river was determined upon as
a business necessity, she felt intuitively that both of these were near.

“We think them cozy!” she assented quietly to the visitor’s praise of
her rooms.

“Cozy! they are lovely!”

While she talked she raised her eye-glasses to make note of some
fine etchings upon the walls and a choice water-color upon an easel,
and took in, in passing, the circumstance that the rugs laid upon
the polished floor were of prime quality, although neither large nor
numerous.

“I do hope you don’t mean to shut yourself up in your pretty cage as so
many pattern wives and mothers—particularly Brooklyn women” (roguishly)
“do? That’s the reason American society is so crude and colorless.
With your face and figure and accomplishments (I haven’t forgotten how
divinely you recite) you ought to become a Social Success—a star in
the world of Society. You ought indeed!” drowning the feeble murmur of
dissent. “There’s many a so-named leader of the gay world who doesn’t
hold, and who never did hold such a card. Just trust yourself to me,
and I will prove all I promise.”

“But, my dear Kitty, I lack the Open Sesame to the Gotham
Innermost—Money! Only the repeatedly-millionaired can pass the outer
courts.”

“There it is! Epigrams and bon-mots drop from your lips as pearls
and diamonds used to tumble out whenever the good little girl in the
Fairy-tale opened her mouth. As to millions of money—bah!” with a
gesture of royal disdain. “Our best people are not the richest. The
true New Yorker knows that. Of course one must live and dress well,
but your husband’s means amply warrant that. Jack says cashiers get
from ten to fifteen thousand dollars a year. Your face, your manner,
and your talents are all the passport you require when once you are
introduced. I claim the privilege of doing it. And, as an initial
step, I want you and Mr. Cornell to dine with us to-morrow evening.
I’ll ask six or eight of the nicest people I know to meet you. They’ll
excuse the shortness of the notice when they see what a reason I
have for calling them together. Put on a pretty gown and look your
loveliest and bring along some music. I mean that you shall capture all
hearts. I shall be grieved to the quick if you don’t. The hour will
be seven—sharp. Punctuality is the soul of good humor in a dinner
company. I must run away. I have an appointment with a tyrannical
dressmaker at half-past ten; Mr. Lincoln’s Literature Class at eleven;
a luncheon at half-past one; and afternoon tea, anywhere from four to
six; a dinner party, and after that the opera. Such a whirl! Yet, as I
say to Jack when he grumbles that we never have a quiet home evening—it
is the only life worth living, as you’ll own when you’ve had a taste
of it! (You dear thing! it rests my tired eyes just to look at you!)
Here’s Jack’s card for Mr. Cornell. I’m just dying to see him and if he
is good enough for you.”

“A great deal too good!” ejaculated Susie, earnestly, through this
accidental gap in the monologue. “The dearest, most generous fellow!”

“Cela va sans dire—with the Brooklyn model! I’m so happy that you
are one of us, and no longer a pattern article. Good-by!”

“There! I let her go without showing her the children,” reflected Mrs.
Cornell, when she got back her breath. “But we had so much to talk
of it is no wonder we forgot them. There are no friends like the old
friends. How unjust we are sometimes! I came near not sending her my
card because she had never been over to Brooklyn to see me all the
while I was there. And Arthur advised me against doing it. He would
have it that it is no further from New York to Brooklyn than from
Brooklyn to New York. He predicted, too, that she would never come to
see me here. He says there’s no other memory so short as that of a
woman who has risen fast upon the social ladder. This ought to be a
lesson in Christian charity to us both. Kitty’s heart is always in the
right place.”

With a becoming mantling of rose-pink in her cheeks, she went singing
about her “drawing” rooms, altering the angle of chairs and sofas,
and the arrangement of bric-a-brac, already viewing her appointments
through Kitty’s eye-glasses. Her thoughts were running upon the
projected dinner party. She was the proud owner of a black velvet
gown with a trained skirt, and a V-shaped front, and of dainty
laces wherewith to fill the triangle. She had a diamond pin and
earrings—wedding gifts from the wealthy aunt for whom she was named.
The same generous relative had bestowed upon her, at different holiday
seasons, the rugs and pictures that adorned her house. Aunt Susan might
always be depended upon to do the handsome thing, and she was fond of
this niece and her “steady” husband. The home of Susie’s girlhood had
been more plainly furnished, as Kitty had known and must recollect. It
was natural that the elegant grace characterizing Mrs. Cornell’s abode
should mislead the shrewd observer in the estimate of the cashier’s
income. Without surmising what had suggested the remark, or that it was
a “feeler,” Mrs. Cornell smiled, yet a little uneasily, in recalling it.

“Kitty is so used to hearing of big sums that her ideas are vague on
the subject of salaries,” meditated the better informed wife. “She
doesn’t dream how handsomely people can live on six thousand dollars.
Or that we got along on one-half that much in Brooklyn and laid aside
something yearly. It is none of my business to set her right. Arthur
doesn’t care to have his money affairs discussed.”

It did not occur to her as a possibility that from the pardonable
disingenuousness any serious trouble could ever arise, yet she knew
what Arthur would say. She heard, in imagination, his warning:

“Never sail under false colors, Susie!”

Therefore, in her animated description of call and conversation, she
omitted all mention of Kitty’s tentative allusion to their income.
Not knowing his wife’s old comrade, he might think her prying and
impertinent in touching upon such a subject at all. Poor, dear Kitty!
there were disadvantages in being so impetuously frank. A clear-headed
cool reasoner like Arthur, for instance, was almost sure to misread her.

As our heroine had told Kitty, her married life had been quiet. Her
vivacious friend would have called it “stupid.” The circle of congenial
friends had been circumscribed and most of them were people of
moderate means and desires. Brooklyn might be called a segregation of
neighborhoods, each district having manners, customs, and social code
peculiar to the village that was its germ. As one settlement ran into
another, a city grew that claims the respect of the mightier sister
across the river. The Cornells had lived in a pleasant house in a
pleasant street, and Susie had spoken truly in saying that they lived
well. With no pretense of entertaining, they were cordially hospitable,
“having” friends to supper, or to pass the evening, whenever fair
occasion offered. For the children’s sake the mother took her principal
meal with them at one o’clock, but the hearty tea prepared for the
father who had lunched frugally in town was invariably appetizing,
being well cooked and daintily served. He had the privilege not always
accorded to richer men who sit down daily to late “course dinners”—that
of bringing a crony home with him whenever he pleased. It was like
Arthur Cornell to choose as chance guests men who had not such homes as
his—bank clerks from the country, Bohemian artists of good character
and light purses, and the like. Such were the honored recipients of the
hostess’ smile and warm handshake. She had won the admiring reverence
of more than one homeless bachelor by her skill in delicate and savory
cookery and the gracious friendliness of her welcome, and these,
oftener than any other class, composed the delighted audience of the
music Arthur called for every evening.

Once or twice a month husband and wife went to the theater or a
concert, and twice or at the most three times a year to the opera.
They were pretty sure to have complimentary tickets to the water-color
exhibition and other displays of paintings in Brooklyn or New York.
Of receptions, they knew comparatively little except such as followed
weddings among their acquaintances. Neither had ever attended a regular
dinner party gotten up by a professional caterer, and the ladies’
luncheon of eight, ten, or a dozen courses was unknown by the seeing
of the eyes and the tasting of the palate to the bright woman whose
social successes in a new arena were foretold by the sanguine admirer
who craved the pleasure of bringing her out. There are still in fast
growing American cities tens of thousands of such people who live
honestly, comfortably, and beneficently, and whose homes are refined
centers of happiness and goodness.

There was, then, cause for the wife’s pleasurable flutter of spirits
and the doubtful satisfaction expressed, against his intention, in the
husband’s visage at the close prospect of a state banquet given in
honor of their undistinguished selves, at which anonymous edibles would
be washed down with foreign wines, and spicy entrées be punctuated by
spicy hors d’œuvres. Arthur’s predominant quality was sound sense,
and as his spouse had anticipated, his first emotion after hearing
her tale was wonder at the sudden and violent increase of friendship
consequent upon their change of residence, in one who had apparently
forgotten the unimportant fact of her favorite schoolfellow’s existence
for more than five years.

“I can’t imagine why she should care to take us up now,” he demurred.

Susie’s ready flush testified to the hurt he had dealt her pride or
affections. She thought to the latter.

“If you would only not let your prejudice master your reason!” she
sighed. “All New York women hate and dread ferries.”

“There is the Bridge!” put in the Brooklyn-born literalist.

“Which would have taken visitors miles away from us. I was afraid you
would wet-blanket the whole affair. I really dreaded to tell you of
what I was silly enough to look forward to with pleasure. You see you
don’t know what a fine, genuine creature Kitty is. But we won’t dispute
over her or her dinner party. I can write to her and say that we regret
our inability to accept the invitation.”

Arthur closed his teeth upon another struggling sentence. Although
even less of a society man than she was of a society woman, he had
a definite impression that invitations to dinner were usually sent
out some days in advance of the “occasion.” Less distinct, because
intuitive, was the idea that gay young women, already laden with social
obligations, did not press attentions upon everyday folk from Brooklyn,
E. D., unless they hoped to gain something by it, or were addicted to
patronage. The former hypothesis being, as he conceived, untenable, it
followed that Mrs. Hitt, a good-natured rattle, must have said more
than she meant of her intentions toward the strangers, or that she had
a native fondness for playing the lady patroness.

Loving and admiring his wife from the full depths of a quiet heart,
he held all this back. Susie was vivacious, ready of wit and speech,
and he was not. She dearly enjoyed excitement and new acquaintances.
Give him dressing jacket, slippers, and an interesting book, or his
wife’s music and his own fireside, and he would not have exchanged
places with Ward Macallister at his complacent best. Susie would shine
anywhere; she was born to it! He was not even a first-class reflector
of her rays. Yet this noblest of women had stood by him with cheerful
gallantry in their less prosperous days. He had told her over and over
that she had hidden her light under a bushel in becoming the mistress
of such a home as he had to give her, but she had loyally denied this,
and borne her part bravely in the struggle to lap the non-elastic ends
of their common income. To her capital management he owed much of their
present comfort.

Arthur Cornell reasoned slowly, but always in a straight line.

“I am a selfish, brutal fellow, darling,” he said at this point of his
cogitations. “I am afraid I am a little tired to-night. We have had
a busy day at the Bank. You mustn’t mind my growls. When we have had
sup—dinner, I would say!—you’ll find me more than willing to listen and
