would say.

The commander sent for Dr. Hawkes, and told him about his former
patient. Mazagan had been very imprudent and even reckless, and his
present condition was simply what might have been expected, was the
doctor's reply. He might be out again in a week, not sooner, and might
not for a month. The captain was satisfied there would be no further
movement on the part of the pirate while he remained at Suez.

After breakfast the party embarked again in the Maud. Four sailors in
charge of Knott were sent on board, and the first cutter of the ship was
taken in tow, to be used in making the landing. The men remained on the
forecastle, and the pilot and Knott were already good friends. But the
"Big Four" were requested to stay with the party at the stern. The
little steamer went out of the basin and down the canal to the bay. As
soon as she came into the open water, the commander took the floor.

"On your right is Africa; on your left is Asia. You have probably had
enough of Egypt, and now we will confine our attention to Asia; and we
have pleasant Asiatic breezes from the east this morning. The country on
your left is Arabia, and nearest to you is the Peninsula of Sinai. It
has the Gulf of Suez on its west shore, and the Gulf of Akaba on its
east coast. I spoke to you of Brugsch's theory that the Israelites
journeyed east, with some diversions by divine command, till they came
to the Sarbonic Lake, in which he said that Pharaoh and his host
perished.

"Now you are on that portion of the Red Sea where it is more generally
believed that the fugitives crossed and Pharaoh's army was ingulfed. The
king heard that the wanderers had not passed the fortifications on the
isthmus, and he believed they were 'entangled in the land.' Then he
began the pursuit, with 'the six hundred chosen chariots.' The
Israelites fled before him, and crossed the waters in the manner
described in the Scriptures.

"Setting aside the miracle of the parted waves, there are still doubting
critics who affirm that they crossed the gulf at low tide on these
sands where the pier is built, as was frequently done by caravans before
the canal was built. The Egyptians continued the pursuit, reaching the
gulf before the tide turned, and attempted to follow them; but a strong
south-west gale sprang up, driving the waters furiously before it, to
the utter destruction of the whole army and its chariots.

"But I accept the narrative as it is written (Exodus xiv.); and I should
like to argue the case with any one who takes the view of Brugsch, or
other critics who try to explain the miracle on natural grounds."

The pilot anchored the Maud as near the shore as the depth would permit,
and the party were taken ashore by the sailors in the cutter. The
springs are about a mile from the landing, and the walk through the sand
of the desert was trying to the ladies and to the fat gentlemen. The
pilot acted as guide.

"Ain Musa, as it is called, is an oasis a mile and a quarter in
circumference. As you see, it is covered with date-palms, tamarisks, and
acacias, and everything grows luxuriantly," the Frenchman began. "The
Arabs who live in the mud hovels you see, raise fine vegetables here;
and, like all Arabs, they will expect a bakshish."

The springs were found to consist of several pools of rather muddy
water. The largest of them, shut in by an old wall, is said to be the
one called forth by the rod of Moses from the rock; but the tradition
is accommodating, and, if you choose, it is the one whose bitter waters
were sweetened by the casting in of the tree.

The party had brought a luncheon with them, and it was served by Sparks
at the usual hour. They had a delightful time under the trees, and
listened to an explanation by the professor of the natural formation of
the springs. In the middle of the afternoon they embarked, and returned
to the ship in the canal basin.




CHAPTER XXVI

THE VARIOUS ROUTES TO MOUNT SINAI


The next day was Sunday; and, in accordance with the custom from the
beginning of the voyage, no unnecessary work was required to be done by
any person, and the business of sight-seeing was discontinued. But all
were at liberty to observe the day in their own way. Religious services
were conducted by the commander on the deck or in the cabin, which were
usually attended by all. Most of them went to church on shore when it
was convenient; but going to see the edifice or the pictures they did
not regard as a devotional exercise.

It was a warm and pleasant day for the seventeenth of January, in
latitude 30°, about the same as New Orleans or the northern part of
Florida; and the service was held in Conference Hall, as the carpeted
section of the promenade deck had come to be called. The captain began
the exercises by reading selections from Exodus xv.:--

"Then sang Moses and the children of Israel this song unto the Lord, and
spake, saying, I will sing unto the Lord, for he hath triumphed
gloriously: the horse and his rider hath he thrown into the sea. The
Lord is my strength and song, and he is become my salvation: he is my
God, and I will prepare him a habitation; my father's God, and I will
exalt him.... Pharaoh's chariots and his host hath he cast into the sea:
his chosen captains also are drowned in the Red sea. The depths have
covered them: they sank into the bottom as a stone."

Several "Gospel Hymns" were sung, and the sermon read by the commander
was as nearly fitted to the surroundings as any he could find in his
collection. After the service Mrs. Blossom struck up "Turn back
Pharaoh's Army, Hallelu!" in which those who knew this Jubilee Singers'
melody joined. The conversation that followed naturally turned in the
direction of the Peninsula of Sinai, which they could see from the deck.

"Are we going to Mount Sinai, Captain Ringgold?" asked Mrs. Belgrave, in
a rather decided tone for her, as though she intended to have the
question settled this time.

A great deal had been said by the ladies from Von Blonk Park in relation
to this proposed excursion; but for some reason of his own the commander
had not yet given a definite answer. They all attended the same church
at home, and the captain and the two ladies were members of it. While
the others of the party were deeply interested in the Biblical history,
they were not so enthusiastic as the two ladies mentioned.

"Are we going to Mount Sinai?" replied the commander, repeating the
question of the owner's mother, "No!"

It was a decided "no" this time, and the jaws of the two Von Blonk
Parkites suddenly dropped. Everybody in the company knew that the
commander would do anything, even to swimming across the gulf where the
children of Israel had walked over, to oblige her, and they were very
much surprised at the emphatic negative.

"I shall not finally decide this interesting question without giving my
reasons," continued Captain Ringgold. "It would be an extremely
interesting excursion to me, as well as to the others. Though I have
been to Suez before, I have not made the trip, and I should be as glad
to go as any person present. Many travellers go there, especially
clergymen, to whom it is in a sense professional, aside from the
interest their studies would naturally create in the subject, and the
excursion finds a place in many excellent books of travel. I do not
consult my own personal desires so much as the situation and
circumstances in which we are placed.

"Although we call our voyage an All-Over-the-World affair, the title is
considerably exaggerated in the truest and most literal sense; for if we
devoted the rest of our natural lives to the work, we could not go
everywhere. It is impossible to visit every country on the earth even,
and we must use judgment and discretion in determining where we will go.
We are travelling by sea, making only such excursions inland as the
facilities of the country we visit will conveniently permit. Such trips
as we make of this kind must be regulated or controlled by conditions
over which we have no influence.

"Times and seasons form an important consideration. We are going to
India, and the season is advancing. The southern end of the Red Sea is
in latitude 12° north, where you are likely to see some hot weather; and
the longer we delay, the hotter it will be. We shall sail from here
Tuesday morning; and if we do not make a run up into the Persian Gulf,
we shall probably be at Bombay by the first of next month. That city is
in latitude 19°, or about that of the south side of Cuba, of which you
know something. We shall see plenty of extremely hot weather, but we
wish to avoid it as much as possible.

"There are several routes to Mount Sinai, three from Suez, and two from
ports south of it. It will take from two weeks by the shortest route to
four by the others. It is a very fatiguing journey if made with due
diligence, and it would require a full month for us to see the country
properly. My first objection is the time it would require.

"In the next place, the expense is from forty to fifty francs a day,
eight to ten dollars, for each person, over a hundred dollars a day. If
the result justified it, I should not object to the expense, and I don't
think Uncle Moses would. There are no hotels in this region, and you
would have to camp out, live in hovels, or at best in the monastery; and
the trip would involve a great deal of discomfort to persons not
accustomed to roughing it. The 'Big Four' might make a pleasant affair
of it, but most of the others would not.

"All the preparations for the excursion have to be made at Cairo, where
dragomans who contract to supply tents, camels, food, and everything
required are to be found, and I was approached by three of them at
Shepheard's Hotel."

"Then the trip seems to be impossible now, and it is useless to talk
about it," suggested Mr. Woolridge; and the captain thought he could
perceive an expression of relief on his face.

"It is not impossible," added the commander with a smile. "We can go to
Tur, 140 miles south of Suez, and there we shall find camels and a
contractor, though perhaps not for so large a company. I do not think
our party would enjoy the trip whichever way we might go. It is a rough
country, a group of mountains. The Monastery is 5,014 feet high, and it
must be cold weather up there in January. The Jebel Musa, which is
usually regarded as the Holy Mountain, is 7,363 feet high; but even
Mount Sinai itself is disputed ground, and the question 'Is Mount Serbal
the Sinai of Scripture?' is discussed by the critics. Serbal is 8,712
feet high, the loftiest, I believe, on the peninsula, and is nearer to
the gulf than the others.

"I believe the discomfort and exposure of the trip render it
impracticable at the present time and at the present season. The
guide-books indicate the months of March and April as the best for the
excursion; and it is too early to go now with comfort, not to say
enjoyment. Of course I do not know what Mr. Belgrave, under the advice
of his guardian and trustee, will do with the Guardian-Mother when our
present voyage shall be completed; but if he should retain the steamer,
I should recommend him to make a trip across the ocean at the right
time, and up the Mediterranean, by the Gulf of Iskanderun to
Alexandretta, which is near the head waters of the Euphrates River, a
proposed route to India by the Persian Gulf, of which I may have
something to say another day.

"From this city the steamer could take in the ports of the Holy Land, or
her passengers could journey through Syria by land, with tents and
dragoman. The ship could then be left at Port Said, the party could come
through the canal to Suez in the Maud, or by some other conveyance, and
then make a business of exploring the Peninsula of Sinai," said the
commander in conclusion.

"That arrangement would suit me much better," added Mrs. Belgrave. "I
have been groaning at the necessity of going home without seeing the
Holy Land. I shall keep this plan in my mind as one to be carried out in
a couple of years if my son does not object to it."

"The Guardian-Mother shall not go out of commission until this voyage is
completed," replied Louis promptly. "Captain Ringgold is engaged as
commander for life, and he will attend to the accomplishment of my
mother's wishes."

"I thank you, Mr. Belgrave, for the confidence thus reposed in me, and I
shall be most happy to command the steamer on such a voyage," replied
the captain. "We cannot calculate on events of the future with too much
assurance."

The day passed away quietly with reading and singing, and very early in
the morning the passengers heard an unusual sound of activity on the
part of the ship's company. The captain had given orders the night
before to have everything made ready for hoisting on deck the Maud. He
had announced his intention to the "Big Four" in his cabin, and given
his reasons for his decision. Scott and Felix regretted this change in
the programme of the voyage more than the other two.

"The Red Sea is sometimes a very stormy place," said the commander. "I
have feared more than anything else when you have been sailing in the
Maud that she might get separated from the ship in a fog, or in some
other manner, and that the little steamer might come to grief, however
well she might be handled; for she certainly is not large enough for an
independent voyage.

"In the very last paper I received from New York, I read of a new
steam-yacht to be built by a millionaire for the voyage around the world
which has lately become the fad of millionaires. One item struck my
attention; that she was to be armed with four cannon whose calibre was
not given, as well as with a supply of small arms. The wealthy voyager
was afraid of pirates, or some other freebooters on the Malabar and
Malay coasts, as well as among the islands of the Indian Ocean and those
of the Pacific.

"As you are aware, I took the same precautions myself; and I only regret
now that I did not take on board more guns and small arms. We have had
occasion to use our twelve-pounders on one occasion, and perhaps, if the
ship had reached the coast of Cyprus at the time I expected, I might
have found them useful. I do not anticipate any trouble from native
pirates wherever we may go; but I think the Maud is a temptation to
Arabs and other natives.

"In 1882 Edward Henry Palmer, an Englishman, while on a peaceful mission
with two officers of the British service, was murdered by the natives,
with his two companions, near Suez, but on the other side of the gulf.
If I were sure that the ship could always be near enough to defend the
little steamer if attacked, I should feel different about it. Then we
are liable to encounter fearful storms, cyclones, in the Indian Ocean,
and I think it is more prudent to have the little craft on our deck,
rather than in the water."

Neither Captain Scott nor Felix was disposed to argue the question, and
they said nothing. Early in the morning the work of preparation began
with the removal of everything heavy from the Maud that was not a
fixture. She was a large steam-launch to be hoisted on the deck of a
steamer no larger than the Guardian-Mother; but the task was
satisfactorily accomplished by lunch-time. The afternoon was used in
bracing the craft in her position, and putting everything around her in
ship-shape condition.

The space occupied by Conference Hall had been taken; but the captain
had set the carpenter at work to extend the promenade six feet aft, and
the work was completed before night. The carpet was laid, and the
arm-chairs removed to the new Conference Hall. The awning overhead was
to be lengthened out by the sailmakers among the crew.

Mr. Shafter had always insisted that his force was too small, and the
captain admitted the truth of his position. Felipe Garcias had stood on
the books of the ship as third engineer for several months; and John
Donald was made fourth engineer. The chief was entirely satisfied with
the appointments. Pitts returned to his place on the forecastle as a
seaman. The "Big Four" had staterooms in the cabin. After all, the
change was only the restoration of the old order of things before the
ship arrived at Gibraltar.

At daylight the next morning the Guardian-Mother hauled out of the
basin, and started on her voyage for the other extremity of the Red
Sea.




CHAPTER XXVII

THE CONFERENCE ON THE PROMENADE


The promenade did not wholly change its name after it became Conference
Hall, and had been enlarged and improved. It was as popular a resort as
it had ever been when the ship was under way and there was anything to
be seen. The place was occupied when the ship hauled out of the basin in
the early morning of January 19; for the passengers had all asked to be
called at five o'clock.

It seemed a little strange to go to sea without the Maud astern, and
with the principal members of her ship's company seated with the others
on the promenade. The commander had engaged a pilot for the whole length
of the Red Sea; for it is full of rocks and reefs, making the navigation
difficult and dangerous, though it has been thoroughly surveyed, and the
chart is speckled with small islands and coral reefs.

"I could give you the Arabic names of some of the surroundings as we
proceed," said the captain, who had taken a position where he could
observe the movements of the vessel, and it enabled him to look into the
pilot-house through the after windows when he desired to do so.

"Please don't, Captain Ringgold!" exclaimed Mrs. Belgrave. "It makes my
jaws ache even to hear them."

"But there are some things which have no other names, and they must
sometimes be used. That buoy on the starboard has no English name; but
it is of no consequence, and I will not try to speak it. On the opposite
shore is the Gebel Ataka, which you have noticed before. By this time
you have learned that gebel is a mountain, and jebel, as you will find
it on your map of the Peninsula of Sinai, means the same thing. Ras is
a cape. Formerly I knew many more words than now; for it is very easy to
forget a foreign language."

"There is a lightship on the starboard," said Louis, who was seated
between his mother and Miss Blanche.

"That is the Zenobia, on Newport Rock," added the captain. "Now look to
the shore on the left, which is called Abu Darraj. Perhaps you had
better write it down and remember it; for the people in this vicinity
believe the Israelites crossed the Red Sea where the ship is at this
moment. The water was formerly very shallow here, and a passage for
vessels had to be dredged through it. Napoleon and some of his generals
were here, and tried to cross over on horseback; but the sea served him
as it did Pharaoh and his army; the wind changed, and the tide rolled in
so that he was compelled to retreat."

There was nothing more to be explained, and the commander went to the
pilot-house; but the air was delightfully pleasant, and the sun rising
over the mountains of the peninsula was a beautiful sight. The ladies
were in raptures, and some of the gentlemen shared the enthusiasm. The
boys left their seats, and walked about the upper deck. Then Miss
Blanche thought she had better walk for a time before breakfast, and
very soon the whole party were occupied in the same manner. The
commander had appointed a conference at nine o'clock, and several
interesting subjects were to be considered.

Captain Ringgold was not disposed to drive his ship at her best speed,
which was over sixteen knots an hour; but he had instructed Mr. Shafter,
the chief engineer, to give her about fourteen knots, for she was more
comfortable at this rate than when forced to do her utmost, to say
nothing of the saving of coal. At this rate she would arrive at Bombay
in ten days, including a stop of one day at Aden. In this time he
expected to accomplish a great deal in the school of the conference.

The weather was fortunately all that could be desired, though the Red
Sea sometimes behaves very badly; and at the time appointed the members
of the party were all in their places on the promenade. The little
table, with its vase of flowers brought from the gardens of the
Terreplein, was in position. Mr. Woolridge was one of the first to take
his arm-chair. He had at first been rather indifferent in regard to the
instruction element of the ship, but had become quite interested since
he had been called to the platform as a speaker.

The commander was the first to take the platform; and he appeared with a
rose in the lappel of his coat, which probably would not have been there
if Mrs. Belgrave had not placed it there. She was very fond of flowers,
and had arranged quite a collection of potted plants, as well as filled
all the vases on board with cut flowers from the village.

"The subject first in order seems to be the Red Sea; and we have not yet
spoken of it in detail, though we have had considerable to say about it.
I shall purposely omit some things which will be explained when we come
to them. I am glad to see that you have brought your diaries or
note-books with you, as I suggested, and you can write down the names of
notable sights and the figures I shall give. I wish to say that I have
always prepared myself for these occasions, and do not talk to you at
random.

"The Red Sea is an arm of the Indian Ocean, with the Gulf of Aden, about
800 miles long, as a connection between them. The Persian Gulf, with the
Gulf of Oman, forms a similar body of water, and they will probably
render the same service to England and India that the Red Sea does at
the present time. Arabia lies between them. The sea on which we are now
sailing is 1,200 miles long."

"Badaeker gives the length as 1,400 miles," said Louis.

"He gives it in English miles," replied the commander. "A degree of a
great circle is 69.07 English, or statute miles as we call them, or 60
geographical sea miles or knots. This distinction has been fully
explained to you before. For ordinary purposes the number of sea miles
is to the number of statute miles in the ratio of six to seven. In other
words, there will be six-sevenths as many knots as statute miles, and
conversely, seven-sixths as many statute as sea miles. Six-sevenths of
1,400 is 1,200; and thus we agree.

"The Red Sea varies in width from 100 to 200 miles, and in the broadest
part it is 205 sea miles. We are still in the Gulf of Suez, and shall be
till about five this afternoon. On the African side you will see
mountains all the way to the strait, with only sand between them and the
water. There is nothing that can be called a town between Suez and
Koser, over 300 statute miles. All around the sea are coral-reefs; and
we shall pass a lighthouse on one right in the middle of it. Not a
single river flows into the Red Sea, for there are no rains in Egypt;
and if there were on either side, the desert would absorb all the water.

"This sea has the reputation of being a hot region. The thermometer
ranges from 70° to 94°, and sometimes the mercury mounts to over 100°,
always in the daytime, and it may fall to the freezing point at night,
though rarely. As on the Nile, the rule is hot days and cool nights,
though you may find some of the latter uncomfortable farther south, for
the water has shown a temperature of 100°.

"The water is somewhat salter than the ocean, because no rivers empty
into it, and because of excessive evaporation. It has been said by some
scientists that, if the Red Sea were entirely enclosed, it would become
a solid body of salt in less than two thousand years. I suppose they
mean that all the fluid would evaporate, and the salt in it would remain
at the bottom. We will not worry about it.

"The average depth of this sea is 2,250 feet, and the greatest 7,200. I
have nothing more to say about it; but while I am up I will say a few
words about the new route to India of which I have spoken before. The
Gulf of Iskanderun, sometimes called Scanderoon, is the north-east
corner of the Mediterranean. Its eastern shore is within a hundred miles
of the headwaters of the Euphrates River, which is navigable for small
craft to Bir. Sixty years ago some preferred it to the Suez route. A
grant of money was made by Parliament, two iron steamers of small size
were put into the river; and though one of them was sunk, the other went
through to the Persian Gulf.

"It was shown that this route was about a thousand miles less in
distance than any other to Kurrachee, the nearest port in India. But
political influences were at work against it, first from Egypt, and then
from some of the Powers, in the belief that it would give England an
advantage in the affairs of Asia, and the scheme was dropped. Now we
will take a walk of half an hour about the ship; for school-children
need rest and recreation.

"But I wish to remind you again that you are now near the ancient world;
for Arabia is in sight all the time, and Assyria, Babylonia, Syria are
beyond it. The professor will have the floor after the intermission."

During the recess the party walked about the deck and observed the
mountains, which were still in sight on both sides. Four bells, or ten
o'clock, was the signal for them to come together again. Whatever might
be anticipated farther south, the air was soft and pleasant, and not
over warm, about 70° in the shade.

"My excellent friend, Mr. Woolridge, has just reminded me of the promise
made by the commander that certain ancient travellers over the world
should be taken up, as we have frequent occasion to quote them,"
Professor Giroud began. "There are only three of them of any especial
note, the first of whom is Herodotus, 'the Father of History,' as he is
often called, and was worthy of the title.

"He was born about 485 years before the time of Christ, at
Helicarnassus, a Greek colony of Asia. This was about the time the
Persians were invading Greece. When this city obtained its freedom,
there was a dispute about the method of government, in which he was
involved, and which caused him to leave his native place. For the
ancient time, over two thousand years ago, when they had no railroads
and steamboats, his travels are remarkable for their extent. He went all
over Asia Minor and Greece proper, as well as the islands of the Ægean
Sea. He visited Macedonia, Thrace, and the coasts of the Black Sea.

"What was more remarkable, he penetrated to the Persian Empire and
Babylon, and toured Egypt more thoroughly than most modern travellers.
Then he extended his wanderings to Sicily and lower Italy. He was alive
at the first of the Peloponnesian War; but what became of him, when or
where he died, is not known.

"He spent the greater part of his life in travel, though not for
pleasure, but in acquiring knowledge which he intended to make useful to
the world. He was the most eminent geographer of his time, and he may
father that science as appropriately as that of history. But he treated
many other branches of knowledge, like the races of men and their
peculiarities, mythology, archæology, and, in fact, everything that came
within the range of his observation. He was a man of a high order of
intellect, a philosopher in his criticism of governments. Modern
scholars are greatly indebted to him, and his works are still extant. He
did not have the highest style of composition; but he was an honest man,
and he wrote as he talked. You can understand the frequent references to
him in modern books of travel.

"Not as favorable a notice can be given of Strabo, who was an ancient
geographer. He was born about sixty-four years before Christ, at Amasia
in Pontus."

"Where was that?" asked the magnate, who was taking the deepest interest
in the exercise.

"It is a name given to a country in the north-eastern corner of Asia
Minor, on the Black Sea, the ancient name of which was Pontus Euxinus,
or Euxine Sea, from which it got its name. His mother was of Greek
descent, and nothing is known of his father. I suppose you all know what
strabismus means."

"I am sure I don't," replied Mrs. Blossom; and probably she was the only
one who could answer in the negative.

"In plain terms, it means cross-eyed; and doubtless Strabo obtained his
name from having this defect in his eyes. Whether any of his family were
called so before him is not known. He studied with various learned men
in Greece, Rome, and Alexandria. It does not appear that he had any
occupation, but devoted all his time to study and travel. He wrote
forty-seven books, and those on geography were very valuable; for he
wrote from his own observation, though sometimes he is very full, at
others very meagre. He is regarded as by no means the equal of
Herodotus.

"The third of whom I am to speak is Diodorus Siculus."

"You have put a tail on his name, Professor," added the magnate.

"That is as much a part of his name as the rest of it, as used by
scholars. It means that he was born in Sicily. Very little is known
about him beyond what he told himself. He lived in the time of Julius
Cæsar and Augustus, and for a long time in Rome. He travelled in Europe
and Asia for material. He wrote a history of the world from the creation
to the time of Julius Cæsar. Some of the volumes are lost, and some of
them are still read.

"Diodorus was deficient in the qualifications of a historian; and about
all that is valuable in his writings is the mass of facts he gives, from
which he was not competent to make the proper deductions. The material
he gathered is valuable; but the thirty years he spent in the
composition of his works have not purchased for him the literary
reputation of Herodotus, or even of Strabo."

"I am very much obliged to you for your lecture, and I hope others
besides myself have profited by it," said Mr. Woolridge.

The professor bowed, and took some manuscript from his pocket.




CHAPTER XXVIII

THE ANCIENT KINGDOMS OF THE WORLD


When the promenade had been transformed into Conference Hall, the
arrangement for the maps had not been forgotten, and the frame had been
set up against the after end of the pilot-house. It covered the two
windows; but they were not needed when the ship was at sea. When the
professor made his bow, Mr. Gaskette exposed to the view of the audience
a map which had been completed before the steamer arrived at Port Said;
and all the way through the canal he and his assistants had been busy
upon others.

"Perhaps I ought to apologize for this map, Captain Ringgold," said Mr.
Gaskette, when he had unrolled the huge sheet; "for the boundaries of
these ancient countries are so indefinite in the great atlas that I have
not been able to lay down all of them."

"You have done exceedingly well, Mr. Gaskette, and I think the professor
can ask for nothing better than you have given him," replied the
commander.

"Certainly not," added the learned gentleman. "I can give the boundaries
no more definitely than they are presented on this beautiful map. I am
extremely delighted to have the assistance which it will afford me. The
artist might have guessed at some of the division lines, as others have
done. He has given us Mesopotamia, Susiana, and the region between them,
and that is all I desire.

"Perhaps I shall disappoint you, Mr. Commander, by the meagreness of my
description of these ancient countries; for these subjects in detail
would be very tiresome to the company under present circumstances, and I
propose to bring out only a few salient points in regard to them," said
the professor.

"The only thing I feared, Professor, was that you would go into them too
diffusely, forgetting that your audience are not savants, or even
college students, such as you have been in the habit of addressing. I am
very glad to find that you have just the right idea in regard to the
situation," replied Captain Ringgold.

"It is fortunate that we agree," continued the instructor, as he took
the pointer and turned to the map. "This map lays before you the region
lying to the north-east of Arabia, on the port hand of the ship, as the
commander would say; and with your imagination you can look over these
mountains and sands and see it. You observe that Syria is on the west of
the northern part of it, with Armenia just where it is now, on the north
of it, though there was more of it then than now; for in ancient times
it reached to the Caspian Sea. An old lady in the country at whose house
I used to spend my vacation used to call things that could not be
changed as fixed as the laws of the 'Medes and Parsicans.' She meant
the Medes and Persians; and Media, now a part of Persia, was the eastern
boundary of the region mapped out On the south-east is Susiana, now a
large portion of Persia.

"This beautiful map tempts me to be more diffuse than I should have been
without it; but it gives you a bit of ancient geography which will do
you no harm. There are two great rivers which extend through this
territory, the Euphrates and the Tigris, though both of them unite and
flow into the Persian Gulf. Of the former of them the commander has
spoken to you this morning. Scholars have not been able to locate
Paradise, or the Garden of Eden, with anything like precision; but it is
generally supposed to have been between these two great streams. Some
think it was not a place at all, but only a location given to a moral
idea; others place it in the mountains of Armenia or Northern
Mesopotamia."

"The pesky Bible critics!" exclaimed Mrs. Blossom; but Mrs. Belgrave
"hunched her" as the good lady expressed it.

"All this region has been in the possession of various masters, and even
the countries themselves are very much mixed. Assyria was the eastern
portion of the northern part," continued the professor, indicating the
location with his wand. "In the British Museum and elsewhere you have
seen bass-reliefs and figures brought from the ruins of Assyrian cities,
and in these the country is called Assur. In Genesis x. 11, we read:
'Out of that land [Shinar] went forth Asshur, and builded Nineveh.'
This was said of Nimrod; Shinar was a name of Babylonia.

"The history becomes complicated, and is a record of the achievements of
the Assyrian kings, Tiglath-Pileser, Sargon, Sennacherib, and others. It
would not be profitable to go over them. The Babylonian monarchy was
before Assyria was founded. The government was a despotism with nothing
to soften it, and the religion was the worship of many gods. Its history
dates back from 913 to 659 years before the birth of Christ, though
there are tablets which carry it back to 2330 A.D. The empire began to
decay in the reign of Sardanapalus, when the governor of Babylon and the
king of Media conspired against it; and Nineveh was captured and
destroyed a little more than 600 years before Christ."

The commander announced another recess at this time, though the party
appeared to be very much interested in the story of these ancient
countries, closely connected with Bible history. Half an hour was spent
in walking the deck and gazing at the shores, which were still the same,
for the ship was yet in the Gulf of Suez. After this rest the professor
resumed his place on the rostrum.

"This is Babylonia, as it is now called to distinguish it from Babylon,
the city," said the instructor, as he pointed to the region along the
shores of the southern Euphrates, and to the city on both sides of it.
"In the Scripture it is called Shinar, Babel, and 'the Land of the
Chaldees.' It was and is a very rich and fertile country, extensively
irrigated in modern times. Susiana is now a part of Persia, and the rest
of the territory represented on the map is included in Turkey in Asia.

"The people were of the Semitic race; in other words, they were
descended from Shem, the son of Noah; but Babylonia in the past and
present is a land of many races and languages, and the readers of the
inscriptions have been bothered by the variety of tongues. The British
and the New York Museum have figures and tablets revealing the history
of Babylonia. But it takes an archæologist to translate their
discoveries. The relations of the monuments indicate that the antiquity
of Babylonia reaches back about as far as that of Egypt. A stone in the
British Museum brought from this locality has the name of Sargon I.,
king of Akkad, is reliably vouched for as coming down from the year 3800
B.C.

"The ancient tablets inform us that Narbonassar ascended his throne in
747 (all these dates are B.C.). He reigned fourteen years, which were
taken up in wars with Assyria, in which the latter got the best of it in
the end. Then, in 625, invasions from the east afforded the Babylonians
the opportunity of throwing off the yoke of Assyria, and Nabopolassar
became king. In 604 he was succeeded by his son Nebuchadnezzar, who was
accounted one of the greatest monarchs that ever ruled the empire.

"In the forty-three years of his reign he recovered the lost provinces
of the kingdom, and made his country the queen of the nations of his
time. He rebuilt the city of Babylon, and restored all the temples and
public edifices. It is said that not a single mound has been opened in
this territory in which were not found bricks, cylinders, or tablets on
which his name was inscribed. He captured Jerusalem, and a year later
destroyed it, sending most of its people to Chaldea. He died in 561, and
was succeeded by his son.

"This son was murdered; and there was confusion again till 556, when the
throne was usurped by Nabonidus, the son of a soothsayer, who became a
wise and active prince, and his reign ranks next in importance to that
of Nebuchadnezzar. His name is found in almost all the temples
unearthed. After he had ruled seventeen years, all Babylonia revolted
against him because he neglected his religious duties, as well as those
of the court, leaving all the business to be done by his son Belshazzar.

"At this point the historians get mixed again. Some say that Belshazzar
was the last king of Babylonia. In Daniel v. 30, we read: 'In that night
was Belshazzar the king of the Chaldeans slain. And Darius the Median
took the kingdom.' Xenophon informs us that Babylon was taken in the
night while the inhabitants were engaged in feasting and revelry, and
that the king was killed. To this extent sacred and profane history
agree. The country became a Persian province. Then it was conquered by
Alexander the Great, who died in Babylon in 323. It was also a part of
the Roman Empire at two different times.

"In 650 the successors of Mohammed overthrew the Persian monarchy, and
the province was the seat of the caliphs till A.D. 1258. On the Tigris
in this region is the city of Bagdad, the capital of a province of the
same name. Here lived and reigned the Caliph Haroun al-Raschid, or
Haroun 'the Orthodox,' who is more famous in story than in history,
though he was a wise ruler, a poet, and a scholar, and built up his
domain. I have disposed of the two principal empires of this region,
pictured on the map; and the next in order is Persia."

"You haven't told us about the Hanging Gardens of Babylon, said to be
one of the great wonders of the world," suggested Mrs. Belgrave.

"They are hardly historical; but I will give you what I recall in
relation to them. One writer says they were built by Queen Semiramis,
the wife of Ninus, an alleged founder of Nineveh. She was a beautiful
girl, brought up by Simmas, a shepherd, from whom her name is derived.
One of the king's generals fell in love with her and married her. Then
he himself was smitten by her beauty, and wanted her himself; the
husband was good-natured enough to commit suicide, and she became queen.
Ninus soon died in a very accommodating manner, and Semiramis reigned
alone for over forty years.

"Others regard the wonderful gardens as the work of Nebuchadnezzar.
Diodorus Siculus and Strabo have described them. They are said to have
covered about four acres, built on terraces, supported by arches of
brick or stone, and were seventy-five feet high. They were watered from
a reservoir at the top, to which water was forced from the Euphrates.
Fountains and banquet halls were placed on the various terraces, as well
as gardens of flowers. Trees, groves, and avenues gave a variety to the
scene, and the view of the vast city was magnificent."

The professor retired; and another recess followed at the word of the
commander, who thought his school was doing admirably, and he was
anxious not to overdo the matter.

"I am afraid it will take all day for me to dispose of the subjects
assigned to me," said the professor, as he took his place again.

"I hope it will," replied Mr. Woolridge. "Very much to my surprise, I
have become deeply interested in the subjects you present, Professor."

"It is better than the theatre," added Miss Blanche in a low tone to
Louis.

"I shall give you only a few fragments in regard to Persia, and leave
Syria to be considered when the Guardian-Mother makes her trip to
Palestine. Persia is called Iran by the natives, and it is the largest
and most powerful native kingdom of Western Asia. It includes the
provinces of Susiana, Persis, and Media on the map, and extends from the
Persian Gulf to the Caspian Sea, with Afghanistan and Beloochistan on
the east, and Asia Minor on the west.

"A considerable portion of the country is mountainous, and between the
Elburz range and the Caspian Sea is an extinct volcano 18,600 feet high.
About three-fourths of Persia is practically a desert for want of rain
or artificial irrigation. In California, Colorado, and other States, our
people have transformed just such regions into fertile districts. But in
spite of the fact that such a large portion of the country is a desert,
some parts are exceedingly fertile and beautiful. Some immense valleys,
even a hundred miles wide, are of this character, and the productions of
the country are varied and valuable. It has no navigable rivers, though
many of large size and volume, some of which are beginning to be used
for purposes of irrigation. There are many salt lakes.

"The climate is varied; as Cyrus said to Xenophon, 'The people perish
with cold at one extremity, and are suffocated with heat at the other.'
The population has been estimated from forty down to eight millions; and
the latter is probably about correct. Roads are utterly neglected, and
the people live in mean houses, generally of earth or mud, and the
wealthy are not much better housed than the poorer class. The trade is
of little importance. There are silk manufactures in nearly every
province. Cotton and woollen fabrics, carpets, shawls, and felt goods
are largely produced; and the trade is carried on between the chief
towns of Persia with the interior of Asia by caravans. They exchange
these goods for cloth, printed calico, tea, coffee, and fancy goods.
Teheran in the north is the capital and the most important place;
Ispahan is in the centre, Shiraz in the south, and Bushire is the
principal seaport on the gulf.

"The government is an absolute monarchy of the most pronounced kind,
though somewhat influenced by the priests, the dread of private
vengeance, and insurrection. Taxation is heavy, and very burdensome to
the subjects. Persia has a standing army of 200,000, but it is said to
exist largely on paper. Incidentally you have learned considerable about
the history of the country, and I shall not go over it. The present
shah, as he is called, is Nâsr ed-dîn, born in 1831. He ought to be a
progressive monarch, for he has visited England and France several
times."

The professor retired, and the conference adjourned till afternoon.




CHAPTER XXIX

VIEW OF MOUNT SINAI IN THE DISTANCE


When the professor concluded his lecture for the forenoon, the audience
scattered, some of them feeling the need of more exercise; but Captain
Ringgold went to the pilot-house. Like the cabin passengers, he
immediately gave his attention to the mountains of the peninsula; for
the African shore was little better than a blank, with nothing there
worthy of notice. The pilot was an intelligent man, and he proceeded to
question him in regard to the peaks in sight.

Just then there was nothing difficult in the navigation; and Twist, the
quartermaster, was at the wheel, steering the course which had been
given out, south south-west half west. The pilot knew the mountains as
though they had been old friends of his for a lifetime. It did not take
the commander long to learn his lesson; and he returned to the deck,
where the passengers were gazing at the lofty points, thirty to forty
miles distant, but still very distinctly seen in the clear air of the
day. As soon as the captain appeared they gathered around him. He had
ordered all the spy-glasses on board to be brought out, and those who
had opera or field glasses had been to their staterooms for them.

"Isn't it time to see something, Captain Ringgold?" asked Mrs. Belgrave,
to whom he had directed his steps.

"There is always something to be seen in a narrow gulf like this, though
we shall be out of sight of land to-morrow morning when you come on
deck. We are now abreast of a plateau 1,600 feet high, which extends for
about thirty miles along the coast. It is a part of the desert of Kaa,
which extends to the southern point of the peninsula, over which you
would have had to travel first by camel for nearly twenty miles, if we
had gone to Mount Sinai by the only route open to us.

"We have seen about deserts enough," added the lady.

"Then you are the better prepared for the immense contrast between
plains of sand and the rich lands of India, covered with the most
luxuriant foliage. Now we have it at its best!" exclaimed the commander.

"What do we have? I don't see anything."

"We have Mount Serbal, which some believe is the genuine Mount Sinai,"
continued the commander, as he pointed out the loftiest peak in sight,
and which was readily distinguished from all others.

All the passengers had by this time gathered near him; for all of them
were anticipating a sight at the lofty height which had given a name to
the peninsula, though its real name is Arabia Petræa, as we used to read
about it in "Stephens's Travels" sixty years ago.

"That mountain is the highest on the peninsula; and if it is not the
real Mount Sinai, where the law was delivered to Moses, some insist that
it ought to be, for they say it is loftier, grander, nobler, and more
worthy the great event than the one which is generally assigned as its
location," said the captain. "As you have been informed before, Serbal
is 8,712 feet high."

Mrs. Blossom did not appear to be satisfied. Evidently she desired to
"gush" over the Holy Mountain; but the doubt as to "which was which," as
she stated it, bothered her very seriously, and she was not at all
friendly to the "pesky Bible critics," who had raised the doubt as to
its identity.

"Jebel Musa!" shouted the commander a couple of hours later; and the
party gathered around him again.

"What on earth is that?" demanded the good lady.

"Keep cool, Sarah," said Mrs. Belgrave to her. "The captain will tell
you all about it in due time."

"Jebel, or gebel, means a mountain in Arabic; Musa is sometimes spelled
Moosa; and the whole name, I suppose, is 'Mountain of Moses,'" the
commander explained as soon as he had enabled every one to see the peak
that went by this name. "In other words, that is what nearly everybody
who knows anything about the matter believes to be the true Mount
Sinai."

"Mount Sinai!" almost screamed Mrs. Blossom, who had apparently
determined not to be harassed by any more doubts, for what everybody
believed to be true must be so. "I should like to die on that
mountain," she declared, wringing her hands in a sort of rapture.

"Don't make yourself ridiculous, Sarah," interposed Mrs. Belgrave in a
whisper.

"How can a body look on Mount Sinai without being stirred up?" demanded
the good woman.

But whether it was Jebel Serbal or Jebel Musa, Mount Sinai was there;
and doubtless most of the company were as much impressed by the fact as
the excellent lady from Von Blonk Park, though they were less
demonstrative about it. Mrs. Belgrave was silent for a time; and then
she struck up one of Watts's familiar hymns, in which the others joined
her:--

    "Not to the terrors of the Lord,
      The tempest, fire, and smoke,
    Not to the thunder of that word
      Which God on Sinai spoke;
    But we are come to Zion's hill,
      The city of our God,
    Where milder words declare his will,
      And spread his love abroad."

As the gong sounded for lunch the ship was off Tur, but too far off to
see the place, if there was anything there to see; and the commander
mentioned it only as the port to which they would have sailed if they
had gone to Mount Sinai. The "Big Four" were more interested in the
Arabian craft they saw near the shore, for they always keep close to the
land. Their captains are familiar with all the intricate reefs where
large vessels never go. They are very cautious sailors, and on the least
sign of foul weather they run into one of the creeks which indent the
coast. They never sail at night; and if they have to cross the sea, they
wait for settled weather.

At the hour appointed for the afternoon conference the passengers were
all in their places; and however the report of his lectures may read,
the listeners were deeply interested, partly because they were inspired
by a desire for knowledge, and partly on account of their proximity to
the countries described. A map of the peninsula of Arabia had been
unrolled on the frame, with enough of its surroundings to enable the
audience to fix its location definitely in their minds. The professor
came up smiling and pleasant as he always was, and the boys saluted him
with a round of applause.

"My subject this time is Arabia, which the natives call Jezirat-al-Arab,
and the Turks and Persians Arabistan. It is a peninsula, the isthmus of
which reaches across from the south-eastern corner of the Mediterranean
to the head of the Persian Gulf," the professor began, indicating on the
map the localities mentioned with the pointer. "Asia abounds in
peninsulas, and Arabia is the great south-western one. From north-west
to south-east it extends 1800 miles, and is about 600 wide. It has an
area of 1,230,000 square miles, which is a very indefinite statement to
the mind, though given in figures, and I will adopt the commander's
method of giving a better idea by comparison with some of the States of
your own country.

"It is nearly five times as large as the State of Texas, the most
extensive of the Union, and almost twenty-six times as large as the
State of New York. They do not take a census here; and estimates from
the best information that could be obtained make the population five
millions, which is less than that of the State of New York. Mr. Gaskette
has colored a strip of it along the Red Sea, about a hundred miles wide,
in green, as he has Palestine and the other parts of Turkey in Asia
shown before you. A large portion of Arabia consists of deserts, the
principal of which is the Syrian in the north.

"Ptolemy, not the king but the geographer, divided Arabia into three
sections,--Arabia Petræa, after the city of Petra; Arabia Deserta, the
interior; and Arabia Felix (Arabie Heureuse in French), which does not
mean 'the happy land,' as generally translated. Milton says, 'Sabean
odors from the spicy shores of Araby the blest.' The words meant the
land lying to the right, or south of Mecca, the Oriental principal point
of the compass being the east and not the north.

"The proper divisions at the present time are the Sinai peninsula,
Hedjaz, which is the northern part of the green strip; Yemen, the south
part (formerly Arabia Felix); Hadramaut, which borders the Arabian Gulf,
the ante-sea of the Red; and Oman, a mountainous region at the entrance
of the Persian Gulf, an independent country, under the government of the
sultan or imam of Muscat, as the territory is also called.

"We do not know much about the interior of Arabia, one-third of which is
a desert, part of a zone reaching over all of Africa and Asia. El-Hasa,
along the Persian Gulf in the east, for such a country, is level and
fertile, and is really a Turkish province, like those on the west coast.
A short rainy season occurs on the west coast, which only fills up the
low places; and there is hardly a river, if there is anything entitled
to the name, which is strong enough to go alone to the sea from any
distance inland. Fine fruits are raised, especially in Yemen, as well as
coffee, grain, tobacco, cotton, spices, aloes, frankincense, and myrrh.

"Sheep, goats, oxen, camels, and horses are raised for domestic use.
Gazelles and ostriches live in some of the oases, where also the lion,
panther, hyena, and jackal seek their prey. The magnificent Arabian
horse has been raised here for a thousand years. The camel is one of the
most useful animals of this country; and some suppose he is an original
native, for his likeness is not found among Egyptian drawings and
sculptures. There are plenty of fish and turtle along the coast.

"The original Arab is found here, and there is something about him to
challenge our admiration. He is muscular, though of medium height, and
is sharp and quick-witted by nature. He has some leading virtues, such
as hospitality and good faith; he is courageous and temperate, perhaps
because wine and spirits are forbidden in the Koran. But he is a sort of
a natural robber, and seeks a terrible revenge for serious injuries. His
wife, and there are often several of her, does the work, keeps house,
and educates the children. Some Arabs are settled in towns or oases, and
others lead a wandering life.

"'Blessed is the country that has no history,' for it is usually the
record of wars. Arabia has nothing that can properly be called history;
but it has been concerned in the wars of Turkey and Egypt. What there is
relates to the birth and life of Mohammed, and his wars to promote the
increase of his followers; and I shall tell you the story of the Prophet
