swaggered off.

Dil woke Dan, and gave him his meal, as two babies were asleep and the
other sat on the floor munching a crust.

Bess slept late. Poor Dil went about her work in a strange maze. Owny
slipped out of a great many things, and told lies about them, and this
morning he had been very “cute.” Dil sighed. She could not have done it.
She would have blundered and betrayed herself. And yet she had told a
lie about the book. It had not saved the book, but perhaps it had saved
her and Bess from something more terrible.

It was a sad day for both of them. The babies were cross. One had a bad
cold and a croupy sound in his voice. There was not even a glint of
sunshine at noon now; the high houses kept it out of the court. But the
day wore to an end. Mrs. Quinn did not go out at all in the evening.
Owen was very jaunty, and pretended to study.

Mrs. Quinn’s reformation lasted two or three days. She had “taken her
oath she would niver step fut inside o’ Mrs. MacBride’s dure;” but Mrs.
MacBride had no notion of losing so good a customer. To be sure, Mrs.
Quinn was getting rather quarrelsome and overbearing, but she was good
company for the most part.

Winter had fairly set in with December. There was much talk of dull
times, and the babies fell off after Monday and Tuesday. Owen and his
mother seemed continually on the warpath. He was a big, stout boy of his
age; and, when he thought it was safe, played hookey, put in coal, ran
errands, sold papers, and did whatever his hands found to do with all
his might, even to snivyin’ on the corner grocer. Dan was pretty shrewd
and sharp, though not so daring, but could swear and smoke cigar ends
with the worst of them.

There was an occasional religious visitor in the court besides the
sisters and the priests. But Dil never mentioned them to her mother now.
Besides, she did not want to leave Bess for even an hour or two at the
Mission School; she hated to spend a moment away from her. Since the
loss of the book and the picture they clung closer to each other. There
was only one anticipation now, waiting for spring and John Travis.

And as other things failed, their faith seemed to centre about this.
They lived on the hope of heaven with the fervor of saints who had known
and loved the Lord, and were counting all the appointed days, as if the
glories had already been revealed, and they were walking by faith.




VIII—BESS


Everybody began to talk about Christmas. Last year Dil had wheeled Bess
around to see the shop windows.

“If it would come reel nice and warm, an’ there wasn’t any babies! But
it’s awful cold when you just have a winder open to sweep, an’ I
couldn’t stan’ bein’ out in it.”

“No, you couldn’t,” and Dil sighed.

Bess was ethereal now. Her large, bright eyes, her golden hair, and the
pink that came in her cheeks every afternoon, gave a suggestion of the
picture. Then she was so curiously, so nervously alive, that, afraid as
Dil was of every change, she blindly hoped some of these things were
indications of recovery.

But Dil’s poor head ached a good deal now, and she had restless nights
when it seemed as if she would burn up. As she listened to Bess’s
beautiful thoughts and strange visions, she felt discouraged with her
own stupidness. She was so physically worn out that her brain was inert.

“I wisht I knew what Christmas was all about,” sighed Bess. “An’ Santa
Claus! Mammy says there ain’t no such thing, an’ he couldn’t come down a
chimbly. But he gives a norful lot of things to some folks. An’, Dil, we
used to hang up our stockings. What’s it for, anyway?”

Dil gave a long sigh, and the wrinkles of perplexity deepened and
strayed over her short nose.

“Johnny Dike’s goin’ to see the cradle in the manger on Christmas Eve.
An’ he’s goin’ to take a present, some money he’s been savin’ up. What
makes Christ get born agen? ’Tain’t the Lord Jesus, though; for he’s a
big man now, if he can carry children in his arms.”

“We might ast Johnny or Misses Murphy,” suggested Dil.

“They’re Catholics. An’ there’s such curis things, with people tellin’
you diff’rent. I don’t see how he can be born every Christmas. I b’lieve
I like Santa Claus best. You don’t have to give him nothin’ when you
ain’t got even a penny. O Dil,” pausing to rest a moment, “don’t you
wisht he was here! He’d know all about it. Rich folks have chances,
an’ get to know everything. He’s a long way off. When mammy was clever
t’other night, I ast her ’bout comin’ crost the oshin, ’Lantic Oshin,
’tis; an’ she said you sailed an’ sailed two whole weeks. An’ if he
don’t start ’till April, there’ll be two weeks more. I keep countin’
thim up.”

Dil had been warming some broth.

“I wisht you’d take a little of this,” she said. “The ’Spensary doctor
said you must have it. An’ you ain’t eat nothin’ but the pear an’ the
piece of norange.”

“They was so good and juicy. My throat’s hot, an’ kinder dry an’ sore.
Things don’t taste good.”

“I wisht I could get some more of that nice medicine. The ’Spensary
stuff ain’t no good. I might ast Patsey to lend me some money; but how’d
I ever get any to pay him back?”

They looked at each other in wonderment. Then the child’s feverish eyes
sparkled.

“O Dil, I know he’d help us pay it back, for mammy was so cross to the
lady he sent that she won’t come no more. An’ ’twouldn’t been no use to
give mammy the money. O Dil, we’ve had ten whole dollars. Wasn’t it
lovely? An’ I wisht the time would spin round an’ round, faster’n ever.
I get so tired waitin’. Seems sometimes ’s if I jes’ couldn’t draw
another breath.”

“Oh, you must! you must!” cried Dil in affright. “For when people stop
breathin’, they die.”

“An’ I wanter live, so’s we can get started for heaven. I’ll be better
when it’s all nice an’ warm out o’ doors, an’ sunshiny. I’d jes’ like to
live in sunshine. You see, when the babies cry, it makes me feel all
roughened up like. An’ I’m that feared o’ mammy when she an’ Owny hev
scrimmiges. There’s a lump comes in my throat ’n’ chokes me. But I’m
gonter live. Don’t you know how las’ winter I was so poor an’ measlin’?
An’ I crawled out in the spring. Owny was readin’ in his lesson ’bout
some things doin’ that way;” and Bess gave a pitiful ghost of a laugh.

“Won’t you lay me down?” she asked presently. “My poor back’s so tired.”

“You must eat some broth first.”

She did not want it, and the effort she made to please Dil was heroic.

She often asked to be laid down now. When the babies cried, it seemed as
if knives were being thrust into her head. She had so many queer
fancies, but she tried not to tell the bad ones to Dil. One moment she
seemed out of doors, with the cold rasping her skin everywhere, going
down her back like a stream of ice-water. Then she was scorched with
heat, her skin crisping up and cracking. When she was pillowed up, it
seemed as if she would fall to pieces; when she was laid down, the poor
bones ached.

And in that land of “pure delight” there was no pain, no sickness, no
chilling winds! And perhaps the babies didn’t cry,—maybe there were no
babies. They mightn’t be big enough to go, and they would be scared at
the giants.

Monday night began badly. A neighbor came in and made a complaint about
Owen, and threatened to have him arrested. He had broken a pane of glass
and kicked her dog. Mrs. Quinn was tired with a big wash; and this made
her furious, though she went at the woman in no gentle terms.

Owen had not been so much to blame. The miserable little cur had snapped
at him, and he had kicked it away. Then, as it ran yelping along, it was
too good a mark for a boy to miss. He shied a piece of oyster shell;
but, as bad luck would have it, he missed the dog, and the missile
bounded down to a basement window.

“I’ll put that lad in the ’form school this blissid week! A pore woman
can’t take care o’ sich a lot o’ brats, an’ they fuller ’n an egg of
diviltry. I’ll jist see—”

She began to hunt around for the end of a stout trunk-strap. Dil
trembled in every limb. If Owny would only stay away! But he didn’t. He
came up the stairs whistling gayly; for he had earned a quarter, and he
was saving money to have a regular Christmas blow-out.

His mother fell on him. There was a tremendous battle. Owen kicked and
scratched and swore, and his mother’s language was not over choice. He
managed to wriggle away, and reached the door, crying out, as he sprang
down the stairs, that he’d “niver darken the dure agin, if he lived a
hundred years;” and added to it an imprecation that made Dil turn faint
and cold.

Bess went into a hysteric.

“Drat the young un! Shet yer head, er you’ll get some, ye bag o’ bones!
Ye shud a ben in yer grave long ago. Take her in t’other room, Dil. I
can’t bide the sight uv her!”

Dil uttered not a word, though the room spun round. She poured her
mother a cup of tea, and had a dish of nicely browned sausage, and some
baked potatoes. Mrs. Quinn ate, and threatened dire things about Owny.
Then she put on her shawl, throwing it over her head, which meant an
hour or two or three at Mrs. MacBride’s, though she started to look for
Owen.

Dil brought the wagon back, and nursed and soothed Bess.

“I wouldn’t ever come back, if I was Owny,” she said in her spasmodic
tone, for the nervous fright was still strong upon her. “An’ if I had
two good legs, we’d run away too. Dil, I think she’d jes’ be glad to
have me die.”

Dilsey Quinn shuddered. Just a few months longer—

Mrs. Murphy came in to borrow a “bit o’ tay,” and to learn what the
rumpus was about. Dan told the story, putting Owny in the best light,
and declaring valiantly that “Owny wasn’t no chump.”

“Misses Murphy,” said Dil, as soon as she could get a chance, “what is
it ’bout Christmas? an’ what makes Christ be born ivery year?”

“Shure, dear, I do be havin’ so many worries that I disremember. What
wid th’ babby bein’ sick, an’ pore ol’ Mis’ Bolan not sittin’ up a
minnit, an’ bein’ queer like in her mind, an’ me hardly airnin’ enough
to keep body an’ sowl togither, I hardly mind ’bout the blissed day. But
I do be thinkin’ he isn’t born reely, for ye see the blissid Virgin’s
his mother, an’ she’s in hivin wid th’ saints. I do be a bad hand at
tellin’ things straight; but I niver had any larnin’, fer I wint in a
mill whin I was turned o’ six years. An’ whin ye can’t rade, it’s hard
gettin’ to know much. But I’ll ast the praist. Ah, dear,” with a furtive
glance at Dil, “If ye’d only let me ast him to come—”

“Oh, no, no!” protested Dil. “Mother’d kill us; an’ she don’t b’leve in
priests an’ such. You know how she went on ’bout the man who came an’
sang.”

“Ah, yis, dear; it wouldn’t do.” And she shook her head, her eyes still
fixed sorrowfully on Bess. “But I have me beads, an’ I go to confission
wanst a month, an’ that’ll be Friday now, an’ I’ll ast Father Maginn an’
tell ye all. Oh, you poor childer! An’ it’ll be a sad Christmas fer many
a wan, I’m thinkin’. There’s poor Mis’ Bolan—”

Mrs. Murphy paused. Was Dil so blind? She could not suggest Mrs. Bolan’s
death when the great shadow seemed so near them.

“Dear,” she added, with sympathetic softness, “if ye should be wantin’
any one suddint like, run up fer me.”

“Yer very kind, Misses Murphy. I sometimes wisht there would be nights a
whole week long, I’m so tired.”

Owen did not come home that night nor the next. Dil devoutly hoped he
would not come at all. She had a secret feeling that he would go to
Patsey, and she comforted Bess with it. The house was so much quieter,
and Dan was better alone.

Even in Barker’s Court there were people who believed in Christmas,
though some of them had ideas quite as vague as Dilsey Quinn’s. But
there was a stir in the very air, and penny trumpets began to abound.
Still, there were many who had no time for Christmas anticipations, who
were driven to do their six days’ work in five, who stitched from
morning to midnight, who did not even have time to gossip with a
neighbor.

Poor Bess! she could not eat, and she was so restless. The pears and the
oranges were gone, and, saddest of all, their bank was empty. If Patsey
would only come!

Dil took Bess up and laid her down, gave her sips of water, caressed her
tenderly, bathed her head with cologne, and even that was running low.
The babies were left on the floor to cry, if Dil caught the faintest
sound that was like desire. Bess often just held up her spindling arms
and, drawing Dil down, kissed her with eager fervor.

She was so glad to have night come and see the last baby taken away.
Mrs. Quinn was working at a grand house where they were to have a
Christmas feast. She was to go again to-morrow; and, as it was late, she
did not go out, but just tumbled into bed, with not an anxiety on her
mind.

Dil sat and crooned to her little sister, who seemed a part of her very
life. When Mrs. Quinn snored, it was safe to indulge in a little
freedom. And though Dil was so worn and weary, she ministered as only
love can. Everybody had been so used to Bess’s weakness, and they
thought that the end would be a great relief. But Dil never dreamed of
the end they saw so plainly.

It was past midnight when Dil laid her down for the last time.

“O Dil, I feel so nice an’ easy all of a suddent,” she cried, with an
eager joyousness that thrilled the heavy heart. “Nothin’ pains me. I’m
quite sure I’ll be better to-morrow. An’ when Patsey comes, we’ll just
ast him to help us get that nice medicine. He’s so good to us, Dil; ’n’
if he had lots of money he’d give us anything.”

“He just would,” said Dil. “An’ if Owny’s gone to him, he’ll be all
right.”

The thought comforted her immeasurably.

“O Dil, dear,” murmured the plaintive voice, “do you remember the big
bowl of wild roses, an’ how sweet they were, an’ how pritty, with their
soft pink leaves an’ baby buds? I can almost smell them. It’s so sweet
all around. Dil, are there any wild roses?”

“No, dear,” said the gentle, tired voice.

“Well—then I’m dreamin’; an’ they’re so lovely. Just like he told us,
you know; ’bout that place where they growed. Oh, you dear, sweet,
lovely Dil! I want to see the picture he put you in. You were pritty, I
know; folks always are pritty in pictures. An’ we’ll ast him to let us
be taken over agen, for when we get on the way to heaven we’ll both be
so full of joy. An’ he’ll help us clear to the pallis.”

She stopped to breathe. It came so quick and short now, hardly going
below her chest.

“Sit here an’ hold my two hands. Dil, dear, I’m as much trouble as the
babies; but I most know I’ll be better to-morrow. And when I go fast
asleep, you run right to bed, an’ it’ll be all right. I feel so light
an’ lovely, ’most ’s if I was a wild rose—a soft, pink, satiny wild
rose.”

There was a little pleasant gurgle that did duty for a laugh. Dil kissed
her and crooned sleepily. As she held the hands, the fever seemed to go
out of them. The little golden head had such a restful poise. The breath
came slowly, easily.

Dil kissed her with the long, yearning, passionate kisses that take
one’s whole soul, that leave some souls bankrupt indeed. All her own
being was in a strange quiver. Oh, did it mean that Bess would be better
to-morrow? She believed it in some strange, undefined way, and was at
peace.

Perhaps she drowsed. She started, feeling stiff and chilly. Bess slept
tranquilly. There was no pain to make her moan unconsciously. Why, it
was almost a foretaste of that blessed land.

Dil wrapped herself in an old shawl and dropped down on her little cot.
In all the glad wide world there was no one to come in and comfort her,
and so God sent his angel—kindly sleep. The night breath that he
breathed over her had the fragrance of wild roses.

The alarm clock roused her. It was dark now when her day began. Bess was
quiet; and she drew the blanket more closely around her, for the morning
felt bitterly cold. She stirred the fire, made her mother’s coffee, and
broiled a bit of steak. The windows were all ice, which seldom happened.

“It’s enough to kill one to go out in the cold,” declared Mrs. Quinn.
“I’ll not be home airly the night, for I promised cook to stay a bit an’
gev her a hand wid th’ fancy fixin’s. Foine doin’s they’re to be havin’.
An’ if that thafe of the world Owny comes in, ye be soft spoken jist as
if nothin’ had happened. I’ll settle wid him. I’ll gev him some
Christmas!”

With that she was off. Then Dan came for his breakfast.

“I do miss Owny so,” he half whimpered. “Ther’ ain’t a boy in the street
who could think up such roarin’ fun.”

“Whisht!” Dil said softly. “Bess is asleep, an’ I won’t have her
worrited. She had a bad time yist’day with the babies. I do hope there
won’t be no such crowd to-day. Seven babies an’ that was thirty-five
cents. Mother might be given Bess an’ me some Christmas.”

Dan laughed at that.

Dil sighed. She drank a little coffee, but she could not eat. Two sleepy
babies came. She washed the dishes, and spread up her mother’s bed,
putting the babies in there. It was dark, with no ventilation but the
door, and kept warm easily.

Another and another baby, one crying for its mother. When Dil had hushed
it she took a vague glance at Bess, whose fair head lay there so
restful. The frost was melting off the window-panes, and she put out the
lamp. With a baby in her arms she sat down and rocked.

A curious sense of something, not quite anxiety, came over her
presently. She went to Bess and raised the blanket, peering at the small
white face that seemed almost to light the obscurity of the room. The
eyes were half-closed. The lips were parted with a smile, and the little
white teeth just showed. One hand seemed to hold up the chin.

Dil stooped and kissed her. O God! what was it? What was it? For Bess
was marble cold.

“O Bess, Bess!” she cried in mortal terror. “Wake up, my darlin’! Wake
up an’ get warm.”

As she seized the hand, a startling change came over the child. The chin
dropped. The pretty smile was gone. The eyes looked out with awesome
fixedness. Her heart stood still as if she were frozen.

Then, moved by horror, she flew up-stairs, her breath almost strangling
her.

“O Misses Murphy!” she shrieked, “there’s somethin’ strange come over
Bess. She’s never been like this—an’ cold—”

“Yis, dear. I’ll jist look at poor Mis’ Bolan. She do be goin’ very
fast. All night she was that res’les’ talkin’ of the beautiful hymn the
man sung, an’ beggin’ him to sing it agen; an’ then hearin’ angels an’
talkin’ ’bout green fields an’ flowers, an’ where there do be no night.
They do be mostly so at the last, rememberin’ beautiful things.”

An awful terror clutched Dil at the heart, as she recalled Bess’s talk
of the wild roses. So cruel a fear smote her that her very tongue seemed
paralyzed.

“You don’t mean”—she cried wildly.

Mrs. Murphy’s thoughts were running on Mrs. Bolan.

“She’ll not last the day through. Pore dear, there’s not much pleasure
to the’r ould lives. But she did be so longin’ to have that man come
agen—”

She had taken Dil’s hand, and they were going down-stairs. A baby had
rolled off the lounge and bumped his head, and was screaming. But Dil
hardly heard him. They went through to the tiny room.

“Ah, pore dear! Pore lamb! She’s gone, an’ she’s outen all her mis’ry.
She’ll niver suffer any more. An’ she’s safe—”

Mrs. Murphy paused, not quite sure she could give that comfort. There
was purgatory, and the poor thing had never been christened. She was
extremely ignorant of her own church doctrine; but she felt the bitter
injustice of condemning this poor soul to everlasting torment for her
mother’s neglect.

“No, Misses Murphy,” cried Dil in the accent of utter disbelief, “she
can’t be—Oh, hurry an’ do somethin’ for her. She’s jes fainted! Le’s get
her warm agen. Bring her out to the fire, an’ I’ll run for the ’Spensary
doctor. Oh, no, she isn’t—she wouldn’t—’cause we was goin’ to heaven
together in the spring, an’ she couldn’t leave me without a word—don’t
you see?”

Oh, the wild, imploring eyes that pierced Mrs. Murphy through! the
heart-breaking eyes that entreated vainly, refusing the one unalterable
fiat!

“Ah, dear, they’sen don’t hev any ch’ice. O Dil, Dilly Quinn!” and she
clasped the child to her heart. “You mustn’t take on so, dear! Shure,
God knows best. Mebbe he’s better’n folks an’ the things they say. She
won’t suffer any more, pore dear. I’ve seen it for weeks, an’ knowed
what must come.”

Dil gave a few long, dry, terrible sobs; then she lay helpless in Mrs.
Murphy’s arms. The kind soul placed her on the cot, sprinkled water on
her face, chafed her hands; but Dil lay as one dead.

Then she ran down-stairs.

“O Mrs. Minch! have ye iver a bit of camphire? I used the last o’ mine
this mornin’ for the pore old craythur. Bessy Quinn’s gone at last, an’
is cold, an’ Dil’s that overcome she’s gone in an norful faint. Come up
a bit, do. An’ that haythen woman’ll not care more’n if it was a kitten.
She do be the hardest!”

Mrs. Minch laid down her work, looked up the “camphire,” and plied her
caller with inquiries.

All their efforts were unavailing, though Dil opened her eyes once, and
at intervals a shudder ran through her frame.

“Yes, the poor dear’s dead and cold, and it’s God’s mercy, Mrs. Murphy.
How she’s lived so long’s a mystery; but Dil’s been more watchful than
most any mother. She was the sweetest and patientest, and loved her
beyond all things. Mrs. Quinn hasn’t any human feeling in her, and
there’s plenty like her, more’s the shame. When you bring helpless
little ones in the world, it’s not their fault. And when they are
bruised and banged and made helpless, as that poor little one, a
mother’s heart should have pitied her.”

“Oh, dear, it’s the rum that takes out all the nateral feelin’. An’ one
’ud think she’d had enough of it in her husband, not to be goin’ the
same way. An’ pore Dil carin’ for them babies an’ doin’ a woman’s work,
a-stuntin’ her an’ makin’ her old afore her time. An’, if ye’ll stay,
I’ll go fer th’ ’Spensary doctor. Sorra a Christmas it’ll be in the
court. Mr. Sheehan is dyin’, an’ Mrs. Neefus’s baby went yes’tday, an’
the ould woman—but they do be dyin’ all the time, some wan.”

Mrs. Minch bent over Dil with pitying eyes. She had seen better times,
and lived in a nicer neighborhood than Barker’s Court. But poverty had
driven her down step by step. She had her old deaf father to care for,
and a son growing up; and the three rooms, such as they were, proved
cheaper than anything she had seen, though she was on the lookout all
the time. She had not made much intimacy with her neighbors, except that
through her pity for Mrs. Bolan she had come to know good-hearted Mrs.
Murphy quite well, and she had been interested in Dilsey and Bess. But
most of the people in the court were afraid of Mrs. Quinn’s tongue.

“The poor thing!” she sighed. “She is a little old woman already. She
has never had leave to grow as children should. Oh, why are they brought
into the world to suffer?”

She had once thought herself full of trust and love to God, but so many
questions had come to the surface with her years of hard experience. Why
this little Bess should have suffered four years—but both parents had
given her a good constitution, that in some positions in life might have
made her a useful factor instead of mere waste material.

Then she took up one of the crying babies. Another was clamoring loudly,
“Bed, bed,” and opening wide his mouth to show her how empty it was.

“Oh, how ever did she look after them all?” she cried in despair as Mrs.
Murphy entered.

“She had a rare way with childers, that she had.” Mrs. Murphy cut a
chunk from the loaf of bread and gave the hungry baby. “An’ the docthor
will be in as soon as he kin, but there’s a sight o’ folks waitin’. I
have heerd say a grane Christmas made fat graveyards, but this is cold
enough to be black. An’ how’s the poor gurl?”

“She seems—asleep somehow, and you can notice her breathin’.”

“I’ll look after Mrs. Bolan, an’ kem down agen,” said Mrs. Murphy,
disappearing.




IX—DILSEY


Mrs. Bolan was faintly breathing, as she had been since midnight, but so
cold that she might easily be thought dead. Mrs. Murphy’s baby was
asleep.

The babies were crowing and talking in their fashion, unmindful of
sorrow.

“The pore dear,” said Mrs. Murphy tenderly, viewing Bess; “I’m thinkin’
we better care for her afore Dil wakes up. An’ she never havin’ had a
bit o’ christenin’, along o’ Mrs. Quinn not belevin’ nothin’. I’ve heard
her talk a way that wud set yer blood a-chill.”

“The Lord took the little ones in his arms and said, ‘Forbid them not,’
and I guess he won’t mind the christenin’. And this child’s been patient
and cheerful beyond common. I think she’s had a lot of Christian grace
unbeknownst. She’d look up with her sweet smile that almost broke your
heart, when Dil would be takin’ her out. And how she stood everything—”

“Mrs. Quinn’s been not so savage as she used. ’Tain’t nat’rel for
mothers to be so cruel. But ’twas last March, if I don’t disremember—you
were not here then, Mrs. Minch—she made such a nawful ’ruction that the
neighbors called in de cop, and nothin’ but her beggin’ off an’ sayin’
the children wud starve, an’ promisin’ on her bended knees, which she
never uses fer a bit o’ prayer, saved her. An’ she don’t bang ’em about
quite so bad since.”

“There was an awful time the other night.”

“Yes; that Owny’s too smart, an’ mebbe he would er banged her in a fair
fight; but he cut stick, an’ hasn’t shown hide ner hair sence.”

Mrs. Murphy leaned over Dil, and uttered a benison in her ignorant
Christianity.

“’Pears like they jist oughten to go togither. She looks like a ghost,
poor thing.” Then she lifted Bess from the shabby wagon that had been
her home so long, and brought her out on the lounge.

“Will ye look at them poor legs?” she said with a cry. “They do make yer
heart bleed. She was a smart little thing, goin’ to school, whin it
happened. The father oughter been hung fer it; fer it was he that did
it, murderin’ by inches. An’ he beat Mrs. Quinn to a jelly. Wudden’t ye
think now she’d had enough o’ rum, not to be goin’ the same road?”

Mrs. Minch sighed.

“It’s stuck everywhere, right in a body’s way, Mrs. Murphy. They’re
taxin’ people for prisons and ’sylums and homes for orphans, when they
haven’t the sense to shut up the saloons and gin-mills. Look at that
Mrs. MacBride, smilin’ and making it pleasant for a hard-workin’ woman,
havin’ a nice warm room for gossipin’ and such, and bein’ clever enough
to make them run up a score, and get her money once a week. There’s no
dancin’ nor carousin’; but it takes in the decentish sort of women, and
turns ’em out as bad as the men. It’s the poor families that’s pinched
and starved and set crazy. When I think of my boy growin’ up in it—but
where’ll poor folks go? Saloons are all over. They fight for the chance
to ruin folks.”

“Thrue for ye, Mrs. Minch. An’ sorra indade it is whin ye do be sad that
they come into the world, an’ rej’ice whin they go out of it young.
They’re spared a dale o’ pain an’ care. Yet it do seem wrong some way.
Childers should be a blessin’ an’ comfort to yer ould age. Things is
changed in the world. One gits that confused with thinkin’—”

They had prepared some water, but the poor little body was clean and
sweet. It was heart-breaking to see it.

Mrs. Murphy went into the bedroom for some clothing.

“Will ye look at the sort o’ bury Dil made out o’ boxes an’ covered.
She’s that handy an’ full o’ wit. An’ them clo’es is like snow, and all
mended nate. I don’t see how she cud do it wid all the babies. An’ I do
be thinkin’ it was Dil’s love that kep’ the little wan alive so long. It
was like medicine; her warm arms an’ cheery smile, her patience an’
thinkin’ what wud pleasure Bess. If there don’t be a straight road to
hiven fer thim both—an’ purgatory ought to be saved fer the ither kind.
Now, it don’t look a bit sinsible that little lamb shud suffer whin
she’s suffered so much a’ready! Sometimes I most think the church has
mistook whin they save the rumsellers an’ the great wicked men wid their
money, cause they kin pay fer prayers.”

“She’s in heaven, if there is any heaven.” Sometimes Mrs. Minch doubted.

“An’ oh, Mrs. Minch, if there wasn’t any hiven to rest us at last, how
cud we live through the cruel world?”

Such a pathetic cry as it was!

The doctor came. He looked at Bess, and asked a few questions, made a
note or two in his book, cutting short Mrs. Murphy’s explanations.

“Yes, yes; I’ve seen the child. She’s been strung on fine steel wires,
or they’d given way long ago. And the old woman? Strange how they go on
living when they had a hundred times better be dead, and the people of
some account go out like the snuff of a candle! Where’s the girl?”
glancing around.

“In there.” Mrs. Murphy nodded towards the room.

Dil lay motionless, but for the faint breathing. The doctor listened
with his ear down on her heart, felt her pulse, and seemed in a study.

“Let her sleep as long as she can. She has worn herself out. She used to
wheel this one round,” nodding. “Have in some fresh air; the room is
stifling. How any one lives—”

Dil roused without opening her eyes.

“Was it you, Bess? Oh, is it morning?”

“No, no; go to sleep again. The night’s just begun. She’s dead tired
out,” to the women. “Let the mother come round when she can, and get rid
of these young ones before the girl wakes. If there’s anything else
wanted, send round. Are these people very poor?”

“Mrs. Quinn goes out washing. And the babies are taken in by the day. I
don’t know”—doubtfully.

“The mother will settle that. And the old lady—the city must bury her, I
suppose?”

“’Deed an’ it must. She’s had nothin’ but her pinshin, an’ has no folk.”

They found Bess’s nice white frock pinned up in a cloth, beautifully
ironed and laid away in anticipation of the journey—the very journey she
had taken so unknowingly. They put it on, and smoothed down the poor
little legs with tender hands. Then they laid her on her mother’s bed
until Dil should rouse.

Mrs. Minch brought up her sewing, while Mrs. Murphy went to her own room
to look after Mrs. Bolan. Mrs. Carr, another neighbor, came in and
helped with the babies, and wondered how Dilly Quinn had ever been able
to do as much work as a hearty, grown woman, and she not bigger than a
ten-year-old child!

It was three o’clock when Dil roused. Mrs. Minch sat quietly at her
sewing. The wagon was pushed clear up to the window, empty.

“O Mrs. Minch, what has happened?” She sprang out, wild-eyed and
quivering.

“My dear,” Mrs. Minch took her in her arms, “Bess is better off. She is
in heaven with the good God, who will be tenderer of her than any human
friend. She will have no more pain. She will be well and strong, and a
lovely angel. You would not wish her back—”

“Yes, I do, I do. We was goin’ to heaven together in the spring; we had
it all planned. And Bess wouldn’t ’a’ gone without me—oh, I know she
wouldn’t. Where is she? What have you done with her?”

“She is in there.”

Dil flew to her mother’s room. The ironing-board lay on the bed, and a
strange, still shape imperfectly outlined under the sheet.

“She looks like an angel,” said Mrs. Minch.

Dilsey Quinn stared, bereft of her senses for some moments. Slowly the
incidents of the morning came over her—of last night, when Bess seemed
so improved, so hopeful. She had seen dead people. Death was no stranger
in Barker’s Court. There were “wakes,” and quiet, hurried burials. They
died and were taken away, that was all. With a curious, obstinate
unreason she knew Bess had died like all the rest; yet she had been so
sure Bess could not die. But she had not gone to heaven. The breath
had gone out of her body, but a breath couldn’t go to heaven. She had
left her body here; the poor hurted legs the Lord Jesus would have
mended. They could never be mended now, for they would be put in the
ground.

She stood so still that Mrs. Minch raised the sheet. The pinched look
was going out of the face, as it often does after death. The eyes were
closed; the long bronze lashes were beautiful; the thin lips had been
pressed rather tightly, as if in fear that they might betray their
secret. Yet it had a strange, serene beauty.

Dil did not cry or utter a sound. A great solitude enveloped her, as if
she were alone in a wide desert. She would never have any one to love or
caress; a thick darkness settled all about her, as if now she and Bess
were shut out of heaven forever. For what would the palace be, and the
angels innumerable, if Bess was not there?

She turned and went to her own room, began to pick up the things and
tidy it, spread the cot, shook the cushion of the poor dilapidated
wagon, carefully laid over it the blanket she had taken so much pains to
make.

“Mrs. Minch,” she said, “will you please bring Bess in here. Mammy
wouldn’t like her there. An’ I want her here—on my bed.”

Mrs. Minch looked at her in surprise. The face was rigid and
unresponsive, but there was an awesome, chilling sorrow in every line.
She reverently obeyed Dil’s behest.

“You are very good. You see, no one cared ’bout her but jes’ me an’
Patsey an’”—Ah, what would John Travis say? “An’ I want to keep her
here.”

“My dear, dear child—”

She put away the kindly hands, not ungently, but as if she could not
quite bear them—as if she was too sore for any human touch.

“How did I come to sleep so long?” she asked, in a strained, weary tone.

“You were so tired, poor dear. The doctor was in, and he said it was the
best thing for you. Mrs. Murphy has been in and out, and Mrs. Carr.”

“You took care of the babies?” Her lips quivered, and a few big tears
rolled down her cheeks. She could suffer, if the time to sorrow had not
yet come.

“Yes, dear. I don’t see how you get along so with them. And do you feel
better?”

The kind eyes studied her with concern.

“I’m well. I never do get sick.”

“Do you know where your mother is?”

“Not the street. No, ma’am. The people have a queer long name. An’
she’ll be late th’ night.”

Mrs. Murphy looked in the door.

“Ah, yer up, an’ ye do look better. Hev ye had anything to ate? Do ye
mind if I have Mrs. Minch come up-stairs just a bit?”

“Oh, no.” Dil did not notice the strain in the eyes, the awesomeness of
facing death.

“I cudden’t be alone. She’s roused, but she’s almost gone; fightin’ fer
life, one may say, at the very end,” she whispered as they went up the
stairs.

The babies were amusing themselves. Dil uncovered the face of her dead,
and looked long and earnestly, as if she knew there was a great mystery
she ought to solve. Ah, how sweet she was! Dil’s heart swelled with a
sense of triumph. She had always been so proud of Bess’s beauty.

But what was dead? It happened any time, and to anybody, to babies
mostly, and made you cold and still, useless. Then you were taken away
and buried. It was altogether different from going to heaven. What
strange power had taken Bess, and kept her from that blessed journey?
Why did the Lord Jesus let any one do it? John Travis couldn’t have been
so mistaken, and Christiana, and the children.

She was so glad they had put on her best dress, bought with John
Travis’s money. Ah, if they only had started that day and risked all!
Here was her blue sash and the blue bows for her sleeves. She hardly had
the courage to touch the beloved form.

How strangely cold the little hands were. She kissed them, and then she
no longer felt afraid. She raised the frail figure, and passed the
ribbon round the waist. Almost it seemed as if Bess breathed.

She brought the brush and comb, and curled the hair in her own flowing
fashion, picking out the pretty bang in rings, kissing the cold cheeks,
the shell-like eyelids. Why, surely Bess was only asleep. She must, she
would waken, to-morrow morning perhaps. A sudden buoyant hope
electrified her. She had her again, and the horrible thought of
separation vanished. Dil was too ignorant to formulate any theories, but
every pulse stirred within her own body.

Two of the mothers came for babies, but she uttered no word of what had
happened. Then she fed the others, and fixed the fire, and Dan peered in
fearfully. She gave him a slice of bread, and he was glad to be off.

Up-stairs they had watched the breath go out of the poor body.

“Pore thing! God rist her sowl wheriver it is,” and Mrs. Murphy crossed
herself.

“Has she no friends?”

“Not a wan, I belayve. She used to talk of some nevys whin she first
come, that’s nigh two years ago. But she’d lost track of them. I’m sure
I’ve taken good care of the pore ould craythur, an’ I hope some wan will
do the same to me at the last.”

“You’re a kindly woman, Mrs. Murphy, and God grant it. We don’t know
where nor when the end will come.”

Mrs. Minch stopped as she went down-stairs.

“Poor old Mrs. Bolan has gone to the better land. She and Bess will have
a Christmas with the angels. They will not want to come back here.”

Dil had no courage to argue. But she knew to the very farthest fibre of
her being, that nothing could so change Bess that she would desire to
stay anywhere without her.

Mrs. Garrick had heard the tidings before she came in for her baby, and
was profuse in her sympathies.

“But it’s the Lord’s mercy, for she were a poor sufferer, and was jist
waitin’. How did it happen? Was it in the night, whilst ye were all
asleep? An’ to think yer poor mother whint away knowin’ nothin’.”

“I can’t talk about it. I—I don’t know.”

“An’ old Mis’ Bolan. Well, I’ll run up-stairs a bit, an’ see Mrs.
Murphy.”

She was rewarded for her trouble here; the strange curiosity of some, as
if the dead face could answer the mystery.

“She’s a moighty quare girl, that Dilsey Quinn. Niver to be askin’ one
to look at the corpse; an’ if Bess hadn’t been so peaked, she would have
been a pritty child. She had such iligant hair.”

The neighbors began to make calls of condolence. Two deaths in a house
was an event rather out of the common order of things.

Dil awed them by her quiet demeanor, and answered apathetically, busying
herself with the supper.

“What hev ye done wid her?” asked one. “Shure, she’s not bin tuk away?”

“No; she’s in ther’, in my room. An’—an’ she’s mine.”

For to Dil there seemed something sacred about Bess, and she kept guard
rigorously. It was not simply a dead body to gloat over. They could go
up-stairs and look at Mrs. Bolan.

It was nine o’clock when her mother came home laden with budgets, and
Dan following in a vaguely frightened manner. He had been hanging about
Mrs. MacBride’s, waiting for her. She had gone in and taken her “sup o’
gin,” and heard the news, also the complaints.

“Whiniver did it happen, Dil?” throwing down her budgets. “She’s been no
good to hersilf nor no wan else this long while. An’ she cudden’t iver
git well, an’ was a sight o’ trouble. But I’m clear beat. Week after
week I thought she’d be sure to go, but when you’re lookin’, the thing
niver comes. An’ it’s took me so suddent like, that I had no breath left
at all. Was it true—did ye find her dead, an’ faint clear away?”

She looked rather admiringly at Dil.

“Yes—she were cold,” said Dil briefly. “An’ then I don’t know what
happened.”

“Ye pore colleen! Ye’ll be better widout her, an’ ye’ll be gittin well
an’ strong agin. It’s bin a hard thing, an’ yer divil of a father shud a
had his own back broke. But he’s fast enough, and I hope they’ll kape
him there. Any word of Owny?”

“No.” Oh, what would Owny say—an’ Patsey.

“Who kem an’ streeked her? Let’s see.”

She took the lamp and went in. It seemed to Dil as if she would even now
shake her fist at Bess, and the child stood with bated breath.

“She were a purty little thing, Dil,” the mother said with a softened
inflection. “Me sister Morna had yellow hair an’ purplish eyes, and was
that fair an’ sweet, but timid like. I believe me mother had some such
hair, but the rest of us had black. She looks raile purty, an’ makes a
better corpse than I iver thought. Why didn’t ye lit thim see her, Dil?
Ye’s needn’t a been shamed of her.”

Dil was saved from answering by the advent of a throng of neighbors. The
room seemed so warm, and there was such a flurry, she dropped on the
lounge faint and breathless.

“Go to bed, Dan,” said his mother.

Dil rose again and opened the door. The cold air, close and vile as it
was, felt grateful.

“Go up-stairs a bit in Mrs. Murphy’s;” and though the permission was a
command, Dil went gratefully.

Mrs. Murphy sat sewing to make up for lost time. Her little girl was
asleep in the cradle. She had improved since cooler weather had set in.
The door of one room was shut. The old chintz-covered Boston rocker was
empty.

“I couldn’t stay to see them all lookin’ at her,” she exclaimed
tremulously, as she almost tottered across the room.

“No, dear.” Mrs. Murphy took her in her arms. “Ye look like a ghost. But
Bess is main pritty, an’ it’s a custom. Will ye sit here?”

Dil shuddered as she looked at the empty chair where Mrs. Bolan used to
sit.

“No; I’ll take the stool. I just want to be a bit still like an’ think.
I couldn’t talk ’bout her, you know.”

“Yes, dear,” with kindly sympathy.

Dil dropped on a box stool, leaning her folded arms on a chair. Mrs.
Murphy took up her sewing again. She longed to comfort, but she was sore
afraid the two lorn souls were wandering about purgatory. She had a
little money of Mrs. Bolan’s that she meant to spend in masses. But who
would pay for a mass for Bessy Quinn’s soul? And she had never been
baptized. The ignorant, kindly woman was sore distressed.

Dil seemed to look through the floor and see the picture down-stairs.
All her sense of possession rose in bitter revolt. Yet now she was
helpless to establish her supreme right. Her mother had grudged Bess the
frail, feeble spark of life; she alone had cared for her, loved her,
protected her, and she was shut out, sent away. Now that Bess needed no
care and lay there quiet, they could come and pity her.

Presently more tranquil thoughts came. Even her mother could not do
anything to hurt Bess. She was safe at last.

There had been so much repression and self-control in Dil’s short life,
that it made her seem apathetic now. And yet, slowly as the poor pulses
beat, there was a strange inward fire and stir, as if she must do
something. A curious elusiveness shrouded the duty or work, and yet it
kept hovering before her. Oh, what was it?

Did she fall asleep, and was it a vision, a vague remembrance of
something she had heard? Bess was not dead, but in a strange, strange
sleep. Once there had been a little girl in just this sleep, and One had
come—yes, she would get up—about midnight these strange charms worked.

She would get up and go softly over to Bess. She would take the little
hand in hers; she would kiss the pale, still lips, and say, “Bess, my
darling, wake up. I can’t live without you. You have had such a nice
long rest. Open your eyes an’ look at me. Bess, dear, you remember we
are to go to heaven in the spring. He will be waitin’ for us, an’
wonderin’ why we don’t come. He is goin’ to fight the giants, to show us
the way, an’ row us over the river to the pallis.”

Then the eyes would open blue as the summer sky, the lips would smile,
the little hands reach out and grow warm. There would be a strange
quiver all through the body, and Bess would sit up and be alive once
more. Oh, the glad cry of joy! Oh, the wordless, exquisite rapture of
that moment! And Bess, in some mysterious way, would be better,
stronger, and the days would fly by until the blessed spring came.

Mrs. Murphy touched her, and roused her from this trance of delight. She
heard her mother’s voice and started.

“It’s a nice sleep ye’ve had,” said Mrs. Murphy’s kindly voice. “An’
it’s full bedtime, an’ past. They’ve all gone, an’ yer mother wants ye.”

Dil groped her way down-stairs. There was a vicious smell of beer and
kerosene-smoke in the warm room.

“It’s time ye were in bed,” said her mother. “Ye kin sleep in there,”
indicating her own room with a nod; “fer I’ll not sleep the night with
me child lyin’ dead in the house. Bridget Malone has kem to stay wid me.
We’ll jist sit up.”

“O mother,” cried Dil, aghast, “let me sleep in my own room! I’d rather
be there with Bess.”

“Is the colleen’s head turned wid grafe? Sleepin’ wid a corpse! Who iver
heerd of sich a thing? Indade ye’ll not, miss! Go to bed at wunst, an’
not a word outen you.”

Her first impulse was to defy the woman looming up so tall and
authoritative. But the shrewd sense that comes early to the children of
poverty restrained her. She would be worsted in the end, so she went
reluctantly. Had she dreamed? No, it must be true. She could waken
Bess. Again the uplifting hope took possession of her. She seemed wafted
away to a beautiful country with Bess. So absorbing was the vision that
it filled her with a certainty beyond the faintest doubt. She did not
even take off her dress, but lay there wide-eyed and rapturous.

After a while the chatter ceased and the snoring began. How still it was
everywhere! But Dil was not afraid.




X—IN THE DESERT ALONE


Dilsey Quinn rose with a peculiar lightness of heart, and seemed walking
on air. A curious tingle sped through her nerves, and her eyes had a
strange light of their own. She pushed the door open and looked out
cautiously. Her mother was on the lounge. Bridget sat by the stove, her
chair tilted back against the door-jamb. The lamp had been turned down a
little, the stove-lid lifted; and it made a strange, soft semicircle on
the ceiling, such as Dil had seen around the heads in pictures when she
had stolen a glance at the show windows.

The silence, for that impressed her, in spite of snoring in different
keys, and the weird aspect, made the room instinct with supernatural
life. Dil did not understand this, but she felt it, and was filled and
possessed by that exaltation of mysterious faith. She walked softly but
fearlessly across the room,—if she could open the door without Bridget
