And the Widder Poll did not speak.


      *       *       *       *       *

There are very few cosey evenings when Heman and Roxy do not smile at
each other across the glowing circle of their hearth, and ask, the one
or the other, with a perplexity never to be allayed,--

"Do you s'pose she tumbled, or did she put her foot through it
a-purpose?"

But Heman is sure to conclude the discussion with a glowing tribute to
Brad Freeman, his genius and his kindliness.

"I never shall forgit that o' Brad," he announces. "There wa'n't
another man in the State o' New Hampshire could ha' mended it as he
did. Why, you never'd know there was a brack in it!"




HEARTSEASE.

    "For as for heartsease, it groweth in a single night."


"What be you doin' of, Mis' Lamson?" asked Mrs. Pettis, coming in from
the kitchen, where she had been holding a long conversation with young
Mrs. Lamson on the possibility of doing over sugar-barberry. Mrs.
Pettis was a heavy woman, bent almost double with rheumatism, and she
carried a baggy umbrella for a cane. She was always sighing over the
difficulty of "gittin' round the house," but nevertheless she made more
calls than any one else in the neighborhood. "It kind o' limbered her
up," she said, "to take a walk after she had been bendin' over the
dish-pan."

Mrs. Lamson looked up with an alert, bright glance. She was a little
creature, and something still girlish lingered in her straight, slender
figure and the poise of her head. "Old Lady Lamson" was over eighty,
and she dressed with due deference to custom; but everything about her
gained, in the wearing, an air of youth. Her aggressively brown front
was rumpled a little, as if it had tried to crimp itself, only to be
detected before the operation was well begun, and the purple ribbons of
her cap flared rakishly aloft.

"I jest took up a garter," she said, with some apology in her tone.
"Kind o' fiddlin' work, ain't it?"

"Last time I was here, you was knittin' mittins," continued Mrs.
Pettis, seating herself laboriously on the lounge, and leaning forward
upon the umbrella clutched steadily in two fat hands. "You're dretful
forehanded. I remember I said so then. 'Samwel 'ain't got a mittin, to
his name,' I says, 'nor he won't have 'fore November.'"

"Well, I guess David's pretty well on't for everything now," answered
Mrs. Lamson, with some pride. "He's got five pair o' new mittins, an'
my little blue chist full o' stockin's. I knit 'em two-an'-two, an'
two-an'-one, an' toed some on 'em off with white, an' some with red,
so's to keep 'em in pairs. But Mary said I better not knit any more,
for fear the moths'd git into 'em, an' so I stopped an' took up this
garter. But 'tis dretful fiddlin' work!"

A brief silence fell upon the two, while the sweet summer scents stole
in at the window,--the breath of the cinnamon rose, of growing, grass
and good brown earth. Mrs. Pettis pondered, looking vacantly before
her, and Old Lady Lamson knit hastily on. Her needles clicked together,
and she turned her work with a jerk in beginning a row. But neither was
oppressed by lack of speech. They understood each other, and no more
thought of "making talk" than of pulling up a seed to learn whether it
had germinated. It was Mrs. Pettis who, after, a natural interval; felt
moved to speak.

"Mary's master thoughtful of you, ain't she? 'Tain't many sons' wives
would be so tender of, anybody, now is it?"

Mrs. Lamson looked up sharply, and then, with the same quick movement;
bent her eyes on her work.

"Mary means to do jest what's right," she answered. "If she don't make
out, it ain't for lack o' tryin'."

"So I says to Samwel this mornin, 'Old Lady Lamson 'ain't one thing to
concert herself with,' says I, 'but to git dressed an' set by the
winder. When dinner-time comes, she's got nothin' to do but hitch up to
the table; an' she don't have to touch her hand to a dish.' Now ain't
that so, Mis' Lamson?"

"That's so," agreed Mrs. Lamson, with a little sigh, instantly
suppressed. "It's different from what I thought to myself 'twould be
when Mary come here. ''Tain't in natur' she'll have the feelin' for me
she would for her own,' I says; but I b'lieve she has, an' more too.
When she come for good, I made up my mind I'd put 'Up with everything,
an' say 'twas all in the day's work; but law! I never had to. She an'
David both act as if I was sugar or salt, I dunno which."

"Don't ye never help 'round, washin'-days?"

"Law, no! Mary won't hear to 't. She'd ruther have the dishes wait till
everything's on the line; an' if I stir a step to go into the gardin to
pick a 'mess o' beans, or kill a currant worm, she's right arter me.
'Mother, don't you fall!' she says, a dozen 'times a day. 'I dunno what
David'd do to me, if I let anything happen to you.' An' 'David, he's
ketched it, too. One night, 'long towards Thanksgivin' time, I kicked
the soapstone out o' bed, an' he come runnin' up as if he was
bewitched. 'Mother,' says he, 'did you fall? You 'ain't had a stroke,
have ye?'"

Old Lady Lamson laughed huskily; her black eyes shone, and her cap
ribbons nodded, and danced, but there was an ironical ring to her
merriment.

"Do tell!" responded Mrs. Pettis, in her ruminating voice. "Well,
things were different when we was young married folks, an' used to do
our own spinnin' an' weavin'."

"I guess so!" Mrs. Lamson dropped her busy hands in her lap, and leaned
back a moment, in eager retrospect. "Do you recollect that Friday we
spun from four o'clock in the mornin' till six that evenin', because
the men-folks had gone in the ma'sh, an' all we had to do was to stop
an' feed the critters? An' Hiram Peasley come along with tinware, an'
you says, 'If you're a mind to stop at my house, an' throw a colander
an' a long-handled dipper over the fence, under the flowerin'-currant,
an' wait till next time for your pay, I'll take 'em,' says you. 'But I
ain't goin' to leave off spinnin' for anything less 'n Gabriel's
trumpet,' says you. I remember your sayin' that, as if 'twas only
yisterday; an' arter you said it, you kind o' drawed down your face an'
looked scairt. An' I never thought on't ag'in till next Sabbath
evenin', when Jim Bellows rose to speak, an' made some handle about the
Day o' Judgment, an' then I tickled right out."

"How you do set by them days!" said Mrs. Pettis, striving to keep a
steady face, though her heavy sides were shaking. "I guess you remember
'em better 'n your prayers!"

"Yes, I laughed out loud, an' you passed me a pep'mint over the pew,
an' looked as if you was goin' to cry. 'Don't,' says you; an' it sort
o' come over me you knew what I was laughin' at. Why, if there ain't
John Freeman stoppin' here,--Mary's sister's brother-in-law, you know.
Lives down to Bell P'int. Guess he's pullin' up to give the news."

Mrs. Pettis came slowly to her feet, and scanned the farmer, who was
hitching his horse to the fence. When he had gone round to the back
door, she turned, and grasped her umbrella with a firmer hand.

"Well, I guess 'twon't pay me to set down ag'in," she announced. "I'm
goin' to take it easy on the way home. I dunno but I'll let down the
bars, an' poke a little ways into the north pastur', an' see if I can't
git a mite o' pennyr'yal. I'll be in ag'in to-morrer or next day."

"So do, so do," returned Mrs. Lamson.

"'Tain't no use to ask you to come down, I s'pose? You don't git, out
so fur, nowadays."

"No," said the other, still with that latent touch of sarcasm in her
voice. "If I should fall, there'd be a great hurrah, boys,--'fire on
the mountain, run, boys, run!'"

Mrs. Pettis toiled out into the road; and Old Lady Lamson, laying her
knitting on the table, bent forward, not to watch her out of sight, but
to make sure whether she really would stop at the north pasture.

"No, she's goin' by," she said aloud, with evident relief. "No, she
ain't either. I'll be whipped if she ain't lettin' down the bars!
'Twould smell kind o' good, I declare!"

She was still peering forward, one slender hand on the window-sill,
when Mary, a pretty young woman, with two nervous lines between her
eyes, came hurrying in.

"Mother," she began, in that unnatural voice which is supposed to allay
excitement in another, "I dunno what I'm goin' to do. Stella's sick."

"You don't say!" said Old Lady Lamson, turning away from the window.
"What do they think 'tis?"

"Fever, John says. An' she's so full-blooded it'll be likely to go hard
with her. They want me to go right down, an' David's got to carry me.
John would, but he's gone to be referee in that land case, an' he won't
be back for a day or two. It's a mercy David's just home from town, so
he won't have to change his clo'es right through. Now, mother, if you
should have little 'Liza Tolman come an' stay with you, do you think
anything would happen, s'posin' we left you alone just one night?"

A little flush rose in the old lady's withered cheek. Her eyes gleamed
brightly through her glasses.

"Don't you worry one mite about me," she replied, in an even voice.
"You change your dress, an' git off afore it's dark. I shall be all
right."

"David's harnessin' now," said Mary, beginning to untie her apron. "I
sent John down to the lower barn to call him. But, mother, if anything
should happen to you--"

"Lord-a-massy! nothin' 's goin' to!" the old lady broke forth, in
momentary impatience. "Don't stan' here talkin'. You better have your
mind on Stella. Fever's a quicker complaint than old age. It al'ays
was, an' al'ays will be."

"Oh, I know it! I know it!" cried Mary, starting toward the door.
"There ain't a thing for you to do. There's new bread an' preserves on
the dairy-wheel, an' you have 'Liza Tolman pick you up some chips, an'
build the fire for your tea; an' don't you wash the dishes, mother.
Just leave 'em in the sink. An' for mercy sake, take a candle, an' not
meddle with kerosene--"

"Come, come, ain't you ready?" came David's voice from the door. "I
can't keep the horse stan'in' here till he's all eat up with flies."

Mary fled to her bedroom, unbuttoning her dress as she ran; and David
came in, bringing an air of outdoor freshness into the little
sitting-room, with his regal height, his broad shoulders, and tanned,
fresh face.

"Well, mother," he said, putting a hand of clumsy kindliness on her
shoulder, "if anything happens to you while we're gone, I shall wish
we'd let the whole caboodle of 'em die in their tracks. Don't s'pose
anything will, do ye?"

"Law, no, David!" exclaimed the old lady, looking at him with beaming
pride. "You stan' still an' let me pick that mite o' lint off your arm.
I shall be tickled to death to git rid on ye."

"Now, mother," counselled Mary, when she came but of the bedroom,
hastily tying her bonnet strings, "you watch the school-children, an'
ask 'Liza Tolman to stay with you, an' if she can't, to get one of the
Daltons; an' tell her we'll give her some Bartlett pears when they're
ripe."

"Yes, yes, I hear," answered the old lady, rising, and setting back her
chair in its accustomed corner. "Now, do go along, or ye won't be down
to Grapevine Run afore five o'clock."

She watched them while they drove out of the yard, shading her eyes
with one nervous hand.

"Mother," called Mary, "don't you stan' there in that wind, with
nothin' on your head!"

The old lady turned back into the house, and her face was alive with
glee.

"Wind!" she ejaculated scornfully, and yet with the tolerance of one
too happy for complaint. "Wind! I guess there wouldn't be so much, if
some folks would save their breath to cool their porridge!"

She did not go back to the sitting-room and her peaceful knitting. She
walked into the pantry, where she gave the shelves a critical survey,
and then, returning to the kitchen, looked about her once more.

"If it's one day sence I've been down sullar," she said aloud, "it's
two year." She 'was lighting a candle as she spoke. In another moment,
she was taking sprightly steps down the stairs into the darkness below.

"Now, mother, don't you fall!" she chuckled, midway in the descent; and
it was undeniable that the voice sounded much like Mary's in her
anxious mood. "Now, ain't I a mean creatur' to stan' here laughin' at
'em!" she went on: "Well,' if she don't keep things nice! 'Taters all
sprouted; an' the preserve cupboard never looked better in my day.
Mary's been well brought up,--I'll say that for her."

Old Lady Lamson must have spent at least half an hour in the cellar,
for when she ascended it was after four o'clock, and the
school-children had passed the house on their way home. She heard their
voices under the elms at the turn of the road.

"I ain't to blame if I can't ketch 'em," she remarked calmly, as she
blew out her light. "I don't see's anybody could say I was to blame.
An' I couldn't walk up to the Tolmans' to ask 'Liza. I might fall!"

She set about her preparations for supper. It was a favorite maxim in
the household that the meal should be eaten early, "to get it out of
the way;" and to-night this unaccustomed handmaid had additional
reasons for haste. But the new bread and preserves were ignored. She
built a rousing fire in the little kitchen stove; she brought out the
moulding-board, and with trembling eagerness proceeded to mix
cream-of-tartar biscuits. Not Cellini himself nor Jeannie Carlyle had
awaited the results of passionate labor with a more strenuous
eagerness; and when she drew out the panful of delicately browned
biscuits, she set it down on the table, and looked at it in sheer
delight.

"I'll be whipped if they ain't as good as if I'd made 'em every night
for the last two year!" she cried. "I ain't got to git my hand in,
an' that's truth an' fact!"

She brought out some "cold b'iled dish," made her strong green tea, and
sat down to a banquet such as they taste who have reached the
Delectable Mountains. It held within it all the savor of a happy past;
it satisfied her hungry soul.

After she had washed the supper dishes and scrupulously swept the
hearth, she rested, for a moment's thought, in the old rocking-chair,
and then took her way, candle in hand, to the attic. There was no
further self-confidence on the stairs; she was too serious, now. Her
hours were going fast. The attic, in spite of the open windows, lay hot
under summer's touch upon the shingles outside, and odorous of the
dried herbs hanging in bunches here and there.

"Wormwood--thoroughwort--spearmint," she mused, as she touched them,
one after another, and inhaled their fragrance. "'Tain't so long ago I
was out pickin' herbs an' dryin' 'em. Well, well, well!"

She made her way under the eaves, and pulled out a hair-trunk, studded
with brass nails. A rush-bottomed chair stood near-by, and, setting her
candle in it, she knelt before the trunk and began lifting out its
contents: a brocaded satin waistcoat of a long-past day, a woolen
comforter knit in stripes, a man's black broadcloth coat. She smoothed
them, as she laid them by, and there was a wondering note in her
lowered voice.

"My Lord!" she whispered reverently, as if speaking to One who would
hear and understand, "it's over fifty year!"

A pile of yellowed linen lay in the bottom of the trunk, redolent of
camphor from contact with its perishable neighbors. She lifted one
shirt after another, looking at them in silence. Then she laid back the
other clothes, took up her candle and the shirts, and went downstairs
again. In hot haste, she rebuilt the kitchen fire, and set two large
kettles of water on the stove. She dragged the washing-bench into the
back kitchen from its corner in the shed, and on it placed her tubs;
and when the water was heated, she put the garments into a tub, and
rubbed with the vigor and ease of a woman well accustomed to such work.
All the sounds of the night were loud about her, and the song of the
whippoorwill came in at the open door. He was very near. His presence
should have been a sign of approaching trouble, but Old Lady Lamson did
not hear him. Her mind was reading the lettered scroll of a vanished
year.

Perhaps the touch of the warm water on her hands recalled her to the
present.

"Seems good to feel the suds," she said, happily, holding up one
withered hand, and letting the foam drip from her fingers, "I wish't I
could dry outdoor! But when mornin' come, they'd be all of a sop."

She washed and rinsed the garments, and, opening a clothes-horse,
spread them out to dry. Then she drew a long breath, put out her
candle, and wandered to the door. The garden lay before her, unreal in
the beauty of moonlight. Every bush seemed an enchanted wood. The old
lady went forth, lingering at first, as one too rich for choosing; then
with a firmer step. She closed the little gate, and walked out into the
country road. She hurried along to the old signboard, and turned aside
unerringly into a hollow, there, where she stooped and filled her hands
with tansy, pulling it up in great bunches, and pressing it eagerly to
her face.

"Seventy-four year ago!" she told the unseen listener of the night,
with the same wonder in her voice. "Sir laid dead, an' they sent me
down here to pick tansy to put round him. Seventy-four year ago!"

Still holding it; she rose, and went through the bars into the dewy
lane. Down the wandering path, trodden daily by the cows, she walked,
and came out in the broad pasture, irregular with its little hillocks,
where, as she had been told from her babyhood, the Indians used to
plant their corn. She entered the woods by a cart-path hidden from the
moon, and went on with a light step, gathering a bit of green here and
there,--now hemlock, now a needle from the sticky pine,--and inhaling
its balsam on her hands. A sharp descent, and she had reached the spot
where the brook ran fast, and where lay "Peggy's b'ilin' spring," named
for a great-aunt she had never seen, but whose gold beads she had
inherited, and who had consequently seemed to her a person of opulence
and ease.

"I wish't I'd brought a cup," she said. "There ain't no such water
within twenty mile."

She crouched beside the little black pool, where the moon glinted in
mysterious, wavering, symbols to beckon the gaze upward, and, making a
cup of her hand, drank eagerly. There was a sound near-by, as if some
wood creature were stirring; she thought she heard a fox barking in the
distance. Yet she was really conscious only of the wonder of time, the
solemn record of the fleeting years.

When she made her way back through the woods, the moon was sinking, and
the shadows had grown heavy. As she reached the bars again, on her
homeward track, she stopped suddenly, and her face broke into smiling
at the pungent fragrance rising from the bruised herbage beneath her
feet. She stooped and gathered one telltale, homely weed, mixed as it
was with the pasture grass. "Pennyr'yal," she said happily, and felt
the richness of being.

When Old Lady Lamson had ironed her shirts and put them away again, all
hot and sweet from the fire, it was five o'clock, and the birds had
long been trying to drag creation up from sleep, to sing with them the
wonders of the dawn. At six, she had her cup of tea, and when, at
eight, her son drove into the yard, she came placidly to the side door
to meet him, her knitting in her hands.

"Well, if I ain't glad!" called David. "I couldn't git it out o' my
mind somethin' 'd happened to you. Stella's goin' to be all right, they
think, but nothin' will do but Mary must stay a spell. Do you s'pose
you an' I could keep house a week or so, if I do the heft o' the work?"

Old Lady Lamson's eyes took on the look which sometimes caused her son
to inquire suspiciously, "Mother, what you laughin' at?"

"I guess we can, if we try hard enough," she said, soberly, rolling up
her yarn. "Now you come in, an' I'll git you a bite o' somethin'
t'eat."




MIS' WADLEIGH'S GUEST.


Cyrus Pendleton sat by the kitchen fire, his stockinged feet, in the
oven, and his; hands stretched out toward the kettles, which were
bubbling prosperously away, and puffing a cloud of steam, into his
face. He was a meagre, sad-colored man, with mutton-chop whiskers so
thin as to lie like a shadow on his fallen cheeks; and his glance,
wherever it fell, Seemed to deprecate reproof. Thick layers of flannel
swathed his throat, and from time to time, he coughed wheezingly, with
the air of one who, having a cold, was determined to be conscientious
about it. A voice from the buttery began pouring forth words only a
little slower than the blackbird sings, and with no more reference to
reply.

"Cyrus, don't you feel a mite better? Though I dunno how you could,
expect to, arter such a night as you had on't, puffin' an' blowin'!"
Mrs. Pendleton followed the voice. She seemed to be borne briskly in on
its wings, and came scudding over the kitchen sill, carrying a pan of
freshly sifted flour. She set it down on the table, and began "stirrin'
up." "I dunno where you got such a cold, unless it's in the air," she
continued. "Folks say they're round, nowadays, an' you ketch 'em, jest
as you would the mumps. But there! nobody on your side or mine ever had
the mumps, as long as I can remember. Except Elkanah, though! an' he
ketched 'em down to Portsmouth, when he went off on that fool's arrant
arter elwives. Do you s'pose you could eat a mite o' fish for dinner?"

"I was thinkin'--" interposed Cyrus, mildly; but his wife swept past
him, and took the road.

"I dunno's there's any use in gittin' a real dinner, jest you an' me,
an' you not workin' either. Folks say there's more danger of eatin' too
much'n too little. Gilman Lane, though, he kep' eatin' less an' less,
an' his stomach dried all up, till 'twa'n't no bigger'n a bladder. Look
here, you! I shouldn't wonder a mite if you'd got some o' them stomach
troubles along with your cold. You 'ain't acted as if you'd relished a
meal o' victuals for nigh onto ten days. Soon as I git my hands out o'
the flour, I'll look in the doctor's book, an' find out. My! how het up
I be!" She wiped her hands on the roller towel, and unpinned the little
plaid shawl drawn tightly across her shoulders, Its removal disclosed a
green sontag, and under that manifold layers of jacket and waist. She
was amply protected from the cold. "I dunno's I ought to ha' stirred up
rye'n' Injun," she went on, returning to her vigorous tossing and
mixing at the table. "Some might say the steam was bad for your lungs.
Anyhow, the doctor's book holds to't you've got to pick out a dry
climate, if you don't want to go into a decline. Le' me see! when your
Aunt Mattie was took, how long was it afore she really gi'n up? Arter
she begun to cough, I mean?"

Cyrus moved uneasily.

"I dunno," he said, hastily. "I never kep' the run o' such things."

But Mirandy, pouring her batter into the pan, heeded him no more than
was her wont.

"I s'pose that was real gallopin' consumption," she said, with relish."
I must ask Sister Sarah how long 'twas, next time I see her. She set it
down with the births an' deaths."

Cyrus was moved to some remonstrance. He often felt the necessity of
asserting himself, lest he should presently hear his own passing-bell
and epitaph.

"I guess you needn't stop steamin' bread for me! I ain't half so
stuffed up as I was yisterday!"

Mrs. Pendleton clapped the loaf into the pot, wrinkling her face over
the cloud of steam that came puffing into it.

"There!" she exclaimed. "Now perhaps I can git a minute to se' down. I
ain't bound a shoe to-day. My! who's that out this weather?"

The side door was pushed open, and then shut with a bang. A vigorous
stamping of snow followed, and the inner door swung in to admit a
woman, very short, very stout, with a round, apple-cheeked face, and
twinkling eyes looking out from the enveloping folds of a gray cloud.

"Well!" she said, in a cheery voice, beginning at once to unwind the
cloud, "here I be! Didn't think I'd rain down, did ye? I thought
myself, one spell, I should freeze afore I fell!"

Mrs. Pendleton hurried forward, wiping her hands on her apron as she
went.

"For the land's sake, Marthy Wadleigh!" she cried, laying hold of the
new-comer by the shoulders, and giving her an ineffectual but wholly
delighted shake. "Well, I never! Who brought you over? Though I dunno
which way you come. I 'ain't looked out--"

"I walked from the corner," said Mrs. Wadleigh, who never felt any
compunction about interrupting her old neighbor. She was unpinning her
shawl composedly, as one sure of a welcome. "How do, Cyrus? Jim Thomas
took me up jest beyond the depot, an' give me a lift on his sled; but I
was all of a shiver, an' at the corner, I told him he better let me
step down an' walk. So I come the rest o' the way afoot an' alone. You
ain't goin' to use the oven, be ye? I'll jest stick my feet in a
minute. No, Cyrus, don't you move! I'll take t'other side. I guess we
sha'n't come to 'blows over it."

She seemed to have brought into the kitchen, with that freshness of
outdoor air which the new-comer bears, like a balsam, in his garments,
a breath of fuller life, and even of jollity. As she sat there in her
good brown dress, with her worked collar, fastened by a large cameo,
her gold beads just showing, and her plump hands folded on a capacious
lap, she looked the picture of jovial content, quite able to take care
of herself, and perhaps apply a sturdy shoulder to the lagging
machinery of the world.

"Didn't you git word I was comin' this week?" she asked. "I sent you a
line."

"No, we 'ain't been so fur's the post-office," answered Mirandy,
absently. She was debating over her most feasible bill of fare, now
that a "pick-up dinner" seemed no longer possible. Moreover, she had
something on her mind, and she could not help thinking how unfortunate
it was that Cyrus shared her secret. Who could tell at what moment he
might broach it? She doubted his discretion. "The roads wa'n't broke
out till day before yisterday."

"I shouldn't think they were!" said Mrs. Wadleigh, scornfully, testing
the heat with a hand on her skirt, and then lifting the breadths back
over her quilted petticoat. "I thought that would be the way on't, but
I'd made up my mind to come, an' come I would. Cyrus, what's the matter
o' you? Nothin' more'n a cold, is it?"

Cyrus had withdrawn from the stove, and was feeling his chin,
uncertainly.

"Oh, no, I guess not," he said. "We've been kind o' peaked, for a week
or two, all over the neighborhood; but I guess we shall come out on't,
now we've got into the spring. Mirandy, you git me a mite o' hot water,
an' I'll see if I can't shave."

Mirandy was vigorously washing potatoes at the sink, but she turned, in
ever-ready remonstrance.

"Shave!" she ejaculated, "Well, I guess you won't shave, such a day as
this, in that cold bedroom, with a stockin'-leg round your throat, an'
all! You want to git your death? Why, 'twas only last night, Marthy, he
had a hemlock sweat, an' all the ginger tea I could git down into him!
An' then I didn't know--"

"Law! let him alone!" said Marthy, with a comfortable, throaty laugh.
"He'll feel twice as well, git some o' them things off his neck. Here,
Cyrus, you reach me down your mug--ain't them your shavin' things up
there?--an' I'll fill it for you. You git him a piece o' flannel,
Mirandy, to put on when he's washed up an' took all that stuff off his
throat. Why, he's got enough wool round there, if 'twas all in yarn, to
knit Old Tobe a pair o' mittins! An' they say one o' his thumbs was
bigger'n the hand o' Providence. You don't want to try all the goodness
out of him, do ye?"

Cyrus gave one swift glance at his wife. "There! you see!" it said
plainly. "I am not without defenders." He took down his shaving-mug,
with an air of some bravado. But Mirandy was no shrew; she was simply
troubled about many things.

"Well," she said, compressing her lips, and wrinkling her forehead in
resignation. "If folks want to kill themselves, I can't hender 'em! But
when he's down ag'in, I shall be the one to take care of him, that's
all. Here, Cyrus, don't you go into that cold bedroom. You shave you
here, if you're determined to do it."

So Cyrus, after honing his razor, with the pleasure of a bored child
provided at last with occupation, betook himself to the glass set in
the lower part of the clock, and there, with much contortion of his
thin visage, proceeded to shave. Mirandy put her potatoes on to boil,
and set the fish on the stove to freshen; then She sat down by the
window, with a great basket beside her, and began to bind shoes.

"Here," said Mrs. Wadleigh, coming to her feet and adjusting her skirt,
"you give me a needle! I've got my thimble right here in my pocket.
It's three months sence I've seen a shoe. I should admire to do a pair
or two. I wish I could promise ye more, but somehow I'm bewitched to
git over home right arter dinner!"

Mrs. Pendleton laid down her work, and leaned back in her chair. Cyrus
turned, cleared his throat, and looked at her.

"Marthy," said the hostess, "you ain't goin' over there to that
lonesome house, this cold snap?"

"Ain't I?" asked Mrs. Wadleigh, composedly, as she trimmed the top of
her shoe preparatory to binding it. "Well, you see'f I ain't!"

"In the fust place," went on Mrs. Pendleton, nervously, "the cross-road
ain't broke out, an' you can't git there. I dunno's a horse could
plough through; an' s'posin' they could, Cyrus ain't no more fit to go
out an' carry you over'n a fly."

"Don't you worry," said Mrs. Wadleigh, binding off one top. "While I've
got my own legs, I don't mean to be beholden to nobody. I've had a
proper nice time all winter, fust with Lucy an' then with Ann,--an' I
tell ye 'tain't everybody that's got two darters married so well!--but
for the last fortnight, I've been in a real tew to come home. They've
kep' me till I wouldn't stay no longer, an' now I've got so near as
this, I guess I ain't goin' to stop for nobody!"

Mrs. Pendleton looked despairingly at her husband; and he, absently
wiping his razor on a bit of paper, looked at her.

"Marthy!" she burst forth. "No, Cyrus, don't you say one word! You
can't go! There's somebody there!"

Mrs. Wadleigh, in turn, put down her work.

"Somebody there!" she ejaculated. "Where?"

"In your house!"

"In my house? What for?"

"I dunno," said Mirandy, unhappily.

"Dunno? Well, what are they doin' there?"

"I dunno that. We only know there's somebody there."

Here the brown-bread kettle boiled over, creating a diversion; and
Mirandy gladly rose to set it further back. A slight heat had come into
Mrs. Wadleigh's manner.

"Cyrus," said she, with emphasis, "I should like to have you speak. I
left that house in your care. I left the key with you, an' I should
like to know who you've been an' got in there."

Cyrus opened his mouth, and then closed it again without saying a word.
He looked appealingly at his wife; and she took up the tale with some
joy, now that the first plunge had been made.

"Well," she said, folding her hands in her apron, and beginning to rock
back and forth, a little color coming into her cheeks, and her eyes
snapping vigorously. "You see, this was the way 'twas. Cyrus, do let me
speak!" Cyrus had ineffectually opened his mouth again. "Wa'n't it in
November you went away? I thought so. Jest after that first sprinklin'
o' snow, that looked as if 'twould lay all winter. Well, we took the
key, an' hung it up inside the clock--an' there 'tis now!--an' once a
week, reg'lar as the day come round, Cyrus went over, an' opened the
winders, an' aired out the house."

Mrs. Wadleigh sat putting her thimble off and on.

"I know all about that," she interposed, "but who's in there now?
That's what I want to find out."

"I'm comin' to that. I don't want to git ahead o' my story. An' so't
went on till it come two weeks ago Friday, an' Cyrus went over jest the
same as ever. An' when he hitched to the gate, he see smoke comin' out
o' the chimbly, an' there was a man's face at one square o' glass." She
paused, enjoying her climax.

"Well? Why don't you go ahead? Mirandy Jane Pendleton, I could shake
you! You can talk fast enough when somebody else wants the floor! How'd
he git in? What'd he say for himself?"

"Why, he never said anything! Cyrus didn't see him."

"Didn't see him? I thought he see him lookin' out the winder!"

"Why, yes! so he did, but he didn't see him to speak to. He jest nailed
up the door, an' come away."

Mrs. Wadleigh turned squarely upon the delinquent Cyrus, who stood,
half-shaven, absently honing his razor.

"Cyrus," said she, with an alarming decision, "will you open your head,
an' tell me what you nailed up that door for? an' where you got your
nails? I s'pose you don't carry 'em round with you, ready for any
door't happens to need nailin' up?"

This fine sarcasm was not lost on Cyrus. He perceived that he had
become the victim of a harsh and ruthless dealing.

"I had the key to the front door with me, an' I thought I'd jest step
round an' nail up t'other one," he said, in the tone of one conscious
of right. "There was some nails in the wood-shed. Then I heard somebody
steppin' round inside, an' I come away."

"You come away!" repeated Mrs. Wadleigh, rising in noble wrath. "You
nailed up the' door an' come away! Well, if you! ain't a weak sister!
Mirandy, you hand me down that key, out o' the clock, while I git my
things!"

She walked sturdily across to the bedroom, and Mirandy followed her,
wringing her hands in futile entreaty.

"My soul, Marthy! you ain't goin' over there! You'll be killed, as sure
as you step foot into the yard. Don't you remember how that hired man
down to Sudleigh toled the whole fam'ly out into the barn, one arter
another, an' chopped their heads off--"

"You gi' me t'other end o' my cloud," commanded Mrs. Wadleigh. "I'm
glad I've got on stockin'-feet. Where's t'other mittin? Oh! there
'tis, down by the sto'-leg. Cyrus, if you knew how you looked with your
face plastered over o' lather, you'd wipe it off, an' hand me down that
key. Can't you move? Well, I guess I can reach it myself."

She dropped the house key carefully into her pocket, and opened the
outer door; both Cyrus and his wife knew they were powerless to stop
her.

"O Marthy, do come back!" wailed Mrs. Pendleton after her. "You 'ain't
had a mite o' dinner, an' you'll never git out o' that house alive!"

"I'd rather by half hitch up myself," began Cyrus; but his wife turned
upon him, at the word, bundled him into the kitchen, and shut the door
upon him. Then she went back to her post in the doorway, and peered
after Mrs. Wadleigh's square figure on the dazzling road, with a
melancholy determination to stand by her to the last. Only when it
occurred to her that it was unlucky to watch a departing friend out of
sight, did she shut the door hastily, and go in to reproach Cyrus and
prepare his dinner.

Mrs. Wadleigh plodded steadily onward. Her face had lost its robustness
of scorn, and expressed only a cheerful determination. Once or twice
her mouth relaxed, in retrospective enjoyment of the scene behind her,
and she gave vent to a scornful ejaculation.

"A man in my house!" she said once, aloud. "I guess we'll see!"

She turned into the cross-road, where stood her dear and lonely
dwelling, with no neighbors on either side for half a mile, and stopped
a moment to gaze about her. The road was almost untravelled, and the
snow lay encrusted over the wide fields, sparkling on the heights and
blue in the hollows. The brown bushes by a hidden stone-wall broke the
sheen entrancingly; here and there a dry leaf fluttered, but only
enough to show how still such winter stillness can be, and a flock of
little brown birds rose, with a soft whirr, and settled further on.
Mrs. Wadleigh pressed her lips together in a voiceless content, and her
eyes took on a new brightness. She had lived quite long enough in the
town. Rounding a sweeping bend, and ploughing sturdily along, though it
was difficult here to find the roadway, she kept her eyes fixed on a
patch of sky, over a low elm, where the chimney would first come into
view. But just before it stepped forward to meet her, as she had seen
it a thousand times, a telltale token forestalled it; a delicate blue
haze crept out, in spiral rings, and tinged the sky.

"He's got a fire!" she exclaimed loudly. "He's there! My soul!" Until
now the enormity of his offence had not penetrated her understanding.
She had heard the fact without realizing it.

The house was ancient but trimly kept, and it stood within a spacious
yard, now in billows and mounds of snow, under which lay the treasures
inherited by the spring. The trellises on either side the door held the
bare clinging arms of jessamine and rose, and the syringa and lilac
bushes reached hardily above the snow. As Mrs. Wadleigh approached the
door, she gave a rapid glance at the hop-pole in the garden, and
wondered if its vine had stood the winter well. That was the third hop
vine she'd had from Mirandy Pendleton! Mounting the front steps, she
drew forth the key, and put it in the door. It turned readily enough,
but though she gave more than one valiant push, the door itself did not
yield. It was evidently barricaded.

"My soul!" said Mrs. Wadleigh.

She stepped back, to survey the possibilities of attack; but at that
instant, glancing up at the window, she had Cyrus Pendleton's own
alarming experience. A head looked out at her, and was quickly
withdrawn. It was dark, unkempt, and the movement was stealthy.

"That's him!" said Mrs. Wadleigh, grimly, and returning to the charge,
she knocked civilly at the door. No answer. Then she pushed again. It
would not yield. She thought of the ladder in the barn, of the small
cellar-window; vain hopes, both of them!

"Look here!" she called aloud. "You let me in! I'm the Widder Wadleigh!
This is my own house, an' I'm real tried stan'in' round here, knockin'
at my own front door. You le'me in, or I shall git my death o' cold!"

No answer; and then Mrs. Wadleigh, as she afterwards explained it, "got
mad." She ploughed her way round the side of the house,--not the side
where she had seen the face, but by the "best-room" windows,--and
stepped softly up to the back door. Cyrus Pendleton's nail was no
longer there. The man had easily pushed it out. She lifted the latch,
and set her shoulder against the panel.

"If it's the same old button, it'll give," she thought. And it did
give. She walked steadily across the kitchen toward the clock-room,
where the man that moment turned to confront her. He made a little run
forward; then, seeing but one woman, he restrained himself. He was not
over thirty years old; a tall, well-built fellow, with very black eyes
and black hair. His features were good, but just now his mouth was set,
and he looked darkly defiant. Of this, however, Mrs. Wadleigh did not
think, for she was in a hot rage.

"What under the sun do you mean, lockin' me out o' my own house?" she
cried, stretching out her reddened hands to the fire. "An' potaters
b'iled all over this good kitchen stove! I declare, this room's a real
hog's nest, an' I left it as neat as wax!"

Perhaps no man was ever more amazed than this invader. He stood staring
at her in silence.

"Can't you shet the door!" she inquired, fractiously, beginning to
untie her cloud. "An' put a stick o' wood in the stove? If I don't git
het through, I shall ketch my death!"

He obeyed, seemingly from the inertia of utter surprise. Midway in the
act of lifting the stove-cover, he glanced at her in sharp, suspicion.

"Where's the rest?" he asked, savagely. "You ain't alone?"

"Well, I guess I'm alone!" returned Mrs. Wadleigh, drawing off her icy
stocking-feet, "an' walked all the way from Cyrus Pendleton's! There
ain't nobody likely to be round," she continued, with grim humor. "I
never knew 'twas such a God-forsaken hole, till I'd been away an' come
back to 't. No, you needn't be scairt! The road ain't broke out, an' if
'twas, we shouldn't have no callers to-day. It's got round there's a
man here, an' I'll warrant the selec'men are all sick abed with colds.
But there!" she added, presently, as the soothing warmth of her own
kitchen stove began to penetrate, "I dunno's I oughter call it a
Godforsaken place. I'm kind o' glad to git back."

There was silence for a few minutes, while she toasted her feet, and
the man stood shambling from one foot to the other and furtively
watching her and the road. Suddenly she rose, and lifted a pot-cover.

"What you got for dinner?" she inquired, genially. "I'm as holler's a
horn!"

"I put some potatoes on," said he, gruffly.

"Got any pork? or have you used it all up?"

"I guess there's pork! I 'ain't touched it. I 'ain't eat anything but
potatoes; an' I've chopped wood for them, an' for what I burnt."

"Do tell!" said Mrs. Wadleigh. She set the potatoes forward, where they
would boil more vigorously. "Well, you go down sullar an' bring me up a
little piece o' pork--streak o' fat an' streak o' lean--an' I'll fry
it. I'll sweep up here a mite while you're gone. Why, I never see such
a lookin' kitchen! What's your name?" she called after him, as he set
his foot on the Upper stair.

He hesitated. "Joe!" he said, falteringly.

"All right, then, Joe, you fly round an' git the pork!" She took down
the broom from its accustomed nail, and began sweeping joyously; the
man, fishing in the pork-barrel, listened meanwhile to the regular
sound above. Once it stopped, and he held his breath for a moment, and
stood at bay, ready to dash up the stairs and past his pursuers, had
she let them in. But it was only her own step, approaching the cellar
door.

"Joe!" she called. "You bring up a dozen apples, Bald'ins. I'll fry
them, too."

Something past one o'clock, they sat down together to as strange a meal
as the little kitchen had ever seen. Bread and butter were lacking, but
there was quince preserve, drawn from some hidden hoard, the apples and
pork, and smoking tea. Mrs. Wadleigh's spirits rose. Home was even
better than her dreams had pictured it. She told her strange guest all
about her darter Lucy and her darter Ann's children; and he listened,
quite dazed and utterly speechless.

"There!" she said at last, rising, "I dunno's I ever eat such a meal
o' victuals in my life, but I guess it's better'n many a poor soldier
used to have. Now, if you've got some wood to chop, you go an' do it,
an' I'll clear up this kitchen; it's a real hurrah's nest, if ever
there was one!"

All that afternoon, the stranger chopped wood, pausing, from time to
time, to look from the shed door down the country road; and Mrs.
Wadleigh, singing "Fly like a Youthful," "But O! their end, their
dreadful end," and like melodies which had prevailed when she "set in
the seats," flew round, indeed, and set the kitchen in immaculate
order. Evidently her guest had seldom left that room. He had slept
there on the lounge. He had eaten his potatoes there, and smoked his
pipe.

When the early dusk set in, and Mrs. Wadleigh had cleared away their
supper of baked potatoes and salt fish, again with libations of quince,
she drew up before the shining stove, and put her feet on the hearth.

"Here!" she called to the man, who was sitting uncomfortably on one
corner of the woodbox, and eying her with the same embarrassed
watchfulness. "You draw up, too! It's the best time o' the day now,
'tween sunset an' dark."

"I guess I'd better be goin'," he returned, doggedly.

"Goin'? Where?"

"I don't know. But I'm goin'."

"Now look here," said Mrs. Wadleigh, with rigor. "You take that chair,
an' draw up to the fire. You do as I tell you!"

He did it.

"Now, I can't hender your goin', but if you do go, I've got a word to
say to you."

"You needn't say it! I don't want nobody's advice."

"Well, you've got to have it jest the same! When you bile potaters,
don't you let 'em run over onto the stove. Now you remember! I've had
to let the fire go down here, an' scrub till I could ha' cried. Don't
you never do such a thing ag'in, wherever you be!"

He could only look at her. This sort of woman was entirely new to his
experience.

"But I've got somethin' else to say," she continued, adjusting her feet
more comfortably. "I ain't goin' to turn anybody out into the snow,
such a night as this. You're welcome to stay, but I want to know what
brought ye here. I ain't one o' them that meddles an' makes, an' if you
'ain't done nothin' out o' the way, an' I ain't called on for a
witness, you needn't be afraid o' my tellin'."

"You will be called on!" he broke in, speaking from a desperation
outside his own control. "It's murder! I've killed a man!" He turned
upon her with a savage challenge in the motion; but her face was set,
placidly forward, and the growing dusk had veiled its meaning.

"Well!" she remarked, at length, "ain't you ashamed to set there
talkin' about it! You must have brass enough to line a kittle! Why
'ain't you been, like a man, an' gi'n yourself up, instid o' livin'
here, turnin' my kitchen upside down? Now you tell me all about it!
It'll do ye good."

"I'm goin'," said the man, breathing hard as he spoke, "I'm goin' away
from here tonight. They never'll take me alive. It was this way. There
was a man over where I lived that's most drunk himself under ground,
but he ain't too fur gone to do mischief. He told a lie about me, an'
lost me my place in the shoe shop. Then one night, I met him goin'
home, an' we had words. I struck him. He fell like an ox. I killed him.
I didn't go home no more. I didn't even see my wife. I couldn't tell
her. I couldn't be took there. So I run away. An' when I got starved
out, an' my feet were most froze walkin', I see this house, all shet
up, an' I come here."

He paused; and the silence was broken only by the slow, cosey ticking
of the liberated clock.

"Well!" said Mrs. Wadleigh, at last, in a ruminating tone. "Well! well!
Be you a drinkin' man?"

"I never was till I lost my job," he answered, sullenly. "I had a
little then. I had a little the night he sassed me."

"Well! well!" said Mrs. Wadleigh, again. And then she continued,
musingly: "So I s'pose you're Joe Mellen, an' the man you struck was
Solomon Ray?"

He came to his feet with a spring.

"How'd you know?" he shouted.

"Law! I've been visitin' over Hillside way!" said Mrs. Wadleigh,
comfortably. "You couldn't ha' been very smart not to thought o' that
when I mentioned my darter Lucy, an' where the childern went to school.
No smarter'n you was to depend on that old wooden button! I know all
about that drunken scrape. But the queerest part on't was--Solomon Ray
didn't die!"

"Didn't die!" the words halted, and he dragged them forth. "Didn't
die?"

"Law, no! you can't kill a Ray! They brought him to, an' fixed him up
in good shape. I guess you mellered him some, but he's more scairt than
hurt. He won't prosecute. You needn't be afraid. He said he dared you
to it. There, there now! I wouldn't. My sake alive! le' me git a
light!"

For the stranger sat with his head bowed on the table, and he trembled
like a child.

Next morning at eight o'clock, Mrs. Wadleigh was standing at the door,
in the sparkling light, giving her last motherly injunction to the
departing guest.

"You know where the depot is? An' it's the nine o'clock train you've
got to take. An' you remember what I said about hayin' time. If you
don't have no work by the middle o' May, you drop me a line, an'
perhaps I can take you an' your wife, too; Lucy's childern al'ays make
a sight o' work. You keep that bill safe, an'--Here, wait a minute! You
might stop at Cyrus Pendleton's--it's the fust house arter you pass;
the corner--an' ask 'em to put a sparerib an' a pat o' butter into the
sleigh, an' ride over here to dinner. You tell 'em I'm as much obleeged
to 'em for sendin' over last night to see if I was alive, as if I
hadn't been so dead with sleep I couldn't say so. Good-bye! Now, you
mind you keep tight hold o' that bill, an', spend it prudent!"

"Is Kelup Rivers comin' over here to-night?" suddenly asked Aunt
Melissa Adams, peering over her gold-bowed glasses, and fixing her
small shrewd eyes sharply upon her niece.

Amanda did not look up from her fine hemming, but her thin hand
trembled almost imperceptibly, and she gave a little start, as if such
attacks were not altogether unexpected.

"I don't know," she answered, in a low tone.
