The boys looked around them for some object that would suggest a name.




CHAPTER XVII

OVERBOARD


There was no visible object which seemed to suggest a name for the
miniature sea; but just then the band began to play "Washington's
March."

"Call it Washington Sea, boys," said Mrs. Sedley.

The name was given, but the geography lesson could not proceed while
the music continued.

"Stand by to lay on your oars!" Frank commanded. "Oars!"

The oarsmen levelled their oars, feathering the blades, and listening
to the march. The Bunkers, attracted by the music of the band, followed
the Sylph at a respectful distance. The presence of Uncle Ben and Mrs.
Sedley was a restraint upon them, and they conducted themselves with
tolerable decorum. The band ceased playing, and Mrs. Sedley continued
her instructions.

"What is a gulf or bay?"

"A portion of the sea extending into the land."

"Can you give me an example?"

"Weston Bay," replied Fred, laughing.

"And perhaps, before the expedition concludes its voyage, we shall find
something which may be called a gulf."

"I know where there is a gulf," said Charles.

"Now, Frank, you may go through the strait," said Fred.

"Is it safe? I don't know how deep the water is."

"I am glad to see you are careful," said Mrs. Sedley. "You can ask
Uncle Ben."

"Sylph, ahoy!" shouted Frank, rising.

"What boat's that?" roared Uncle Ben, in reply.

"The Zephyr, of and from Rippleton," returned the coxswain. "Can you
tell me what depth of water there is in this passage?"

"Where's your chart?"

"We must have a chart of the lake," suggested Fred.

"That we must. Who shall draw it?"

"Fred Harper."

"We have no chart. Will you give me the depth of water inside the
island?" continued Frank.

"Short fathom," replied Uncle Ben.

"We are none the wiser," interposed Charles. "How much is a fathom?"

"Six feet," answered Tony.

"But he don't say how much short."

"Can we go through in safety, Uncle Ben?"

"Ay, ay; but trail your oars."

Frank let the crew pull several smart strokes, and then ordered them to
trail. The Zephyr darted through the narrow passage.

"Now for the name of the strait," said Frank.

"You seem to be at a loss for names; I think you had better call these
divisions after the members of the club," suggested Mrs. Sedley.

"So we can; the memory of great travellers and navigators has been
handed down to their posterity by geographical names,--Hudson Bay,
Mount Franklin, Cook's Straits, for example," said Fred Harper,
laughing heartily.

The proposition received a ready assent; and the strait was called
Graham Strait, after the boy who pulled the second oar.

"But the island?" said Charles.

"Paul Spencer pulls the third oar; we will call it Spencer Island."

The position of the boat was a favorable one for observing the
conformation of the country, and Mrs. Sedley improved the opportunity
to point out the various divisions of the land.

Half-way between Centre Island and the north shore was another island;
and after coasting along by the banks of the lake, applying names to
miniature sounds, bays, gulfs, and seas, the Zephyr arrived at its
southerly side.

"Here is a channel," said Frank; "a passage of water wider than a
strait."

"Fred's turn; we must call it Harper Channel," replied Tony.

"And the island?--we are out of names," continued Frank.

"We will call it Mary's Island, after Mary Weston."

"Agreed!" cried a dozen boys at once.

"I thank you for the compliment," said Mary, blushing.

The excursion was continued, the boys rowing leisurely, and pausing
frequently to listen to the music of the band, and discuss the
geographical formation of the lake and its shores. They passed entirely
round the lake, and had given so many names to the various divisions of
land and water, that it seemed improbable they could ever remember
them.

As they came round to the boat-house, Mrs. Sedley was landed, and the
club rowed up to Weston Bay, to leave the widow and her daughter. Both
the passengers were delighted with their excursion, and were profuse of
their thanks to Frank and his companions for their kindness and
consideration.

"What shall we do now?" said Charles, as they pushed off.

"Hadn't we better give up for to-day?" suggested Frank.

"Let us go down to Rippleton for your father," added Fred.

"I will do that," answered Frank; and the Zephyr dashed away towards
the village.

They had scarcely passed the boat-house before they discovered the
Thunderbolt, directly ahead of them. Uncle Ben had landed the band at
Rippleton, and had housed the Sylph, so that the Bunkers would no
longer be restrained by his presence and that of Mrs. Sedley. But there
was no way to avoid them, and Frank continued his course with some
misgivings as to the consequences.

"Bunkers ahead!" said he.

"Never mind them, Frank," added Fred Harper. "We won't say anything to
them."

"Tim will get his revenge upon us for this morning if he can,"
suggested the coxswain.

"We can keep out of his way, though I don't like the idea of running
away from them," replied Fred.

"I like it better than I do the idea of fighting with them. But the
lake is narrow near the village," said Frank.

"We can row two rods to their one."

"They have improved a great deal by their day's practice. They are
resting on their oars, waiting for us."

"Let them wait; we will mind nothing about them."

The Zephyr continued on her course. It was necessary for her to pass
within a short distance of the Thunderbolt, and Frank feared they would
retaliate upon them for their discomfiture in the forenoon.

"Let every member of the club mind his oar," said he, as the boat
approached the vicinity of the Bunkers; "I will watch them; I want you
to mind what I say, and work quick when I speak."

"We will," answered the boys.

"I suspect, if they mean anything, that they intend to rush upon us
when we pass them. Yes, there is Tim bringing her head round so that
she lies broadside to us, and every one of them has his oar ready to
pull," Frank explained.

"Can't you cut across the lake, and avoid them?" asked Tony.

"We must pass them somewhere; and they can cut us off, whatever course
we take."

"Smash them if they come too near," said Fred.

"No, no, Fred; that wouldn't do. When I tell you to stop and back her,
do it promptly, and we can easily get away from them. Pull steady."

The boys rowed leisurely, and the Zephyr in a short time reached a
position which was exposed to the assault of the Thunderbolt.

"Pull," cried Tim Bunker, with energy.

Her course was at right angles with that of the Zephyr. Tim had
apparently made a nice calculation in regard to his intended movements.
He had started so as to come up with his rival when she reached the
point in her course directly ahead of him.

The Bunkers pulled with all their might, and the two boats were rapidly
nearing each other. Tim's plan had been well conceived, and the
collision seemed inevitable. Frank saw that he had rightly interpreted
the intentions of the Bunkers, but he still continued his course.

Suddenly, as the Thunderbolt was on the point of pouncing upon her
prey, Frank, with startling energy, gave the command,--

"Way enough! Hold water! Stern all!"

Every boy, expecting the orders, was ready to execute them. The oars
bent under the violent exertion they made to check the farther progress
of the boat.

When the collision seemed unavoidable, Tim abandoned the helm, and
leaped forward into the bow of the boat. He had a large stick in his
hand; and it was evidently his intention to use it upon poor Tony, for
his glance was fixed upon him with savage ferocity.

Frank's plan worked well. He had withheld the order to stop and back
her till the last moment, so that Tim should have no time to change the
course of the Thunderbolt, and thus derange his plan. As it was, it was
a very narrow escape, and nothing but the promptness with which the
order was executed averted the impending catastrophe.

The Thunderbolt passed across the course of the Zephyr, not three feet
from her bow. Tim saw that he was foiled; and enraged at his
disappointment, he aimed a blow at Tony with the long stick, as his
boat shot past.

Tony was beyond his reach; he leaned over the gunwale of the boat in a
vain attempt to accomplish his malignant purpose. But in doing so, he
lost his foothold, and was precipitated head foremost into the lake!

He disappeared beneath the dark surface of the deep water, and his boat
passed over the spot. The Zephyr, impelled backward by the vigorous
strokes of her crew, was several rods from the place before the club
fully realized the nature of the unfortunate occurrence.

The Thunderbolt was much nearer the place where Tim had disappeared
than the Zephyr; but her crew seemed to be utterly paralyzed by the
event, and unable to render the slightest assistance. One of the
Bunkers took the helm, and endeavored to rally his companions; but in
their confusion they were incapable of handling their oars; some pulled
one way, and some another, and instead of urging the boat ahead, they
only turned it round in a circle.

"Way enough!" shouted Frank, as soon as he discovered the accident.
"Give way! Tim Bunker has fallen overboard!"

The crew, though affected to some extent as the Bunkers were, used
their oars with skill and energy. The presence of mind which Frank
displayed inspired them with courage, and the Zephyr darted forward
towards the spot where Tim had gone down.

"There he is ahead!" exclaimed Frank, with frantic earnestness; "pull
with all your might!"

"Help! Save me!" cried Tim, as he rose to the surface.

The boats were both several rods distant from him. He did not swim, but
seemed to struggle with all his strength, apparently with a spasmodic
effort, as though he had entirely lost his self-control.

"Tony, stand by with your boat-hook," shouted Frank.

But Tim struggled only for an instant on the surface, and then went
down again.

"Way enough!" said Frank, as the Zephyr approached the spot. "Hold
water! Oars!"

The boat, under the skilful management of the resolute young coxswain,
lost her headway, and lay motionless on the water near the spot where
Tim had last appeared.

"Do you see him, Tony?"

"No."

"Fred, forward with your boat-hook," continued Frank.

Fred took the boat-hook, and went forward to the bow of the Zephyr.

"There he is!" exclaimed Tony, as he caught a sight of the drowning boy
beneath the surface.

Fred dropped his boat-hook into the water intending to fasten it into
Tim's clothes.

"He sinks again!" cried Tony, throwing off his jacket and shoes.

Before any of the crew could fully understand his purpose, so quick
were his movements, he dived from the bow of the boat deep down into
the water.

The boys held their breath in the intensity of their feelings. One or
two of them had dropped their oars, and were leaving their places.

"Keep your places, and hold on to your oars!" said Frank sternly. "Ned
Graham, take the other boat-hook."

"Back her a little--one stroke," said Fred Harper. "We are passing over
the spot."

Frank ordered the boat back, as desired.

"Here they rise! Tony has him!" exclaimed Fred, as he hooked into Tim's
clothes. "Grasp the other boat-hook, Tony."

Tim was drawn into the boat, apparently dead.

Tony was so exhausted that he could not speak, and sank into the bottom
of the boat.

"Give way!" said Frank, heading the Zephyr towards Rippleton.

The sad event had been observed from the shore, and before the arrival
of the club boat quite a number of persons had collected. Scarcely a
minute elapsed before the Zephyr touched the bank, and the lifeless
body of Tim Bunker was taken out, and conveyed to the nearest house.

"How do you feel, Tony?" asked Frank, lifting the noble little fellow
from his position.

"Badly, Frank; I want to go home," replied he faintly.

Among other persons who had gathered on the shore of the lake was one
of the physicians of Rippleton. He followed the party that conveyed Tim
into the house, and applied himself vigorously to the means of
restoring him. It was a long time before there were any signs of life,
and the people in the meantime believed him dead.

While Dr. Allen was at work over Tim, Fred Harper came to request his
assistance for Tony. Fortunately Dr. Davis, another physician, arrived
at this moment, and accompanied him to the boat.

"What ails him, Dr. Davis?" asked Frank.

"Exhaustion and excitement have overcome him."

"Is it anything serious?"

"I think not. We must get his wet clothes off, and put him to bed."

"Will you go home with him? We will row you up and back again."

The physician was very willing to go, and the boat put off. The club
pulled with all their strength, and the distance to Tony's house was
accomplished in a very few moments. Mrs. Weston was greatly alarmed
when Tony was brought in, but the doctor assured her it was nothing
serious. He was put to bed, the doctor prescribed for him, and when the
boys were ready to leave, they had the satisfaction of knowing the
patient was much better.

When they reached Rippleton, they found that Tim had been restored, and
conveyed to his father's house. Captain Sedley came in the last train,
and the boys rowed him home.




CHAPTER XVIII

TIM BUNKER


Captain Sedley was much disturbed by the painful event which had
occurred; and though the club were entirely free from blame, he could
not but question the expediency of continuing the organization. The
malicious spirit of Tim Bunker had been the cause of his misfortune.
People thought he was lucky to escape with his life, and that it would
be a lesson he would remember a great many years.

Tony's praises were upon everybody's lips. He had saved the life of his
enemy, had plunged in at the risk of his own, to rescue one who had
been intent upon his injury. It was a noble and a Christian deed, so
the good men and women said, while others declared, if they had been in
Tony's place, they would have let him drown.

The noble deed was appreciated; and the day after the event, a
subscription paper was opened at the Rippleton Bank for Tony's benefit.
Before night over a hundred dollars was collected, which the cashier
presented to him, as he lay upon his bed, sick from the effects of his
exertions.

The crew of the boat club were very highly commended for their
efficient labors on the occasion. If Frank had displayed less courage
and address, or the discipline of the club had been less perfect, Tim
must certainly have been drowned. This fact was rendered the more
apparent by the contrast between the conduct of the crew of the Zephyr
and that of the Thunderbolt. With all their exertion, on account of
their want of discipline, the latter had been unable even to reach the
spot until the former had received Tim on board.

All the sympathies of the people were with the boat club. Nobody pitied
Tim; for he was a quarrelsome, disagreeable boy, and had nearly lost
his life in his attempt to gratify his malicious spite against his
noble and generous deliverer.

In a few days Tony, who had suffered more from the shock than Tim, was
able to go out again. He was everywhere received with enthusiasm; and
the first time the Zephyr visited Rippleton after the accident, people
seemed determined to make a little lion of him.

Captain Sedley's attention was now directed to the trial of Tony, which
would take place in a few days, and he was exceedingly desirous of
ascertaining how Tim was affected towards him since the rescue. But the
Thunderbolt had been laid up at Joe Braman's landing, and the Bunkers
appeared to be dispersed and separated since the accident. Captain
Sedley did not find their leader for several days, but at last he made
a visit to his father's house before Tim got up.

The young ruffian was very desirous of avoiding him; and when his
mother went up-stairs and told him who had come, he put on his clothes,
and slipped out of the house by the back door. Captain Sedley happened
to see him, however, as he was skulking off through the garden.

"Tim," said he, running after him.

The leader of the Bunkers did not dare to run away from such an
influential person as Captain Sedley; and, turning, he doggedly
approached him.

"Tim, I want to see you about the trial, which, you know, takes place
in a few days."

"I don't know nothin' about it."

"You don't?" said Captain Sedley.

"No, I don't;" and Tim, fixing his eyes upon the ground, amused himself
by kicking a hole in the soil with his foot.

"Don't you know anything about the wallet, or the money that was in
it?"

"No, I don't."

"Just think a moment."

"Don't want to think; I don't know nothin' about it," replied Tim
sulkily.

"Tony is accused of the crime, and you know what a terrible thing it
would be to have an innocent person suffer."

"I s'pose it would."

"You know Tony saved your life."

"So I needn't be evidence against him," growled Tim.

Captain Sedley was astonished at his want of even the commonest feeling
of gratitude.

"If that had been his motive, he would have let you drown."

"I wonder he didn't."

"Tim, you are utterly hardened in iniquity."

"No, I ain't."

"You have no gratitude towards your deliverer."

"Yes, I have; I am much obliged to him for what he done, and when I see
him, I'll tell him so."

"You do not seem in the least obliged to him."

"I am; and besides, the folks gave him over a hundred dollars for what
he done. I should like to jump in after a dozen on the same terms."

"You have nothing to say about the trial then, have you, Tim?"

"Don't know nothin' about it. All I can say is, I saw him stickin'
somethin' into his pocket."

"You bought the boat in which you have been sailing on the lake."

"No, I didn't; it is Joe Braman's," replied Tim stoutly.

"Didn't you tell the boys that you gave him ten dollars for it?"

"No, I didn't."

"And that you paid five dollars for having it fitted up?"

"I was only joking--tryin' to sell 'em," answered Tim, attempting to
smile and look funny.

"That was it, was it?"

"That's all."

"And you have not paid Joe Braman any money?"

"Not a cent."

"Tim," said Captain Sedley sternly, "people think that you stole the
wallet."

"Me! I hope to die if I did!"

"That you took some of the money out, and then put the wallet into
Tony's pocket, so as to fasten the guilt on him."

"No such thing!"

"Just consider, Tim. If you did, you had better confess it."

"I didn't."

"Only think that Tony saved your life."

"I've nothin' against him."

"But you ought to be for him. If you have injured him in this matter,
people will think a great deal better of you, if you confess it, and
ask his forgiveness, whatever the consequences may be to yourself."

"I hain't hurt him."

"If you are the guilty one, it will certainly come out at the trial."

"I ain't; I don't know nothin' about the wallet. I'm sure I didn't take
it--I hope to die if I did!"

"Very well, Tim; if you have made up your mind not to confess it, I
have nothing more to say."

"I ain't a going to confess it when I didn't do it," said Tim stoutly.

"But you did do it, Tim."

"No, I didn't nuther."

"I am surprised at your hardihood. Tony saved your life at the peril of
his own, and yet you are willing to see him convicted of a crime which
you committed yourself."

"Who says I did?" said Tim, not a little confused by the directness
with which Captain Sedley spoke to him.

"I say it, Tim. Once more, will you free Tony from the charge by
telling the truth?"

"I have told the truth."

"No, you haven't, Tim. Will you confess the crime, and save Tony?"

"No, I won't; I didn't do it."

"Very well," replied Captain Sedley, as he left the young reprobate.

Tim did not know what to make of it. Why Captain Sedley should lay it
to him, he could not tell, unless it was on account of what he had said
to Fred Harper about buying the Thunderbolt. He was uneasy, and spent
the forenoon in wandering about the woods back of his father's house.
He felt as though something was going to happen, though he could not
tell precisely what.

He had eaten no breakfast, and at noon he was driven home by hunger.
But he had scarcely seated himself at the dinner-table before a knock
was heard at the door.

"Go to the door, Tim," said his father.

"I don't want to go," answered Tim, with a whine.

A kind of dread had taken possession of him since his interview with
Captain Sedley in the morning, and every noise he heard seemed to
foretell that something was about to occur.

"Go, this minute!" said his father sternly.

"Don't want to."

"But you shall."

Tim, finding there was no escape, rose, and went to the door. To his
consternation he beheld Mr. Headley, the constable! He felt as though
he should drop through the floor. His heart beat so violently that he
could hardly stand up.

"I want you, Tim," said Mr. Headley.

"Me!" gasped Tim.

"Get your cap, and come along."

"What for?"

"I'll tell you when you get to the jail."

Tim drew a long breath, and went back for his cap.

"Who is it, Tim?" asked his father.

But Tim made no reply, and instead of returning to the front door, he
took his cap and sneaked out through the back room. The woods were
close by, and the hope of escaping inspired him with new courage.
Throwing open the back door, he rushed out.

"So, so! my fine fellow!" exclaimed the constable, who stood before the
door, and into whose arms he had thrown himself as he leaped down the
doorsteps. "This is your plan, is it? We'll give you the ruffles,
then."

So saying, Mr. Headley took a pair of handcuffs from his pocket, and
fastened them upon Tim's wrists.

"I didn't steal the wallet," cried Tim lustily, as he struggled to get
away.

"You must come with me," replied the constable, holding him fast.



Tim's father and mother came to the door, as Mr. Headley marched him
off. They asked the officer what he was doing with their son. Without
stopping to give any details, he told them the boy was wanted for
stealing Farmer Whipple's wallet.




CHAPTER XIX

THE TRIAL OF TONY


Joe Braman was arrested on the same day, and committed to the Rippleton
jail. It was understood that suspicions were fastened upon him, though
the precise nature of the testimony against him had not yet been made
public. His examination, as well as that of Tim Bunker, was postponed
until after the trial of Tony, which had been appointed, in
consideration of the circumstances, for the following day.

Captain Sedley had been very active in obtaining evidence, but he was
so cautious that the people of Rippleton did not ascertain what he was
doing.

The morning of the trial came. The members of the boat club were all
anxious to attend; and Captain Sedley had consented that they should go
to the village in the Zephyr, taking Uncle Ben with them as
boat-keeper.

At nine o'clock the club had all assembled in the boat-house, and had
put on their uniform.

"Keep your spirits up, Tony," said Fred. "It will all come out right."

"I hope so," replied Tony rather sadly. "I am innocent, and all I ask
is justice."

"My father is very sure you will be cleared," added Frank; "but whether
you are or not, we are all very certain of your innocence."

"Thank you; you have been very kind to me and my mother," answered
Tony, the tears gathering in his eyes as he spoke. "I heard last
evening what you did the night before the Fourth of July."

"Never mind that, Tony; we all like you. You are a noble fellow;" and
Frank grasped the hand of his friend.

"I don't know as I ought to wear this uniform to-day," continued Tony,
trying to smile through his tears.

"Why not, Tony?"

"I don't want to disgrace the club."

"Disgrace us, Tony! I am sure there is not a fellow in the club that
does not feel honored by having you belong."

"Think of your uniform on the back of a felon. If found guilty, I shall
be sent to the House of Correction."

"But you won't be, Tony. Tim and Joe Braman have been arrested, and you
may be sure there has been some evidence found to fasten it upon them."

"Perhaps so; at least, I am innocent, and I shall be just as innocent
in the House of Correction as in the open air. But I don't want to
disgrace the club."

"I talked with father about the uniform last night. He thought we had
better not wear it, because it would look so odd in the court-house;
but I told him we wanted to wear it, so as to show that you were one of
us."

"You are very kind, Frank," replied Tony, grasping his hand.

"Time you were off, boys," said Uncle Ben.

"Take your places," continued Frank.

The members of the club seemed to feel that they were not going on a
pleasure excursion, and there was hardly a smile to be seen on their
faces. They were quiet, and very orderly, and moved slowly and with a
good deal of dignity into the boat.

The Zephyr backed out of her berth, and the oars fell into the water.

"Give way," said Frank, as he laid the course of the boat towards
Rippleton. "We will not hoist our flags going down."

The crew pulled steadily, and not a word was spoken on the way. Every
member was thinking of poor Tony, and every one was hoping and
believing he would be acquitted.

On their arrival at Rippleton, Frank formed them in procession, two by
two, and marched up to the court-house. More than once, as they passed
through the streets, the people, recognizing Tony, lustily cheered him.
Since the rescue of Tim Bunker, he had been a hero in the village. His
misfortunes, added to his noble, generous character, excited all the
sympathies of the people.

When they reached the court-house, the sheriff, as a special mark of
consideration, conducted them to seats where they could see and hear
all that was done and said.

Squire Benson was at the table, and the jury were in their seats, but
the court had not yet come in. Captain Sedley and Mrs. Weston had
chairs by the side of Tony's counsel, and they were engaged in an
earnest conversation with him.

"Where shall I stay?" asked Tony of the sheriff.

"I suppose you must take your place in the dock," replied the official.

"I am ready."

There was a sudden silence in the room, as the sheriff conducted the
little prisoner to the box appropriated to criminals. The audience felt
deeply for him, and his poor mother burst into tears.

The judge took his seat on the bench, and the crier opened the court.
The indictment was read; and Tony, in a firm, and even cheerful tone,
pleaded "not guilty."

The county attorney made his opening address, and the witnesses for the
prosecution were sworn. These consisted of Farmer Whipple, Mr. Headley,
Charles Hardy, Frank Sedley, and Tim Bunker, the latter of whom was
brought into court by a constable.

The testimony was substantially the same as at the examination. It was
proved that Tony was in the wood-house, had seen the wallet, and left
his companions to find Farmer Whipple; that he had been seen to put
something into his pocket, and finally that the lost wallet, with a
portion of the money, had been found in his pocket.

It was a clear case, and when the evidence was concluded Mrs. Weston
sobbed bitterly.

"Be comforted, madam, your son shall be proved innocent in a few
moments," said Squire Benson.

The cross examination of Tim Bunker was very long and very severe; and
though he still adhered to the story he had told at the examination, he
was confused, stammered a great deal, and tried to be saucy to the
lawyer. His statements were so contradictory at times, that a general
disposition to laugh pervaded the minds of the audience. At these
times, when he so grossly crossed himself, Squire Benson looked
significantly at the jury, as though to invite their special attention
to the discrepancies.

Tony's counsel then opened the case for the defence. His address was
very short, but very pointed and forcible.

The first witness was Mr. Doolittle, the store-keeper, who testified to
the facts concerning the twenty dollar bill.

"Is that the bill you marked?" asked the lawyer, handing him a
bank-note.

"It is," replied the witness, after examining it.

"You are willing to swear that is the bill?"

"I am."

"Please state to the court and jury the means by which you identify
it."

The witness exhibited his shop-card upon the back of it, and pointed
out several other peculiarities which he had observed while stamping
it.

"Mr. Stevens," said the lawyer. "That will do, Mr. Doolittle."

The person called took the stand. He was a stranger in Rippleton, and
the audience wondered what he could possibly know about it.

"Your business, Mr. Stevens?" continued the lawyer, scratching
furiously with his pen.

"I keep a hardware store in Boston."

"Did you ever see this bill?" and Squire Benson handed him the
bank-note.

"I have."

"State, if you please, what you know about it."

"It was given to me in payment for a fowling-piece."

"When?"

The witness gave the date.

"Can you swear to the bill?"

"I can; I wrote my name and the day of the month on it at the time;
here they are."

"Indeed! how happened you to do that?"

"I did it at the request of the gentleman who sits by your side;" and
the witness pointed to Captain Sedley.

"Who was the person that gave you the bill?"

"I do not know his name."

"Could you identify him?"

"I could."

Squire Benson requested the court to have Joe Braman summoned as a
witness in the case; and after a short delay, he was brought in by an
officer.

"Was that the person?"

"It was."

"You are sure?"

"I noticed the scar on his cheek," replied the witness, "and I should
not be likely to mistake such a person as that for another."

The audience smiled at this sally. Joe Braman was in truth an oddity in
his personal appearance, and the remark of the witness seemed to have a
peculiar force.

"That is all, Mr. Stevens; the witness is yours, Mr. Prescott," said
Squire Benson, turning to the county attorney.

But Mr. Prescott asked him no questions.

"Joseph Braman, take the stand," continued Tony's lawyer.

Joe seemed bewildered by the circumstances that surrounded him, and
gazed vacantly at the judge and jury. He was a dull, stupid fellow, and
did not readily comprehend his position.

He was sworn; and after the judge had reminded him that he need not
criminate himself, Squire Benson proceeded with the examination.

"You bought a gun of the last witness, did you not?" asked he.

"Yes, sir," replied Joe, scarcely knowing whether he was on trial
himself or not.

"You gave him a twenty dollar bill, did you not?"

"You are suggesting his answers," interposed the county attorney.

"What did you give him in payment?"

"I gin him a twenty dollar bill," replied Joe promptly.

"This was the bill, wasn't it?"

"I pray your honor's judgment," said the county attorney with a smile.
"My learned brother answers the question, and then puts it."

"Put the question fairly, Mr. Benson," added the judge.

"Was this the bill?" said the lawyer, handing the witness the twenty
dollar note.

"I rather guess it was."

"You guess! Don't you know?" said Mr. Benson, with severity in his tone
and manner.

"Yes, sir, it was," answered Joe, startled by the questioner's sharp
words.

"How do you know?"

"I see'd this 'ere mark on't," replied the witness, pointing to Mr.
Doolittle's shop-card.

"Now, Mr. Braman," continued Squire Benson, suddenly softening his
tone, and assuming a pleasant smile, "Where did you get this bill?"

"Tim Bunker gin it to me."

The reply of Joe produced a great sensation in the court-room.

"I told you so!" whispered Charles Hardy to Frank.

There was a smile of triumph on the face of Tony, and all eyes were
turned to him.

"It's a lie!" groaned Tim, his face as white as a sheet.

"Did he tell you where he got it?" continued Mr. Benson, in an
apparently indifferent tone.

"You need not criminate yourself," interposed the judge.

"He told me all about it," replied Joe, suddenly brushing up his wits.

"You needn't wink at me, Tim; I'm goin' to blow the whole thing,"
continued he, shaking his head at the crestfallen Bunker. "You was fool
enough to tell on't yourself."

"He told you that he stole it?" asked Squire Benson.

"No; he said he found it;" and the witness proceeded to relate all the
particulars of the affair.

It appeared from his story that Tim had taken the wallet, abstracted
thirty dollars of the money, and then, when school was about to be
dismissed, had thrust the wallet into the prisoner's pocket.

Tony had not discovered the wallet. He had eaten his dinner and gone
immediately into the garden, where he had pulled off his coat, and
commenced picking the currants. Tim's plan had worked better than he
expected it would; for he supposed that Tony would find it in his
pocket, and be accused of abstracting the thirty dollars.

The jury gave in their verdict of not guilty, without leaving their
seats. As they did so, a gentleman, with a very long beard and
mustache, rose, and clapped his hands with great violence. His example
was followed by a large portion of the audience, and the sheriff had
much trouble in restoring order.




CHAPTER XX

THE STRANGER


The officer immediately released the prisoner from his confinement, and
Tony sprang into the waiting arms of his mother.

"Bless you, my boy!" she exclaimed, as the tears rolled down her
cheeks. "I knew you were innocent!"

"My carriage waits for you, Mrs. Weston," said Captain Sedley, after he
had cordially shaken the hand of Squire Benson.

The widow thanked the lawyer for his good service, and the party
withdrew from the court-room. In the street, amid the cheers of the
multitude, the boat club formed their column, and marched down to the
lake.

When they reached the Zephyr, they found her in charge of one of the
men who worked on the farm of Captain Sedley.

"Where is Uncle Ben?" asked Frank.

"Gone home," replied the man.

"What for?"

"I don't know."

"Call the numbers, Tony," said Frank.

Just as the oars were dipping, they were hailed from the shore.

"Boat ahoy," said a stranger on the bank.

Frank looked, and discovered the gentleman who had begun the applause
in the court-room. He was well dressed, wore a massive gold chain, and
appeared to be in affluent circumstances, if one might judge from
appearances. His face--that portion of it which was not covered by his
long black beard--was very dark, and apparently he had just returned
from a tropical climate.

The coxswain backed the boat to the shore.

"Can you tell me how I shall get to the house of John Weston, up the
lake?" inquired the stranger.

