wallet, he would have recognized his mistake. But before he looked up,
Jake cunningly changed his expression, and said gratefully: “Thank you,
boss; you’re a gentleman.”

Bradley Wentworth liked praise, especially where it was so cheaply
purchased, and said graciously: “You’re quite welcome, my good man.”

“I’d like to grab the plunder,” thought Jake, but as he took in
Wentworth’s robust frame, he decided that he had better not act
inconsiderately.

“I’m a poor man,” he said. “I never knowed what it was to have as much
money as you’ve got there.”

“Very likely. There are more poor men in the world than rich ones. Not
that I am rich,” he added quickly, with habitual caution.

“Is your friend rich?” queried Jake. “The sick man, I mean.”

An idea came to Wentworth.

“I don’t think he has much money,” he answered slowly, “but he has some
papers that are valuable.”

“Some papers?” repeated Jake vacantly. “What sort of papers be they?”

“Some papers that belong to me; my name is signed to them.”

“How’d he get ’em, then?”

“I don’t like to say, but they ought to be in my possession.”

“Then why don’t you ask for them?”

“I have.”

“And he won’t give ’em to you?”

“No; though I have offered a good sum of money for them?”

“How much?”

Bradley Wentworth was too sharp to mention the amount he had offered
Warren Lane. He was dealing with a character who took different views
of money.

“I wouldn’t mind giving a hundred dollars to any one who would bring me
the papers,” he answered, looking Jake Amsden full in the face.

“I’d like to make a hundred dollars,” muttered Jake. “Where does he
keep ’em?”

“My friend, if I could answer that question, I should not require
any assistance, and I would save my hundred dollars. But I think it
probable that he keeps the papers somewhere in the cabin.”

“How’d I know ’em?”

“Can you read writing?”

“Well, a little. I never went to no college,” said Jake, with a grin.

“You probably know enough of writing to identify my signature. Do you
see this?” and he took from his pocket a paper to which his name was
attached.

“Yes.”

“Can you read the name?”

Jake screwed up his face and pored over the signature.

“B-r-a-d—Brad—l-e-y, Bradley.”

“Yes, you are right so far. Now what is the other name?”

“W-e-n-t, went—w-o-r-t-h. What’s that?”

“Wentworth. My name is Bradley Wentworth.”

“I see, boss. I made it out pretty good, considerin’ it is such a long
name?”

“Yes,” answered Wentworth encouragingly; “you made it out very well.”

“I’ll think of what you say, boss. That money’ll be sure, won’t it??”

“Yes; it will be promptly paid.”

“All right! You’re my style. Shake!” and he extended a hand which was
far from clean to the rich “tenderfoot.”

Bradley Wentworth was fastidious, but he swallowed his disgust and
shook the other’s hand heartily.




CHAPTER VI.

A STARTLING DISCOVERY.


“HOW long is Mr. Wentworth going to stay here?” asked Gerald, when his
father had awakened from his nap.

“I think he will go away to-morrow.”

“What is his object in coming here?”

“I sent for him. I wished to see if he would act a friendly part toward
you when I am gone.”

“Do you think he will?” asked Gerald, dubiously.

“He wants to buy the papers which I gave into your keeping for a
thousand dollars.”

“So you told me.”

“Shall I make the bargain, Gerald?” asked his father, earnestly.
“Remember, I leave you nothing except this poor cabin and its contents,
and eighty acres of land which I pre-empted from the government. By the
way, I must give you the paper attesting my ownership.”

“Don’t trouble yourself about me, father. I am young and strong,” and
Gerald straightened up, and extended his muscular arm. “I ought to be
able to fight my way.”

“I hope you can, Gerald. As you say, you are young and strong, and here
in this Western country a boy has a better chance than in the East.
Still, I should like to feel that you had some money to start with.
Now, a thousand dollars would be a large sum to one in your position.”

“It might be considerable for me to receive, but it would be too little
for Mr. Wentworth to pay after all his obligations to you. No, father,
don’t take the money.”

“This is your settled opinion, Gerald? You have considered carefully
all the risk you run, all the inconvenience that may come from poverty?”

“Yes, father.”

“I am glad you have no doubt on the subject. As for me, I have been in
great uncertainty.”

“You need be so no longer, father.”

“Then when Wentworth broaches the subject again I will tell him, both
for you and myself, that I decline his offer.”

“Yes, father.”

“I don’t think he will increase it.”

“Nor do I.”

“Very well, Gerald. I see that you comprehend the situation. Probably
Bradley Wentworth will return leaving us no better off for his visit.”

“I have no doubt you are right, father.”

“And yet you are not troubled?”

“No, father, except about you. I am worried about your health.”

“It will do no good, my dear boy. I am ready for the summons that is
sure to come soon.”

Meanwhile Bradley Wentworth had left his questionable friend Jake
Amsden, and had been walking about on a tour of observation. He was
naturally a shrewd man, and had been forming an opinion about the
capabilities and prospects of the out-of-the-way locality in which he
now found himself.

“I shouldn’t be surprised,” he reflected, “if at some day—not far
distant—a town might spring up on this spot. It is remarkable how soon
in this wonderful region the wilderness gives place to flourishing
settlements. I suppose land can be bought here for a song.”

He took a further survey of the neighborhood, and made up his mind that
if a town were to spring up, Warren Lane’s land would be in the heart
of the future settlement.

“He has chosen his land well. I didn’t think him so shrewd,” thought
Wentworth, “though perhaps it may have been mere chance. He was always
a visionary. Still, the fact remains that his land is in the best
location hereabouts.”

Then it occurred to Wentworth that it would be a good speculation to
purchase the property. Doubtless Lane was unaware of its value, and
would sell for a trifle.

“I could agree to let him occupy it as long as he lives,” reflected
Wentworth. “That won’t be long, and it may be some years before the
settlement starts. I think, upon the whole, I can make my visit pay,
however the other negotiation comes out.”

Now that there seemed a prospect of turning a penny, Wentworth began to
find his stay in this remote place less tiresome. It was with a quick,
brisk step that he walked towards Warren Lane’s humble cabin, revolving
the new scheme in his mind.

“I have been taking a long walk, Lane,” he said, as he re-entered the
house.

“Have you?” said the sick man languidly. “I wish I were in a condition
to accompany you. I am afraid you found it lonely and uninteresting.”

“Oh, no; it is a new country to me, you know. I have never been so far
West before. In fifty years from now I shouldn’t wonder if there might
be a town located here.”

“In much less time than that.”

“Oh, no, I think not. This is ‘the forest primeval,’ as Longfellow
calls it. It will be a great many years before a change comes over it.
Probably neither you nor I will live to see it.”

“I shall not.”

“Pardon me, Warren. I forgot your malady—I am thoughtless.”

“Don’t apologize, Bradley. I am not disturbed by such references. I
understand very well how I am situated—how very near I am to the
unseen land. I have thought of it for a long, long time.”

“And of course you are troubled about your son’s future?”

“Yes, I admit that, though he tells me he has no anxieties.”

“He is too young to understand what it is to be thrown on his own
resources.”

“I think not. He is strong and self-reliant.”

“Strength and self-reliance are good things, but a fair sum of money is
better. That emboldens me to mention to you a plan which has occurred
to me. You own the land about the cabin, do you not?”

“Yes; I pre-empted it, and have a government title.”

“So I supposed. Of course it will be of little value to Gerald. I
propose to buy it of you. How many acres are there in your holding?”

“Eighty.”

“I will give you two hundred dollars for it.”

“I do not feel that I have a right to sell it. It belongs to Gerald.”

“Not yet.”

“It soon will.”

“Of course if I buy it I do not wish to interfere with your occupation
of it as long as you live.”

“No, I suppose not. There is no place for me to go. But I think the
land will some time be worth a good deal more than at present, and I
want Gerald to reap the benefit of it.”

“I am offering you more than it is worth at present,” said Wentworth
impatiently. “Two hundred dollars for eighty acres makes two dollars
and a half an acre.”

“I cannot sell the boy’s little patrimony,” said Mr. Lane firmly.

“It seems to me he ought to be consulted. As you say, he will soon be
the owner.”

At this moment Gerald entered the cabin.

“Gerald,” said his father, “Mr. Wentworth has offered me two hundred
dollars for our little home, including the cabin and land. He thinks
you ought to be consulted in the matter.”

“I don’t want to sell, father,” said Gerald. “This place is the only
home I have, and I don’t want to part with it.”

“But the money will be very useful to you,” interrupted Wentworth, “and
from what your father says, money will be scarce with you.”

“I suppose it will,” said Gerald with a steady look at the visitor,
“though it ought not to be if we had our rights. But, be that as it
may, I do not care to have the property sold.”

Opposition only made Mr. Wentworth more eager. “I will give you two
hundred and fifty dollars,” he said.

“It is of no use, Mr. Wentworth. This humble home is all father has to
leave me. For a time, at least, I wish to retain it.”

Mr. Wentworth bit his lip, and was silent. He saw by the resolute face
of Gerald, so much stronger and firmer than his father’s, that it would
be of no use to prolong the discussion.

The evening wore away. It was a question how the guest was to be
accommodated for the night. But Gerald settled the question. He had a
small single bed in one corner while his father occupied a larger one.
He surrendered his bed to the guest, and stretched himself out, fully
dressed, on a buffalo robe near the door. They retired early, as Gerald
and his father usually did. Mr. Wentworth did not ordinarily keep early
hours, but he had been fatigued by his walks during the day, partly
because he had traversed considerable ground, but partly on account of
the high altitude which made the air rarer, and exertion more difficult.

All three slept soundly. Though his bed was a hard one, Gerald was no
child of luxury and rested peacefully.

About seven o’clock Mr. Wentworth rose and dressed himself. Gerald
was already up, preparing breakfast. All at once he was startled by
an exclamation. Looking around he saw Bradley Wentworth examining his
pockets in a high state of excitement.

“What’s the matter?” asked Gerald.

“Matter enough!” returned the visitor. “I’ve been robbed during the
night, and you,” he added fiercely, with a furious glance at Gerald,
“you are the thief!”




CHAPTER VII.

TRACKING THE THIEF.


GERALD blushed with indignation at the unexpected accusation.

“What do you mean, Mr. Wentworth?” he demanded angrily.

“I mean just what I say. During the night my wallet, which was full of
bank bills, has been stolen. Of course your father couldn’t have taken
it. There was no one else in the room except yourself.”

“You are making a poor return for our hospitality,” said Gerald coldly.
“In what pocket did you keep your wallet?”

“In the inside pocket of my coat.”

“Look about on the floor. It may have slipped out.”

Bradley Wentworth deigned to accept this suggestion. Both he and Gerald
looked about on the floor, but could discover no trace of the lost
article.

“Just as I expected,” observed Wentworth in a significant tone.

Gerald colored and felt mystified.

“I don’t understand it,” he said slowly.

“Probably the wallet walked off without hands,” sneered Wentworth.

“It must have been taken,” said Gerald quietly, “but who could have
done it?”

“Yes, who could have done it?” repeated Wentworth with another sneer.

“I will trouble you to speak in a different tone,” said Gerald with
quiet dignity. “My father and I are poor enough, but no one ever
charged us with dishonesty.”

Mr. Lane, awakening from sleep, heard the last words.

“What is the matter? What has happened?” he asked dreamily.

“Mr. Wentworth misses his pocketbook, father,” exclaimed Gerald.

“How much money was there in your wallet, Bradley?” asked the sick man.

“Nearly two hundred dollars.”

“That is a great deal of money to lose. You are sure it was in your
pocket when you went to bed?”

“Yes, I felt it there.”

“Some one must have got into the cabin during the night.”

“But the door was locked,” said Wentworth.

“True, but there is a window near your bed. There was no fastening,
and it could be raised easily. And that reminds me,” he continued with
a sudden thought, “I waked up during the night, that is I partially
awakened, and thought I saw a figure near your bed in a stooping
position. It must have been the thief going through your pockets.”

“Why didn’t you speak, father?”

“Because I was more asleep than awake, and my mind was too torpid to
reason upon what I saw.”

“Did the figure remind you of anyone, father? What was it like?”

“A man of medium height, stout and broad-shouldered.”

Bradley Wentworth started, and a sudden conviction flashed upon him.
The description tallied exactly with Jake Amsden, the man with whom he
had had a conference the day before.

“Is there any such person who lives near by?” he asked.

“Yes, a worthless, dissipated fellow named Jake Amsden.”

“I think I caught sight of him yesterday during my walk. Is his hair
red?”

“Yes. Did you speak to him?”

“I spoke to him,” said Wentworth evasively, for he did not care to
mention the subject of their conversation.

“Did he know where you were staying?”

“I believe I mentioned it.”

“And from your appearance doubtless he concluded that you had money.”

“Possibly. Has he ever stolen anything from you?”

“I am too poor to attract burglars. Besides, theft in this neighborhood
is a serious offense. Only last year a man living five miles away was
lynched for stealing a horse.”

“This is an awkward loss for me,” said Wentworth. “If I were at home
I could step into a bank and get all the money I wanted. Here it is
different.”

“Have you no money left? Did the wallet contain all you had?”

“I have some besides in an inside pocket, but not as much as I may have
occasion to use. Is there any hope of recovering the wallet from this
man—that is, provided he has taken it?”

“After breakfast I will go with you,” said Gerald, “and see if we can
find Jake Amsden. If we do we will make him give up the money.”

“But will it be safe? He looks like a rough character.”

“So he is; but the two of us ought to be more than a match for him.”

“I have no arms.”

“I will lend you my father’s pistol, and I have one of my own.”

Gerald spoke so calmly, and seemed so cool and courageous that
Wentworth gave him a look of admiration.

“That boy has more in him than I thought. He is no milk-and-water youth
as his father probably was.

“Very well,” he said aloud. “I will accept your offer—that is, after
breakfast. I am afraid I shouldn’t muster up courage enough to meet
this rough fellow on an empty stomach. I don’t feel like giving up such
a sum of money without a struggle to recover it. Do you know Amsden?”

“Yes; he has been in this vicinity almost as long as we have.”

“Are you on friendly terms?”

“We are not unfriendly, but he is not a man that I cared to be intimate
with.”

“Will he be likely to leave the neighborhood with his booty?” asked
Wentworth anxiously.

“No; he is not a coward, and will stay. Besides, he probably thinks
that he has covered his tracks, and will not be suspected.”

Breakfast was prepared and eaten. As they rose from the table Gerald
said: “Now, Mr. Wentworth, I am at your service.”

They took their way partly through woods till they reached the poor
cabin occupied by Jake Amsden. The door was open and they looked in.
But there was no sign of the occupant.

“He is gone!” said Wentworth, in accents that betrayed his
disappointment.

“I didn’t much expect he would be here,” said Gerald.

“Have you any idea where he is?”

“Yes; he is very fond of whisky, and there is a place at the foot of
the hill where drink can be obtained. It is kept by a negro, a man of
bad reputation.”

“Then let us go there. There is no time to be lost,” said Wentworth,
anxiously.

As they walked along Wentworth broached the old subject of selling the
cabin and the land attached.

“I think you make a mistake, Gerald,” he said, “in not selling me the
cabin. Two hundred dollars would be very useful to you.”

“The place is worth more.”

“I offered you two hundred and fifty, and I stand by that offer.”

“I may desire to sell it some time, but not at present.”

“You don’t mean to remain here after your father dies?”

“Please don’t refer to that, Mr. Wentworth,” said Gerald with emotion.
“I don’t want to think of it.”

“But you know he can’t recover.”

“I know it, but I don’t like to think of it.”

“This is only weakness. You ought to think of it, and be forming your
plans.”

“Excuse me, Mr. Wentworth,” said Gerald with sad dignity, “but I cannot
and will not speak of my father’s death at present. When God takes him
from me it will be time to consider what I shall do.”

“Suit yourself,” said Bradley Wentworth stiffly, “but you must not
forget that I am your father’s friend, and——”

“Are you my father’s friend?” asked Gerald with a searching look.

“Of course I am,” answered Wentworth, coloring. “Hasn’t he told you we
were young men together?”

“Yes, he has told me that.”

“Then you understand it. I am his friend and yours.”

“I am glad to hear it,” said Gerald gravely, “but there,” he added,
pointing to a low, one-story frame building, “is the place where Jake
Amsden probably came to buy liquor.”

Over the entrance was a large board on which was painted in rude
characters:

  P. JOHNSON,
  Saloon.




CHAPTER VIII.

FOILING A THIEF.


MR. PETER JOHNSON, the proprietor of the saloon, hearing voices, came
to the door. He was a dirty looking negro of medium size, dressed in a
shoddy suit, common enough in appearance, but with a look of cunning in
his small round eyes.

“Good mornin’, gemmen,” he said rubbing his hands and rolling his eyes.
“What can I do for you dis mornin’?”

“Has Jake Amsden been around here?” asked Gerald abruptly.

“No, sir,” answered Peter.

In spite of his answer there was a look in his eyes that belied his
statement.

“You have seen nothing of him?” continued Gerald, sharply.

“No, sir. What for should Jake Amsden come here for, Mr. Gerald?”

“He might feel thirsty,” suggested Wentworth, “just as I am. Have you
got some good whisky?”

“Yes, sir,” answered Peter briskly.

“Well, go in and get a couple of glasses,” said Wentworth.

“None for me,” commenced Gerald, but Wentworth gave him a quick look
that silenced him. He saw that his companion had an object in view.

Wentworth made a motion to go in, but the negro interfered hastily.
“Stay where you are, gemmen, I’ll bring out de whisky.”

“We can go in as well as not, and save you trouble,” said Wentworth,
and despite Peter’s opposition the two followed him in.

They looked about scrutinizingly, but saw nothing to repay their search.

There was a counter, such as is usually found in saloons, and Mr.
Johnson going behind this brought out glasses and a bottle of whisky.

“Help yourselves, gemmen!” he said, but there was an uneasy look on his
face.

Wentworth poured out a small quantity of whisky and drank it down. He
poured out a less quantity for Gerald, but the boy merely touched his
lips to the glass.

“So you say Jake Amsden has not been here?” repeated Wentworth in a
loud voice.

“No, stranger, no, on my word he hasn’t,” answered Peter earnestly. But
he was immediately put to confusion by a voice from behind the bar; a
voice interrupted by hiccoughs: “Who’s callin’ me? Is it you, Pete?”

“Come out here, Jake,” said Wentworth, showing no surprise. “Come out
here, and have a drink with your friends.”

The invitation was accepted. Jake, who was lying behind the counter
half stupefied, got up with some difficulty, and presented himself to
the company a by no means attractive figure. His clothes were even more
soiled than usual by contact with a floor that was seldom swept.

Wentworth poured out a glass of whisky and handed it to the inebriate,
who gulped it down.

“Now you drink with me!” stuttered Jake, who was too befuddled to
recognize the man who had treated him.

“All right, Jake, old boy!” said Wentworth with assumed hilarity.

He poured out for himself a teaspoonful of whisky, but did not
replenish Gerald’s glass, as Amsden was not likely to notice the
omission.

“Now pay for it, Jake,” prompted Wentworth.

“Never mind!” said Peter hastily, “’nother time will do!”

“Jake has money. He doesn’t need credit,” said Wentworth.

“Yes, I’ve got money,” stammered Amsden, and pulled out the wallet he
had stolen from Wentworth.

“Give it to me, I’ll pay,” said Wentworth, and Jake yielded, not
knowing the full meaning of what was going on.

“I take you to witness, Gerald,” said Wentworth, “this is my
pocketbook, which this man Amsden stole from me last night. I’ll keep
it.”

“Stop there, gemmen!” said Pete Johnson. “Dat don’t go down. Dat wallet
belongs to Jake, I’ve seen him have it a dozen times. I won’t ’low no
stealin’ in my saloon.”

“Be careful, Mr. Johnson,” said Wentworth sternly. “There are papers in
this wallet that prove my ownership. You evidently intended to relieve
Jake of the wallet when he was sleeping off the effects of the whisky.
If you make a fuss I’ll have you arrested as a confederate of Jake
Amsden in the robbing.”

“’Fore Hebbin, massa!” said Peter, becoming alarmed, “I didn’t know
Jake stole the money.”

“Did you ever know him have so much money before?” demanded Gerald.

“Didn’t know but he might a had some money lef’ him,” said Peter
shrewdly.

“Well, you know now. When this gentleman lay asleep in our cabin last
night Jake stole in and took his wallet.”

“What’ll I do, gemmen? When Jake wakes up” (he had dropped on the
floor, where he was breathing hard with his eyes closed) “he’ll ’cuse
me of takin’ his money.”

“Tell him that the man he stole it from came here and got it,” said
Gerald.

Gerald and his companion left the saloon, leaving Peter Johnson quite
down in the mouth. His little game had been spoiled, for rightly
supposing that Jake did not know how much money there was in the
wallet, he had intended to abstract at least half the contents and
appropriate it to his own use.

“Did he use much of your money, Mr. Wentworth?” asked Gerald.

“I will examine and find out,” answered his companion.

He sat down under the tree and took out the roll of bills.

“Only five dollars are missing,” he said in a tone of satisfaction.

“Have you a son?” asked Gerald. “I think I heard my father say you had
one somewhere near my own age.”

“How old are you?”

“Sixteen.”

“My son—Victor—is seventeen. You have one advantage over him.”

“What is that, sir?”

“You are a poor man’s son.”

“Do you consider that an advantage?”

“Money is a temptation,” returned Bradley Wentworth slowly, “especially
to a boy. Victor knows that I am rich—that is, moderately rich,” he
added cautiously, “and he feels at liberty to spend money, often in
ways that don’t do him any good. He buys clothes extravagantly, but
that does no harm outside of the expense. I am sorry to say that he has
contracted a taste for drink, and has given several champagne suppers
to his friends. I suppose you don’t indulge yourself in that way,”
Wentworth added, with a faint smile.

“I have heard of champagne, but I never tasted it,” returned Gerald.

“You are as well off without it—nay, better. I noticed you merely
sipped the whisky at the place we just left.”

“Yes; I knew your object in ordering it, and did not want to arouse
Peter’s suspicions, or I would not even have done that.”

“So I supposed. I approve of your moderation. I do not myself drink
whisky, and indeed very little wine. Drink has no temptation for me. I
wish I could say as much for Victor. I presume, however, if you were in
his place, you would do the same.”

“You are quite mistaken, Mr. Wentworth,” said Gerald indignantly.

“Well, perhaps so, but you can’t tell, for you have never been tried.”

“I have never been tried, but I hate liquor of all kinds, and
drunkenness still more. The sight of Jake Amsden just now is enough to
sicken any one.”

“True, he makes a beast of himself. I am not afraid Victor will ever
sink to his level; but I should be glad if he would abstain from
drinking altogether.”

Bradley Wentworth rose from his recumbent position.

“Shall we take a walk?” he said.

“I would do so, but I don’t like to leave my father alone.”

“He looked comfortable when we left the cabin.”

“Yes, but he is subject to sudden attacks.”

“And you have no doctor within a reasonable distance?”

“No; but his attacks are always the same, and I know what to do for
him.”

“We will walk to the cabin, and then, if he seems well, you might
venture to take a walk.”

“Very well, Mr. Wentworth.”

When they were within a few rods of his home, Gerald, impatient and
always solicitous about the invalid, ran forward, leaving Mr. Wentworth
to follow more slowly.

The latter was startled when Gerald, pale and agitated, emerged from
the cabin and called out: “Oh, come quick, Mr. Wentworth. My father
has had a serious hemorrhage, and—” he choked, unable to finish the
sentence.

Wentworth hurried forward and entered the cabin. Mr. Lane lay back in
his chair, gasping for breath.

He opened his eyes when he heard Gerald’s voice.

“I—am—glad—you—are—come, Gerald,” he gasped. “I think—the end has
come!”

He did not utter another word, but in half an hour breathed his last!




CHAPTER IX.

ALONE IN THE WORLD.


TWO days afterward the simple burial took place. Mr Wentworth remained,
influenced by a variety of motives. He felt that with Warren Lane dead
all form of a demand upon him for the money he had once faithfully
agreed to pay had passed. Gerald might know something about it, but
what could a poor and friendless boy do against a rich manufacturer?
Still, if the boy had the papers, he might as well secure them for a
trifle. So as they sat in front of the cabin after the burial he said
suddenly: “What do you propose to do, Gerald?”

“I don’t know,” answered Gerald sadly.

“If you will go home with me, I will give you a place in my factory.”

“I prefer to remain here for a time.”

“But how will you live?”

“I can hunt and fish, and as my wants are few I think I shall get
along.”

“As your father and I were young men together, I should like to do
something for you.”

“You can do something for me,” said Gerald significantly.

“What is it you refer to?”

“Keep the promise you made to my father fifteen years ago.”

Bradley Wentworth looked uneasy. It was clear that the boy thoroughly
understood the compact.

“What do you mean, Gerald?” he asked.

“I mean that my father sacrificed his reputation to save yours. Through
him you obtained your inheritance and are to-day a rich man. For this
you solemnly agreed to give him twenty thousand dollars when you came
into your uncle’s fortune.”

“You are laboring under a delusion, boy!” said Wentworth harshly.

“You know better than that, Mr. Wentworth,” answered Gerald calmly.

“You are certainly very modest in your demands. Twenty thousand
dollars, indeed!”

“It was not I who fixed upon that sum, but yourself. As my father’s
sacrifice brought you over three hundred thousand dollars, it was a
good bargain for you.”

“What have you to show in proof of this extraordinary claim of yours?”
demanded Wentworth, waiting eagerly for the answer.

“Your confession over your own signature that you forged the check, a
crime attributed to my father, and confessing that he bore the blame to
screen you.”

“Where is this paper?” demanded Wentworth, edging, as if unconsciously,
nearer the boy.

“It is safe,” answered Gerald, rising and facing his companion.

“Show it to me! I won’t believe in its existence unless you show it to
me.”

“This is not the time to show it,” said Gerald.

“I differ with you. This is the precise time to show it if you have it,
which I very much doubt.”

“I will show it to you in due time, Mr. Wentworth. This is not the
right time, nor the right place.”

“Have you it about you?”

“I shall answer no more questions, Mr. Wentworth.”

Wentworth eyed Gerald, doubting whether he should not seize him then
and there and wrest from him the paper if he proved to have it, but
there was something in the resolute look of the boy that daunted him,
man though he was, and he decided that it would be better to have
recourse to a little strategy. For this the boy would be less prepared
than for open force.

“Look here, Gerald,” he said, moderating his tone and moving further
away, as if all thoughts of violence had left him, “I will have a few
plain words with you. If you have any paper compromising me in any way,
I will make it worth your while to give it to me. I remember that I was
in a little trouble, and being young made a mountain out of a molehill.
Still I don’t care to have it come out now, when I am a man of repute,
that I ever sowed wild oats like most young men. I will make you the
same offer that I did your father. Give me the paper and I will give
you a thousand dollars to start you in life. Think what such a sum will
be to a boy like you.”

“I don’t think I care much for money, Mr. Wentworth,” responded Gerald.
“But my father left me this claim upon you as a sacred trust. I feel
that I owe it to his memory to collect it to the uttermost farthing.”

Bradley Wentworth shrugged his shoulders.

“You are about the most foolish boy I ever met,” he said. “You are
almost a pauper, yet you refuse a thousand dollars.”

“I shall never be a pauper while I have my health and strength, Mr.
Wentworth.”

“You must think me a fool to surrender so large a sum as twenty
thousand dollars on the demand of a half-grown boy like yourself!”

“No, Mr. Wentworth. I was only trying to find out whether you were a
man of integrity!”

“Do you dare to impugn my integrity?” demanded the manufacturer angrily.

“A man of integrity keeps his engagements,” said Gerald briefly.

Bradley Wentworth regarded Gerald with a fixed and thoughtful glance.
He had expected to twine the boy round his finger, but found that he
was more resolute than he expected. He exhibited a force of character
which his father had never possessed.

Wentworth was not a patient man, and the boy’s perverseness, as
he called it, provoked him, and brought out his sterner and more
disagreeable qualities.

“Boy,” he said harshly, “I have a piece of advice to give you.”

“What is it, sir?”

“Don’t make me your enemy! I came here intending to be your friend, and
you decline my advances.”

“No, sir,” answered Gerald firmly. “I don’t consider that you act a
friendly part when you decline to carry out a solemn compact made with
my father.”

“It is a delusion of his and yours,” returned Wentworth, “I can only
look upon your attitude as that of a blackmailer.”

“No one has more contempt for a blackmailer than I,” said Gerald. “I
am old enough to understand the meaning of the term. If a man owed you
money, and you presented your claim, would you consider it blackmail?”

“Certainly not.”

“Then I need not defend myself from your charge.”

“You and I take different views on this question, but it is of some
importance to you not to offend me.”

“Why?” asked Gerald, looking straight into the eyes of his companion.

“Because I am rich and powerful.”

“And I am weak and poor?”

“Precisely.”

“What use do you propose to make of your power, Mr. Wentworth?”

“To crush you!” hissed the manufacturer.

“Listen, boy, I am capable of being a good friend——”

“As you were to my father,” suggested Gerald significantly.

“As I was to your father, only he did not appreciate it.”

“I don’t care to have such a friend.”

“But I have something to add. I can be a bitter enemy when I am badly
treated.”

“I suppose that is meant as a threat, Mr. Wentworth,” said Gerald
calmly.

“You can take it so.”

“Then I have my answer ready. I care neither for your friendship nor
your enmity. I shall do what I consider right, and if my own conscience
approves I shall seek no other approval.”

“You are very independent for a young boy, especially one in your
circumstances,” sneered Wentworth.

“You may be right. I am independent, and I intend to remain so.”

“Wait till you get older, and have been buffeted by the world. You will
understand then that you have made a serious mistake in repelling my
offer of help.”

“Have you anything more to say to me, Mr. Wentworth?”

“No, unless to add that I generally get even with those who oppose me.
Indeed, I have a great mind to chastise you here and now.”

Gerald rose from his seat and confronted the angry man, but without
betraying any trace of excitement or fear.

“You are probably more than a match for me physically, Mr. Wentworth,”
he said, “but if you undertake anything of that kind you will meet with
a determined resistance.”

And as Wentworth looked into the boy’s resolute face he quite
understood that he spoke only the truth.

“No,” he said, after a brief pause, “I will bide my time. You may
repent of your folly and decide to come to terms with me. If you
don’t——”

He did not finish the sentence, for a man on horseback came galloping
up to the cabin. He checked his horse, and said inquiringly, “Is this
Mr. Bradley Wentworth?”

“I am he,” answered Wentworth, rising.

“Then here is a telegram for you. It came to Denver, and I have ridden
seventy miles to bring it to you.”

Wentworth tore open the message. It contained these words:
