
"Has he no right to know?"

"No. At least--no--I think not. I do not mean----"

They were standing still, facing each other. In another moment she would
be telling Lamberti what she had never told Guido about her feelings
towards him. On a sudden she turned away with a sort of desperate
movement, clasping her hands and looking over the low wall.

"Oh, what is it all?" she cried, in great distress. "I am in the dream
again, talking as if I had known you all my life! What must you think of
me?"

Lamberti stood beside her, resting his hands upon the wall.

"It is exactly what I feel," he said quietly.

"Then you dream, too?" she asked.

"Every night--of you."

"We are both dreaming now! I am sure of it. I shall wake up in the dark
and hear the door shut softly, though I always lock it now."

"The door? Do you hear that, too?" asked Lamberti. "But I am wide awake
when I hear it."

"So am I! Sometimes I can manage to turn up the electric light before
the sound has quite stopped. Are we both mad? What is it? In the name of
Heaven, what is it all?"

"I wish I knew. Whatever it is, if you and I meet often, it is quite
impossible that we should talk like ordinary acquaintances. Yes, I
thought I was going mad, and this morning I went to a great doctor and
told him everything. He seemed to think it was all a set of
coincidences. He advised me to see you and ask you why you ran away that
day, and he thought that if we talked about it, I might perhaps not
dream again."

"You are not mad, you are not mad!" Cecilia repeated the words in a low
voice, almost mechanically.

Then there was silence, and presently she turned from the wall and began
to walk back along the wide path that passed by the central fountain.
The sun, long out of sight behind the hill, was sinking now, the thin
violet mist had begun to rise from the Campagna far to south and east,
and the mountains had taken the first tinge of evening purple. From the
ilex woods above the house, the voice of a nightingale rang out in a
long and delicious trill. The garden was deserted, and now and then the
sound of women's laughter rippled out through the high, open door.

"We must meet soon," Lamberti said, as they reached the fountain.

It seemed the most natural thing in the world that he should say it. She
stopped and looked at him, and recognised every feature of the face she
had seen in her dreams almost ever since she could remember dreaming.
Her fear was all gone now, and she was sure that it would never come
back. Had she not heard him say those very words, "We must meet soon,"
hundreds and hundreds of times, just as he had said them long ago--ever
so long ago--in a language that she could not remember when she was
awake? And had they not always met soon?

"I shall see you to-night," she answered, almost unconsciously.

"Tell me," he said, looking into the clear water in the fountain, "does
your dreaming make you restless and nervous? Does it wear on you?"

"Oh no! I have always dreamt a great deal all my life. I rest just as
well."

"Yes--but those were ordinary dreams. I mean----"

"No, they were always the same. They were always about you. I almost
screamed when I recognised you at the Princess's that afternoon."

"I had never dreamt of your face," said Lamberti, "but I was sure I had
seen you before."

They looked down into the moving water, and the music of its fall made
it harmonious with the distant song of the nightingale. Lamberti tried
to think connectedly, and could not. It was as if he were under a spell.
Questions rose to his lips, but he could not speak the words, he could
not put them together in the right way. Once, at sea, on the training
ship, he had fallen from the foreyard, and though the fall was broken by
the gear and he had not been injured, he had been badly stunned, and for
more than an hour he had lost all sense of direction, of what was
forward and what was aft, so that at one moment the vessel seemed to be
sailing backwards, and then forwards, and then sideways. He felt
something like that now, and he knew intuitively that Cecilia felt it
also. Amazingly absurd thoughts passed through his mind. Was to-morrow
going to be yesterday? Would what was coming be just what was long past?
Or was there no past, no future, nothing but all time present at once?

He was not moved by Cecilia's presence in the same way that Guido was.
Guido was merely in love with her; very much in love, no doubt, but that
was all. She was to him, first, the being of all others with whom he was
most in sympathy, the only being whom he understood, and who, he was
sure, understood him, the only being without whom life would be
unendurable. And, secondly, she was the one and only creature in the
world created to be his natural mate, and when he was near her he was
aware of nature's mysterious forces, and felt the thrill of them
continually.

Lamberti experienced nothing of that sort at present. He was overwhelmed
and carried away out of the region of normal thought and volition
towards something which he somehow knew was at hand, which he was sure
he had reached before, but which he could not distinctly remember.
Between it and him in the past there was a wall of darkness; between him
and it in the future there was a veil not yet lifted, but on which his
dreams already cast strange and beautiful shadows.

"I used to see things in the water," Cecilia said softly, "things that
were going to happen. That was long, long ago."

"I remember," said Lamberti, quite naturally. "You told me once----"

He stopped. It was gone back behind the wall of darkness. When he had
begun to speak, quite unconsciously, he had known what it was that
Cecilia had told him, but he had forgotten it all now. He passed his
hand over his forehead, and suddenly everything changed, and he came
back out of an immeasurable distance to real life.

"I shall be going away in a few days," he said. "May I see you before I
go?"

"Certainly. Come and see us about three o'clock. We are always at home
then."

"Thank you."

They turned from the fountain while they spoke, and walked slowly
towards the house.

"Does your mother know about your dreaming?" Lamberti asked.

"No. No one knows. And you?"

"I have told that doctor. No one else. I wonder whether it will go on
when I am far away."

"I wonder, too. Where are you going?"

"I do not know yet. Perhaps to China again. I shall get my orders in a
few days."

They reached the threshold of the door. Lamberti had been looking for
Guido's face amongst the people he could see as he came up, but Guido
was gone.

"Good-bye," said Cecilia, softly.

"Good night," Lamberti answered, almost in a whisper. "God bless you."

He afterwards thought it strange that he should have said that, but at
the time it seemed quite natural, and Cecilia was not at all surprised.
She smiled and bent her graceful head. Then she joined her mother, and
Lamberti disappeared.

"My dear," said the Countess, "you remember Monsieur Leroy? You met him
at Princess Anatolie's," she added, in a stage whisper.

Monsieur Leroy bowed, and Cecilia nodded. She had forgotten his
existence, and now remembered that she had not liked him, and that she
had said something sharp to him. He spoke first.

"The Princess wished me to tell you how very sorry she is that she
cannot be here this afternoon. She has one of her attacks."

"I am very sorry," Cecilia answered. "Pray tell her how sorry I am."

"Thank you. But I daresay Guido brought you the same message."

"Who is Guido?" asked Cecilia, raising her eyebrows a little.

"Guido d'Este. I thought you knew. You are surprised that I should call
him by his Christian name? You see, I have known him ever since he was
quite a boy. To all intents and purposes, he was brought up by the
Princess."

"And you are often at the house, I suppose."

"I live there," explained Monsieur Leroy. "To change the subject, my
dear young lady, I have an apology to make, which I hope you will
accept."

Cecilia did not like to be called any one's "dear young lady," and her
manner froze instantly.

"I cannot imagine why you should apologise to me," she said coldly.

"I was rude to you the other day, about your courses of philosophy, or
something of that sort. Was not that it?"

"Indeed, I had quite forgotten," Cecilia answered, with truth. "It did
not matter in the least what you thought of my reading Nietzsche, I
assure you."

Monsieur Leroy reddened and laughed awkwardly, for he was particularly
anxious to win her good grace.

"I am not very clever, you know," he said humbly. "You must forgive me."

"Oh certainly," replied Cecilia. "Your explanation is more than
adequate. In my mind, the matter had already explained itself. Will you
have some tea?"

"No, thank you. My nerves are rather troublesome. If I take tea in the
afternoon I cannot sleep at night. I met Guido going away as I came. He
was enthusiastic!"

"In what way?"

"About the villa, and the house, and the flowers, and about you." He
lowered his voice to a confidential tone as he spoke the last words.

"About me?" Cecilia was somewhat surprised.

"Oh yes! He was overcome by your perfection--like every one else. How
could it be otherwise? It is true that Guido has always been very
impressionable."

"I should not have thought it," Cecilia said, wishing that the man would
go away.

But he would not, and, to make matters worse, nobody would come and
oblige him to move. It was plain to the meanest mind that since Cecilia
was to marry Princess Anatolie's nephew, the extraordinary person whom
the Princess called her secretary must not be disturbed when he was
talking to Cecilia, since he might be the bearer of some important
message. Besides, a good many people were afraid of him, in a vague way,
as a rather spiteful gossip who had more influence than he should have
had.

"Yes," he continued, in an apologetic tone, "Guido is always falling in
love, poor boy. Of course, it is not to be wondered at. A king's son,
and handsome as he is, and so very clever, too--all the pretty ladies
fall in love with him at once, and he naturally falls in love with them.
You see how simple it is. He has more opportunities than are good for
him!"

The disagreeable little man giggled, and his loose pink and white cheeks
shook unpleasantly. Cecilia thought him horribly vulgar and familiar,
and she inwardly wondered how the Princess Anatolie could even tolerate
him, not to speak of treating him affectionately and calling him
"Doudou."

"I supposed that you counted yourself among Signor d'Este's friends,"
said the young girl, frigidly.

"I do, I do! Have I said anything unfriendly? I merely said that all the
women fell in love with him."

"You said a good deal more than that."

"At all events, I wish I were he," said Monsieur Leroy. "And if that is
not paying him a compliment I do not know what you would call it. He is
handsome, clever, generous, everything!"

"And faithless, according to you."

"No, no! Not faithless; only fickle, very fickle."

"It is the same thing," said the young girl, scornfully.

She did not believe Monsieur Leroy in the least, but she wondered what
his object could be in speaking against Guido, and whether he were
really silly, as he often seemed, or malicious, as she suspected, or
possibly both at the same time, since the combination is not uncommon.
What he was telling her, if she believed it, was certainly not of a
nature to hasten her marriage with Guido; and yet it was the Princess
who had first suggested the match, and it could hardly be supposed that
Monsieur Leroy would attempt to oppose his protectress.

Just then there was a general move to go away, and the conversation was
interrupted, much to Cecilia's satisfaction. There was a great stir in
the wide hall, for though many people had slipped away without
disturbing the Countess by taking leave, there were many of her nearer
friends who wished to say a word to her before going, just to tell her
that they had enjoyed themselves vastly, that Cecilia was a model of
beauty and good behaviour, and of everything charming, and that the
villa was the most delightful place they had ever seen. By these means
they conveyed the impression that they would all accept any future
invitation which the Countess might send them, and they audibly
congratulated one another upon her having at last established herself in
Rome, adding that Cecilia was a great acquisition to society. More than
that it was manifestly impossible to say in a few well-chosen words.
Even in a language as rich as Italian, the number of approving
adjectives is limited, and each can only have one superlative. The
Countess Fortiguerra's guests distributed these useful words amongst
them and exhausted the supply.

"It has been a great success, my dear," said the Countess, when she and
her daughter were left alone in the hall. "Did you see the Duchess of
Pallacorda's hat?"

"No, mother. At least, I did not notice it." Cecilia was nibbling a
cake, thoughtfully.

"My dear!" cried the Countess. "It was the most wonderful thing you ever
saw. She was in terror lest it should come too late. Monsieur Leroy knew
all about it."

"I cannot bear that man," Cecilia said, still nibbling, for she was
hungry.

"I cannot say that I like him, either. But the Duchess's new hat----"

Cecilia heard her voice, but was too much occupied with her own thoughts
to listen attentively, while the good Countess criticised the hat in
question, admired its beauties, corrected its defects, put it a little
further back on the Duchess's pretty head, and, indeed, did everything
with it which every woman can do, in imagination, with every imaginary
hat. Finally, she asked Cecilia if she should not like to have one
exactly like it.

"No, thank you. Not now, at all events. Mother dear," and she looked
affectionately at the Countess, "what a deal of trouble you have taken
to make it all beautiful for me to-day. I am so grateful!"

She kissed her mother on both cheeks just as she had always done when
she was pleased, ever since she had been a child, and suddenly the elder
woman's eyes glistened.

"It is a pleasure to do anything for you, darling," she said. "I have
only you in the world," she added quietly, after a little pause, "but I
sometimes think I have more than all the other women."

Then Cecilia laid her head on her mother's shoulder for a moment, and
gently patted her cheek, and they both felt very happy.

They drove home in the warm dusk, and when they reached the high road
down by the Tiber they looked up and saw moving lights through the great
open windows of the villa, and on the terrace, and in the gardens, like
fireflies. For the servants were bringing in the chairs and putting
things in order. The nightingale was singing again, far up in the woods,
but Cecilia could hear the song distinctly as the carriage swept along.

Now the Countess was kind and true, and loved her daughter devotedly,
but she would not have been a woman if she had not wished to know what
Guido had said to Cecilia that afternoon; and before they had entered
Porta Angelica she asked what she considered a leading question, in her
own peculiar contradictory way.

"Of course, I am not going to ask you anything, my dear," she began,
"but did Signor d'Este say anything especial to you when you went off
together?"

Cecilia remembered how they had driven home from the Princess's a
fortnight earlier, almost at the same hour, and how her mother had then
first spoken of Guido d'Este. The young girl asked herself in the moment
she took before answering, whether she were any nearer to the thought of
marrying him than she had been after that first short meeting.

"He loves me, mother," she answered softly. "He has made me understand
that he does, without quite saying so. I like him very much. That is our
position now. I would rather not talk about it much, but you have a
right to know."

"Yes, dear. But what I mean is--I mean, what I meant was--he has not
asked you to marry him, has he?"

"No. I am not sure that he will, now."

"Yes, he will. He asked me yesterday evening if he might, and of course
I gave him my permission."

It was a relief to have told Cecilia this, for concealment was
intolerable to the Countess.

"I see," Cecilia answered.

"Yes, of course you do. But when he does ask you, what shall you say,
dear? He is sure to ask you to-morrow, and I really want to know what I
am to expect. Surely, by this time you must have made up your mind."

"I have only known him a fortnight, mother. That is not a long time when
one is to decide about one's whole life, is it?"

"No. Well--it seems to me that a fortnight--you see, it is so
important!"

"Precisely," Cecilia answered. "It is very important. That is why I do
not mean to do anything in a hurry. Either you must tell Signor d'Este
to wait a little while before he asks me, or else, when he does, I must
beg him to wait some time for his answer."

"But it seems to me, if you like him so much, that is quite enough."

"Why are you in such a hurry, mother?" asked Cecilia, with a smile.

"Because I am sure you will be perfectly happy if you marry him,"
answered the Countess, with much conviction.




                                CHAPTER X


Guido d'Este walked home from the Villa Madama in a very bad temper with
everything. He was not of a dramatic disposition, nor easily inclined to
sudden resolutions, and when placed in new and unexpected circumstances
his instinct was rather to let them develop as they would than to direct
them or oppose them actively. For the first time in his life he now felt
that he must do one or the other.

To treat Lamberti as if nothing had happened was impossible, and it was
equally out of the question to behave towards Cecilia as though she had
not done or said anything to check the growth of intimacy and friendship
on her side and of genuine love on his. He took the facts as he knew
them and tried to state them justly, but he could make nothing of them
that did not plainly accuse both Cecilia and Lamberti of deceiving him.
Again and again, he recalled the words and behaviour of both, and he
could reach no other conclusion. They had a joint secret which they had
agreed to keep from him, and rather than reveal it his best friend was
ready to break with him, and the woman he loved preferred never to see
him again. He reflected that he was not the first man who had been
checked by a girl and forsaken by a friend, but that did not make it any
easier to bear.

It was quite clear that he could not submit to be so treated by them.
Lamberti had asked him to speak to Cecilia before quarrelling
definitely. He had done so, and he was more fully convinced than before
that both were deceiving him. There was no way out of that conviction,
there was not the smallest argument on the other side, and nothing that
either could ever say could shake his belief. It was plainly his duty to
tell them so, and it would be wisest to write to them, for he felt that
he might lose his temper if he tried to say what he meant, instead of
writing it.

He wrote to Lamberti first, because it was easier, though it was quite
the hardest thing he had ever done. He began by proving to himself, and
therefore to his friend, that he was writing after mature reflection and
without the least hastiness, or temper, or unwillingness to be
convinced, if Lamberti had anything to say in self-defence. He expressed
no suspicion as to the probable nature of the secret that was withheld
from him; he even wrote that he no longer wished to know what it was.
His argument was that by refusing to reveal it, Lamberti had convicted
himself of some unknown deed which he was ashamed to acknowledge, and
Guido did not hesitate to add that such unjustifiable reticence might
easily be construed in such a way as to cast a slur upon the character
of an innocent young girl.

Having got so far, Guido immediately tore the whole letter to shreds and
rose from his writing table, convinced that it was impossible to write
what he meant without saying things which he did not mean. After all, he
could simply avoid his old friend in future. The idea of quarrelling
with him aggressively had never entered his mind, and it was therefore
of no use to write anything at all. Lamberti must have guessed already
that all friendship was at an end, and it would consequently be quite
useless to tell him so.

He must write to Cecilia, however. He could not allow her to think,
because he had apologised for rudely doubting her word, that he
therefore believed what she had told him. He would write.

Here he was confronted by much greater difficulties than he had found in
composing his unsuccessful letter to Lamberti. In the first place, he
was in love with her, and it seemed to him that he should love her just
as much, whatever she did. He wondered what it was that he felt, for at
first he hardly thought it was jealousy, and it was assuredly not a mere
passing fit of ill-tempered resentment.

It must be jealousy, after all. He fancied that she had known Lamberti
before, and that she had been girlishly in love with him, and that when
she had met him again she had been startled and annoyed. It was not so
hard to imagine that this might be possible, though he could not see why
they should both make such a secret of having known each other. But
perhaps, by some accident, they had become intimate without the
knowledge of the Countess, so that Cecilia was now very much afraid lest
her mother should find it out.

Guido's reflections stopped there. At any other time he would have
laughed at their absurdity, and now he resented it. The plain fact
stared him in the face, the fact he had known all along and had
forgotten--Lamberti could not possibly have met Cecilia since she had
been a mere child, because Guido could account for all his friend's
movements during the last five years. Five years ago, Cecilia had been
thirteen.

He was glad that he had torn up his letter to Lamberti, and that he had
not even begun the one to Cecilia, after sitting half an hour with his
pen in his hand. Yes, he went over those five years, and then took from
a drawer the last five of the little pocket diaries he always carried.
There was a small space for each day of the year, and he never failed to
note at least the name of the place in which he was, while travelling.
He also recorded Lamberti's coming and going, the names of the ships to
which he was ordered, and the dates of any notable facts in his life. It
is tolerably easy to record the exact movements of a sailor in active
service who is only at home on very short leave once in a year or two.
Guido turned over the pages carefully and set down on a slip of paper
what he found. In five years Lamberti's leave had not amounted to eight
months in all, and Guido could account for every day of it, for they had
spent all of it either in Rome or in travelling together. He laid the
little diaries in the drawer again, and leaned back in his chair with a
deep sigh of satisfaction.

He was too generous not to wish to find his friend at once and
acknowledge frankly that he had been wrong. He telephoned to ask whether
Lamberti had come back from the Villa Madama. Yes, he had come back, but
he had gone out again. No one knew where he was. He had said that he
should not dine at home. That was all. If he returned before half-past
ten o'clock d'Este should be informed.

Guido dined alone and waited, but no message came during the evening. At
half-past ten he wrote a few words on a correspondence card, told his
man to send the note to Lamberti early in the morning, and went to bed,
convinced that everything would explain itself satisfactorily before
long. As soon as he was positively sure that Lamberti and Cecilia could
not possibly have known each other more than a fortnight, his natural
indolence returned. Of course it was very extraordinary that Cecilia
should have felt such a strong dislike for Lamberti at first sight, for
it could be nothing else, since she seemed displeased whenever his name
was mentioned; and it was equally strange that Lamberti should feel the
same antipathy for her. But since it was so, she would naturally draw
back from telling Guido that his best friend was repulsive to her, and
Lamberti would not like to acknowledge that the young girl Guido wished
to marry produced a disagreeable impression on him. It was quite
natural, too, that after what Guido had said to each of them, each
should have been anxious to show him that he was mistaken, and that they
should have taken the first opportunity of talking together just when he
should most notice it.

Everything was accounted for by this ingenious theory. Guido knew a man
who turned pale when a cat came near him, though he was a manly man,
good at sports and undeniably courageous. Those things could not be
explained, but it was much easier to understand that a sensitive young
girl might be violently affected by an instinctive antipathy for a man,
than that a strong man's teeth should chatter if a cat got under his
chair at dinner. That was undoubtedly what happened. How could either of
them tell him so, since he was so fond of both? Lamberti had said that
as a last resource, he would try to explain what the trouble was. Guido
would spare him that. He knew what he had felt almost daily in the
presence of Monsieur Leroy, ever since he had been a boy. Lamberti and
Cecilia probably acted on each other in the same way. It was a
misfortune, of course, that his best friend and his future wife should
hate the sight and presence of one another, but it was not their fault,
and they would probably get over it.

It was wonderful to see how everything that had happened exactly fitted
into Guido's simple explanation, the passing shadow on Cecilia's face,
the evident embarrassment of both when Guido asked each the same
question, the agreement of their answers, the readiness both had shown
to try and overcome their mutual dislike--it was simply wonderful! By
the time Guido laid his head on his pillow, he was serenely calm and
certain of the future. With the words of sincere regret he had written
to Lamberti, and with the decision to say much the same thing to Cecilia
on the following day, his conscience was at rest; and he went to sleep
in the pleasant assurance that after having done something very hasty he
had just avoided doing something quite irreparable.

Lamberti had spent a less pleasant evening, and was not prepared for the
agreeable surprise that awaited him on the following morning in Guido's
note. He was neither indolent nor at all given to self-examination, and
he had generally found it a good plan to act upon impulse, and do what
he wished to do before it occurred to any one else to do the same thing;
and when he could not see what he ought to do, and was nevertheless sure
that he ought to act at once, he lost his temper with himself and
sometimes with other people.

He was afraid to go to bed that night, and he went to the club and
watched some of his friends playing cards until he could not keep his
eyes open; for gambling bored him to extinction. Then he walked the
whole length of the Corso and back, in the hope that the exercise might
prevent him from dreaming. But it only roused him again; and when he was
in his own room he stood nearly two hours at the open window, smoking
one cigar after another. At last he lay down without putting out the
light and read a French novel till it dropped from his hand, and he fell
asleep at four o'clock in the morning.

He was not visited by the dream that had disturbed his rest nightly for
a full fortnight. Possibly the doctor had been right after all, and the
habit was broken. At all events, what he remembered having felt when he
awoke was something quite new and not altogether unpleasant after the
first beginning, yet so strangely undefined that he would have found it
hard to describe it in any words.

He had no consciousness of any sort of shape or body belonging to him,
nor of motion, nor of sight, after the darkness had closed in upon him.
That moment, indeed, was terrible. It reminded him of the approach of a
cyclone in the West Indies, which he remembered well--the dreadful
stillness in the air; the long, sullen, greenish brown swell of the oily
sea; the appalling bank of solid darkness that moved upon the ship over
the noiseless waves; the shreds of black cloud torn forwards by an
unseen and unheard force, and the vast flashes of lightning that shot
upwards like columns of flame. He remembered the awful waiting.

Not a storm, then, but an instant change from something to nothing, with
consciousness preserved; complete, far-reaching consciousness, that was
more perfect than sight, yet was not sight, but a being everywhere at
once, a universal understanding, a part of something all pervading, a
unification with all things past, present, and to come, with no desire
for them, nor vision of them, but perfect knowledge of them all.

At the same time, there was the presence of another immeasurable
identity in the same space, so that his own being and that other were
coexistent and alike, each in the other, everywhere at once, and
inseparable from the other, and also, in some unaccountable way, each
dear to the other beyond and above all description. And there was
perfect peace and a state very far beyond any possible waking happiness,
without any conception of time or of motion, but only of infinite space
with infinite understanding.

Another phase began. There was time again, there were minutes, hours,
months, years, ages; and there was a longing for something that could
change, a stirring of human memories in the boundless immaterial
consciousness, a desire for sight and hearing, a gradual, growing wish
to see a face remembered before the wall of darkness had closed in, to
hear a voice that had once sounded in ears that had once understood, to
touch a hand that had felt his long ago. And the longing became
intolerable, for lack of these things, like a burning thirst where there
is no water; and the perfect peace was all consumed in that raging wish,
and the quiet was disquiet, and the two consciousnesses felt that each
was learning to suffer again for want of the other, till what had been
heaven was hell, and earth would be better, or total destruction and the
extinguishing of all identity, or anything that was not, rather than the
least prolonging of what was.

The last change now; back to the world, and to a human body. Lamberti
was waked by a vigorous knocking at his door, which was locked as usual.
It was nine o'clock, and a servant had brought him Guido's note.

"My dear friend," it said, "I was altogether in the wrong yesterday.
Please forgive me. I quite understand your position with regard to the
Contessina, and hers towards you, but I sincerely hope that in the end
you may be good friends. I appreciate very much the effort you both made
this afternoon to overcome your mutual antipathy. Thank you. G. d'E."

Lamberti read the note three times before the truth dawned upon him, and
he at last understood what Guido meant. At first the note seemed to have
been written in irony, if not in anger, but that would have been very
unlike Guido; the second reading convinced Lamberti that his friend was
in earnest, whatever his meaning might be, and at the third perusal,
Lamberti saw the true state of the case. Guido supposed that he and
Cecilia were violently repelled by each other.

He did not smile at the absurdity of the idea, for he felt at once that
the results of such a misunderstanding must before long place Cecilia
and himself in a false position, from which it would be hard to escape.
Yet he was well aware that Guido would not believe the truth--that the
coincidences were too extraordinary to be readily admitted, while no
other rational theory could be found to explain what had happened. If
Lamberti saw Cecilia often, Guido would soon perceive that instead of
mutual dislike and repulsion the strongest sympathy existed between
them, and that they would always understand each other without words. It
would be impossible to conceal that very long.

Besides, they would love each other, if they met frequently; about that
Lamberti had not the smallest doubt. His instincts were direct and
unhesitating, and he knew that he had never felt for any living woman
what he felt for the fair young girl whose unreal presence visited his
dreams, and who, in those long visions, loved him dearly in return, with
a spiritual passion that rose far above perishable things and yet was
not wholly immaterial. There was that one moment when they stood near
together in the early morning, and their lips met as if body, heart, and
soul were all meeting at once, and only for once.

After that, in his dreams, there was much that Lamberti could not
understand in himself, and which seemed very unlike the self he knew,
very much higher, very much purer, very much more inclined to sacrifice,
constantly in a sort of spiritual tension and always striving towards a
perfect life, which was as far as anything could be, he supposed, from
his own personality, as he thought he knew it. The story he dreamed was
simple enough. He was a Christian, the girl a Vestal Virgin, the
youngest of those last six who still guarded the sacred hearth when the
Christian Emperor dissolved all that was left of the worship of the old
gods. He bade the noble maidens close the doors of the temple and depart
in peace to their parents' homes, freed from their vows and service, and
from all obligations to the state, but deprived also of all their old
honours and lands and privileges. And sadly they buried the things that
had been holy, where no man knew, and watched the fire together, one
last night, till it burned out to white ashes in the spring dawn; and
they embraced one another with tears and went away. Some became
Christians, and some afterwards married; but there was one who would
not, though she loved as none of them loved, and she withdrew from the
world and lived a pure life for the sake of the old faith and of her
solemn vows.

So, at last, the Christian believed what she told him, that it was
better to love in that way, because when he and she were freed at last
from all earthly longings, they would be united for ever and ever; and
she became a Christian, too, and after the other five Vestals were dead,
she also passed away; and the man who had loved her so long, in her own
way, died peacefully on the next day, loving her and hoping to join her,
and having led a good life. After that there was peace, and they seemed
to be together.

That was their story as it gradually took shape out of fragments and
broken visions, and though the man who dreamt these things could not
conceive, when he remembered them, that he could ever become at all a
saintly character, yet in the vision he knew that he was always himself,
and all that he thought and did seemed natural, though it often seemed
hard, and he suffered much in some ways, but in others he found great
happiness.

It was a simple story and a most improbable one. He was quite sure that
no matter in what age he might have lived, instead of in the twentieth
century, he would have felt and acted as he now did when he was wide
awake. But that did not matter. The important point was that his
imagination was making for him a sort of secondary existence in sleep,
in which he was desperately in love with some one who exactly resembled
Cecilia Palladio and who bore her first name; and this dreaming created
such a strong and lasting impression in his mind that, in real life, he
could not separate Cecilia Palladio from Cecilia the Vestal, and found
himself on the point of saying to her in reality the very things which
he had said to her in imagination while sleeping. The worst of it was
this identity of the real and the unreal, for he was persuaded that with
very small opportunity the two would turn into one.

He hated thinking, under all circumstances, as compared with action. It
was easier to follow his impulses, and fortunately for him they were
brave and honourable. He never analysed his feelings, never troubled
himself about his motives, never examined his conscience. It told him
well enough whether he was doing right or wrong, and on general
principles he always meant to do right. It was not his fault if his
imagination made him fall in love in a dream with the young girl who was
probably to be his friend's wife. But it would be distinctly his fault
if he gave himself the chance of falling in love with her in reality.

Moreover, though he did not know how much further Cecilia's dream
coincided with his own, and believed it impossible that the coincidence
should be nearly as complete as it seemed, he felt that she would love
him if he chose that she should. The intuitions of very masculine men
about women are far keener and more trustworthy than women guess; and
when such a man is not devoured by fatuous vanity he is rarely mistaken
if he feels sure that a woman he meets will love him, provided that
circumstances favour him ever so little. There is not necessarily the
least particle of conceit in that certainty, which depends on the direct
attraction between any two beings who are natural complements to each
other.

Lamberti was a man who had the most profound respect for every woman who
deserved to be respected ever so little, and a good-natured contempt for
all the rest, together with a careless willingness to be amused by them.
And of all the women in the world, next to his own mother, the one whom
he would treat with something approaching to veneration would be Guido's
wife, if Guido married.

Without any reasoning, it was plain that he must see as little as
possible of Cecilia Palladio. But as this would not please Guido, the
best plan was to go away while there was time. In all probability, when
he next returned, say in two years, he would no longer feel the
dangerous attraction that was almost driving him out of his senses at
present.

He had been in Rome some time, expecting his promotion to the rank of
lieutenant-commander, which would certainly be accompanied by orders to
join another ship, possibly very far away. If he showed himself very
anxious to go at once, before his leave expired, the Admiralty would
probably oblige him, especially as he just now cared much less for the
promised step in the service than for getting away at short notice. The
best thing to be done was to go and see the Minister, who had of late
been very friendly to him; everything might be settled in half an hour,
and next week he would be on his way to China, or South America, or East
Africa, which would be perfectly satisfactory to everybody concerned.

It was a wise and honourable resolution, and he determined to act on it
at once. His hand was on the door to go out, when he stopped suddenly
and stood quite still for a few seconds. It was as if something unseen
surrounded him on all sides, in the air, invisible but solid as lead,
making it impossible for him to move. It did not last long, and he went
out, wondering at his nervousness.

In half an hour he was in the presence of the Minister, who was speaking
to him.

"You are promoted to the rank of lieutenant-commander. You are
temporarily attached to the ministerial commission which is to study the
Somali question, which you understand so well from experience on the
spot. His Majesty specially desires it."

"How long may this last, sir?" enquired Lamberti, with a look of blank
disappointment.

"Oh, a year or two, I should say," laughed the Minister. "They do not
hurry themselves. You can enjoy a long holiday at home."




                               CHAPTER XI


Though it was late in the season, everybody wished to do something to
welcome the appearance of Cecilia Palladio in society. It was too warm
to give balls, but it did not follow that it was at all too hot to dance
informally, with the windows open. We do not know why a ball is hotter
than a dance; but it is so. There are things that men do not understand.

So dinners were given, to which young people were asked, and afterwards
an artistic-looking man appeared from somewhere and played waltzes, and
twenty or thirty couples amused themselves to their hearts' delight till
one o'clock in the morning. Moreover, people who had villas gave
afternoon teas, without any pretence of giving garden parties, and there
also the young ones danced, sometimes on marble pavements in great old
rooms that smelt slightly of musty furniture, but were cool and
pleasant. Besides these things, there were picnic dinners at Frascati
and Castel Gandolfo, and everybody drove home across the Campagna by
moonlight. Altogether, and chiefly in Cecilia Palladio's honour, there
was a very pretty little revival of winter gaiety, which is not always
very gay in Rome, nowadays.

The young girl accepted it all much more graciously than her mother had
expected, and was ready to enjoy everything that people offered her,
which is a great secret of social success. The Countess had always
feared that Cecilia was too fond of books and of serious talk to care
much for what amuses most people. But, instead, she suddenly seemed to
have been made for society; she delighted in dancing, she liked to be
well dressed, she smiled at well-meaning young men who made compliments
to her, and she chatted with young girls about the myriad important
nothings that grow like wild flowers just outside life's gate.

Every one liked her, and she let almost every one think that she liked
them. She never said disagreeable things about them, and she never
attracted to herself the young gentleman who was looked upon as the
property of another. Every one said that she was going to marry d'Este
in the autumn, though the engagement was not yet announced. Wherever she
was, he was there also, generally accompanied by his inseparable friend,
Lamberto Lamberti.

The latter had grown thinner during the last few weeks. When any one
spoke of it, he explained that life ashore did not suit him, and that he
was obliged to work a good deal over papers and maps for the ministerial
commission. But he was evidently not much inclined to talk of himself,
and he changed the subject immediately. His life was not easy, for he
was not only in serious trouble himself, but he was also becoming
anxious about Guido.

The one matter about which a man is instinctively reticent with his most
intimate man friend is his love affair, if he has one. He would rather
tell a woman all about it, though he does not know her nearly so well,
than talk about it, even vaguely, with the one man in the world whom he
trusts. Where women are concerned, all men are more or less one
another's natural enemies, in spite of civilisation and civilised
morals; and each knows this of the other, and respects the other's
silence as both inevitable and decent.

Guido had told Lamberti that he should be the first to know of the
engagement as soon as there was any, and Lamberti waited. He did not
know whether Guido had spoken yet, nor whether there was any sort of
agreement between him and Cecilia by which the latter was to give her
answer after a certain time. He could not guess what they talked of
during the hour they spent together nearly every day. People made
inquiries of him, some openly and some by roundabout means, and he
always answered that if his friend were engaged to be married he would
assuredly announce the fact at once. Those who received this answer were
obliged to be satisfied with it, because Lamberti was not the kind of
man to submit to cross-questioning.

He wondered whether Cecilia knew that he loved her, since what he had
foreseen had happened, and he did not even try to deny the fact to
himself. He would not let his thoughts dwell on what she might feel for
him, for that would have seemed like the beginning of a betrayal.

She never asked him questions nor did anything to make him spend more
time near her than was inevitable, and neither had ever gone back to the
subject of their dreams. She had asked Lamberti to come to the house at
an hour when there would not be other visitors, but he had not come, and
neither had ever referred to the matter since. He sometimes felt that
she was watching him earnestly, but at those times he would not meet her
eyes lest his own should say too much.

It was hard, it was quite the hardest thing he had ever done in his
life, and he was never quite sure that he could go on with it to the
end. But it was the only honourable course he could follow, and it would
surely grow easier when he knew definitely that Cecilia meant to marry
Guido. It was bitter to feel that if the man had been any one but his
friend, there would have been no reason for making any such sacrifice.
He inwardly prayed that Cecilia would come to a decision soon, and he
was deeply grateful to her for not making his position harder by
referring to their first conversation at the Villa Madama.

Guido had not the slightest suspicion of the true state of things, but
he himself was growing impatient, and daily resolved to put the final
question. Every day, however, he put it off again, not from lack of
courage, nor even because he was naturally so very indolent, but because
he felt sure that the answer would not be the one hoped for. Though
Cecilia's manner with him had never changed from the first, it was
perfectly clear that, however much she might enjoy his conversation, she
was calmly indifferent to his personality. She never blushed with
pleasure when he came, nor did her eyes grow sad when he left her; and
when she talked with him she spoke exactly as when she was speaking with
her mother. He listened in vain for an added earnestness of tone, meant
for him only; it never came. She liked him, beyond doubt, from the
first, and liking had changed to friendship very fast, but Guido knew
how very rarely the friendship a woman feels for a man can ever turn to
love. Starting from the same point, it grows steadily in another
direction, and its calm intellectual sympathy makes the mere suggestion
of any unreasoning impulse of the heart seem almost absurd.

But where the man and woman do not feel alike, this state of things
cannot last for ever, and when it comes to an end there is generally
trouble and often bitterness. Guido knew that very well and hesitated in
consequence.

Princess Anatolie could not understand the reason for this delay, and
was not at all pleased. She said it would be positively not decent if
the girl refused to marry Guido after acting in public as if she were
engaged to him, and Monsieur Leroy agreed with her. She asked him if he
could not do anything to hasten matters, and he said he would try. The
old lady had felt quite sure of the marriage, and in imagination she had
already extracted from Guido's wife all the money she had made Guido
lose for her. It is now hardly necessary to say that she had received
spirit messages through Monsieur Leroy, bidding her to invest money in
the most improbable schemes, and that she had followed his advice in
making her nephew act as her agent in the matter. Monsieur Leroy had
pleaded his total ignorance of business as a reason for keeping out of
the transaction, by which, however, it may be supposed that he profited
indirectly for a time. He never hesitated to say that the unfortunate
result was due to Guido's negligence and failure to carry out the
instructions given him.

But the Princess knew that at least a part of the fault belonged to
Monsieur Leroy, though she never had the courage to tell him so; and
though it looked as if nothing could sever the mysterious tie that
linked their lives together, he had forfeited some of his influence over
her with the loss of the money, and had only recently regained it by
convincing her that she was in communication with her dead child. So
long as he could keep her in this belief he was in no danger of losing
his power again. On the contrary, it increased from day to day.

"Guido is so very quixotic," he said. "He hesitates because the girl is
so rich. But we may be able to bring a little pressure to bear on him.
After all, you have his receipts for all the money that passed through
his hands."

"Unless he marries this girl, they are not worth the paper they are
written on."

"I am not sure. He is very sensitive about matters of honour. Now a
receipt for money given to a lady looks to me very much like a debt of
honour. What happened in the eyes of the world? You lent him money which
he lost in speculation."

"No doubt," answered the Princess, willing to be convinced of any
absurdity that could help her to get back her money. "But when a man has
no means of paying a debt of honour----"

"He shoots himself," said Monsieur Leroy, completing the sentence.

"That would not help us. Besides, I should be very sorry if anything
happened to Guido."

"Of course!" cried Monsieur Leroy. "Not for worlds! But nothing need
happen to him. You have only to persuade him that the sole way to save
his honour is to marry an heiress, and he will marry at once, as a
matter of conscience. Unless something is done to move him, he will
not."

"But he is in love with the girl!"

"Enough to occupy him and amuse him. That is all. By-the-bye, where are
those receipts?"

"In the small strong-box, in the lower drawer of the writing table."

Monsieur Leroy found the papers, and transferred them to his
pocket-book, not yet sure how he could best turn them to account, but
quite certain that their proper use would reveal itself to him before
long.

"And besides," he concluded, "we can always make him sell the Andrea del
Sarto and the Raphael. Baumgarten thinks they are worth a good sum. You
know that he buys for the Berlin gallery, and the British Museum people
think everything of his opinion."

In this way the Princess and her favourite disposed of Guido and his
property; but he would not have been much surprised if he could have
heard their conversation. They were only saying what he had expected of
them as far back as the day when he had talked with Lamberti in the
garden of the Arcadians.




                               CHAPTER XII


It is not strange that Cecilia should have been much less disturbed than
Lamberti by what he had described to the doctor as a possession of the
devil, or a haunting. Men who have never been ailing in their lives
sometimes behave like frightened children if they fall ill, though the
ailment may not be very serious, whereas a hardened old invalid,
determined to make the best of life in spite of his ills, often laughs
himself into the belief that he can recover from the two or three mortal
diseases that have hold of him. Bearing bodily pain is a mere matter of
habit, as every one knows who has had to bear much, or who has tried it
as an experiment. In barbarous countries conspirators have practised
suffering the tortures likely to be inflicted on them to extract
confession.

Lamberti had never before been troubled by anything at all resembling
what people call the supernatural, nor even by anything unaccountable.
It was natural that he should be made nervous and almost ill by the
persistence of the dreams that had visited him since he had met Cecilia,
and by what he believed to be the closing of a door each time he awoke
from them.

Cecilia, on the contrary, had practised dreaming all her life and was
