"Some day--certainly." She seemed to record the promise. Yet she spoke
again abruptly. "She'll recover."

"Well," said Densher, "you'll see."

She had the air an instant of trying to. "Did she show anything of her
feeling? I mean," Kate explained, "of her feeling of having been
misled."

She didn't press hard, surely; but he had just mentioned that he would
have rather to glide. "She showed nothing but her beauty and her
strength."

"Then," his companion asked, "what's the use of her strength?"

He seemed to look about for a use he could name; but he had soon given
it up. "She must die, my dear, in her own extraordinary way."

"Naturally. But I don't see then what proof you have that she was ever
alienated."

"I have the proof that she refused for days and days to see me."

"But she was ill."

"That hadn't prevented her--as you yourself a moment ago said--during
the previous time. If it had been only illness it would have made no
difference with her."

"She would still have received you?"

"She would still have received me."

"Oh well," said Kate, "if you know--!"

"Of course I know. I know moreover as well from Mrs. Stringham."

"And what does Mrs. Stringham know?"

"Everything."

She looked at him longer. "Everything?"

"Everything."

"Because you've told her?"

"Because she has seen for herself. I've told her nothing. She's a
person who does see."

Kate thought. "That's by her liking you too. She as well is prodigious.
You see what interest in a man does. It does it all round. So you
needn't be afraid."

"I'm not afraid," said Densher.

Kate moved from her place then, looking at the clock, which marked
five. She gave her attention to the tea-table, where Aunt Maud's huge
silver kettle, which had been exposed to its lamp and which she had not
soon enough noticed, was hissing too hard. "Well, it's all most
wonderful!" she exclaimed as she rather too profusely--a sign her
friend noticed--ladled tea into the pot. He watched her a moment at
this occupation, coming nearer the table while she put in the steaming
water. "You'll have some?"

He hesitated. "Hadn't we better wait--?"

"For Aunt Maud?" She saw what he meant--the deprecation, by their old
law, of betrayals of the intimate note. "Oh you needn't mind now. We've
done it!"

"Humbugged her?"

"Squared her. You've pleased her."

Densher mechanically accepted his tea. He was thinking of something
else, and his thought in a moment came out. "What a brute then I must
be!"

"A brute--?"

"To have pleased so many people."

"Ah," said Kate with a gleam of gaiety, "you've done it to please
me." But she was already, with her gleam, reverting a little. "What I
don't understand is--won't you have any sugar?"

"Yes, please."

"What I don't understand," she went on when she had helped him, "is
what it was that had occurred to bring her round again. If she gave you
up for days and days, what brought her back to you?"

She asked the question with her own cup in her hand, but it found him
ready enough in spite of his sense of the ironic oddity of their going
into it over the tea-table. "It was Sir Luke Strett who brought her
back. His visit, his presence there did it."

"He brought her back then to life."

"Well, to what I saw."

"And by interceding for you?"

"I don't think he interceded. I don't indeed know what he did."

Kate wondered. "Didn't he tell you?"

"I didn't ask him. I met him again, but we practically didn't speak of
her."

Kate stared. "Then how do you know?"

"I see. I feel. I was with him again as I had been before--"

"Oh and you pleased him too? That was it?"

"He understood," said Densher.

"But understood what?"

He waited a moment. "That I had meant awfully well."

"Ah, and made her understand? I see," she went on as he said nothing.
"But how did he convince her?"

Densher put down his cup and turned away. "You must ask Sir Luke."

He stood looking at the fire and there was a time without sound. "The
great thing," Kate then resumed, "is that she's satisfied. Which," she
continued, looking across at him, "is what I've worked for."

"Satisfied to die in the flower of her youth?"

"Well, at peace with you."

"Oh 'peace'!" he murmured with his eyes on the fire.

"The peace of having loved."

He raised his eyes to her. "Is that peace?"

"Of having been loved," she went on. "That is. Of having," she wound
up, "realised her passion. She wanted nothing more. She has had all
she wanted."

Lucid and always grave, she gave this out with a beautiful authority
that he could for the time meet with no words. He could only again look
at her, though with the sense in so doing that he made her more than he
intended take his silence for assent. Quite indeed as if she did so
take it she quitted the table and came to the fire. "You may think it
hideous that I should now, that I should yet"--she made a point of
the word--"pretend to draw conclusions. But we've not failed."

"Oh!" he only again murmured.

She was once more close to him, close as she had been the day she came
to him in Venice, the quickly returning memory of which intensified and
enriched the fact. He could practically deny in such conditions nothing
that she said, and what she said was, with it, visibly, a fruit of that
knowledge. "We've succeeded." She spoke with her eyes deep in his own.
"She won't have loved you for nothing." It made him wince, but she
insisted. "And you won't have loved me."


II

He was to remain for several days under the deep impression of this
inclusive passage, so luckily prolonged from moment to moment, but
interrupted at its climax, as may be said, by the entrance of Aunt
Maud, who found them standing together near the fire. The bearings of
the colloquy, however, sharp as they were, were less sharp to his
intelligence, strangely enough, than those of a talk with Mrs. Lowder
alone for which she soon gave him--or for which perhaps rather Kate
gave him--full occasion. What had happened on her at last joining them
was to conduce, he could immediately see, to her desiring to have him
to herself. Kate and he, no doubt, at the opening of the door, had
fallen apart with a certain suddenness, so that she had turned her hard
fine eyes from one to the other; but the effect of this lost itself, to
his mind, the next minute, in the effect of his companion's rare
alertness. She instantly spoke to her aunt of what had first been
uppermost for herself, inviting her thereby intimately to join them,
and doing it the more happily also, no doubt, because the fact she
resentfully named gave her ample support. "Had you quite understood, my
dear, that it's full three weeks--?" And she effaced herself as if to
leave Mrs. Lowder to deal from her own point of view with this
extravagance. Densher of course straightway noted that his cue for the
protection of Kate was to make, no less, all of it he could; and their
tracks, as he might have said, were fairly covered by the time their
hostess had taken afresh, on his renewed admission, the measure of his
scant eagerness. Kate had moved away as if no great showing were needed
for her personal situation to be seen as delicate. She had been
entertaining their visitor on her aunt's behalf--a visitor she had been
at one time suspected of favouring too much and who had now come back
to them as the stricken suitor of another person. It wasn't that the
fate of the other person, her exquisite friend, didn't, in its tragic
turn, also concern herself: it was only that her acceptance of Mr.
Densher as a source of information could scarcely help having an
awkwardness. She invented the awkwardness under Densher's eyes, and he
marvelled on his side at the instant creation. It served her as the
fine cloud that hangs about a goddess in an epic, and the young man was
but vaguely to know at what point of the rest of his visit she had, for
consideration, melted into it and out of sight.

He was taken up promptly with another matter--the truth of the
remarkable difference, neither more nor less, that the events of Venice
had introduced into his relation with Aunt Maud and that these weeks of
their separation had caused quite richly to ripen for him. She had not
sat down to her tea-table before he felt himself on terms with her that
were absolutely new, nor could she press on him a second cup without
her seeming herself, and quite wittingly, so to define and establish
them. She regretted, but she quite understood, that what was taking
place had obliged him to hang off; they had--after hearing of him from
poor Susan as gone--been hoping for an early sight of him; they would
have been interested, naturally, in his arriving straight from the
scene. Yet she needed no reminder that the scene precisely--by which
she meant the tragedy that had so detained and absorbed him, the
memory, the shadow, the sorrow of it--was what marked him for
unsociability. She thus presented him to himself, as it were, in the
guise in which she had now adopted him, and it was the element of truth
in the character that he found himself, for his own part, adopting. She
treated him as blighted and ravaged, as frustrate and already bereft;
and for him to feel that this opened for him a new chapter of frankness
with her he scarce had also to perceive how it smoothed his approaches
to Kate. It made the latter accessible as she hadn't yet begun to be;
it set up for him at Lancaster Gate an association positively hostile
to any other legend. It was quickly vivid to him that, were he minded,
he could "work" this association: he had but to use the house freely
for his prescribed attitude and he need hardly ever be out of it.
Stranger than anything moreover was to be the way that by the end of a
week he stood convicted to his own sense of a surrender to Mrs.
Lowder's view. He had somehow met it at a point that had brought him
on--brought him on a distance that he couldn't again retrace. He had
private hours of wondering what had become of his sincerity; he had
others of simply reflecting that he had it all in use. His only want of
candour was Aunt Maud's wealth of sentiment. She was hugely
sentimental, and the worst he did was to take it from her. He wasn't so
himself--everything was too real; but it was none the less not false
that he had been through a mill.

It was in particular not false for instance that when she had said to
him, on the Sunday, almost cosily, from her sofa behind the tea, "I
want you not to doubt, you poor dear, that I'm with you to the end!"
his meeting her halfway had been the only course open to him. She was
with him to the end--or she might be--in a way Kate wasn't; and even if
it literally made her society meanwhile more soothing he must just
brush away the question of why it shouldn't. Was he professing to her
in any degree the possession of an aftersense that wasn't real? How in
the world could he, when his aftersense, day by day, was his greatest
reality? Such only was at bottom what there was between them, and two
or three times over it made the hour pass. These were occasions--two
and a scrap--on which he had come and gone without mention of Kate. Now
that almost as never yet he had licence to ask for her, the queer turn
of their affair made it a false note. It was another queer turn that
when he talked with Aunt Maud about Milly nothing else seemed to come
up. He called upon her almost avowedly for that purpose, and it was the
queerest turn of all that the state of his nerves should require it. He
liked her better; he was really behaving, he had occasion to say to
himself, as if he liked her best. The thing was absolutely that she met
him halfway. Nothing could have been broader than her vision, than
her loquacity, than her sympathy. It appeared to gratify, to satisfy
her to see him as he was; that too had its effect. It was all of course
the last thing that could have seemed on the cards, a change by which
he was completely free with this lady; and it wouldn't indeed have
come about if--for another monstrosity--he hadn't ceased to be free
with Kate. Thus it was that on the third time in especial of being
alone with her he found himself uttering to the elder woman what had
been impossible of utterance to the younger. Mrs. Lowder gave him in
fact, on the ground of what he must keep from her, but one uneasy
moment. That was when, on the first Sunday, after Kate had suppressed
herself, she referred to her regret that he mightn't have stayed to the
end. He found his reason difficult to give her, but she came after all
to his help.

"You simply couldn't stand it?"

"I simply couldn't stand it. Besides you see--!" But he paused.

"Besides what?" He had been going to say more--then he saw dangers;
luckily however she had again assisted him. "Besides--oh I know!--men
haven't, in many relations, the courage of women."

"They haven't the courage of women."

"Kate or I would have stayed," she declared--"if we hadn't come away
for the special reason that you so frankly appreciated."

Densher had said nothing about his appreciation: hadn't his behaviour
since the hour itself sufficiently shown it? But he presently said--he
couldn't help going so far: "I don't doubt, certainly, that Miss Croy
would have stayed." And he saw again into the bargain what a marvel was
Susan Shepherd. She did nothing but protect him--she had done nothing
but keep it up. In copious communication with the friend of her youth
she had yet, it was plain, favoured this lady with nothing that
compromised him. Milly's act of renouncement she had described but as a
change for the worse; she had mentioned Lord Mark's descent, as even
without her it might be known, so that she mustn't appear to conceal
it; but she had suppressed explanations and connexions, and indeed, for
all he knew, blessed Puritan soul, had invented commendable fictions.
Thus it was absolutely that he was at his ease. Thus it was that,
shaking for ever, in the unrest that didn't drop, his crossed leg, he
leaned back in deep yellow satin chairs and took such comfort as came.
She asked, it was true, Aunt Maud, questions that Kate hadn't; but this
was just the difference, that from her he positively liked them. He had
taken with himself on leaving Venice the resolution to regard Milly as
already dead to him--that being for his spirit the only thinkable way
to pass the time of waiting. He had left her because it was what suited
her, and it wasn't for him to go, as they said in America, behind this;
which imposed on him but the sharper need to arrange himself with his
interval. Suspense was the ugliest ache to him, and he would have
nothing to do with it; the last thing he wished was to be unconscious
of her--what he wished to ignore was her own consciousness, tortured,
for all he knew, crucified by its pain. Knowingly to hang about in
London while the pain went on--what would that do but make his days
impossible? His scheme was accordingly to convince himself--and by some
art about which he was vague--that the sense of waiting had passed.
"What in fact," he restlessly reflected, "have I any further to do with
it? Let me assume the thing actually over--as it at any moment may
be--and I become good again for something at least to somebody. I'm
good, as it is, for nothing to anybody, least of all to her." He
consequently tried, so far as shutting his eyes and stalking grimly
about was a trial; but his plan was carried out, it may well be
guessed, neither with marked success nor with marked consistency. The
days, whether lapsing or lingering, were a stiff reality; the
suppression of anxiety was a thin idea; the taste of life itself was
the taste of suspense. That he was waiting was in short at the bottom
of everything; and it required no great sifting presently to feel that
if he took so much more, as he called it, to Mrs. Lowder this was just
for that reason.

She helped him to hold out, all the while that she was subtle
enough--and he could see her divine it as what he wanted--not to insist
on the actuality of their tension. His nearest approach to success was
thus in being good for something to Aunt Maud, in default of any one
better; her company eased his nerves even while they pretended together
that they had seen their tragedy out. They spoke of the dying girl in
the past tense; they said no worse of her than that she had been
stupendous. On the other hand, however--and this was what wasn't for
Densher pure peace--they insisted enough that stupendous was the word.
It was the thing, this recognition, that kept him most quiet; he came
to it with her repeatedly; talking about it against time and, in
particular, we have noted, speaking of his supreme personal impression
as he hadn't spoken to Kate. It was almost as if she herself enjoyed
the perfection of the pathos; she sat there before the scene, as he
couldn't help giving it out to her, very much as a stout citizen's wife
might have sat, during a play that made people cry, in the pit or the
family-circle. What most deeply stirred her was the way the poor girl
must have wanted to live.

"Ah yes indeed--she did, she did: why in pity shouldn't she, with
everything to fill her world? The mere money of her, the darling, if
it isn't too disgusting at such a time to mention that--!"

Aunt Maud mentioned it--and Densher quite understood--but as fairly
giving poetry to the life Milly clung to: a view of the "might have
been" before which the good lady was hushed anew to tears. She had had
her own vision of these possibilities, and her own social use for them,
and since Milly's spirit had been after all so at one with her about
them, what was the cruelty of the event but a cruelty, of a sort, to
herself? That came out when he named, as the horrible thing to know,
the fact of their young friend's unapproachable terror of the end, keep
it down though she would; coming out therefore often, since in so
naming it he found the strangest of reliefs. He allowed it all its
vividness, as if on the principle of his not at least spiritually
shirking. Milly had held with passion to her dream of a future, and she
was separated from it, not shrieking indeed, but grimly, awfully
silent, as one might imagine some noble young victim of the scaffold,
in the French Revolution, separated at the prison-door from some object
clutched for resistance. Densher, in a cold moment, so pictured the
case for Mrs. Lowder, but no moment cold enough had yet come to make
him so picture it to Kate. And it was the front so presented that had
been, in Milly, heroic; presented with the highest heroism, Aunt Maud
by this time knew, on the occasion of his taking leave of her. He had
let her know, absolutely for the girl's glory, how he had been received
on that occasion: with a positive effect--since she was indeed so
perfectly the princess that Mrs. Stringham always called her--of
princely state.

Before the fire in the great room that was all arabesques and cherubs,
all gaiety and gilt, and that was warm at that hour too with a wealth
of autumn sun, the state in question had been maintained and the
situation--well, Densher said for the convenience of exquisite London
gossip, sublime. The gossip--for it came to as much at Lancaster
Gate--wasn't the less exquisite for his use of the silver veil, nor on
the other hand was the veil, so touched, too much drawn aside. He
himself for that matter took in the scene again at moments as from the
page of a book. He saw a young man far off and in a relation
inconceivable, saw him hushed, passive, staying his breath, but half
understanding, yet dimly conscious of something immense and holding
himself painfully together not to lose it. The young man at these
moments so seen was too distant and too strange for the right identity;
and yet, outside, afterwards, it was his own face Densher had known. He
had known then at the same time what the young man had been conscious
of, and he was to measure after that, day by day, how little he had
lost. At present there with Mrs. Lowder he knew he had gathered
all--that passed between them mutely as in the intervals of their
associated gaze they exchanged looks of intelligence. This was as far
as association could go, but it was far enough when she knew the
essence. The essence was that something had happened to him too
beautiful and too sacred to describe. He had been, to his recovered
sense, forgiven, dedicated, blessed; but this he couldn't coherently
express. It would have required an explanation--fatal to Mrs. Lowder's
faith in him--of the nature of Milly's wrong. So, as to the wonderful
scene, they just stood at the door. They had the sense of the presence
within--they felt the charged stillness; after which, their association
deepened by it, they turned together away.

That itself indeed, for our restless friend, became by the end of a
week the very principle of reaction: so that he woke up one morning
with such a sense of having played a part as he needed self-respect to
gainsay. He hadn't in the least stated at Lancaster Gate that, as a
haunted man--a man haunted with a memory--he was harmless; but the
degree to which Mrs. Lowder accepted, admired and explained his new
aspect laid upon him practically the weight of a declaration. What he
hadn't in the least stated her own manner was perpetually stating; it
was as haunted and harmless that she was constantly putting him down.
There offered itself however to his purpose such an element as plain
honesty, and he had embraced, by the time he dressed, his proper
corrective. They were on the edge of Christmas, but Christmas this year
was, as in the London of so many other years, disconcertingly mild; the
still air was soft, the thick light was grey, the great town looked
empty, and in the Park, where the grass was green, where the sheep
browsed, where the birds multitudinously twittered, the straight walks
lent themselves to slowness and the dim vistas to privacy. He held it
fast this morning till he had got out, his sacrifice to honour, and
then went with it to the nearest post-office and fixed it fast in a
telegram; thinking of it moreover as a sacrifice only because he had,
for reasons, felt it as an effort. Its character of effort it would owe
to Kate's expected resistance, not less probable than on the occasion
of past appeals; which was precisely why he--perhaps innocently--made
his telegram persuasive. It had, as a recall of tender hours, to be,
for the young woman at the counter, a trifle cryptic; but there was a
good deal of it in one way and another, representing as it did a rich
impulse and costing him a couple of shillings. There was also a moment
later on, that day, when, in the Park, as he measured watchfully one of
their old alleys, he might have been supposed by a cynical critic to be
reckoning his chance of getting his money back. He was waiting--but he
had waited of old; Lancaster Gate as a danger was practically at
hand--but she had risked that danger before. Besides it was smaller
now, with the queer turn of their affair; in spite of which indeed he
was graver as he lingered and looked out.

Kate came at last by the way he had thought least likely, came as if
she had started from the Marble Arch; but her advent was response--that
was the great matter; response marked in her face and agreeable to him,
even after Aunt Maud's responses, as nothing had been since his return
to London. She had not, it was true, answered his wire, and he had
begun to fear, as she was late, that with the instinct of what he might
be again intending to press upon her she had decided--though not with
ease--to deprive him of his chance. He would have of course, she knew,
other chances, but she perhaps saw the present as offering her special
danger. This, in fact, Densher could himself feel, was exactly why he
had so prepared it, and he had rejoiced, even while he waited, in all
that the conditions had to say to him of their simpler and better time.
The shortest day of the year though it might be, it was, in the same
place, by a whim of the weather, almost as much to their purpose as the
days of sunny afternoons when they had taken their first trysts. This
and that tree, within sight, on the grass, stretched bare boughs over
the couple of chairs in which they had sat of old and in which--for
they really could sit down again--they might recover the clearness of
their prime. It was to all intents however this very reference that
showed itself in Kate's face as, with her swift motion, she came toward
him. It helped him, her swift motion, when it finally brought her
nearer; helped him, for that matter, at first, if only by showing him
afresh how terribly well she looked. It had been all along, he
certainly remembered, a phenomenon of no rarity that he had felt her,
at particular moments, handsomer than ever before; one of these for
instance being still present to him as her entrance, under her aunt's
eyes, at Lancaster Gate, the day of his dinner there after his return
from America; and another her aspect on the same spot two Sundays
ago--the light in which she struck the eyes he had brought back from
Venice. In the course of a minute or two now he got, as he had got it
the other times, his apprehension of the special stamp of the fortune
of the moment.

Whatever it had been determined by as the different hours recurred to
him, it took on at present a prompt connexion with an effect produced
for him in truth more than once during the past week, only now much
intensified. This effect he had already noted and named: it was that of
the attitude assumed by his friend in the presence of the degree of
response on his part to Mrs. Lowder's welcome which she couldn't
possibly have failed to notice. She had noticed it, and she had
beautifully shown him so; wearing in its honour the finest shade of
studied serenity, a shade almost of gaiety over the workings of time.
Everything of course was relative, with the shadow they were living
under; but her condonation of the way in which he now, for confidence,
distinguished Aunt Maud had almost the note of cheer. She had so by her
own air consecrated the distinction, invidious in respect to herself
though it might be; and nothing, really, more than this demonstration,
could have given him had he still wanted it the measure of her
superiority. It was doubtless for that matter this superiority alone
that on the winter noon gave smooth decision to her step and charming
courage to her eyes--a courage that deepened in them when he had
presently got to what he did want. He had delayed after she had joined
him not much more than long enough for him to say to her, drawing her
hand into his arm and turning off where they had turned of old, that he
wouldn't pretend he hadn't lately had moments of not quite believing he
should ever again be so happy. She answered, passing over the reasons,
whatever they had been, of his doubt, that her own belief was in high
happiness for them if they would only have patience; though nothing at
the same time could be dearer than his idea for their walk. It was only
make-believe of course, with what had taken place for them, that they
couldn't meet at home; she spoke of their opportunities as suffering at
no point. He had at any rate soon let her know that he wished the
present one to suffer at none, and in a quiet spot, beneath a great
wintry tree, he let his entreaty come sharp.

"We've played our dreadful game and we've lost. We owe it to ourselves,
we owe it to our feeling for ourselves and for each other, not to
wait another day. Our marriage will--fundamentally, somehow, don't you
see?--right everything that's wrong, and I can't express to you my
impatience. We've only to announce it--and it takes off the weight."

"To 'announce' it?" Kate asked. She spoke as if not understanding,
though she had listened to him without confusion.

"To accomplish it then--to-morrow if you will; do it and announce it
as done. That's the least part of it--after it nothing will matter. We
shall be so right," he said, "that we shall be strong; we shall only
wonder at our past fear. It will seem an ugly madness. It will seem a
bad dream."

She looked at him without flinching--with the look she had brought at
his call; but he felt now the strange chill of her brightness. "My dear
man, what has happened to you?"

"Well, that I can bear it no longer. That's simply what has happened.
Something has snapped, has broken in me, and here I am. It's as I am
that you must have me."

He saw her try for a time to appear to consider it; but he saw her also
not consider it. Yet he saw her, felt her, further--he heard her, with
her clear voice--try to be intensely kind with him. "I don't see, you
know, what has changed." She had a large strange smile. "We've been
going on together so well, and you suddenly desert me?"

It made him helplessly gaze. "You call it so 'well'? You've touches,
upon my soul--!"

"I call it perfect--from my original point of view. I'm just where I
was; and you must give me some better reason than you do, my dear, for
your not being. It seems to me," she continued, "that we're only
right as to what has been between us so long as we do wait. I don't
think we wish to have behaved like fools." He took in while she talked
her imperturbable consistency; which it was quietly, queerly hopeless
to see her stand there and breathe into their mild remembering air. He
had brought her there to be moved, and she was only immoveable--which
was not moreover, either, because she didn't understand. She understood
everything, and things he refused to; and she had reasons, deep down,
the sense of which nearly sickened him. She had too again most of all
her strange significant smile. "Of course if it's that you really
know something--?" It was quite conceivable and possible to her, he
could see, that he did. But he didn't even know what she meant, and he
only looked at her in gloom. His gloom however didn't upset her. "You
do, I believe, only you've a delicacy about saying it. Your delicacy to
me, my dear, is a scruple too much. I should have no delicacy in
hearing it, so that if you can tell me you know--"

"Well?" he asked as she still kept what depended on it.

"Why then I'll do what you want. We needn't, I grant you, in that case
wait; and I can see what you mean by thinking it nicer of us not to. I
don't even ask you," she continued, "for a proof. I'm content with your
moral certainty."

By this time it had come over him--it had the force of a rush. The
point she made was clear, as clear as that the blood, while he
recognised it, mantled in his face. "I know nothing whatever."

"You've not an idea?"

"I've not an idea."

"I'd consent," she said--"I'd announce it to-morrow, to-day, I'd go
home this moment and announce it to Aunt Maud, for an idea: I mean an
idea straight from you, I mean as your own, given me in good faith.
There, my dear!"--and she smiled again. "I call that really meeting
you."

If it was then what she called it, it disposed of his appeal, and he
could but stand there with his wasted passion--for it was in high
passion that he had from the morning acted--in his face. She made it
all out, bent upon her--the idea he didn't have, and the idea he had,
and his failure of insistence when it brought up that challenge, and
his sense of her personal presence, and his horror, almost, of her
lucidity. They made in him a mixture that might have been rage, but
that was turning quickly to mere cold thought, thought which led to
something else and was like a new dim dawn. It affected her then, and
she had one of the impulses, in all sincerity, that had before this,
between them, saved their position. When she had come nearer to him,
when, putting her hand upon him, she made him sink with her, as she
leaned to him, into their old pair of chairs, she prevented
irresistibly, she forestalled, the waste of his passion. She had an
advantage with his passion now.


III

He had said to her in the Park when challenged on it that nothing had
"happened" to him as a cause for the demand he there made of
her--happened he meant since the account he had given, after his
return, of his recent experience. But in the course of a few days--they
had brought him to Christmas morning--he was conscious enough, in
preparing again to seek her out, of a difference on that score.
Something had in this case happened to him, and, after his taking the
night to think of it he felt that what it most, if not absolutely
first, involved was his immediately again putting himself in relation
with her. The fact itself had met him there--in his own small
quarters--on Christmas Eve, and had not then indeed at once affected
him as implying that consequence. So far as he on the spot and for the
next hours took its measure--a process that made his night mercilessly
wakeful--the consequences possibly implied were numerous to
distraction. His spirit dealt with them, in the darkness, as the slow
hours passed; his intelligence and his imagination, his soul and his
sense, had never on the whole been so intensely engaged. It was his
difficulty for the moment that he was face to face with alternatives,
and that it was scarce even a question of turning from one to the
other. They were not in a perspective in which they might be compared
and considered; they were, by a strange effect, as close as a pair of
monsters of whom he might have felt on either cheek the hot breath and
the huge eyes. He saw them at once and but by looking straight before
him; he wouldn't for that matter, in his cold apprehension, have turned
his head by an inch. So it was that his agitation was still--was not,
for the slow hours a matter of restless motion. He lay long, after the
event, on the sofa where, extinguishing at a touch the white light of
convenience that he hated, he had thrown himself without undressing. He
stared at the buried day and wore out the time; with the arrival of the
Christmas dawn moreover, late and grey, he felt himself somehow
determined. The common wisdom had had its say to him--that safety in
doubt was not action; and perhaps what most helped him was this very
commonness. In his case there was nothing of that--in no case in his
life had there ever been less: which association, from one thing to
another, now worked for him as a choice. He acted, after his bath and
his breakfast, in the sense of that marked element of the rare which he
felt to be the sign of his crisis. And that is why, dressed with more
state than usual and quite as if for church, he went out into the soft
Christmas day.

Action, for him, on coming to the point, it appeared, carried with it a
certain complexity. We should have known, walking by his side, that his
final prime decision hadn't been to call at the door of Sir Luke
Strett, and yet that this step, though subordinate, was none the less
urgent. His prime decision was for another matter, to which impatience,
once he was on the way, had now added itself; but he remained
sufficiently aware that he must compromise with the perhaps excessive
earliness. This, and the ferment set up within him, were together a
reason for not driving; to say nothing of the absence of cabs in the
dusky festal desert. Sir Luke's great square was not near, but he
walked the Distance without seeing a hansom. He had his interval thus
to turn over his view--the view to which what had happened the night
before had not sharply reduced itself; but the complexity just
mentioned was to be offered within the next few minutes another item to
assimilate. Before Sir Luke's house, when he reached it, a brougham was
drawn up--at the sight of which his heart had a lift that brought him
for the instant to a stand. This pause wasn't long, but it was long
enough to flash upon him a revelation in the light of which he caught
his breath. The carriage, so possibly at such an hour and on such a day
Sir Luke's own, had struck him as a sign that the great doctor was
back. This would prove something else, in turn, still more intensely,
and it was in the act of the double apprehension that Densher felt
himself turn pale. His mind rebounded for the moment like a projectile
that has suddenly been met by another: he stared at the strange truth
that what he wanted more than to see Kate Croy was to see the witness
who had just arrived from Venice. He wanted positively to be in his
presence and to hear his voice--which was the spasm of his
consciousness that produced the flash. Fortunately for him, on the
spot, there supervened something in which the flash went out. He became
aware within this minute that the coachman on the box of the brougham
had a face known to him, whereas he had never seen before, to his
knowledge, the great doctor's carriage. The carriage, as he came
nearer, was simply Mrs. Lowder's; the face on the box was just the face
that, in coming and going at Lancaster Gate, he would vaguely have
noticed, outside, in attendance. With this the rest came: the lady of
Lancaster Gate had, on a prompting not wholly remote from his own,
presented herself for news; and news, in the house, she was clearly
getting, since her brougham had stayed. Sir Luke was then back--only
Mrs. Lowder was with him.

It was under the influence of this last reflexion that Densher again
delayed; and it was while he delayed that something else occurred to
him. It was all round, visibly--given his own new contribution--a case
of pressure; and in a case of pressure Kate, for quicker knowledge,
might have come out with her aunt. The possibility that in this event
she might be sitting in the carriage--the thing most likely--had had
the effect, before he could check it, of bringing him within range of
the window. It wasn't there he had wished to see her; yet if she was
there he couldn't pretend not to. What he had however the next moment
made out was that if some one was there it wasn't Kate Croy. It was,
with a sensible shock for him, the person who had last offered him a
conscious face from behind the clear plate of a café in Venice. The
great glass at Florian's was a medium less obscure, even with the
window down, than the air of the London Christmas; yet at present also,
none the less, between the two men, an exchange of recognitions could
occur. Densher felt his own look a gaping arrest--which, he disgustedly
remembered, his back as quickly turned, appeared to repeat itself as
his special privilege. He mounted the steps of the house and touched
the bell with a keen consciousness of being habitually looked at by
Kate's friend from positions of almost insolent vantage. He forgot for
the time the moment when, in Venice, at the palace, the encouraged
young man had in a manner assisted at the departure of the
disconcerted, since Lord Mark was not looking disconcerted now any more
than he had looked from his bench at his café. Densher was thinking
that he seemed to show as vagrant while another was ensconced. He was
thinking of the other as--in spite of the difference of situation--more
ensconced than ever; he was thinking of him above all as the friend of
the person with whom his recognition had, the minute previous,
associated him. The man was seated in the very place in which, beside
Mrs. Lowder's, he had looked to find Kate, and that was a sufficient
identity. Meanwhile at any rate the door of the house had opened and
Mrs. Lowder stood before him. It was something at least that she
wasn't Kate. She was herself, on the spot, in all her affluence; with
presence of mind both to decide at once that Lord Mark, in the
brougham, didn't matter and to prevent Sir Luke's butler, by a firm
word thrown over her shoulder, from standing there to listen to her
passage with the gentleman who had rung. "I'll tell Mr. Densher; you
needn't wait!" And the passage, promptly and richly, took place on the
steps.

"He arrives, travelling straight, to-morrow early. I couldn't not come
to learn."

"No more," said Densher simply, "could I. On my way," he added, "to
Lancaster Gate."

"Sweet of you." She beamed on him dimly, and he saw her face was
attuned. It made him, with what she had just before said, know all, and
he took the thing in while he met the air of portentous, of almost
functional, sympathy that had settled itself as her medium with him and
that yet had now a fresh glow. "So you have had your message?"

He knew so well what she meant, and so equally with it what he "had
had" no less than what he hadn't, that, with but the smallest
hesitation, he strained the point. "Yes--my message."

"Our dear dove then, as Kate calls her, has folded her wonderful wings."

"Yes--folded them."

It rather racked him, but he tried to receive it as she intended, and
she evidently took his formal assent for self-control. "Unless it's
more true," she accordingly added, "that she has spread them the wider."

He again but formally assented, though, strangely enough, the words
fitted a figure deep in his own imagination. "Rather, yes--spread them
the wider."

"For a flight, I trust, to some happiness greater--!"

"Exactly. Greater," Densher broke in; but now with a look, he feared,
that did a little warn her off.

"You were certainly," she went on with more reserve, "entitled to
direct news. Ours came late last night: I'm not sure otherwise I
shouldn't have gone to you. But you're coming," she asked, "to me?"

He had had a minute by this time to think further, and the window of
the brougham was still within range. Her rich "me," reaching him
moreover through the mild damp, had the effect of a thump on his chest.
"Squared," Aunt Maud? She was indeed squared, and the extent of it just
now perversely enough took away his breath. His look from where they
stood embraced the aperture at which the person sitting in the carriage
might have shown, and he saw his interlocutress, on her side,
understand the question in it, which he moreover then uttered. "Shall
you be alone?" It was, as an immediate instinctive parley with the
image of his condition that now flourished in her, almost hypocritical.
It sounded as if he wished to come and overflow to her, yet this was
exactly what he didn't. The need to overflow had suddenly--since the
night before--dried up in him, and he had never been aware of a deeper
reserve.

But she had meanwhile largely responded. "Completely alone. I should
otherwise never have dreamed; feeling, dear friend, but too much!"
Failing on her lips what she felt came out for him in the offered hand
with which she had the next moment condolingly pressed his own. "Dear
friend, dear friend!"--she was deeply "with" him, and she wished to be
still more so: which was what made her immediately continue. "Or
wouldn't you this evening, for the sad Christmas it makes us, dine with
me tête-à-tête?"

It put the thing off, the question of a talk with her--making the
difference, to his relief, of several hours; but it also rather
mystified him. This however didn't diminish his need of caution. "Shall
you mind if I don't tell you at once?"

"Not in the least--leave it open: it shall be as you may feel, and you
needn't even send me word. I only will mention that to-day, of all
days, I shall otherwise sit there alone."

Now at least he could ask. "Without Miss Croy?"

"Without Miss Croy. Miss Croy," said Mrs. Lowder, "is spending her
Christmas in the bosom of her more immediate family."

He was afraid, even while he spoke, of what his face might show. "You
mean she has left you?"

Aunt Maud's own face for that matter met the enquiry with a
consciousness in which he saw a reflexion of events. He was made sure
by it, even at the moment and as he had never been before, that since
he had known these two women no confessed nor commented tension, no
crisis of the cruder sort would really have taken form between them:
which was precisely a high proof of how Kate had steered her boat. The
situation exposed in Mrs. Lowder's present expression lighted up by
contrast that superficial smoothness; which afterwards, with his time
to think of it, was to put before him again the art, the particular
gift, in the girl, now so placed and classed, so intimately familiar
for him, as her talent for life. The peace, within a day or two--since
his seeing her last--had clearly been broken; differences, deep down,
kept there by a diplomacy on Kate's part as deep, had been shaken to
the surface by some exceptional jar; with which, in addition, he felt
Lord Mark's odd attendance at such an hour and season vaguely
associated. The talent for life indeed, it at the same time struck him,
would probably have shown equally in the breach, or whatever had
occurred; Aunt Maud having suffered, he judged, a strain rather than a
stroke. Of these quick thoughts, at all events, that lady was already
abreast. "She went yesterday morning--and not with my approval, I don't
mind telling you--to her sister: Mrs. Condrip, if you know who I mean,
who lives somewhere in Chelsea. My other niece and her affairs--that I
should have to say such things to-day!--are a constant worry; so that
Kate, in consequence--well, of events!--has simply been called in. My
own idea, I'm bound to say, was that with such events she need have,
in her situation, next to nothing to do."

"But she differed with you?"

"She differed with me. And when Kate differs with you--!"

"Oh I can imagine." He had reached the point in the scale of hypocrisy
at which he could ask himself why a little more or less should signify.
Besides, with the intention he had had he must know. Kate's move, if
he didn't know, might simply disconcert him; and of being disconcerted
his horror was by this time fairly superstitious. "I hope you don't
allude to events at all calamitous."

"No--only horrid and vulgar."

"Oh!" said Merton Densher.

Mrs. Lowder's soreness, it was still not obscure, had discovered in
free speech to him a momentary balm. "They've the misfortune to have, I
suppose you know, a dreadful horrible father."

"Oh!" said Densher again.

"He's too bad almost to name, but he has come upon Marian, and Marian
has shrieked for help."

Densher wondered at this with intensity; and his curiosity compromised
for an instant with his discretion. "Come upon her--for money?"

"Oh for that of course always. But, at this blessed season, for
refuge, for safety: for God knows what. He's there, the brute. And
Kate's with them. And that," Mrs. Lowder wound up, going down the
steps, "is her Christmas."

She had stopped again at the bottom while he thought of an answer.
"Yours then is after all rather better."

"It's at least more decent." And her hand once more came out. "But why
do I talk of our troubles? Come if you can."

He showed a faint smile. "Thanks. If I can."

"And now--I dare say--you'll go to church?"

She had asked it, with her good intention, rather in the air and by way
of sketching for him, in the line of support, something a little more
to the purpose than what she had been giving him. He felt it as
finishing off their intensities of expression that he found himself to
all appearance receiving her hint as happy. "Why yes--I think I will":
after which, as the door of the brougham, at her approach, had opened
from within, he was free to turn his back. He heard the door, behind
him, sharply close again and the vehicle move off in another direction
than his own.

He had in fact for the time no direction; in spite of which indeed he
was at the end of ten minutes aware of having walked straight to the
south. That, he afterwards recognised, was, very sufficiently, because
there had formed itself in his mind, even while Aunt Maud finally
talked, an instant recognition of his necessary course. Nothing was
open to him but to follow Kate, nor was anything more marked than the
influence of the step she had taken on the emotion itself that
possessed him. Her complications, which had fairly, with everything
else, an awful sound--what were they, a thousand times over, but his
own? His present business was to see that they didn't escape an hour
longer taking their proper place in his life. He accordingly would have
held his course hadn't it suddenly come over him that he had just lied
to Mrs. Lowder--a term it perversely eased him to keep using--even more
than was necessary. To what church was he going, to what church, in
such a state of his nerves, could he go?--he pulled up short again,
as he had pulled up in sight of Mrs. Lowder's carriage, to ask it. And
yet the desire queerly stirred in him not to have wasted his word. He
was just then however by a happy chance in the Brompton Road, and he
bethought himself with a sudden light that the Oratory was at hand. He
had but to turn the other way and he should find himself soon before
it. At the door then, in a few minutes, his idea was really--as it
struck him--consecrated: he was, pushing in, on the edge of a splendid
service--the flocking crowd told of it--which glittered and resounded,
from distant depths, in the blaze of altar-lights and the swell of
organ and choir. It didn't match his own day, but it was much less of a
discord than some other things actual and possible. The Oratory in
short, to make him right, would do.


IV

The difference was thus that the dusk of afternoon--dusk thick from an
early hour--had gathered when he knocked at Mrs. Condrip's door. He had
gone from the church to his club, wishing not to present himself in
Chelsea at luncheon-time and also remembering that he must attempt
independently to make a meal. This, in the event, he but imperfectly
achieved: he dropped into a chair in the great dim void of the club
library, with nobody, up or down, to be seen, and there after a while,
closing his eyes, recovered an hour of the sleep he had lost during the
night. Before doing this indeed he had written--it was the first thing
he did--a short note, which, in the Christmas desolation of the place,
he had managed only with difficulty and doubt to commit to a messenger.
He wished it carried by hand, and he was obliged, rather blindly, to
trust the hand, as the messenger, for some reason, was unable to return
with a gage of delivery. When at four o'clock he was face to face with
Kate in Mrs. Condrip's small drawing-room he found to his relief that
his notification had reached her. She was expectant and to that extent
prepared; which simplified a little--if a little, at the present pass,
counted. Her conditions were vaguely vivid to him from the moment of
his coming in, and vivid partly by their difference, a difference sharp
and suggestive, from those in which he had hitherto constantly seen
her. He had seen her but in places comparatively great; in her aunt's
pompous house, under the high trees of Kensington and the storied
ceilings of Venice. He had seen her, in Venice, on a great occasion, as
the centre itself of the splendid Piazza: he had seen her there, on a
still greater one, in his own poor rooms, which yet had consorted with
her, having state and ancientry even in their poorness; but Mrs.
Condrip's interior, even by this best view of it and though not
flagrantly mean, showed itself as a setting almost grotesquely inapt.
Pale, grave and charming, she affected him at once as a distinguished
stranger--a stranger to the little Chelsea street--who was making the
best of a queer episode and a place of exile. The extraordinary thing
was that at the end of three minutes he felt himself less appointedly a
stranger in it than she.

A part of the queerness--this was to come to him in glimpses--sprang
from the air as of a general large misfit imposed on the narrow room by
the scale and mass of its furniture. The objects, the ornaments were,
for the sisters, clearly relics and survivals of what would, in the
case of Mrs. Condrip at least, have been called better days. The
curtains that overdraped the windows, the sofas and tables that stayed
circulation, the chimney-ornaments that reached to the ceiling and the
florid chandelier that almost dropped to the floor, were so many
mementoes of earlier homes and so many links with their unhappy mother.
Whatever might have been in itself the quality of these elements
Densher could feel the effect proceeding from them, as they lumpishly
blocked out the decline of the dim day, to be ugly almost to the point
of the sinister. They failed to accommodate or to compromise; they
asserted their differences without tact and without taste. It was truly
having a sense of Kate's own quality thus promptly to see them in
reference to it. But that Densher had this sense was no new thing to
him, nor did he in strictness need, for the hour, to be reminded of it.
He only knew, by one of the tricks his imagination so constantly played
him, that he was, so far as her present tension went, very specially
sorry for her--which was not the view that had determined his start in
the morning; yet also that he himself would have taken it all, as he
might say, less hard. He could have lived in such a place; but it
wasn't given to those of his complexion, so to speak, to be exiled
anywhere. It was by their comparative grossness that they could somehow
make shift. His natural, his inevitable, his ultimate home--left, that
is, to itself--wasn't at all unlikely to be as queer and impossible as
what was just round them, though doubtless in less ample masses. As he
took in moreover how Kate wouldn't have been in the least the creature
she was if what was just round them hadn't mismatched her, hadn't made
for her a medium involving compunction in the spectator, so, by the
same stroke, that became the very fact of her relation with her
companions there, such a fact as filled him at once, oddly, both with
assurance and with suspense. If he himself, on this brief vision, felt
her as alien and as ever so unwittingly ironic, how must they not feel
her and how above all must she not feel them?

Densher could ask himself that even after she had presently lighted the
tall candles on the mantel-shelf. This was all their illumination but
the fire, and she had proceeded to it with a quiet dryness that yet
left play, visibly, to her implication between them, in their trouble
and failing anything better, of the presumably genial Christmas hearth.
So far as the genial went this had in strictness, given their
conditions, to be all their geniality. He had told her in his note
nothing but that he must promptly see her and that he hoped she might
be able to make it possible; but he understood from the first look at
her that his promptitude was already having for her its principal
reference. "I was prevented this morning, in the few minutes," he
explained, "asking Mrs. Lowder if she had let you know, though I rather
gathered she had; and it's what I've been in fact since then assuming.
It was because I was so struck at the moment with your having, as she
did tell me, so suddenly come here."

"Yes, it was sudden enough." Very neat and fine in the contracted
firelight, with her hands in her lap, Kate considered what he had said.
He had spoken immediately of what had happened at Sir Luke Strett's
door. "She has let me know nothing. But that doesn't matter--if it's
what you mean."

"It's part of what I mean," Densher said; but what he went on with,
after a pause during which she waited, was apparently not the rest of
