we'll go on in your own fashion, if we must--for a while. But"--and he
laughed mirthlessly--"if it ends in a little shooting--you mustn't blame
me!"

Hamil surveyed him in cold displeasure.

"I always expected you'd find your level," he observed.

"Yes, I'll find it," mused Malcourt, "as soon as I know what it ought to
be. Under pressure it is difficult to ascertain such things; one's true
level may be higher or lower. My father and I have often discussed this
matter--and the ethics of straight shooting."

Hamil's eyes narrowed.

"If you mean that as a threat"--he began contemptuously; but Malcourt,
who had suddenly assumed that curious listening attitude, raised his
hand impatiently, as though silencing interruption.

And long after Hamil had turned on his heel and gone, he stood there,
graceful head lowered a little and partly turned as though poetically
appreciative of the soft twittering music which the bluebirds were
making among the falling apple-bloom.

Then, slowly, not noticing Hamil's departure, he retraced his steps
through the garden, head slightly inclined, as though to catch the
murmur of some invisible companion accompanying him. Once or twice he
nodded, a strange smile creeping over his face; once his lips moved as
though asking a question; no sound came from them, but apparently he had
his answer, for he nodded assent, halted, drew a deep breath, and looked
upward.

"We can try that," he said aloud in his naturally pleasant voice; and,
entering the house, went upstairs to his wife's apartments.

Shiela's maid answered his knock; a moment later, Shiela herself, gowned
for the afternoon, came to the door, and her maid retired.

"Do you mind my stepping in a moment?" he asked.

She glanced back into her own bedroom, closed the door, and led the way
to the small living-room at the other end of the house.

"Where's that maid of yours?" he asked.

"Sewing in my dressing-room. Shall I send her downstairs?"

"Yes; it's better."

So Shiela went away and returned shortly saying that her maid had gone;
and then, with a questioning gesture to her husband, she seated herself
by the open window and looked out into the sunshine, waiting for him to
speak.

"Do you know," he said abruptly, "what saved Cardross, Carrick & Co.
from going to the wall?"

"What?" The quick, crisp question sounded like the crack of a tiny whip.

He looked at her, languidly amused.

"You knew there was a panic?" he asked.

"Yes, of course."

"You knew that your father and Mr. Carrick were worried?"

"Yes."

"You didn't realise they were in bad shape?"

"Not--very. Were they?"

"That they needed money, and that they couldn't go out into the market
and borrow it because nobody would lend any money to anybody?"

"I do not understand such details."

"Details? Ah--yes, quite so.... Then you were not aware that a run was
threatened on the Shoshone Securities Company and certain affiliated
banks?"

"Yes--but I did not suppose it meant anything alarming."

"And you didn't understand that your father and brother-in-law could not
convert their securities into the ready cash they needed to meet their
obligations--did you?"

"I do not understand details, Louis.... No."

"Or that they were desperate?"

Her face altered pitifully.

"On the edge of bankruptcy?" he went on.

"What!"

"Then," he said deliberately, "you don't know what helped them--what
tided them over those two days--what pulled them through by the slimmest
margin that ever saved the credit of anybody."

"Not--my money?"

"Yes; your money."

"Is it true, Louis?"

"Absolutely."

She leaned her head on her hand and sat gazing out of the open window.
There were tears very near her eyes, but the lids closed and not one
fell or even wet the thick lashes resting on her cheeks.

"I supposed it would please you to know what you have done."

The face she turned toward him was wonderful in its radiance.

She said: "I have never been as happy in all my life, I think. Thank you
for telling me. I needed just--that."

He studied her for a moment, nimble wits at work. Then:

"Has your father--and the others--in their letters, said anything about
it to you?"

"Yes, father has. He did not say matters had been desperate."

"I suppose he does not dare commit such a thing to paper--yet.... You
do not burn your letters," he added blandly.

"I have no reason to."

"It might save servants' gossip."

"What gossip?"--in cold surprise.

"There's a desk full of Hamil's letters upstairs, judging from the
writing on the envelopes." He added with a smile: "Although I don't
pry, some servants do. And if there is anything in those letters you do
not care to have discussed below stairs, you ought either to lock them
up or destroy them."

Her face was burning hot; but she met his gaze with equanimity, slowly
nodding serene assent to his suggestion.

"Shiela," he said pleasantly, "it looks to me as though what you have
done for your family in that hour of need rather balances all accounts
between you and them."

"What?"

"I say that you are square with them for what they have done in the past
for you."

She shook her head. "I don't know what you mean, Louis."

He said patiently: "You had nothing to give but your fortune, and you
gave it."

"Yes."

"Which settles your obligations toward them--puts them so deeply for
ever in your debt that--" He hesitated, considering the chances, then,
seriously persuasive:

"They are now in your debt, Shiela. They have sufficient proof of your
unselfish affection for them to stand a temporary little shock. Why
don't you administer it?"

"What shock?"--in an altered voice.

"Your divorce."

"I thought you were meaning that."

"I do mean it. You ought to have your freedom; you are ruining your own
life and Hamil's, and--and--"

"Yours?"

"Let that go," he said almost savagely; "I can always get along. But I
want you to have your freedom to marry that damned fool, Hamil."

The quick blood stung her face under his sudden blunt brutality.

"You think that because I returned a little money to my family, it
entitles me to publicly disgrace them?"

Malcourt's patience was fast going.

"Oh, for Heaven's sake, Shiela, shed your swaddling clothes and act like
something adult. Is there any reason why two people situated as we are
cannot discuss sensibly some method of mitigating our misfortune? I'll
do anything you say in the matter. Divorce is a good thing sometimes.
This is one of the times, and I'll give you every reason for a
successful suit against me--"

She rose, cheeks aflame, and in her eyes scorn ungovernable.

He rose too, exasperated.

"You won't consider it?" he asked harshly.

"No."

"Why not?"

"Because I'm not coward enough to ask others to bear the consequences of
my own folly and yours!"

"You little fool," he said, "do you think your family would let you
endure me for one second if they knew how you felt? Or what I am likely
to do at any moment?"

She stood, without replying, plainly waiting for him to leave the room
and her apartments. All her colour had fled.

"You know," he said, with an ugly glimmer in his eyes, "I need not
continue this appeal to your common sense, if you haven't got any; I
can force you to a choice."

"What choice?"--in leisurely contempt.

He hesitated; then, insolently: "Your choice between--honest wifehood
and honest divorce."

For a moment she could not comprehend: suddenly her hands contracted and
clinched as the crimson wave stained her from throat to brow. But in her
eyes was terror unutterable.

"I--I beg--your pardon," he stammered. "I did not mean to frighten
you--"

But at his first word she clapped both hands over her ears, staring at
him in horror--backing away from him, shrinking flat against the wall.

"Confound it! I am not threatening you," he said, raising his voice; but
she would not hear another word--he saw that now--and, with a shrug, he
walked past her, patient once more, outwardly polite, inwardly bitterly
amused, as he heard the key snap in the door behind him.

Standing in his own office on the floor below, he glanced vacantly
around him. After a moment he said aloud, as though to somebody in the
room: "Well, I tried it. But that is not the way."

Later, young Mrs. Malcourt, passing, saw him seated at his desk, head
bent as though listening to something interesting. But there was nobody
else in the office.

When at last he roused himself the afternoon sun was shining level in
the west; long rosy beams struck through the woods turning the silver
stems of the birches pink.

On the footbridge spanning the meadow brook he saw his wife and Hamil
leaning over the hand-rail, shoulder almost touching shoulder; and he
went to the window and stood intently observing them.

They seemed to be conversing very earnestly; once she threw back her
pretty head and laughed unrestrainedly, and the clear sound of it
floated up to him through the late sunshine; and once she shook her head
emphatically, and once he saw her lay her hand on Hamil's arm--an
impulsive gesture, as though to enforce her words, but it was more like
a caress.

A tinge of malice altered Malcourt's smile as he watched them; the
stiffening grin twitched at his cheeks.

"Now I wonder," he thought to himself, "whether it is the right way
after all!... I don't think I'll threaten her again with--alternatives.
There's no telling what a fool might do in a panic." Then, as though the
spectacle bored him, he yawned, stretched his arms and back gracefully,
turned and touched the button that summoned his servant.

"Order the horses and pack as usual, Simmons," he said with another
yawn. "I'm going to New York. Isn't Mr. Portlaw here yet?"

"No, sir."

"Did you say he went away on horseback?"

"Yes, sir, this morning."

"And you don't know where?"

"No, sir. Mr. Portlaw took the South Road."

Malcourt grinned again, perfectly certain, now, of Portlaw's
destination; and thinking to himself that unless his fatuous employer
had been landed in a ditch somewhere, en route, he was by this time
returning from Pride's Fall with considerable respect for Mrs. Ascott.

       *       *       *       *       *

As a matter of fact, Portlaw had already started on his way back. Mrs.
Ascott was not at Pride's Hall--her house--when he presented himself at
the door. Her servant, evidently instructed, did not know where Mrs.
Ascott and Miss Palliser had gone or when they might return.

So Portlaw betook himself heavily to the village inn, where he insulted
his astonished stomach with a noonday dinner, and found the hard wooden
chairs exceedingly unpleasant.

About five o'clock he got into his saddle with an unfeigned groan, and
out of it again at Mrs. Ascott's door. They told him there that Mrs.
Ascott was not at home.

Whether this might be the conventional manner of informing him that she
declined to receive him, or whether she really was out, he had no means
of knowing; so he left his cards for Mrs. Ascott and Miss Palliser, also
the note which young Mrs. Malcourt had given him; clambered once more up
the side of his horse, suppressing his groans until out of hearing and
well on his way toward the fatal boundary.


In the late afternoon, sky and water had turned to a golden rose hue;
clouds of gnats danced madly over meadow pools, calm mirrors of the
sunset, save when a trout sprang quivering, a dark, slim crescent
against the light, falling back with a mellow splash that set the pool
rocking.

At gaze a deer looked at him from sedge, furry ears forward; stamped,
winded him, and, not frightened very much, trotted into the dwarf
willows, halting once or twice to look around.

As he advanced, his horse splashing through the flooded land
fetlock-deep in water, green herons flapped upward, protesting harshly,
circled overhead with leisurely wing-beats, and settled on some dead
limb, thin, strange shapes against the deepening orange of the western
heavens.

Portlaw, sitting his saddle gingerly, patronized nature askance; and he
saw across the flooded meadow where the river sand had piled its
smothering blanket--which phenomenon he was guiltily aware was due to
him.

Everywhere were signs of the late overflow--raw new gravel channels for
Painted Creek; river willows bent low where the flood had winnowed;
piles of driftwood jammed here and there; a single stone pier stemming
mid-stream, ancient floor and cover gone. More of his work--or the
consequences of it--this desolation; from which, under his horse's feet,
rose a hawk, flapping, furious, a half-drowned snake dangling from the
talon-clutch.

"Ugh!" muttered Portlaw, bringing his startled horse under discipline;
then forged forward across the drowned lands, sorry for his work, sorry
for his obstinacy, sorrier for himself; for Portlaw, in some matters was
illogically parsimonious; and it irked him dreadfully to realise how
utterly indefensible were his actions and how much they promised to cost
him.

"Unless," he thought cannily to himself, "I can fix it up with her--for
old friendship's sake--bah!--doing the regretful sinner business--"

As the horse thrashed out of the drowned lands up into the flat plateau
where acres of alders, their tops level as a trimmed hedge, stretched
away in an even, green sea, a distant, rapping sound struck his ear,
sharp, regular as the tree-tapping of a cock-o'-the-woods.

Indifferently convinced that the great, noisy woodpecker was the cause
of the racket, he rode on toward the hard-wood ridge dominating this
plateau where his guests, last season, had shot woodcock--one of the
charges in the suit against him.

"The thing to do," he ruminated, "is to throw myself gracefully on her
mercy. Women like to have a chance to forgive you; Louis says so, and he
ought to know. What a devilishly noisy woodpecker!"

And, looking up, he drew bridle sharply.

For there, on the wood's edge, stood a familiar gray mare, and in the
saddle, astride, sat Alida Ascott, busily hammering tacks into a
trespass notice printed on white muslin, and attached to the trunk of a
big maple-tree.

So absorbed was she in her hammering that at first she neither heard nor
saw Portlaw when he finally ventured to advance; and when she did she
dropped the tack hammer in her astonishment.

He dismounted, with pain, to pick it up, presented it, face wreathed in
a series of appealing smiles, then, managing to scale the side of his
horse again, settled himself as comfortably as possible for the
impending conflict.

But Alida Ascott, in her boyish riding breeches and deep-skirted coat,
merely nodded her thanks, took hold of the hammer firmly, and drove in
more tacks, paying no further attention to William Van Beuren Portlaw
and his heart-rending smiles.

It was very embarrassing; he sidled his horse around so that he might
catch a glimpse of her profile. The view he obtained was not
encouraging.

"Alida," he ventured plaintively.

"Mr. Portlaw!"--so suddenly swinging on him that he lost all countenance
and blurted out:

"I--I only want to make amends and be friends."

"I expect you to make amends," she said in a significantly quiet voice,
which chilled him with the menace of damages unlimited. And even in his
perturbation he saw at once that it would never do to have a backwoods
jury look upon the fascinating countenance of this young plaintiff.

"Alida," he said sorrowfully, "I am beginning to see things in a clearer
light."

"I think that light will grow very much clearer, Mr. Portlaw."

He repressed a shudder, and tried to look reproachful, but she seemed to
be very hard-hearted, for she turned once more to her hammering.

"Alida!"

"What?"--continuing to drive tacks.

"After all these years of friendship it--it is perfectly painful for me
to contemplate a possible lawsuit--"

"It will be more painful to contemplate an actual one, Mr. Portlaw."

"Alida, do you really mean that you--my neighbour and friend--are going
to press this unnatural complaint?"

"I certainly do."

Portlaw shook his head violently, and passed his gloved hand over his
eyes as though to rouse himself from a distressing dream; all of which
expressive pantomime was lost on Mrs. Ascott, who was busy driving
tacks.

"I simply cannot credit my senses," he said mournfully.

"You ought to try; it will be still more difficult later," she observed,
backing her horse so that she might inspect her handiwork from the
proper point of view.

Portlaw looked askance at the sign. It warned people not to shoot, fish,
cut trees, dam streams, or build fires under penalty of the law; and was
signed, "Alida Ascott."

"You didn't have any up before, did you?" he asked innocently.

"By advice of counsel I think I had better not reply, Mr. Portlaw. But I
believe that point will be brought out by my lawyers--unless"--with a
brilliant smile--"your own counsel sees fit to discuss it."

Portlaw was convinced that his hair was stirring under his cap. He was
horribly afraid of the law.

"See here, Alida," he said, assuming the bluff rough-diamond front which
the alarm in his eyes made foolish, "I want to settle this little
difference and be friends with you again. I was wrong; I admit it.... Of
course I might very easily defend such a suit--"

"But, of course"--serenely undeceived--"as you admit you are in the
wrong you will scarcely venture to defend such a suit. Your lawyers
ought to forbid you to talk about this case, particularly"--with a
demure smile--"to the plaintiff."

"Alida," he said, "I am determined to remain your friend. You may do
what you will, say what you wish, yes, even use my own words against me,
but"--and virtue fairly exuded from every perspiring pore--"I will not
retaliate!"

"I'm afraid you can't, William," she said softly.

"Won't you--forgive?" he asked in a melting voice; but his eyes were
round with apprehension.

"There are some things that no woman can overlook," she said.

"I'll send my men down to fix that bridge--"

"Bridges can be mended; I was not speaking of the bridge."

"You mean those sheep--"

"No, Mr. Portlaw."

"Well, there's a lot--I mean that some little sand has been washed over
your meadow--"

"Good night," she said, turning her horse's head.

"Isn't it the sand, Alida?" he pleaded. "You surely will forgive that
timber-cutting--and the shooting of a few migratory birds--"

"Good night," touching her gray mare forward to where he was awkwardly
blocking the wood-path.... "Do you mind moving a trifle, Mr. Portlaw?"

"About--ah--the--down there, you know, at Palm Beach," he stammered, "at
that accursed lawn-party--"

"Yes?" She smiled but her eyes harboured lightning.

"It was so hot in Florida--you know how infernally hot it was, don't
you, Alida?" he asked beseechingly. "I scarcely dared leave the Beach
Club."

"Well?"

"I--I thought I'd just m-m-mention it. That's why I didn't call on
you--I was afraid of sunstroke--"

"What!" she exclaimed, astonished at his stuttering audacity.

He knew he was absurd, but it was all he could think of. She gave him
time enough to realise the pitiable spectacle he was making of himself,
sitting her horse motionless, pretty eyes bent on his--an almost
faultless though slight figure, smooth as a girl's yet faintly instinct
with that charm of ripened adolescence just short of maturity.

And, slowly, under her clear gaze, a confused comprehension began to
stir in him--at first only a sort of chagrin, then something more--a
consciousness of his own heaviness of intellect and grossness of
figure--the fatness of mind and body which had developed so rapidly
within the last two years.

There she sat, as slim and pretty and fresh as ever; and only two years
ago he had been mentally and physically active enough to find vigorous
amusement in her company. Malcourt's stinging words concerning his
bodily unloveliness and self-centred inertia came into his mind; and a
slow blush deepened the colour in his heavy face.

What vanity he had reckoned on had deserted him along with any hope of
compromising a case only too palpably against him. And yet, through the
rudiments of better feeling awakening within him, the instinct of thrift
still coloured his ideas a little.

"I'm dead wrong, Alida. We might just as well save fees and costs and go
over the damages together.... I'll pay them. I ought to, anyway. I
suppose I don't usually do what I ought. Malcourt says I don't--said so
very severely--very mortifyingly the other day. So--if you'll get him or
your own men to decide on the amount--"

"Do you think the amount matters?"

"Oh, of course it's principle; very proper of you to stand on your
dignity--"

"I am not standing on it now; I am listening to your utter
misapprehension of me and my motives.... I don't care for any--damages."

"It is perfectly proper for you to claim them, if," he added
cautiously, "they are within reason--"

"Mr. Portlaw!"

"What?" he asked, alarmed.

"I would not touch a penny! I meant to give it to the schools,
here--whatever I recovered.... Your misunderstanding of me is
abominable!"

He hung his head, heavy-witted, confused as a stupid schoolboy, feeling,
helplessly, his clumsiness of mind and body.

Something of this may have been perceptible to her--may have softened
her ideas concerning him--ideas which had accumulated bitterness during
the year of his misbehaviour and selfish neglect. Her instinct divined
in his apparently sullen attitude the slow intelligence and mental
perturbation of a wilful, selfish boy made stupid through idleness and
self-indulgence. Even what had been clean-cut, attractive, in his face
and figure was being marred and coarsened by his slothful habits to an
extent that secretly dismayed her; for she had always thought him very
handsome; and, with that natural perversity of selection, finding in him
a perfect foil to her own character, had been seriously inclined to like
him.

Attractions begin in that way, sometimes, where the gentler is the
stronger, the frailer, the dominant character; and the root is in the
feminine instinct to care for, develop, and make the most of what
palpably needs a protectorate.

Without comprehending her own instinct, Mrs. Ascott had found the
preliminary moulding of Portlaw an agreeable diversion; had rather taken
for granted that she was doing him good; and was correspondingly annoyed
when he parted his moorings and started drifting aimlessly as a
derelict scow awash, floundering seaward without further notice of the
trim little tug standing by and amiably ready to act as convoy.


Now, sitting her saddle in silence she surveyed him, striving to
understand him--his recent indifference, his deterioration, the present
figure he was cutting. And it seemed to her a trifle sad that he had no
one to tell him a few wholesome truths.

"Mr. Portlaw," she said, "do you know that you have been exceedingly
rude to me?"

"Yes, I--do know it."

"Why?" she asked simply.

"I don't know."

"Didn't you care for our friendship? Didn't it amuse and interest you?
How could you have done the things you did--in the way you did?... If
you had asked my permission to build a dozen dams I'd have given it.
Didn't you know it? But my self-respect protested when you so cynically
ignored me--"

"I'm a beast all right," he muttered.

She gazed at him, softened, even faintly amused at his repentant bad-boy
attitude.

"Do you want me to forgive you, Mr. Portlaw?"

"Yes--but you oughtn't."

"That is quite true.... Turn your horse and ride back with me. I'm going
to find out exactly how repentant you really are.... If you pass a
decent examination you may dine with Miss Palliser, Mr. Wayward, and me.
It's too late anyway to return through the forest.... I'll send you over
in the motor."

And as they wheeled and walked their horses forward through the dusk,
she said impulsively:

"We have four for Bridge if you like."

"Alida," he said sincerely, "you are a corker."

She looked up demurely. What she could see to interest her in this lump
of a man Heaven alone knew, but a hint of the old half-patient,
half-amused liking for him and his slow wits began to flicker once more.
De gustibus--alas!




CHAPTER XXIV

THE SCHOOL OF THE RECRUIT


When Portlaw arrived home late that evening there existed within his
somewhat ordinary intellect a sense of triumph. The weak usually
experience it at the beginning and through every step of their own
subjugation.

Malcourt, having decided to take an express which stopped on signal at
six in the morning, was reading as usual before the empty fireplace; and
at the first glance he suspected what had begun to happen to Portlaw.

The latter bustled about the room with an air of more or less
importance, sorted his letters, fussed with a newspaper; and every now
and then Malcourt, glancing up, caught Portlaw's eyes peeping
triumphantly around corners at him.

"You've been riding?" he said, much amused. "Are you stiff?"

"A trifle," replied the other carelessly. "I must keep it up. Really,
you know, I've rather neglected the horses lately."

"Rather. So you're taking up riding again?"

Portlaw nodded: "I've come to the conclusion that I need exercise."

Malcourt, who had been urging him for years to exercise, nodded approval
as though the suggestion were a brand-new one.

"Yes," said Portlaw, "I shall ride, I think, every day. I intend to do
a good bit of tramping, too. It's excellent for the liver, Louis."

At this piece of inspired information Malcourt assumed an expression of
deepest interest, but hoped Portlaw might not overdo it.

"I'm going to diet, too," observed Portlaw, watching the effect of this
astounding statement on his superintendent. "My theory is that we all
eat too much."

"Don't do anything Spartan," said Malcourt warningly; "a man at your
time of life--"

"My--what! Confound it, Louis, I'm well this side of forty!"

"Yes, perhaps; but when a man reaches your age there is not much left
for him but the happiness of overeating--"

"What d'y' mean?"

"Nothing; only as he's out of the race with younger men as far as a
pretty woman is concerned--"

"Who's out!" demanded Portlaw, red in the face. "What sort of men do you
suppose interest women? Broilers? I always thought your knowledge of
women was superficial; now I know it. And you don't know everything
about everything else, either--about summonses and lawsuits, for
example." And he cast an exultant look at his superintendent.

But Malcourt let him tell the news in his own way; and he did, imparting
it in bits with naive enjoyment, apparently utterly unconscious that he
was doing exactly what his superintendent had told him to do.

"You are a diplomat, aren't you?" said Malcourt with a weary smile.

"A little, a little," admitted Portlaw modestly. "I merely mentioned
these things--" He waved his hand to check any possible eulogy of
himself from Malcourt. "I'll merely say this: that when I make up my
mind to settle anything--" He waved his hand again, condescendingly.

"That man," thought Malcourt, "will be done for in a year. Any woman
could have had him; the deuce of it was to find one who'd take him. I
think she's found."

And looking up blandly:

"Porty, old fellow, you're really rather past the marrying age--"

"I'll do what I please!" shouted Portlaw, exasperated.

Malcourt had two ways of making Portlaw do a thing; one was to tell him
not to, the other the reverse. He always ended by doing it anyway; but
the quicker result was obtained by the first method.

So Malcourt went to New York next morning convinced that Portlaw's
bachelor days were numbered; aware, also, that as soon as Mrs. Ascott
took the helm his own tenure of office would promptly expire. He wished
it to expire, easily, agreeably, naturally; and that is why he had
chosen to shove Portlaw in the general direction of the hymeneal altar.

He did not care very much for Portlaw--scarcely enough to avoid hurting
his feelings by abandoning him. But now he had arranged it so that to
all appearances the abandoning would be done by Portlaw, inspired by the
stronger mind of Mrs. Ascott. It had been easy and rather amusing to
arrange; it saved wordy and endless disputes with Portlaw; it would give
him a longed-for release from an occupation he had come to hate.

Malcourt was tired. He wanted a year of freedom from dependence,
surcease of responsibility--a year to roam where he wished, foregather
with whom he pleased, haunt the places congenial to him, come and go
unhampered; a year of it--only one year. What remained for him to do
after the year had expired he thought he understood; yes, he was
practically certain--had always been.

But first must come that wonderful year he had planned--or, if he tired
of the pleasure sooner, then, as the caprice stirred him, he would do
what he had planned to do ever since his father died. The details only
remained to be settled.

For Malcourt, with all the contradictions in his character, all his
cynicism, effrontery, ruthlessness, preferred to do things in a manner
calculated to spare the prejudices of others; and if there was a way to
accomplish a thing without hurting people, he usually took the trouble
to do it in that way. If not, he did it anyway.

And now, at last, he saw before him the beginning of that curious year
for which he had so long waited; and, concerning the closing details of
which, he had pondered so often with his dark, handsome head lowered and
slightly turned, listening, always listening.

But nothing of this had he spoken of to his wife. It was not necessary.
He had a year in which to live in a certain manner and do a certain
thing; and it was going to amuse him to do it in a way which would harm
nobody.

The year promised to be an interesting one, to judge from all signs. For
one item his sister, Lady Tressilvain, was impending from Paris--also
his brother-in-law--complicating the humour of the visitation.
Malcourt's marriage to an heiress was the perfectly obvious incentive
of the visit. And when they wrote that they were coming to New York, it
amused Malcourt exceedingly to invite them to Luckless Lake. But he said
nothing about it to Portlaw or his wife.

Then, for another thing, the regeneration and development, ethically and
artistically, of Dolly Wilming amused him. He wanted to be near enough
to watch it--without, however, any real faith in its continuation.

And, also, there was Miss Suydam. Her development would not be quite as
agreeable to witness; process of disillusioning her, little by little,
until he had undermined himself sufficiently to make the final break
with her very easy--for her. Of course it interested him; all intrigue
did where skill was required with women.

And, last of all, yet of supreme importance, he desired leisure,
undisturbed, to study his own cumulative development, to humorously
thwart it, or misunderstand it, or slyly aid it now and then--always
aware of and attentive to that extraneous something which held him so
motionless, at moments, listening attentively as though to a command.

For, from that morning four years ago when, crushed with fatigue, he
strove to keep his vigil beside his father who, toward daybreak, had
been feigning sleep--from that dreadful dawn when, waking with the crash
of the shot in his ears, his blinded gaze beheld the passing of a
soul--he understood that he was no longer his own master.

Not that the occult triad, Chance, Fate, and Destiny ruled; they only
modified his orbit. But from the centre of things Something that ruled
them was pulling him toward it, slowly, steadily, inexorably drawing him
nearer, lessening the circumference of his path, attenuating it,
circumscribing, limiting, controlling. And long since he had learned to
name this thing, undismayed--this one thing remaining in the world in
which his father's son might take a sporting interest.

       *       *       *       *       *

He had been in New York two weeks, enjoying existence in his own
fashion, untroubled by any demands, questions, or scruples concerning
responsibility, when a passionate letter from Portlaw disturbed the
placid interlude:

   "Confound it, Louis, haven't you the common decency to come back
   when you know I've had a bunch of people here to be entertained?

   "Nobody's heard a peep from you. What on earth do you mean by
   this?

   "Miss Palliser, Mrs. Ascott, Miss Cardross are here, also
   Wayward, and Gray Cardross--which with you and Mrs. Malcourt and
   myself solves the Bridge proposition--or would have solved it.
   But without warning, yesterday, your sister and brother-in-law
   arrived, bag and baggage, and Mrs. Malcourt has given them the
   west wing of your house. I believe she was as astonished as I,
   but she will not admit it.

   "I don't know whether this is some sorry jest of yours--not that
   Lady Tressilvain and her noble spouse are unwelcome--but for
   Heaven's sake consider Wayward's feelings--cooped up in camp with
   his ex-wife! It wasn't a very funny thing to do, Louis; but now
   that it's done you can come back and take care of the mess you've
   made.

   "As for Mrs. Malcourt, she is not merely a trump, she is a
   hundred aces and a grand slam in a redoubled Without!--if that's
   possible. But Mrs. Ascott is my pillar of support in what might
   easily become a fool of a situation.

   "And you, you amateur idiot!--are down there in town, humorously
   awaiting the shriek of anguish from me. Well, you've heard me.
   But it's not a senseless shriek; it's a dignified protest. I tell
   you I've learned to depend on myself, recently--at Mrs. Ascott's
   suggestion. And I'm doing it now by wiring Virginia Suydam to
   come and fill in the third table.

   "Now I want you to come back at once. If you don't I'm going to
   have a serious talk with you, Louis. I've taken Mrs. Ascott into
   my confidence more or less and she agrees with me that I ought to
   lay down a strong, rigid policy and that it is your duty to
   execute it. In fact she also took me into her confidence and gave
   me, at my request, a very clear idea of how she would run this
   place; and to my surprise and gratification I find that her ideas
   of discipline, taste, and economy are exactly mine, although I
   thought of them first and perhaps have influenced her in this
   matter as I have in others. That is, of course, natural, she
   being a woman.

   "I think I ought to be frank with you, Louis. It isn't good form
   for you to leave Mrs. Malcourt the way you do every week or two
   and disappear in New York and give no explanation. You haven't
   been married long enough to do that. It isn't square to me,
   either.

   "And while I'm about it I want to add that, at Mrs. Ascott's
   suggestion--which really is my own idea--I have decided not to
   build all those Rhine castles, which useless notion, if I am not
   mistaken, originated with you. I don't want to disfigure my
   beautiful wilderness. Mrs. Ascott and I had a very plain talk
   with Hamil and we forced him to agree with us that the less he
   did to improve my place the better for the place. He seemed to
   take it good-humouredly. He left yesterday to look over Mrs.
   Ascott's place and plan for her a formal garden and Trianon at
   Pride's Hall. So he being out I wired also to Virginia and to
   Philip Gatewood, which will make it right--four at a table. Your
   brother-in-law plays a stiff game and your sister is a
   wonder!--five grand slams last night! But I played like a
   dub--I'd been riding and walking and canoeing all day with Mrs.
   Ascott and I was terribly sleepy.

   "So come on up, Louis. I'll forgive you--but don't mind if I
   growl at you before Mrs. Ascott as she thinks I ought to
   discipline you. And, confound it, I ought to, and I will, too, if
   you don't look out. But I'll be devilish glad to see you.

                             "Yours,
                                  "W. VAN BEUREN PORTLAW."

Malcourt, in his arm-chair by the open window, lay back full length,
every fibre of him vibrating with laughter.

Dolly Wilming at the piano continued running over the pretty firework
melodies of last season's metropolitan success--a success built entirely
on a Viennese waltz, the air of which might have been taken from almost
any popular Yankee hymn-book.

He folded Portlaw's letter and pocketed it; and lay for a while under
the open window, enjoying his own noiseless mirth, gaily accompanied by
Dolly Winning's fresh, clear singing or her capricious improvising.

Begonias bloomed in a riotous row on the sill, nodding gently in the
river-wind which also fluttered the flags and sails on yacht, schooner,
and sloop under the wall of the Palisades.

That day the North River was more green than blue--like the eyes of a
girl he knew; summer, crowned and trimmed with green, brooded on the
long rock rampart across the stream. Turquoise patches of sky and big
clouds, leafy parapets, ships passing to the sea; and in mid-stream an
anchored island of steel painted white and buff, bristling with long
thin guns, the flower-like flag rippling astern; another battle-ship
farther north; another, another; and farther still the white
tomb--unlovely mansion of the dead--on outpost duty above the river,
guarding with the warning of its dead glories the unlovely mansions of
the living ranged along the most noble terrace in the world.

And everywhere to north, south, and east, the endless waste of city,
stark, clean-cut, naked alike of tree and of art, unsoftened even by the
haze of its own exudations--everywhere the window-riddled blocks of
oblongs and cubes gridironed with steel rails--New York in all the
painted squalor of its Pueblo splendour.

       *       *       *       *       *

"You say you are doing well in everything except French and Italian?"

Dolly, still humming to her own accompaniment, looked over her shoulder
and nodded.

"Well, how the dickens are you ever going to sing at either Opera or on
the road or anywhere if you don't learn French and Italian?"

"I'm trying, Louis."

"Go ahead; let's hear something, then."

And she sang very intelligently and in excellent taste:

    "Pendant que, plein d'amour, j'expire à votre porte,
    Vous dormez d'un paisible sommeil--"

and turned questioningly to him.

"That's all right; try another."

So, serenely obedient, she sang:

    "Chantons Margot, nos amours,
    Margot leste et bien tournée--"

"Well, I don't see anything the matter with your French," he muttered.

The girl coloured with pleasure, resting pensively above the key-board;
but he had no further requests to make and presently she swung around on
the piano-stool, looking at him.

"You sing all right; you are doing your part--as far as I can discover."

"There is nothing for you to discover that I have not told you," she
said gravely. In her manner there was a subdued dignity which he had
noticed recently--something of the self-confidence of the very young and
unspoiled--which, considering all things, he could not exactly account
for.

"Does that doddering old dancing-master of yours behave himself?"

"Yes--since you spoke to him. Mr. Bulder came to the school again."

"What did you say to him?"

"I told him that you wouldn't let me sing in 'The Inca.'"

"And what did Bulder say?"

"He was persistent but perfectly respectful; asked if he might confer
with you. He wrote to you I think, didn't he?"

Malcourt nodded and lighted a cigarette.

"Dolly," he said, "do you want to sing Chaské in 'The Inca' next
winter?"

"Yes, I do--if you think it is all right." She added in a low voice: "I
want to do what will please you, Louis."

"I don't know whether it's the best thing to do, but--you may have to."
He laid his cigarette in a saucer, watched the smoke curling
ceilingward, and said as though to himself:

"I should like to be certain that you can support yourself--within a
reasonable time from now--say a year. That is all, Dolly."

"I can do it now if you wish it--" The expression of his face checked
her.

"I don't mean a variety career devoted to 'mother' songs," he said with
a sneer. "There's a middle course between diamonds and 'sinkers.' You'll
get there if you don't kick over the traces.... Have you made any more
friends?"

"Yes."

"Are they respectable?"

"Yes," she said, colouring.

"Has anybody been impertinent?"

"Mr. Williams."
