"At the same table?  It would hardly be so in Europe.  But it pleases
me.  I have been alone so much that I grow moody; and that is not good."

There was always that trifling German accent, no matter what tongue he
used, but it was perceptible only to the trained ear.  And yet, to
Fitzgerald's mind, the man was at times something Gallic in his
liveliness.

"You will never use your title, then?"

Breitmann laughed.  "No."

"You have made a great mistake.  You should have fired the first shot
with it.  You would have married an heiress by this time," ironically,
"and all your troubles would be over."

"Or begun," in the same spirit.  "I'm no fortune hunter, in the sense
you mean.  Pah!  I have no debts; no crumbling schloss to rebuild.
All I ask is to be let alone," with a flash of that moodiness of which
he had spoken.  "How long will you be here?"

"Can't say.  Three or four days, perhaps.  It all depends.  What shall
I say about you to them?"

"As little as possible."

"And that's really about all I could say," with a suggestion.

But the other failed to meet the suggestion half-way.

"You might forget about my ragged linen in Paris," acridly.

"I'll omit that," good-naturedly.  "Come, be cheerful; fortune's wheel
will turn, and it pulls up as well as down.  Remember that."

"I must be on the ascendancy, for God knows that I am at the nadir just
at present."  He breathed in the sweet freshness which still clung to
the morning, and settled his shoulders like a recruiting sergeant.

"How well the man has studied his English!" thought Fitzgerald.  He
rarely hesitated for a word, and his idioms were always nicely adjusted.

The admiral was alone.  He received them with an easy courtliness,
which is more noticeable in the old world than in the new.  He directed
the servants to take charge of the luggage, and to Breitmann there was
never a word about work.  That had all been decided by letter.  He
urged the new secretary to return to the library as soon as he had
established himself.

"Strange that you should know the man," said the admiral.  "It comes in
pat.  From what you say, he must be a brilliant fellow.  But this
situation seems rather out of his line."

"We all have our ups and downs, admiral.  I've known a pinch or two
myself.  We are an improvident lot, we writers, who wander round the
globe; rich to-day, poor to-morrow.  But on the other hand, it's
something to set down on paper what a king says, the turn of a battle,
to hobnob with famous men, explorers, novelists, painters, soldiers,
scientists, to say nothing of the meat in the pie and the bottom crust.
I'm going to write a novel some day myself."

"Here," said the admiral, with a sweep of the hand, which included the
row upon row of books, "come here to do it.  Make it a pirate story;
there's always room for another."

"But it takes a Stevenson to write it.  It is very good of you, though.
Where is Miss Killigrew this morning?"

"She hasn't returned from her ride.  Ah!  Come in, Mr. Breitmann, and
sit down.  By the way, you two must be fair horsemen."

Breitmann smiled, and Fitzgerald laughed.

"I dare say," replied the latter, "that there's only one thing we two
haven't ridden: ostriches.  Camels and elephants and donkeys; we've
done some warm sprinting.  Eh, Breitmann?"

The secretary agreed with a nod.  He was rather grateful for
Fitzgerald's presence.  This occupation was not going to be menial; at
the least, there would be pleasant sides to it.  And, then, it might
not take him a week to complete his own affair.  There was no
misreading the admiral; he was a gentleman, affable, kindly, and a good
story-teller, too, crisp and to the point, sailor fashion.  Breitmann
cleverly drew him out.  Pirates!  He dared not smile.  Why, there was
hardly such a thing in the pearl zone, and China was on the highway to
respectability.  And every once in so often there was a futile treasure
hunt!  He grew cold.  If this old man but knew!

"Do you know butterflies, Mr. Fitzgerald?"

"Social?"

The admiral laughed.  "No.  The law doesn't permit you to stick pins in
that kind.  No; I mean that kind," indicating the cases.

Both young men admitted that this field had been left unexplored by
either of them.

It was during a lull, when the talk had fallen to the desultory, that
the hall door opened, and Laura came in.  Her cheeks glowed like the
sunny side of a Persian peach; her eyes sparkled; between her moist red
lips there was a flash of firm, white teeth; the seal-brown hair
glinted a Venetian red--for at that moment she stood in the path of the
sunshine which poured in at the window--and blown tendrils in
picturesque disorder escaped from under her hat.

The three men rose hastily; the father with pride, Fitzgerald with
gladness, and Breitmann with doubt and wonder and fear.




CHAPTER VIII

SOME BIRDS IN A CHIMNEY

It might be truthfully said that the tableau lasted as long as she
willed it to last.  Perhaps she read in the three masculine faces
turned toward her a triangular admiration, since it emanated from three
given points, and took from it a modest pinch for her vanity.  Vain she
never was; still, she was not without a share of vanity, that vanity of
the artless, needing no sacrifices, which is gratified and appeased by
a smile.  It pleased her to know that she was lovely; and it doubled
her pleasure to realize that her loveliness pleased others.  She
demanded no hearts; she craved no jewels, no flattery.  She warmed when
eyes told her she was beautiful; but she chilled whenever the lips took
up the speech, and voiced it.  She was one of those happy beings in
either sex who can amuse themselves, who can hold pleasant communion
with the inner self, who can find romance in old houses, and yet love
books, who prefer sunrises and sunsets at first hand, still loving a
good painting.

Perhaps this trend of character was the result of her inherited love of
the open.  With almost unlimited funds under her own hand, she lived
simply.  She was never happy in smart society, though it was always
making demands upon her.  When abroad, she was generally prowling
through queer little shops instead of mingling with the dress parades
on the grand-hotel terraces.  There was no great battle-field in Europe
she had not trod upon.  She knew them so well that she could people
each field with the familiar bright regiments, bayonets and sabers,
pikes and broadswords, axes and crossbowmen, matchlock and catapult,
rifles and cannon.

And what she did not know of naval warfare her father did.  They were
very companionable.  There was never any jealousy on the part of the
admiral.  Indeed, he was always grateful when some young man evinced a
deep regard for his daughter.  He would have her always, married or
unmarried.  He was rich enough, and the son-in-law should live with
him.  He was so assured of her good judgment, he knew that whenever
this son-in-law came along, there would be another man in the family.
He had long ceased to bother his head about the flylike buzzing of
fortune hunters.  He had been father and mother and brother to the
child, and with wisdom.

She smiled at her father, gave her hand to Fitzgerald, who found it
warm and moist from the ride, and glanced inquiringly at Breitmann.

"My dear," said her father, "this is Mr. Breitmann, my new secretary."

That gentleman bowed stiffly, and the scars faded somewhat when he
observed that her hand was extended in welcome.  This unconventionality
rather confused him, and as he took the hand he almost kissed it.  She
understood the innocence of the gesture, and saved him from
embarrassment by withdrawing the hand casually.

"I hope you will like it here," was the pleasant wish.

"Thank you, I shall."

"You are German?" quickly.

"I was born in Bavaria, Miss Killigrew."

"The name should have told me."  She excused herself.

"Oho!" thought Fitzgerald, with malicious exultancy.  "If she doesn't
interfere with your work!"

But with introspection, this exultancy grew suddenly dim.  How about
himself?  Yes.  Here was a question that would bear some close
inspection.  Was it really the wish to capture a supposable burglar?
He made short work of this analysis.  He never lied to others--not even
in his work, which every one knows is endowed with special licenses in
regard to truth--nor did he ever play the futile, if soothing, game of
lying to himself.  This girl was different from the ordinary run of
girls; she might become dangerous.  He determined then and there not to
prolong his visit more than three or four days; just to satisfy her
that there was no ghost in the chimney.  Then he would return to New
York.  He had no more right than Breitmann to fall in love with the
daughter of a millionaire.  Loving her was not impossible, but leaving
at an early day would go toward lessening the probability.  He was not
afraid of Breitmann; he was foreigner enough to accept at once his
place, and to appreciate that he and this girl stood at the two ends of
the world.

And Breitmann's mind, which had, up to this time, been deep and
unruffled as a pool, became strangely disturbed.

The time moved on to luncheon.  Breitmann took the part of listener,
and spoke only when addressed.

"I must tell you, Mr. Breitmann," said Laura, "that a ghost has
returned to us."

"A ghost?" interestedly.

"Yes.  My daughter," said the admiral tolerantly, "believes that she
hears strange noises at night, tapping, and such like."

"Oh!" politely.  Breitmann broke his bread idly.  It was too bad.  She
had not produced upon him the impression that she was the sort of woman
whose imagination embraced the belief in spirits.  "Where does this
ghost do its tapping?"

"In the big chimney in the library," she answered.

No one observed Breitmann's hand as it slid from the bread, some of
which was scattered upon the floor.  The scars, betraying emotion such
as no mental effort could control, deepened, which is to say that the
skin above and below them had paled.

"Might it not be some trial visit of your patron saint, Santa Claus?"
he inquired, his voice well under control.

"Really, it is no jest," she affirmed.  "For several nights I have
heard the noise distinctly; a muffled tapping inside the chimney."

"Suppose we inspect it after luncheon?" suggested Fitzgerald.

"It has been done," said the admiral.  Outwardly he was still
skeptical, but a doubt was forming in his mind.

"It will do no harm to try it again," said Breitmann.

If Fitzgerald noted the subdued excitement in the man's voice, he
charged it to the moment.

"Take my word for it," avowed the admiral, "you will find nothing.
Bring the coffee into the library," he added to the butler.

The logs were taken out of the fireplace, and as soon as the smoke
cleared the young men gave the inside of the chimney a thorough going
over.  They could see the blue sky away up above.  The opening was
large, but far too small for any human being to enter down it.  The
mortar between the bricks seemed for the most part undisturbed.
Breitmann made the first discovery of any importance.  Just above his
height, standing in the chimney itself, he saw a single brick
projecting beyond its mates.  He reached up, and shook it.  It was
loose.  He wrenched it out, and came back into the light.

"See!  Nothing less than a chisel could have cut the mortar that way.
Miss Killigrew is right."  He went back, and with the aid of the tongs
poked into the cavity.  The wall of bricks was four deep, yet the tongs
went through.  This business had been done from the other side.

"Well!" exclaimed the admiral, for once at loss for a proper phrase.

"You see, father?  I was right.  Now, what can it mean?  Who is digging
out the bricks, and for what purpose?  And how, with the alarms all
over the house, to account for the footprints in the flour?"

"It is quite likely that something is hidden in the chimney, and some
one knows that it is worth hunting for.  This chimney is the original,
I should judge."  Fitzgerald addressed this observation to the admiral.

"Never been touched during my time or my father's.  But we can soon
find out.  I'll have a man up here.  If there is anything in the
chimney that ought not to be there, he'll dig it out, and save our
midnight visitor any further trouble."

"Why not wait a little while?" Fitzgerald ventured.  "With Breitmann
and me in the house, we might trap the man."

"A good scheme!"

"He comes from the outside, somewhere; from the cellar, probably.  Let
us try the cellar."  Breitmann urged this with a gesture of his hands.

"There'll be sport," said Fitzgerald.

The coffee was cold in the little cups when they returned to it.  The
cellar, as far as any one could learn, was free from any signs of
recent invasion.  It was puzzling.

"And the servants?" Breitmann intimated.

"They have been in the family for years."  The admiral shook his head
convincedly.  "I ask your pardon, my dear.  My ears are not so keen as
might be.  I'm an old blockhead to think that you were having an attack
of ghosts.  But we'll solve the riddle shortly, and then we shan't have
any trouble with our alarm bells," with a significant glance at
Fitzgerald.  "Well, Mr. Breitmann, suppose we take a look at the work?
Laura, you show Mr. Fitzgerald the gardens.  The view from the terrace
is excellent."

Fine weather.  The orchard was pink with apple blossoms, giving the far
end of the park a tint not unlike Sicilian almonds in bloom.  And the
intermittent breeze, as it waned or strengthened, carried delicate
perfumes to and fro.  Yon was the sea, with well-defined horizon, and
down below were the few smacks and the white yacht Laura, formally
bowing to one another, or tossing their noses impudently; and, far
away, was the following trail of brown smoke from some ship which had
dropped down the horizon.

Fitzgerald, stood silent, musing, at the girl's side.  He was fond of
vistas.  There was rest in them, a peace not to be found even in the
twilight caverns of cathedrals; wind blowing over waters, the flutter
of leaves, the bend in the grasses.  To dwell in a haven like this.  No
care, no worry, no bother of grubbing about in one's pockets for
overlooked coins, no flush of excitement!  It is, after all, the
homeless man who answers quickest the beckon of wanderlust.  It is only
when he comes into the shelter of such a roof that he draws into his
heart the bitter truth of his loneliness.

"You must think me an odd girl."

"Pray why?"

"By the manner in which I brought you here."

"On the contrary, you are one of the few women I ever met who know
something about scoring a good joke.  Didn't your friend, Mrs.
Coldfield, know my mother; and wasn't your father a great friend of my
father's?  As for being odd, what about me?  I believe I stood on the
corner, and tried to sell plaster casts, just to win a foolish club
wager."

"Men can jest that way with impunity, but a woman may not.  Still, I
really couldn't help acting the way I did," with a tinkle in her voice
and a twinkle in her eyes.

"Convention is made up of many idiotic laws.  Why we feel obliged to
obey is beyond offhand study.  Of course, the main block is sensible;
it holds humanity together.  It's the irritating, burr-like amendments
that one rages against.  It's the same in politics.  Some clear-headed
fellow gets up and makes a just law.  His enemies and his friends alike
realize that if the law isn't passed there will be a roar from the
public.  So they pass the bill with amendments.  In other words, they
kill its usefulness.  I suppose that's why I am always happy to leave
convention behind, to be sent to the middle of Africa, to Patagonia, or
sign an agreement to go to the North Pole."

"The North Pole?  Have you been to the Arctic?"

"No; but I expect to go up in June with an Italian explorer."

"Isn't it terribly lonely up there?"

"It can't be worse than the Sahara or our own Death Valley.  One
extreme is as bad as the other.  Some time I hope your father will take
me along on one of those treasure hunts.  I should like to be in at the
finding of a pirate ship.  It would make a boy out of me again."

His eyes were very handsome when he smiled.  Boy? she thought.  He was
scarce more than that now.

"Pirates' gold!  What a lure it has been, is, and will be!  Blood
money, brrr!  I can see no pleasure in touching it.  And the poor,
pathetic trinkets, which once adorned some fair neck!  It takes a man's
mind to pass over that side of the picture, and see only the fighting.
But humanity has gone on.  The pirate is no more, and the highwayman is
a thing to laugh at."

"Thanks to railways and steamships.  It is beautiful here."

"We are nearly always here in the summer.  In the winter we cruise.
But this winter we remained at home.  It was splendid.  The snow was
deep, and often I joined the village children on their bobsleds.  I
made father ride down once.  He grumbled about making a fool of
himself.  After the first slide, I couldn't keep him off the hill.  He
wants to go to St. Moritz next winter."  She laughed joyously.

"I shall take the Arctic trip," he said to himself irrelevantly.

"Let us go and pick some apple blossoms.  They last such a little
while, and they are so pretty on the table.  So you were in Napoleon's
tomb that day?  I have cried over the king of Rome's toys.  Did Mr.
Breitmann receive those scars in battle?"

"Oh, no.  It was a phase of his student life in Munich.  But he has
been under fire.  He has had some hard luck."  He wanted to add:  "Poor
devil!"

She did not reply, but walked down the terrace steps to the path
leading to the orchard.  The sturdy, warty old trees leaned toward the
west, the single evidence of the years of punishment received at the
hands of the winter sea tempests.  It was a real orchard, composed of
several hundred trees, well kept, as evenly matched as might be, out of
weedless ground.  From some hidden bough, a robin voiced his happiness,
and yellowbirds flew hither and thither, and there was billing and
cooing and nesting.  Along the low stone wall a wee chipmunk scampered.

"What place do you like best in this beautiful old world?" she asked,
drawing down a snowy bough.  Some of the blossoms fell and lay
entrapped in her hair.

"This," he answered frankly.  She met his gaze quickly, and with
suspicion.  His face was smiling, but not so his eyes.  "Wherever I am,
if content, I like that place best.  And I am content here."

"You fought with Greece?"

"Yes."

"How that country always rouses our sympathies!  Isn't there a little
too much poetry and not enough truth about it?"

"There is.  I fought with the Greeks because I disliked them less than
the Turks."

"And Mr. Breitmann?"

He smiled.  "He fought with the Turks to chastise Greece, which he
loves."

"What adventures you two must have had!  To be on opposing sides, like
that!"

"Opposing newspapers.  The two angles of vision made our copy
interesting.  There was really no romance about it.  It was purely a
business transaction.  We offered our lives and our pencils for a
hundred a week and our expenses.  Rather sordid side to it, eh?  And a
fourth-rate order or two--"

"You were decorated?" excitedly.  "I am sure it was for bravery."

"Don't you believe it.  The king of Greece and the sultan both
considered the honor conferred upon us as good advertising."

"You are laughing."

"Well, war in the Balkans is generally a laughing matter.  Sounds
brutal, I know, but it is true."

"I know," gaily.  "You are conceited, and are trying to make me believe
that you are modest."

"A bull's-eye!"

"And this Mr. Breitmann has been decorated for valor?  And yet to-day
he becomes my father's private secretary.  The two do not connect."

"May I ask you to mention nothing of this to him?  It would embarrass
him.  I had no business to bring him into it."

She grew meditative, brushing her lips with the blossoms.  "He will be
something of a mystery.  I am not overfond of mysteries outside of book
covers."

"There is really no mystery; but it is human for a man in his position
to wish to bury his past greatness."

By and by the sun touched the southwest shoulder of the hill, and the
two strolled back to the house.

From his window, Breitmann could see them plainly.

"Damn those scars!" he murmured, striking with his fist the disfigured
cheek, which upon a time had been a source of pride and honor.  "Damn
them!"




CHAPTER IX

THEY DRESS FOR DINNER

Breitmann watched them as long as he could.  There was no jealousy in
his heart, but there was bitterness, discontent, a savage
self-pillorying.  He was genuinely sorry that this young woman was so
pretty; still, had she the graces of Calypso, he must have come.  She
would distract him, and he desired at that time distraction least of
all diversions.  Concentration and singleness of purpose--upon these
two attributes practically hung his life.  How strangely fate had
stepped with him.  What if there had not been that advertisement for a
private secretary?  How then should he have gained a footing in this
house?  Well, here he was, and speculation was of no value, save in a
congratulatory sense.  The fly in the amber was the presence of the
young American; Fitzgerald, shrewd and clever, might stumble upon
something.  Well, till against that time!

His room was pleasant, a corner which gave two excellent views, one of
the sea and the other of the orchard.  There was no cluttering of
furniture; it was simple, substantial, decently old.  On the plain
walls were some choice paintings.  A landscape by Constable, a water
color by Fortuny, and a rough sketch by Détaille; and the inevitable
marines, such as one might expect in the house of a fighting sailor.
He examined these closely, and was rather pleased to find them valuable
old prints.  And, better to his mind than all these, was the deft,
mysterious touch or suggestion of a woman's hand.  He saw it in the
pillows on the lounge, in the curtains dropping from the windows, in
the counterpane on the old four-poster.

Did Americans usually house their private secretaries in rooms fit for
guests of long and intimate acquaintance?  Ah, yes; this sailor was a
rich man; and this mansion had not been erected yesterday.  It amused
him to think that these walls and richly polished floors were older
than the French revolution.  It seemed incredible, but it was true.

"Pirates!"  His laughter broke forth, not loudly but deeply, fired by a
broad and ready sense of humor--a perilous gift for a man who is
seeking fine hazards.  It was droll, it was even fantastic.  To cruise
about the world in search of pirate treasures, as if there remained a
single isle, shore, promontory, known to have been the haunt of
pirates, which had not been dug up and dug up again!  And here, under
the very hand----  He struck his palms.  "Why not?"

He ran to the window.  The sleek white yacht lay tugging at her cables,
like an eager hound in the leash.  "Seaworthy from stem to stern.  Why
not?  No better cloak than this.  I may not make you a good secretary,
admiral; but, the gods propitious, I can, if needs say must, take you
treasure hunting.  It will be a fine stroke.  Is it possible that
fortune begins to smile on me at last?  Well, I have had the patience
to wait.  The hour has come, and fortune shall not find me laggard.  It
has been something to wait as I have, never to have spoken, never to
have forgotten.  France knows and Germany knows, but only me, not what
I have.  They have even tried to drive me to crime.  Wait, fools, wait!"

He drew his arms tightly over his heaving breast, for he was deeply
moved, while over his face came that indefinable light which, at times,
illuminates the countenance of a great man.  It came and went; as a
flash of lightning betrays the oncoming storm.

The chimney!  His heart missed a beat.  He had forgotten the chimney.
The reaction affected him like a blow.  A snarl twisted his mouth.
What was this chimney to any other man?  Only he of all men, knew.  And
yet, here was some one stealthily at work, forestalling him, knocking
the bottom out of his great dream.  There was nothing pleasant in the
growing expression an his face; it was the tiger, waking.  There could
be only one way.

Swiftly he dashed to his trunk, knelt and examined the lock, unscrewed
it, and took out the documents more precious to him than the treasures
of a hundred Captain Kidds.  Instantly, he returned to the window.
Nothing was missing.  But here was something he had never noticed
before.  On the face of the slip of parchment--a diagram, dim and
faded--was an oily thumb-mark.  The oil from the lock; nothing more;
doubtless he himself had touched it.  How many times had he found an
unknown touch among his few belongings?  How often had he smiled?
Still, to quell all rising doubts, he rubbed his right thumb on the
lock, and made a second impression.  The daylight was now insufficient,
so he turned on the electricity, and compared them.  Slowly, the scars
deepened till they were the tint of cedar.  Death's head itself could
not have fascinated him more than the dissimilarity of these two
thumb-prints.  He said nothing, but a queer little strangling sound
came through his lips.

Who?  Where?  His heart beat so violently that the veins in his throat
swelled and threatened to burst.  But he was no weakling.  He summoned
all his will.  He must act, and act at once, immediately.

Fitzgerald?  No, not that clever, idling fool.  But who, who?  He
replaced the papers and the lock.  A hidden menace.  Question as he
would, there was never any answer.

He practised the pleasant deceit that the first mark had been there
when the diagram had been given to him.  It was not possible that any
one had discovered his hiding-place.  Had he not with his own hands
contrived it, alone and without aid, under that accursed mansard roof?
Not one of his co-adventurers knew; they had advanced him funds on his
word.  His other documents they had seen; these had sufficed them.
Still, back it came, with deadly insistence; some one was digging at
the bricks in the chimney.  The drama was beginning to move.  Had he
waited too long?

Mechanically, he proceeded to dress for dinner.  Since he was to sit at
the family table, he must fit his dress and manners to the hour.  He
did not resist the sardonic smile as he put on his fresh patent
leathers and his new dinner coat.  He recalled Fitzgerald's
half-concealed glances of pity the last time they had dined together.

In the room across the corridor, Fitzgerald was busy with a similar
occupation.  The only real worry he had was the doubt of his luggage
arriving before he left.  He had neither tennis clothes nor
riding-habit, and these two pastimes were here among the regular events
of the day.  The admiral both played and rode with his daughter.  She
was altogether too charming.  Had she been an ordinary society girl, he
would have stayed his welcome threadbare perhaps.  But, he repeated,
she was not ordinary.  She had evidently been brought up with few
illusions.  These she possessed would always be hers.

The world, in a kindly but mistaken spirit, fosters all sorts of
beliefs in the head of a child.  True, it makes childhood happy, but it
leaves its skin tender.  The moment a girl covers her slippers with
skirts and winds her hair about the top of her curious young head,
things begin to jar.  The men are not what she dreamed them to be,
there never was such a person as Prince Charming; and the women embrace
her--if she is pretty and graceful--with arms bristling with needles of
envy and malice; and the rosal tint that she saw in the approach is
nothing more or less than jaundice; and, one day disheartened and
bewildered, she learns that the world is only a jumble of futile,
ill-made things.  The admiral had weeded out most of these illusions at
the start.

"So much for suppositions and analysis," panted Fitzgerald, reknotting
his silk tie.  "As for me, I go to the Arctic; cold, but safe.  I have
never fallen in love.  I have enjoyed the society of many women, and to
some I've been silly enough to write, but I have never been maudlin.
I'm no fool.  This is the place where it would be most likely to
happen.  Let us beat an orderly retreat.  What the devil ails my
fingers to-night?  M'h!  There; will you stay tied as I want you?  She
has traveled, she has studied, she is at home with grand dukes in Nice,
and scribblers in a country village.  She is wise without being solemn.
She has courage, too, or I should not be here on a mere fluke.  Now, my
boy, you have given yourself due notice.  Take care!"

He slipped his coat over his shoulders--and passably sturdy ones they
were--and took a final look into the glass.  Not for vanity's sake;
sometimes a man's tie will show above the collar of his coat.

"Hm!  I'll wager the trout are rising about this time."  He imitated a
cast which was supposed to land neatly in the corner.  "Ha!  Struck you
that time, you beauty!"  All of which proved to himself, conclusively,
that he was in normal condition.  "I should get a wire to-morrow about
Breitmann.  I hate to do anything that looks underhand, but he puzzles
me.  There was something about the chimney to-day; I don't know what.
This is no place for him--nor for me, either," was the shrewd
supplement.

There was still some time before dinner, so he walked about, with his
hands in his pockets, and viewed the four walls of his room.  He
examined the paints and admired the collection of blood-thirsty old
weapons over the mantel, but with the indirect interest of a man who is
thinking of other things.  At the end, he paused before the window,
which, like the one in Breitmann's room, afforded a clear outlook to
the open waters.  Night was already mistress of the sea; and below, the
village lights twinkled from various points.

Laura tried on three gowns, to the very great surprise of her maid.
Usually her mistress told her in the morning what to lay out for
dinner.  Here there were two fine-looking young men about, and yet she
was for selecting the simplest gown of the three.  The little French
maid did not understand the reason, nor at that moment could her
mistress have readily explained.  It was easy to dress for the critical
eyes of rich young men, officers, gentlemen with titles; all that was
required was a fresh Parisian model, some jewels, and a bundle of
orchids or expensive roses.  But these two men belonged to a class she
knew little of; gentlemen adventurers, who had been in strange,
unfrequented places, who had helped to make history, who received
decorations, and never wore them, who remained to the world at large
obscure and unknown.

So, with that keen insight which is a part of a well-bred, intelligent
woman--and also rather inexplicable to the male understanding--she
chose the simplest gown.  She was hazily conscious that they would
notice this dress, whereas the gleaming satin would have passed as a
matter of fact.  Round her graceful throat she placed an Indian
turquoise necklace; nothing in her hair, nothing on her fingers.  She
went down-stairs perfectly content.

As she came into the hall, she heard soft music.  Some one was in the
music-room, which was just off the library.  She stopped to listen.
Chopin, with light touch and tender feeling.  Which of the two
wanderers was it?  Quietly, she moved along to the door.  Breitmann;
she rather expected to find him.  Nearly all educated Germans played.
The music stopped for a moment, then resumed.  Another melody followed,
a melody she had heard from one end of France to the other.  She
frowned, not with displeasure, but with puzzlement.  For what purpose
did a soldier of the German empire play the battle hymn of the French
republic?  The Marseillaise?  She entered the music-room, and the low
but vibrant chords ceased instantly.  Breitmann had been playing these
melodies standing.  He turned quickly.

"I beg your pardon," he said, but perfectly free from embarrassment.

"I am very fond of music myself.  Please play whenever the mood comes
to you.  The Marseillaise--"

"Ah!" he interrupted, laughing.  "There was a bit of traitor in my
fingers just then.  But music should have no country; it should be
universal."

"Perhaps, generally speaking; but every land should have an anthem of
its own.  The greatest composition of Beethoven or Wagner will never
touch the heart as the ripple of a battle song."

And when Fitzgerald joined them they were seriously discussing Wagner
and his ill-treatment in Munich, and of the mad king of Bavaria.

As she had planned, both men noticed the simplicity of her dress.

"It is because she doesn't care," thought Breitmann.

"It is because she knows we don't care," thought Fitzgerald.  And he
was nearer the truth than Breitmann.

The dinner was pleasant, and there was much talk of travel.  The
admiral had touched nearly every port, Fitzgerald had been round three
times, and Breitmann four.  The girl experienced a sense of elation as
she listened.  She knew most of her father's stories, but to-night he
drew upon a half-forgotten store.  Without embellishment, as if they
were ordinary, every-day affairs, they exchanged tales of adventure in
strange island wildernesses; and there were lion hunts and man hunts
and fierce battles on land and sea.  Never had any story-book opened a
like world.  She felt a longing for the Himalayas, the Indian jungles,
the low-lying islands of the South Pacific.

So far as the admiral was concerned, he was very well pleased with the
new secretary.


Fitzgerald was not asleep.  He had an idea, and he smoked his yellow
African gourd pipe till this same idea shaped itself into the form of a
resolve.  He laid the pipe on the mantel, turned over the logs--for the
nights were yet chill, and a fire was a comfort--and raised a window.
He would like to hear some of that tapping in the chimney.  He was
fully dressed, excepting that he had exchanged shoes for slippers.

He went out into the corridor.  There was no light under Breitmann's
door.  So much the better; he was asleep.  Fitzgerald crept down the
stairs with the caution of a hunter who is trailing new game.  As he
arrived at the turn of the first landing, he hesitated.  He could hear
the old clock striking off the seconds in the lower hall.  He cupped
his ear.  By George!  Joining the sharp monotony of the clock was
another sound, softer, intermittent.  He was certain that it came from
the library.  That door was never closed.  Click-click!  Click-click!
The mystery was close at hand.

He moved forward.  He wanted to get as close as possible to the
fireplace.  He peered in.  The fire was all but dead; only the corner
of a log glowed dully.  Suddenly, the glow died, only to reappear,
unchanged.  This phenomena could be due to one thing, a passing of
something opaque.  Fitzgerald had often seen this in camps, when some
one's legs passed between him and the fire.  Some one else was in the
room.  With a light bound, he leaped forward, to find himself locked in
a pair of arms no less vigorous than his own.

And even in that lively moment he remembered that the sound in the
chimney went on!




CHAPTER X

THE GHOST OF AN OLD RÉGIME

It was a quick, silent struggle.  The intruder wore no shoes.  It would
be a test of endurance.  Fitzgerald recalled some tricks he had learned
in Japan; but even as he stretched out his arm to perform one, the arm
was caught by the wrist, while a second hand passed under his elbow.

"Don't!" he gasped lowly.  "I'll give in."  His arm would have snapped
if he hadn't spoken.

A muttered oath in German.  "Fitzgerald?" came the query, in a whisper.

"Yes.  For God's sake, is this you, Breitmann?"

"Sh!  Not so loud!  What are you doing here?"

"And you?"

"Listen!  It has stopped.  He has heard our scuffling."

"It seems, then, that we are both here for the same purpose?" said
Fitzgerald, pulling down his cuffs, and running his fingers round his
collar.

"Yes.  You came too late or too soon."  Breitmann stooped, and ran his
hands over the rug.

The other saw him but dimly.  "What's the matter?"

"I have lost one of my studs," with the frugal spirit of his mother's
forebears.  "You are stronger than I thought."

"Much obliged."

"It's a good thing you did not get that hold first.  You'd have broken
my arm."

"Wouldn't have given in, eh?  I simply cried quits in order to start
over again.  There's no fair fighting in the dark, you know."

"Well, we have frightened him away.  It is too bad."

"What have you on your feet?"

"Felt slippers."

"Are you afraid of the cold?"

A laugh.  "Not I!"

"Come with me."

"Where?"

"First to the cellar.  Remember that hot-air box from the furnace, that
backs the chimney, way up?"

"I looked only at the bricks."

"We'll go and have a look at that box.  It just occurred to me that
there is a cellar window within two feet of that box."

"Let us hurry.  Can you find the way?"

"I can try."

"But lights?"

Fitzgerald exhibited his electric pocket lamp.  "This will do."

"You Americans!"

After some mistakes they found their way to the cellar.  The window was
closed, but not locked, and resting against the wall was a plank.  It
leaned obliquely, as if left in a hurry.  Fitzgerald took it up, and
bridged between the box and the window ledge.  Breitmann gave him a leg
up, and in another moment he was examining the brick wall of the great
chimney under a circular white patch of light.  A dozen rows of bricks
had been cleverly loosened.  There were also evidences of chalk marks,
something on the order of a diagram; but it was rather uncertain, as it
had been redrawn four or five times.  The man hadn't been sure of his
ground.

"Can you see?" asked Fitzgerald.

"Yes."  Only Breitmann himself knew what wild rage lay back of that
monosyllable.  He was sure now; that diagram brushed away any lingering
doubt.  The lock had been trifled with, but the man who had done the
work had not been sure of his dimensions.

"Clever piece of work.  Took away the mortar in his pockets; no sign of
it here.  The admiral had better send for his bricklayer, for more
reasons than one.  There'll be a defective flue presently.  Now, what
the devil is the duffer expecting to find?" Fitzgerald coolly turned
the light full into the other's face.

"It is beyond me," with equal coolness; "unless there's a pirate's
treasure behind there."  The eyes blinked a little, which was but
natural.

"Pirate's treasure, you say?" Fitzgerald laughed.  "That would be a
joke, eh?"

"What now?"  For Breitmann thought it best to leave the initiative with
his friend.

"A little run out to the stables," recalling to mind the rumor of the
night before.

"The stables?"

"Why, surely.  The fellow never got in here without some local
assistance, and I am rather certain that this comes from the stables.
Besides, no one will be expecting us."  He came down agilely.

Breitmann nodded approvingly at the ease with which the other made the
descent.  "It would be wiser to leave the cellar by the window," he
suggested.

"My idea, too.  We'll make a step out of this board.  The stars are
bright enough."  Fitzgerald climbed out first, and then gave a hand to
Breitmann.

"I understood there was a burglar alarm in the house."

"Yes; but this very window, being open, probably breaks the circuit.
All cleverly planned.  But I'm crazy to learn what he is looking for.
Double your coat over your white shirt."

Breitmann was already proceeding with this task.  A dog-trot brought
them into the roadway, but they kept to the grass.  They were within a
yard of the stable doors when a hound began bellowing.  Breitmann
smothered a laugh and Fitzgerald a curse.

"The quicker we get back to the cellar the better," was the former's
observation.

And they returned at a clip, scrambling into the cellar as quickly and
silently as they could, and made for the upper floors.

"Come into my room," said Fitzgerald; "it's only midnight."

Breitmann agreed.  If he had any reluctance, he did not show it.
Fitzgerald produced cigars.

"Do my clothes look anything like yours?" asked Breitmann dryly,
striking a match.

"Possibly."

They looked themselves over for any real damage.  There were no rents,
but there were cobwebs on the wool and streaks of coal dust on the
linen.

"We shall have to send our clothes to the village tailor.  The
admiral's valet might think it odd."

"Where do you suppose he comes from?"

"I don't care where.  What's he after, to take all this trouble?
Something big, I'll warrant."

And then, for a time, they smoked like Turks, in silence.

"By George, it's a good joke; you and I trying to choke each other,
while the real burglar makes off."

"It has some droll sides."

"And you all but broke my arm."

Breitmann chuckled.  "You were making the same move.  I was quicker,
that was all."

Another pause.

"The admiral has seen some odd corners.  Think of seeing, at close
range, the Japanese-Chinese naval fight!"

"He tells a story well."

"And the daughter is a thoroughbred."

"Yes," non-committally.

"By the way, I'm going to the Pole in June or August."

"The Italian expedition?"

"Yes."

"That ought to make fine copy.  You will not mind if I turn in?  A bit
sleepy."

"Not at all.  Shall we tell the admiral?"

"The first thing in the morning.  Good night."

Fitzgerald finished his cigar, and went to bed also.  "Interesting old
place," wadding a pillow under his ear.  "More interesting to-morrow."

Some time earlier, the individual who was the cause of this nocturnal
exploit hurried down the hill, nursing a pair of skinned palms, and
laughing gently to himself.

"Checkmate!  I shall try the other way."

On the morrow, Fitzgerald recounted the adventure in a semi-humorous
fashion, making a brisk melodrama out of it, to the quiet amusement of
his small audience.

"I shall send for the mason this morning," said the admiral.  "I've
been dreaming of The Black Cat and all sorts of horrible things.  I
hate like sixty to spoil the old chimney, but we can't have this going
on.  We'll have it down at once.  A fire these days is only a nice
touch to the mahogany."

"But you must tell him to put back every brick in its place," said
Laura.  "I could not bear to have anything happen to that chimney.  All
the same, I am glad the matter is going to be cleared up.  It has been
nerve-racking; and I have been all alone, waiting for I know not what."

"You haven't been afraid?" said Fitzgerald.

"I'm not sure that I haven't."  She sighed.

"Nonsense!" cried the admiral.

"I am not afraid of anything I can see; but I do not like the dark; I
do not like mysteries."

"You're the bravest girl I know, Laura," her father declared.  "Now,
Mr. Breitmann, if you don't mind."

"Shall we begin at once, sir?"

"You will copy some of my notes, to begin with.  Any time you're in
doubt over a word, speak to me.  There will not be much outside of
manuscript work.  Most of my mail is sorted at my bankers, and only
important letters forwarded.  There may be a social note occasionally.
Do you read and write English as well as you speak it?"

"Oh, yes."

Laura invited Fitzgerald to the tennis court.

"In these shoes?" he protested.

"They will not matter; it is a cement court."

"But I shan't look the game.  Tennis without flannels is like duck
without apples."

"Bother!  We'll play till the mason comes up.  And mind your game.
I've been runner-up in a dozen tournaments."

And he soon found that she had not overrated her skill.  She served
strongly, volleyed beautifully, and darted across the court with a
fleetness and a surety both delightful to observe.  So interested were
they in the battle that they forgot all about the mason, till the
butler came out, and announced that the desecration had begun.

In fact the broad marble top was on the floor, and the room full of
impalpable dust.  The admiral and the secretary were gravely stacking
