
"It isn't refined, dad," said Kitty.

He sent a searching glance at her; he never was sure when that girl was
laughing.  "Fiddle-sticks!  For four months now I've been shopping
every day with you women, and you can't tell me prize-fights are
brutal."

Crawford applauded gently.

"By the way, Crawford, you know something about direct charity."
Killigrew threw back his rug and sat up.  "I've got an idea.  What's
the use of giving checks to hospitals and asylums and colleges, when
you don't know whether the cash goes right or wrong?  I'm going to let
Molly here start a home-bureau to keep her from voting; a lump sum
every year to give away as she pleases.  I'm strong for giving boys
college education.  Smooths 'em out; gives them a start in life; that
is, if they are worth anything at the beginning.  Like this: back the
boy and screw up his honor and interest by telling him that you expect
to be paid back when the time comes.  There's no better charity in the
world than making a man of a boy, making him want to stand on his own
feet, independent.  When you help inefficient people, you throw your
money away.  What do you think of the idea?"

"A first-rate one.  I'd like to come in."

"No; this is all my own and Molly's.  But how'll I start her off?"

"Get an efficient young man to act as private secretary; a fairly good
accountant; no rich man's son, but some one who has had a chance to
observe life.  Make him a buffer between Mrs. Killigrew and the whining
cheats.  And above all, no young man who has social entr√©e to your
house.  That kind of a private secretary is always a fizzle."

"Any one in mind?"

"No."

"I have," said Kitty, rising and going toward the companion-ladder to
the lower decks.

"What now?" demanded Killigrew.

"Let her be; Kitty has a sensible head on her shoulders, for all her
foolery."  Mrs. Killigrew laid a restraining hand on her husband's arm.

But Mrs. Crawford smiled a replica of that smile which had aroused her
curiosity in regard to Kitty.  And then her face grew serious.

Kitty had a mind like her father's.  Her ideas were seldom nebulous or
slow in forming.  They sprang forth, full grown, like those
mythological creatures: Minerva was an idea of Jove's, as doubtless
Venus was an idea of Neptune's.  Men with this quality become
captains-general of armies or of money-bags.  In a man it signifies
force; in a woman, charm.

Kitty searched diligently and found the object of her quest on the
main-deck, starboard, leaning against one of the deck supports and
reading from a book which lay flat on the broad teak rail, in a blue
shadow.  The sea smiled at Kitty and Kitty smiled at the sea.  Men are
not the only adventurers; they have no monopoly on daring.  And what
Kitty proposed doing was daring indeed, for she did not know into what
dangers it might eventually lead her.

"Mr. Webb?"

Thomas looked up.  "You are wanting me, miss?"

"If you are not too busy."

"Really, no.  I have been reading."  He closed the book, loose-leafed
from frequent perusals.  "I am at your service."

"Do you read much, Mr. Webb?"

The reiteration of the prefix to his name awakened him to the marvelous
fact that for the present he was no longer the machine; she was
recognizing the man.

"Perhaps, for a man in my station, I read too much, Miss Killigrew."

Kitty's scarlet lips stirred ever so slightly.  It was the first time
he had added the name to the prefix: he in his turn was recognizing the
woman.  And this rather pleased her, for she liked to be recognized.

"May I ask what it is you are reading?"

He offered the book to her.  Morte d'Arthur.  Kitty's eyebrows, a
hundred years or more ago, would have stirred to tender lyrics the
quills of Prior and Lovelace and Suckling: arched when interested, a
funny little twist to the inner points when angered, and when laughter
possessed her. . . .  Let Thomas indite the sonnet!  Just now they were
widely arched.

"I am very fond of the book," explained Thomas diffidently.  "I love
the pompous gallantry of these fairy chaps.  How politely they used to
hack each other into pieces!"

"Are you by chance a university man?"

"No.  I am self-educated, if one may call it that.  My father was a
fellow at Trinity.  For myself, I have always had to work."

"Do you like your present occupation?"

"It was the best I could find."  How he would have liked to throw
discretion to the winds and tell her the whole miserable story!

"Are you good at accounting?"

"Fairly."  What was all this about?  He began to riffle the leaves of
the book, restively.

"Could you tell an honest man from a dishonest one?"

"I believe so."  Thomas had eyebrows, too, but he did not know how to
use them properly.  Tell an honest man from a dishonest one, forsooth!

Kitty found the situation less easy than she had anticipated.  The more
questions she asked, the more embarrassed she grew; and it angered her
because there was no clear reason why she should become embarrassed.
And she also remarked his uneasiness.  However, she went on
determinedly.

"Have you ever had any contact with real poverty?"

"Yes,"--close-lipped.  "Pardon me, Miss Killigrew, but . . ."

"Just a moment, Mr. Webb," she interrupted.  "I dare say my questions
seem impertinent, but they have a purpose back of them.  My mother and
I are looking for a private secretary for a charitable concern which we
are going to organize shortly.  We desire some one who is educated, who
will be capable of guarding us from persons not worthy of benefactions,
who will make recommendations, seek into the affairs of those
considered worthy.  We shall, of course, expect to find room for you.
It will not be a chatter-tea-drinking affair.  You will have the
evenings to yourself and all of Sundays.  The salary will be two
hundred a month."

"Pounds?" gasped Thomas.

"Oh, no; dollars.  I do not expect your answer at this moment.  You
must have time to think it over."

"It is not necessary, Miss Killigrew."

"You decline?"

"On the contrary, I accept with a good deal of gratitude.  On
condition," he added gravely.

"And that?"

"You will ask me no questions regarding my past."

Kitty looked squarely into his eyes and he returned the glance steadily
and calmly.

"Very well; I accept the condition,"

Thomas was mightily surprised.




CHAPTER VIII

He had put forward this condition, perfectly sure that she would refuse
to accept it.  He could not understand.

"You accept that condition?"

"Yes."  Having gone thus far with her plot, Kitty would have died
rather than retreated; Irish temperament.

Thomas was moved to a burst of confidence.  "I know that I am poor, and
to the best of my belief, honest.  Moreover, perhaps I should be
compelled by the exigencies of circumstance to leave you after a few
months.  I am not a rich man, masquerading for the sport of it; I am
really poor and grateful for any work.  It is only fair that I should
tell you this much, that I am running away from no one.  Beyond the
fact that I am the son of a very great but unknown scholar, a farmer of
mediocre talents who lost his farm because he dreamed of humanity
instead of cabbages, I have nothing to say."  He said it gravely,
without pride or veiled hauteur.

"That is frank enough," replied Kitty, curiously stirred.  "You will
not find us hard task-masters.  Be here this afternoon at three.  My
father will wish to talk to you.  And be as frank with him as you have
been with me."

She smiled and nodded brightly, and turned away.  He had a glimpse of a
tan shoe and a slim tan-silk ankle, which poised birdlike above the
high doorsill; and then she vanished into the black shadow of the
companionway.  She afterward confessed to me that her sensation must
have been akin to that of a boy who had stolen an apple and beaten the
farmer in the race to the road.

We all make the mistake of searching for our drama, forgetting that it
arrives sooner or later, unsolicited.

Bewitched.  Thomas should have been the happiest man alive, but the
devil had recruited him for his miserables.  Her piquant face no longer
confronting and bewildering him, he saw this second net into which he
had permitted himself to be drawn.  As if the first had not been
colossal enough!  Where would it all end?  Private secretary and two
hundred the month--forty pounds--this was a godsend.  But to take her
orders day by day, to see her, to be near her. . . .  Poverty-stricken
wretch that he was, he should have declined.  Now he could not; being a
simple Englishman, he had given his word and meant to abide by it.
There was one glimmer of hope; her father.  He was a practical merchant
and would not permit a man without a past (often worse than a man with
one) to enter his establishment.

Thomas was not in love with Kitty.  (Indeed, this isn't a love story at
all.)  Stewards, three days out, are not in the habit of falling in
love with their charges (Maundering and Drool notwithstanding).  He was
afraid of her; she vaguely alarmed him; that was all.

For seven years he had dwelt in his "third floor back"; had breakfasted
and dined with two old maids, their scrawny niece, and a muscular young
stenographer who shouted militant suffrage and was not above throwing a
brickbat whenever the occasion arrived.  There was a barmaid or two at
the pub where he lunched at noon; but chaff was the alpha and omega of
this acquaintance.  Thus, Thomas knew little or nothing of the sex.

The women with whom he conversed, played the gallant, the hero, the
lover (we none of us fancy ourselves as rogues!) were those who peopled
his waking dreams.  She was La Belle Isoude, Elaine, Beatrice,
Constance; it all depended upon what book he had previously been
reading.  It is when we men are confronted with the living picture of
some one of our dreams of them that women cease to dwell in the
abstract and become issues, to be met with more or less trepidation.
Back among some of his idle dreams there had been a Kitty, blue-eyed,
black-haired, slender and elfish.

Kitty sat down in her chair.  "Well," she said, "I have found him."

"Found whom?" asked Mrs. Crawford.

"The private secretary."

"What?"  Killigrew swung his feet to the deck.  "What the dickens have
you been doing now?  Who is it?"

"Webb."

"The steward?"

"Yes."

"Well, if that . . ." began Killigrew belligerently.

"Dad, either mother and I act as we please, or you may attend to the
home-bureau yourself.  Mother, it was agreed and understood that I
should select any employee we might happen to need."

"It was, my dear."

"Very good.  I want some one who will attend to the affairs honestly
and painstakingly.  There must be no idler about the house; and any
young man . . ."

"Wouldn't an old one do?" suggested Killigrew.

"Whose set ideas would clash constantly with ours.  And any young man
we know would idle and look on the whole affair as a fine joke.  I've
had a talk with Webb.  He's not a university man, but he's educated.  I
found him reading Morte d'Arthur."

"Ah!"--from Crawford.

"He became a steward because he could find nothing else to do at the
present time.  He has been poor, and I dare say he has known the pinch
of poverty.  You said only this morning, dad, that he was the most
attentive steward you had ever met on shipboard.  Besides, there is a
case in point.  Our butler was a steward before you engaged him, six
years ago."

Killigrew began to smile.  "How much have you offered him as a salary?"

"Two hundred a month, to be paid out of the funds."

"Janet," said Crawford, "it's a good thing I'm married, or I'd apply
for the post myself."

"All right," agreed Killigrew; "a bargain's a bargain."

"A wager's a wager," thought Kitty.

"If you wake up some fine morning and find the funds gone . . ."

"Mother and I will attend to all checks, such as they are."

"Kitty, any day you say I'll take you into the firm as chief counsel.
But before I approve of your selection, I'd like to have a talk with
our friend Webb."

"He expects it.  You are to see him on the main-deck at three this
afternoon."

"Molly, how long have we been married?"

"Thirty years, Daniel."

"How old is Kitty?"

"Mother!"

"Twenty-two," answered Mrs. Killigrew relentlessly.

"Well, I was going to say that I've learned more about the Killigrew
family in these four months of travel than in all those years together."

"Something more than ornaments," suggested Kitty dryly.

"Yes, indeed," replied her father amiably.

And when he returned to the boat-deck that afternoon for tea (which, by
the way, he never drank, being a thorough-going coffee merchant), he
said to Kitty: "You win on points.  If Webb doesn't pan out, why, we
can discharge him.  I'll take a chance at a man who isn't afraid to
look you squarely in the eyes."

At the precise time when Kitty retired and Thomas went aft for his good
night pipe--eleven o'clock at sea and nine in New York--Haggerty found
himself staring across the street at an old-fashioned house.  Like the
fisherman who always returns to the spot where he lost the big one, the
detective felt himself drawn toward this particular dwelling.  Crawford
did not live there any more; since his marriage he had converted it
into a private museum.  It was filled with mummies and cartonnages,
ancient pottery and trinkets.

What a game it had been!  A hundred thousand in precious gems, all
neatly packed away in the heels of Crawford's old shoes!  And where was
that man Mason?  Would he ever return?  Oh, well; he, Haggerty, had got
his seven thousand in rewards; he was living now like a nabob up in the
Bronx.  He had no real cause to regret Mason's advent or his escape.
Yet, deep in his heart burned the chagrin of defeat: his man had got
away, and half the game (if you're a true hunter) was in putting your
hand on a man's shoulder and telling him to "Come along."

He crossed the street and entered the, alley and gazed up at the
fire-escape down which Mason had made his escape.  What impelled the
detective to leap up and catch the lower bars of the ground-ladder he
could not have told you.  He pulled himself up and climbed to the
window.

Open!

Haggerty had nerves like steel wires, but a slight shiver ran down his
spine.  Open, and Crawford yet on the high seas.  He waited, listening
intently.  Not a sound of any sort came to his ears.  He stepped inside
courageously and slipped with his back to the wall, where he waited,
holding his breath.

Click!  It seemed to come from his right.

"Come out o' that!" he snarled.  "No monkey-business, or I'll shoot."

He flashed his pocket-lamp toward the sound, and aimed.

A blow on the side of the head sent the detective crashing against a
cartonnage, and together the quick and the dead rolled to the floor.
Instinctively Haggerty turned on his back, aimed at the window and
fired.

Too late!




CHAPTER IX

When the constellation, which was not included among the accepted
theories of Copernicus, passed away, Haggerty sat up and rubbed the
swelling over his ear, tenderly yet grimly.  Next, he felt about the
floor for his pocket-lamp.  A strange spicy dust drifted into his nose
and throat, making him sneeze and cough.  A mummy had reposed in the
overturned cartonnage and the brittle bindings had crumbled into
powder.  He soon found the lamp, and sent its point of vivid white
light here and there about the large room.

Pursuit of his assailant was out of the question.  Haggerty was not
only hard of head but shrewd.  So he set about the accomplishment of
the second best course, that of minute and particular investigation.
Some one had entered this deserted house: for what?  This, Haggerty
must find out.  He was fairly confident that the intruder did not know
who had challenged him; on the other hand, there might be lying around
some clue to the stranger's identity.

Was there light in the house, fluid in the wires?  If so he would be
saved the annoyance of exploring the house by the rather futile aid of
the pocket-lamp, which stood in need of a fresh battery.  He searched
for the light-button and pressed it, hopefully.  The room, with all its
brilliantly decorated antiquities, older than Rome, older than Greece,
blinded Haggerty for a space.

"Ain't that like these book chaps?" Haggerty murmured.  "T' go away
without turning off th' meter!"

The first thing Haggerty did was to scrutinize the desk which stood
near the center of the room.  A film of dust lay upon it.  Not a mark
anywhere.  In fact, a quarter of an hour's examination proved to
Haggerty's mind that nothing in this room had been disturbed except the
poor old mummy.  He concluded to leave that gruesome object where it
lay.  Nobody but Crawford would know how to put him back in his box,
poor devil.  Haggerty wondered if, after a thousand years, some one
would dig him up!

Through all the rooms on this floor he prowled, but found nothing.  He
then turned his attention to the flight of stairs which led to the
servants' quarters.  Upon the newel-post lay the fresh imprint of a
hand.  Haggerty went up the stairs in bounds.  There were nine rooms on
this floor, two connecting with baths.  In one of these latter rooms he
saw a trunk, opened, its contents carelessly scattered about the floor.
One by one he examined the garments, his heart beating quickly.  Not a
particle of dust on them; plenty of finger-prints on the trunk.  It had
been opened this very night--by one familiar, either at first-hand or
by instruction.  He had come for something in that trunk.  What?

From garret to cellar, thirty rooms in all; nothing but the hand-print
on the newel-post and the opened trunk.  Haggerty returned to the
museum, turned out all the lights except that on the desk, and sat down
on a rug so as not to disturb the dust on the chairs.  The man might
return.  It was certain that he, Haggerty, would come back on the
morrow.  He was anxious to compare the thumb-print with the one he had
in his collection.

For what had the man come?  Keep-sakes?  Haggerty dearly wanted to
believe that the intruder was the one man he desired in his net; but he
refused to listen to the insidious whisperings; he must have proof,
positive, absolute, incontestable.  If it was Crawford's man Mason, it
was almost too good to be true; and he did not care to court ultimate
disappointment.

Proof, proof; but where?  Why had the man not returned the clothes to
the trunk and shut it?  What had alarmed him?  Everything else
indicated the utmost caution. . . .  A glint of light flashing and
winking from steel.  Haggerty rose and went over to the window.  He
picked up a bunch of keys, thirty or forty in all, on a ring, weighing
a good pound.  The detective touched the throbbing bump and sensed a
moisture; blood.  So this was the weapon?  He weighed the keys on his
palm.  A long time since he had seen a finer collection of skeleton
keys, thin and flat and thick and short, smooth and notched, each a gem
of its kind.  Three or four ordinary keys were sandwiched in between,
and Haggerty inspected these curiously.

"H'm.  Mebbe it's a hunch.  Anyhow, I'll try it.  Can't lose anything
trying."

He turned out the desk light and went down to the lower hall, his
pocket-lamp serving as guide.  He unlatched the heavy door-chains,
opened the doors and closed them behind him.  He inserted one of the
ordinary keys.  It refused to work.  He tried another.  The door swung
open, easily.

"Now, then, come down out o' that!" growled a voice at the foot of the
steps.  "Thought y'd be comin' out by-'n-by.  No foolin' now, 'r I blow
a hole through ye!"

Haggerty wheeled quickly.  "'S that you, Dorgan?  Come up."

"Haggerty?" said the astonished patrolman.  "An' Mitchell an' I've been
watchin' these lights fer an hour!"

"Some one's been here, though; so y' weren't wasting your time.  I
climbed up th' fire-escape in th' alley an' got a nice biff on th' coco
for me pains.  See any one running before y' saw th' lights?"

"Why, yes!"

"Ha!  It's hard work t' get it int' your heads that when y' see a man
running at this time o' night, in a quiet side-street it's up t' you t'
ask him questions."

"Thought he was chasin' a cab."

"Well, listen here.  Till th' owner comes back, keep your eyes peeled
on this place.  An' any one y' see prowling around, nab him an' send
for me.  On your way!"

Haggerty departed in a hurry.  He had already made up his mind as to
what he was going to do.  He hunted up a taxicab and told the chauffeur
where to go, advising him to "hit it up."  His destination was the
studio-apartment of J. Mortimer Forbes, the artist.  It was late, but
this fact did not trouble Haggerty.  Forbes never went to bed until
there was positively nothing else to do.

The elevator-boy informed Haggerty that Mr. Forbes had just returned
from the theater.  Alone?  Yes.  Haggerty pushed the bell-button.  A
dog bayed.

"Why, Haggerty, what's up?  Come on in.  Be still, Fritz!"

The dachel's growl ended in a friendly snuffle, and he began to dance
upon Haggerty's broad-toed shoes.

"Bottle of beer?  Cigar?  Take that easy chair.  What's on your mind
tonight?"  Forbes rattled away.  "Why, man, there's a cut on the side
of your head!"

"Uhuh.  Got any witch-hazel?"  The detective sat down, stretched out
his legs, and pulled the dachel's ears.

Forbes ran into the bathroom to fetch the witch-hazel.  Haggerty poured
a little into his palm and dabbled the wound with it.

"Now, spin it out; tell me what's happened," said Forbes, filling his
calabash and pushing the cigars across the table.

For a year and a half these two men, the antitheses of each other, had
been intimate friends.  This liking was genuine, based on secret
admiration, as yet to be confessed openly.  Forbes had always been
drawn toward this man-hunting business; he yearned to rescue the
innocent and punish the guilty.  Whenever a great crime was committed
he instantly overflowed with theories as to what the criminal was
likely to do afterward.  Haggerty enjoyed listening to his patter; and
often there were illuminating flashes which obtained results for the
detective, who never applied his energies in the direction of logical
deduction.  Besides, the chairs in the studio were comfortable, the
imported beer not too cold, and the cigars beyond criticism.

Haggerty accepted a cigar, lighted it, and amusedly watched the eager
handsome face of the artist.

"Any poker lately?"

"No; cut it out for six months.  Come on, now; don't keep me waiting
any longer."

"Mum's th' word?"--tantalizingly.

"You ought to know that by this time"--aggrieved.

Haggerty tossed the bunch of keys on the table.

"Ha!  Good specimens, these," Forbes declared, handling them.  "Here's
a window-opener."

"Good boy!" said Haggerty, as a teacher would have commended a bright
pupil.

"And a door-chain lifter.  Nothing lacking.  Did he hit you with these?"

"Ye-up."

"What are these regular keys for?"

"One o' them unlocks a door."  Haggerty smoked luxuriously.

Forbes eyed the ordinary keys with more interest than the burglarious
ones.  Haggerty was presently astonished to see the artist produce his
own key-ring.

"What now?"

"When Crawford went abroad he left a key with me.  I am making some
drawings for an Egyptian romance and wanted to get some atmosphere."

"Uhuh."

"Which key is it that unlocks a door?" asked Forbes, his eyes sparkling.

"Never'll get that out o' your head, will you?"

"Which key?"

"Th' round-headed one."

Forbes drew the key aside and laid it evenly against the one Crawford
had left in his keeping.

"By George!"

"What's th' matter?"

"He's come back!"--in a whisper.

"You're a keen one!  Ye-up; Crawford's valet Mason is visiting in town."




CHAPTER X

There are many threads and many knots in a net; these can not be thrown
together haphazard, lest the big fish slip through.  At the bottom of
the net is a small steel ring, and here the many threads and the many
knots finally meet.  Forbes and Haggerty (who, by the way, thinks I'm a
huge joke as a novelist) and the young man named Webb recounted this
tale to me by threads and knots.  The ring was of Kitty Killigrew, for
Kitty Killigrew, by Kitty Killigrew, to paraphrase a famous line.

At one of the quieter hotels--much patronized by touring
Englishmen--there was registered James Thornden and man.  Every
afternoon Mr. Thornden and his man rode about town in a rented touring
car.  The man would bundle his master's knees in a rug and take the
seat at the chauffeur's side, and from there direct the journey.
Generally they drove through the park, up and down Riverside, and back
to the hotel in time for tea.  Mr. Thornden drank tea for breakfast
along with his bacon and eggs, and at luncheon with his lamb or mutton
chops, and at five o'clock with especially baked muffins and
apple-tarts.

Mr. Thornden never gave orders personally; his man always attended to
that.  The master would, early each morning, outline the day's work,
and the man would see to it that these instructions were fulfilled to
the letter.  He was an excellent servant, by the way, light of foot,
low of voice, serious of face, with a pair of eyes which I may liken to
nothing so well as to a set of acetylene blow-pipes--bored right
through you.

The master was middle-aged, about the same height and weight as his
valet.  He wore a full dark beard, something after the style of the
early eighties of last century.  His was also a serious countenance,
tanned, dignified too; but his eyes were no match for his valet's; too
dreamy, introspective.  Screwed in his left eye was a monocle down from
which flowed a broad ribbon.  In public he always wore it; no one about
the hotel had as yet seen him without it, and he had been a guest there
for more than a fortnight.

He drank nothing in the way of liquor, though his man occasionally
wandered into the bar and ordered a stout or an ale.  After dinner the
valet's time appeared to be his own; for he went out nearly every
night.  He seemed very much interested in shop-windows, especially
those which were filled with curios.  Mr. Thornden frequently went to
the theater, but invariably alone.

Thus, they attracted little or no attention among the clerks and bell
boys and waiters who had, in the course of the year, waited upon the
wants of a royal duke and a grand duke, to say nothing of a maharajah,
who was still at the hotel.  An ordinary touring Englishman was, then,
nothing more than that.

Until one day a newspaper reporter glanced carelessly through the hotel
register.  The only thing which escapes the newspaper man is the art of
saving; otherwise he is omnipotent.  He sees things, anticipates
events, and often prearranges them; smells war if the secretary of the
navy is seen to run for a street-car, is intimately acquainted with
"the official in the position to know" and "the man higher up," "the
gentleman on the inside," and other anonymous but famous individuals.
He is tireless, impervious to rebuff, also relentless; as an
investigator of crime he is the keenest hound of them all; often he
does more than expose, he prevents.  He is the Warwick of modern times;
he makes and unmakes kings, sceptral and financial.

This particular reporter sent his card up to Mr. Thornden and was,
after half an hour's delay, admitted to the suite.  Mr. Thornden laid
aside his tea-cup.

"I am a newspaper man, Mr. Thornden," said the young man, his eye
roving about the room, visualizing everything, from the slices of lemon
to the brilliant eyes of the valet.

"Ah! a pressman.  What will you be wanting to see me about,
sir?"--neither hostile nor friendly.

"Do you intend to remain long in America--incog?"

"Incog!"  Mr. Thorndon leaned forward in his chair and drew down his
eyebrow tightly against the rim of his monocle.

"Yes, sir.  I take it that you are Lord Henry Monckton, ninth Baron of
Dimbledon."

Master and man exchanged a rapid glance.

"Tibbets," said the master coldly, "you registered."

"Yes, sir."

"What did you register?"

"Oh," interposed the reporter, "it was the name Dimbledon caught my
eye, sir.  You see, there was a paragraph in one of our London
exchanges that you had sailed for America.  I'm what we call a hotel
reporter; hunt up prominent and interesting people for interviews.  I'm
sure yours is a very interesting story, sir."  The reporter was a
pleasant, affable young man, and that was why he was so particularly
efficient in his chosen line of work.

"I was not prepared to disclose my identity so soon," said Lord
Monckton ruefully.  "But since you have stumbled upon the truth, it is
far better that I give you the facts as they are.  Interviewing is a
novel experience.  What do you wish to know, sir?"

And thus it was that, next morning, New York--and the continent as
well--learned that Lord Henry Monckton, ninth Baron of Dimbledon, had
arrived in America on a pleasure trip.  The story read more like the
scenario of a romantic novel than a page from life.  For years the
eighth Baron of Dimbledon had lived in seclusion, practically
forgotten.  In India he had a bachelor brother, a son and a grandson.
One day he was notified of the death (by bubonic plague) of these three
male members of his family, the baron himself collapsed and died
shortly after.  The title and estate went to another branch of the
family.  A hundred years before, a daughter of the house had run away
with the head-gardener and been disowned.  The great-great-grand-son of
this woman became the ninth baron.  The present baron's life was
recounted in full; and an adventurous life it had been, if the reporter
was to be relied upon.  The interview appeared in a London journal,
with the single comment--"How those American reporters misrepresent
things!"

It made capital reading, however; and in servants' halls the newspaper
became very popular.  It gave rise to a satirical leader on the
editorial page: "What's the matter with us republicans?  Liberty,
fraternity and equality; we flaunt that flag as much as we ever did.
Yet, what a howdy-do when a title comes along!  What a craning of
necks, what a kotowing!  How many earldoms and dukedoms are not based
upon some detestable action, some despicable service rendered some
orgiastic sovereign!  The most honorable thing about the so-called
nobility is generally the box-hedge which surrounds the manse.  Kotow;
pour our millions into the bottomless purses of spendthrifts; give them
our most beautiful women.  There is no remedy for human nature."

It was this editorial which interested Killigrew far more than the
story which had given birth to it.

"That's the way to shout."

"Does it do any good?" asked Kitty.  "If we had a lord for breakfast--I
mean, at breakfast--would you feel at ease?  Wouldn't you be watching
and wondering what it was that made him your social superior?"

"Social superior?  Bah!"

"That's no argument.  As this editor wisely says, there's no remedy for
human nature.  When I was a silly schoolgirl I often wondered if there
wasn't a duke in the family, or even a knight.  How do you account for
that feeling?"

"You were probably reading Bertha M. Clay," retorted her father, only
too glad of such an opening.

"What is your opinion of titles, Mr. Webb?" she asked calmly.

"Mr. Webb is an Englishman, Kitty," reminded her mother.

"All the more reason for wishing his point of view," was the reply.

"A title, if managed well, is a fine business asset."  Thomas stared
gravely at his egg-cup.

"A humorist!" cried Killigrew, as if he had discovered a dodo.

"Really, no.  I am typically English, sir."  But Thomas was smiling
this time; and when he smiled Kitty found him very attractive.  She was
leaning on her elbows, her folded hands propping her chin; and in his
soul Thomas knew that she was looking at him with those boring critical
blue eyes of hers.  Why was she always looking at him like that?  "It
is notorious that we English are dull and stupid," he said.

"Now you are making fun of us," said Kitty seriously.

"I beg your pardon!"

She dropped her hands from under her chin and laughed.  "Do you really
wish to know the real secret of our antagonism, Mr. Webb?"

"I should be very glad."

"Well, then, we each of us wear a chip on our shoulder, simply because
we've never taken the trouble to know each other well.  Most English we
Americans meet are stupid and caddish and uninteresting; and most of
the Americans you see are boastful, loud-talking and money-mad.  Our
mutual impressions are wholly wrong to begin with."

"I have no chip on my shoulder," Thomas refuted eagerly.

"Neither have I."

"But I have," laughed her father.  "I eat Englishmen for breakfast;
fe-fo-fum style."

How democratic indeed these kindly, unpretentious people were! thought
Thomas.  A multimillionaire as amiable as a clerk; a daughter who would
have graced any court in Europe with her charm and elfin beauty.  Up to
a month ago he had held all Americans in tolerant contempt.

It was as Kitty said: the real Englishman and the real American seldom
met.

He did not realize as yet that his position in this house was unique.
In England all great merchants and statesmen and nobles had one or more
private secretaries about.  He believed it to be a matter of course
that Americans followed the same custom.  He would have been
wonderfully astonished to learn that in all this mighty throbbing city
of millions--people and money--there might be less than a baker's dozen
who occupied simultaneously the positions of private secretary and
friend of the family.  Mr. Killigrew had his private secretary, but
this gentleman rarely saw the inside of the Killigrew home; it wasn't
at all necessary that he should.  Killigrew was a sensible man; his
business hours began when he left home and ended when he entered it.

"Do you know any earls or dukes?" asked Killigrew, folding his napkin.

"Really, no.  I have moved in a very different orbit.  I know many of
them by sight, however."  He did not think it vital to add that he had
often sold them collars and suspenders.

The butler and the second man pulled back the ladies' chairs.
Killigrew hurried away to his offices; Kitty and her mother went
up-stairs; and Thomas returned to his desk in the library.  He was
being watched by Kitty; nothing overt, nothing tangible, yet he sensed
it: from the first day he had entered this house.  It oppressed him,
like a presage of disaster.  Back of his chair was a fireplace, above
this, a mirror.  Once--it was but yesterday--while with his back to his
desk, day-dreaming, he had seen her in the mirror.  She stood in the
doorway, a hand resting lightly against the portiere.  There was no
smile on her face.  The moment he stirred, she vanished.

Watched.  Why?




CHAPTER XI

The home-bureau of charities was a success from the start; but beyond
the fact that it served to establish Thomas Webb as private secretary
in the Killigrew family, I was not deeply interested.  I know that
Thomas ran about a good deal, delving into tenements and pedigrees,
judging candidates, passing or condemning, and that he earned his
salary, munificent as it appeared to him.  Forbes told me that he
wouldn't have done the work for a thousand a week; and Forbes, like
Panurge, had ten ways of making money and twelve ways of spending it.

The amazing characteristic about Thomas was his unaffected modesty, his
naturalness, his eagerness to learn, his willingness to accept
suggestions, no matter from what source.  Haberdashers' clerks--at
least, those I have known--are superior persons; they know it all, you
can not tell them a single thing.  I can call to witness dozens of
neckties and shirts I shall never dare wear in public.  But perhaps
seven years among a clientele of earls and dukes, who were set in their
ideas, had something to do with Thomas' attitude.

Killigrew was very well satisfied with the venture.  He had had some
doubts at the beginning: a man whose past ended at Pier 60 did not look
like a wise speculation, especially in a household.  But quite
unconsciously Thomas himself had taken these doubts out of Killigrew's
mind and--mislaid them.  The subscriptions to all the suffragette
weeklies and monthlies were dropped; and there were no more banners
reading "Votes for Women" tacked over the doorways.  Besides this, the
merchant had a man to talk to, after dinner, he with his cigar and
Thomas with his pipe, this privilege being insisted upon by the women
folk, who had tact to leave the two men to themselves.

Thomas amused the millionaire.  Here was a young man of a species with
whom he had not come into contact in many years: a boy who did not know
the first thing about poker, or bridge, or pinochle, who played
outrageous billiards and who did not know who the latest reigning
theatrical beauty was, and moreover, did not care a rap; who could
understand a joke within reasonable time if he couldn't tell one; who
was neither a nincompoop nor a mollycoddle.  Thomas interested
Killigrew more and more as the days went past.

Happily, the voice of conscience is heard by no ears but one's own.

After luncheons Thomas had a good deal of time on his hands; and, to
occupy this time he returned to his old love, composition.  He began to
rewrite his romance; and one day Kitty discovered him pegging away at
it.  He rose from his chair instantly.

"Will you be wanting me, Miss Killigrew?"

"Only to say that father will be detained down-town to-night and that
you will be expected to take mother and me to the theater.  It is one
of your English musical comedies; and very good, they say."

Thomas had been dreading such a situation.  As yet there had been no
entertaining at the Killigrew home; nearly all their friends were out
of town for the summer; thus far he had escaped.

"I am sorry, Miss Killigrew, but I have no suitable clothes."  Which
was plain unvarnished truth.  "And I do not possess an opera-hat."  And
never did.

Kitty laughed pleasantly.  "We are very democratic in this house, as by
this time you will have observed.  In the summer we do not dress; we
take our amusements comfortably.  Ordinarily we would be at our summer
home on Long Island; but delayed repairs will not let us into it till
August.  Then we shall all take a vacation.  You will join us as you
are; that is, of course, if you are not too busy with your own affairs."

"Never too busy to be of service to you, Miss Killigrew.  I'm only
scribbling."

"A book?"--interestedly.

"Bally rot, possibly.  Would you like to read it?"--one of the best
inspirations he had ever had.  He was not one of those silly
individuals who hem and haw when some one discovers they have the itch
for writing, whose sole aim is to have the secret dragged out of them,
with hypocritical reluctance.

"May I?"  Her friendly aloofness fell away from her as if touched by
magic.  "I am an inveterate reader.  Besides, I know several famous
editors, and perhaps I could help you."

"That would be jolly."

"And you are writing a story, and never told us about it!"

"It never occurred to me to tell you.  I shall be very glad to go to
the theater with you and Mrs. Killigrew."

Kitty tucked the romance under her arm and flew to her room with it.
This Thomas was as full of surprises as a Christmas-box.

He eyed the empty doorway speculatively.  He rather preferred the
friendly aloofness; otherwise some fatal nonsense might enter his head.
He resumed his chair and transferred his gaze to the blotter.  He added
a few pothooks by the way: numerals in addition and subtraction (for he
was of Scotch descent), a name which he scratched out and scrawled
again and again scratched out.  He examined the contents of his wallet.
How many pounds did a dress-suit cost in this hurly-burly country?
This question could be answered only in one way.  He hastened out into
the hall, put on his hat, made for the subway, and got out directly
opposite the offices of Killigrew and Company, sugar, coffee and
spices.  London-bred, it did not take him long to find his way about.
The racket disturbed him; that was all.

The building in which Killigrew and Company had its offices belonged to
Killigrew personally.  It had cost him a round million to build, but
the office-rentals were making it a fine investment.  These ornate
office-buildings caused Thomas to marvel unceasingly.  In London
cubby-holes were sufficient.  If merchants like Killigrew, generally
these were along the water-front; creaky, old, dim-windowed.  In this
bewildering country a man conducted his business as from a palace.  The
warehouses were distinct establishments.

Thomas entered the portals, stepped cautiously into one of the
express-elevators (so they insisted upon calling them here), and was
shot up to the fourteenth floor, all of which was occupied by Killigrew
and Company.  It was Thomas' first venture in this district.  And he
learned the amazing fact that it was ordinarily as easy to see Mr.
Killigrew as it was to see King George.  Office-boys, minor clerks,
head clerks, managers; they quizzed and buffeted him hither and
thither.  He never thought to state at the outset that he was Mrs.
Killigrew's private secretary; he merely said that it was very
important that he should see Mr. Killigrew at once.

"Mr. Killigrew is busy," he was informed by the assistant manager, at
whose desk Thomas finally arrived.  "If you will give me your card I'll
have it sent in to him."

Thomas confessed that he had no card.  The assistant manager grew
distinctly chilling.

"If you will be so kind as to inform Mr. Killigrew that Mr. Webb, Mrs.
Killigrew's private secretary . . ."

"Why didn't you say that at once, Mr. Webb?  Here, boy; tell Mr.
Killigrew that Mr. Webb wishes to see him.  You might just as well
follow the boy."

Killigrew was smoking, and perusing the baseball edition of his
favorite evening paper.  All this red-tape to approach a man who wasn't
doing anything more vital than that!  Thomas smiled.  It was a
wonderful people.

"Why, hello, Webb!  What's the matter?  Anything wrong at the
house?"--anxiously.

"No, Mr. Killigrew.  I came to see you on a personal matter."

Killigrew dropped the newspaper on his desk, a little frown between his
eyes.  He made no inquiry.

"Miss Killigrew tells me that you will not be home this evening, and
that I am to take her and Mrs. Killigrew to the theater."

"Anything in the way to prevent you?"  Killigrew appeared vastly
relieved for some reason.

"As a matter of fact, sir, I haven't the proper clothes; and I thought
you might advise me where to go to obtain them."

Killigrew laughed until the tears started.  The very heartiness of it
robbed it of all rudeness.  "Good lord! and I was worrying my head off.
Webb, you're all right.  Do you need any funds?"

"I believe I have enough."  Thomas appeared to be disturbed not in the
least by the older man's hilarity.  It was not infectious, because he
did not understand it.

"Glad you came to me.  Always come to me when you're in doubt about
anything.  I'm no authority on clothes, but my secretary is.  I'll have
him take you to a tailor where you can rent a suit for to-night.  He'll
take your measure, and by the end of the week . . ."  He did not finish
the sentence, but pressed one of the many buttons on his desk.  "Clark,
this is Mr. Webb, Mrs. Killigrew's secretary.  He wants some clothes.
Take him along with you."

Alone again, Killigrew smiled broadly.  The humor of the situation did
not blind him to the salient fact that this Webb was a man of no small
courage.  He recognized in this courage a commendable shrewdness also:
Webb wanted the right thing, honest clothes for honest dollars.  A man
like that would be well worth watching.  And for a moment he had
