associations with it are of a wintry cold, scarcely less polar than that
we were inured to elsewhere. In fact, the climate of that region is
rough and fierce; I know that there were lovely summers and lovelier
autumns in my time there, full of sunsets of a strange, wild,
melancholy splendor, I suppose from some atmospheric influence of the
lake; but I think chiefly of the winters, so awful to us after the mild
seasons of southern Ohio; the frosts of ten and twenty below; the
village streets and the country roads drowned in snow, the consumptives
in the thin houses, and the "slippin'," as the sleighing was called,
that lasted from December to April with hardly a break. At first our
family was housed on a farm a little way out, because there was no
tenement to be had in the village, and my father and I used to walk to
and from the office together in the morning and evening. I had taught
myself to read Spanish, in my passion for Don Quixote, and I was now,
at the age of fifteen, intending to write a life of Cervantes. The
scheme occupied me a good deal in those bleak walks, and perhaps it was
because my head was so hot with it that my feet were always very cold;
but my father assured me that they would get warm as soon as my boots
froze. If I have never yet written that life of Cervantes, on the other
hand I have never been quite able to make it clear to myself why my feet
should have got warm when my boots froze.
V
It may have been only a theory of his; it may have been a joke. He had a
great many theories and a great many jokes, and together they always
kept life interesting and sunshiny for him. With his serene temperament
and his happy doubt of disaster in any form, he was singularly fitted to
encounter the hardships of a country editor's lot. But for the moment,
and for what now seems a long time after the removal of our paper to the
county-seat, these seem to have vanished. The printing-office was the
center of civic and social interest; it was frequented by visitors at
all times, and on publication day it was a scene of gaiety that looks a
little incredible in the retrospect. The place was as bare and rude as a
printing-office seems always to be: the walls were splotched with ink
and the floor littered with refuse newspapers; but, lured by the novelty
of the affair, and perhaps attracted by a natural curiosity to see what
manner of strange men the printers were, the school-girls and young
ladies of the village flocked in and made it like a scene of comic
opera, with their pretty dresses and faces, their eager chatter and
lively energy in folding the papers and addressing them to the
subscribers, while our fellow-citizens of the place, like the bassos and
barytones and tenors of the chorus, stood about and looked on with
faintly sarcastic faces. It would not do to think now of what sorrow
life and death have since wrought for all those happy young creatures,
but I may recall without too much pathos the sensation when some citizen
volunteer relaxed from his gravity far enough to relieve the regular
mercenary at the crank of our huge power-press wheel, amid the applause
of the whole company.
We were very vain of that press, which replaced the hand-press hitherto
employed in printing the paper. This was of the style and make of the
hand-press which superseded the Ramage press of Franklin's time; but it
had been decided to signalize our new departure by the purchase of a
power-press of modern contrivance and of a speed fitted to meet the
demands of a subscription-list which might be indefinitely extended. A
deputation of the leading politicians accompanied the editor to New
York, where he went to choose the machine, and where he bought a
second-hand Adams press of the earliest pattern and patent. I do not
know, or at this date I would not undertake to say, just what principle
governed his selection of this superannuated veteran; it seems not to
have been very cheap; but possibly he had a prescience of the
disabilities which were to task his ingenuity to the very last days of
that press. Certainly no man of less gift and skill could have coped
with its infirmities, and I am sure that he thoroughly enjoyed nursing
it into such activity as carried it hysterically through those far-off
publication days. It had obscure functional disorders of various kinds,
so that it would from time to time cease to act, and would have to be
doctored by the hour before it would go on. There was probably some
organic trouble, too, for, though it did not really fall to pieces on
our hands, it showed itself incapable of profiting by several
improvements which he invented, and could, no doubt, have successfully
applied to the press if its constitution had not been undermined. It
went with a crank set in a prodigious fly-wheel which revolved at a
great rate, till it came to the moment of making the impression, when
the whole mechanism was seized with such a reluctance as nothing but an
heroic effort at the crank could overcome. It finally made so great a
draught upon our forces that it was decided to substitute steam for
muscle in its operation, and we got a small engine which could fully
sympathize with the press in having seen better days. I do not know that
there was anything the matter with the engine itself, but the boiler had
some peculiarities which might well mystify the casual spectator. He
could easily have satisfied himself that there was no danger of its
blowing up when he saw my brother feeding bran or corn-meal into its
safety-valve in order to fill up certain seams or fissures in it which
caused it to give out at the moments of the greatest reluctance in the
press. But still he must have had his misgivings of latent danger of
some other kind, though nothing ever actually happened of a hurtful
character. To this day I do not know just where those seams or fissures
were, but I think they were in the boiler-head, and that it was
therefore suffering from a kind of chronic fracture of the skull. What
is certain is that, somehow, the engine and the press did always get us
through publication day, and not only with safety, but often with
credit; so that many years after, when I was at home, and my brother and
I were looking over an old file of the paper, we found it much better
printed than either of us expected; as well printed, in fact, as if it
had been done on an old hand-press, instead of the steam-power press
which it vaunted the use of. The wonder was that, under all the
disadvantages, the paper was ever printed on our steam-power press at
all; it was little short of miraculous that it was legibly printed, and
altogether unaccountable that such impressions as we found in that file
could come from it. Of course, they were not average impressions; they
were the very best out of the whole edition, and were as creditable as
the editorial make-up of the sheet.
VI
Upon the whole, our paper was an attempt at conscientious and
self-respecting journalism; it addressed itself seriously to the minds
of its readers; it sought to form their tastes and opinions. I do not
know how much it influenced them, if it influenced them at all, and as
to any effect beyond the circle of its subscribers, that cannot be
imagined, even in a fond retrospect. But since no good effort is
altogether lost, I am sure that this endeavor must have had some tacit
effect; and I am sure that no one got harm from a sincerity of
conviction that devoted itself to the highest interests of the reader,
that appealed to nothing base, and flattered nothing foolish in him. It
went from our home to the homes of the people in a very literal sense,
for my father usually brought his exchanges from the office at the end
of his day there, and made his selections or wrote his editorials while
the household work went on him, about and his children gathered around
the same lamp, with their books or their jokes; there were a good many
of both.
Our county was the most characteristic of that remarkable group of
counties in northern Ohio called the Western Reserve, and forty years
ago the population was almost purely New England in origin, either by
direct settlement from Connecticut, or indirectly after the sojourn of a
generation in New York State. We were ourselves from southern Ohio,
where the life was then strongly tinged by the adjoining life of
Kentucky and Virginia, and we found these transplanted Yankees cold and
blunt in their manners; but we did not undervalue their virtues. They
were very radical in every way, and hospitable to novelty of all kinds.
I imagine that they tested more new religions and new patents than have
been even heard of in less inquiring communities. When we came among
them they had lately been swept by the fires of spiritualism, which left
behind a great deal of smoke and ashes where the inherited New England
orthodoxy had been. They were temperate, hard-working, hard-thinking
folks, who dwelt on their scattered farms, and came up to the county
fair once a year, when they were apt to visit the printing-office and
pay for their papers. They thought it droll, as people of the simpler
occupations are apt to think all the more complex arts; and one of them
once went so far in expression of his humorous conception as to say,
after a long stare at one of the compositors dodging and pecking at the
type in his case, "Like an old hen pickin' up millet." This sort of
silence, and this sort of comment, both exasperated the printers, who
took their revenge as they could. They fed it full, once, when a country
subscriber's horse, hitched before the office, crossed his hind legs
and sat down in his harness like a tired man, and they proposed to go
out and offer him a chair, to take him a glass of water, and ask him to
come inside. Fate did not often give them such innings; they mostly had
to create their chances of reprisal, but they did not mind that.
There was always a good deal of talk going on, but, although we were
very ardent politicians, our talk was not political. When it was not
mere banter, it was mostly literary; we disputed about authors among
ourselves and with the village wits who dropped in, and liked to stand
with their backs to our stove and challenge opinion concerning Holmes
and Poe, Irving and Macaulay, Pope and Byron, Dickens and Shakespeare.
But it was Shakespeare who was oftenest on our tongues; indeed, the
printing-office of former days had so much affinity with the theater
that compositors and comedians were almost convertible. Religion entered
a good deal into our discussions, which my father, the most tolerant of
men, would not suffer to become irreverent. Part of his duty, as
publisher of the paper, was to bear patiently with the type of farmer
who thought he wished to discontinue his paper, and really wished to be
talked into continuing it. I think he rather enjoyed letting such a
subscriber talk himself out, and carrying him from point to point in his
argument, always consenting that he knew best what he wanted to do, but
skilfully persuading him at last that a home paper was more suited to
his needs than any city substitute. Once I could have given the heads of
his reasoning, but they are gone from me now.
He was like all country editors then, and I dare say now, in being a
printer as well as an editor, and he took a just share in the mechanical
labors. These were formerly much more burdensome, for twice or thrice
the present type-setting was then done in the country offices. In that
time we had three journeymen at work and two or three girl-compositors,
and commonly a boy-apprentice besides. The paper was richer in a
personal quality, and the printing-office was unquestionably more of a
school. After we began to take girl-apprentices it became coeducative,
as far as they cared to profit by it; but I think it did not serve to
widen their thoughts or quicken their wits as it did those of the boys.
They looked to their craft as a living, not as a life, and they had no
pride in it. They did not learn the whole trade, as the journeymen had
done; but served only such apprenticeship as fitted them to set type;
and their earnings were usually as great at the end of a month as at the
end of a year.
VII
The printing-office had been my school from childhood so largely that I
could almost say I had no other, but the time had come, even before
this, when its opportunities did not satisfy the hunger which was always
in me for knowledge convertible into such beauty as I imagined and
wished to devote my life to. I was willing and glad to do my part in
helping my father, but he recognized my right to help myself forward in
the line of my own longing, and it was early arranged that I should have
a certain measure of work to do, and when it was done I should be free
for the day. My task was finished early in the afternoon, and then my
consuming pleasures began when I had already done a man's work. I was
studying four or five languages, blindly and blunderingly enough, but
with a confidence at which I can even now hardly smile; I was attempting
many things in verse and prose which I seldom carried to a definite
close, and I was reading, reading, reading, right and left, hither and
yon, wherever an author tempted me. I was not meaning to do less than
the greatest things, or to know less than the most, but my criticism
outran my performance and exacted of me an endeavor for the perfection
which I found forever beyond me. Far into the night I clung to my
labored failures in rhyme while I listened for the ticking of the
death-watch in the walls of my little study; or if I had imagined, in my
imitations of others' fiction, some character that the poet had devoted
to an early death, I helplessly identified myself with that character,
and expected his fate. It was the day when this world was much more
intimate with the other world than it is now, and the spiritualism which
had evoked its phenomena through most houses in the village had left
them haunted by dread sounds, if not sights; but it was not yet the day
when nervous prostration had got its name or was known in its nature.
For me this malady came in the hypochondria which was misery not less
real because at the end of the ends I knew it to be the exaggeration of
an apprehension without ground in reality.
I have hesitated to make any record of this episode, but I think it
essential to the study of my very morbid boyhood, and I hope some
knowledge of it may be helpful to others in like suffering. Somehow as a
child I had always had a terror of hydrophobia, perhaps from hearing
talk of that poor man who had died of it in the town where we then
lived, and when years afterward I was, as I have told, bitten by a dog,
my terror was the greater because I happened to find myself alone in the
house when I ran home. I had heard of excising a snake-bite to keep the
venom from spreading, and I would now have cut out the place with my
knife, if I had known how. In the end I did nothing, and when my father
came home he did not have the wound cauterized. He may have believed
that anything which tended to fix my mind upon it would be bad, and
perhaps I forgot it the sooner for his decision. I have not forgotten
the make of the gloomy autumnal afternoon when the thing happened, or
the moment when years afterward certain unguarded words awoke the fear
in me which as many more years were needed to allay. By some chance
there was talk with our village doctor about hydrophobia, and the
capricious way the poison of a dog's bite may work. "Works round in your
system," he said, "for seven years or more, and then it breaks out and
kills you." The words he let heedlessly fall fell into a mind prepared
by ill-health for their deadly potency, and when the summer heat came I
was helpless under it. Somehow I knew what the symptoms of the malady
were, and I began to force it upon myself by watching for them. The
splash of water anywhere was a sound I had to set my teeth against, lest
the dreaded spasms should seize me; my fancy turned the scent of the
forest fires burning round the village into the subjective odor of smoke
which stifles the victim. I had no release from my obsession, except in
the dreamless sleep which I fell into exhausted at night, or that little
instant of waking in the morning, when I had not yet had time to gather
my terrors about me, or to begin the frenzied stress of my effort to
experience the thing I dreaded. There was no longer question of work for
me, with hand or head. I could read, yes, but with the double
consciousness in which my fear haunted every line and word without
barring the sense from my perception. I read many novels, where the
strong plot befriended me and formed a partial refuge, but I did not
attempt escape in the poor boyish inventions, verse or prose, which I
had fondly trusted might be literature. Instinct taught me that some
sort of bodily fatigue was my safety; I spent the horrible days in the
woods with a gun, or in the fields gathering wild berries, and walked
to and from the distant places that I might tire myself the more. My
father reasoned to the same effect for me, and helped me as best he
could; of course I was released from my tasks in the printing-office,
and he took me with him in driving about the country on political and
business errands. We could not have spent many days in this way, when,
as it seems, I woke one morning in a sort of crisis, and having put my
fear to the test of water suddenly dashed from a doorway beside me and
failed of the convulsion which I was always expecting, I began
imperceptibly to get the better of my demon. My father's talk always
distracted me somewhat, and that morning especially his disgust with the
beefsteak fried in lard which the landlady gave us for breakfast at the
country tavern where we had passed the night must even have amused me,
as a touch of the comedy blent with the tragedy in the Shakespearian
drama of life. But no doubt a more real help was his recurrence, as
often as I chose, to his own youthful suffering from hypochondria, and
his constantly repeated assurance that I not only would not and could
not have hydrophobia from that out-dated dog-bite, but that I must also
soon cease to have hypochondria. I understood as well as he that it was
not the fear of that malady which I was suffering, but the fear of the
fear; that I was in no hallucination, no illusion as to the facts, but
was helpless in the nervous prostration which science, or our poor
village medicine, was yet many years from knowing or imagining. I have
heard and read that sometimes people in their apprehension of the
reality can bring on a false hydrophobia and die of it in the agonies
their fancy creates. It may be so; but all that fear could do was done
in me; and I did not die.
I could not absolutely fix the moment when I began to find my way out of
the cloud of misery which lowered on my life, but I think that it was
when I had gathered a little strength in my forced respite from work,
and from the passing of the summer heat. It was as if the frost which
people used to think put an end to the poisonous miasm of the swamps,
but really only killed the insect sources of the malaria, had wrought a
like sanitation in my fancy. My fear when it once lifted never quite
overwhelmed me again, but it was years before I could endure the sight
of the word which embodied it; I shut the book or threw from me the
paper where I found it in print; and even now, after sixty years, I
cannot bring myself to write it or speak it without some such shutting
of the heart as I knew at the sight or sound of it in that dreadful
time. The effect went deeper than I could say without accusing myself of
exaggeration for both good and evil. In self-defense I learnt to
practise a psychological juggle; I came to deal with my own state of
mind as another would deal with it, and to combat my fears as if they
were alien.
I cannot leave this confession without the further confession that
though I am always openly afraid of dogs, secretly I am always fond of
them; and it is only fair to add that they reciprocate my liking with
even exaggerated affection. Dogs, especially of any more ferocious type,
make up to me in spite of my diffidence; and at a hotel where we were
once passing the summer the landlord's bulldog, ugliest and dreadest of
his tribe, used to divine my intention of a drive and climb into my
buggy, where he couched himself on my feet, with a confidence in my
reciprocal tenderness which I was anxious not to dispel by the least
movement.
VIII
As soon as my nerves regained something of their former tone, I renewed
my struggle with those alien languages, using such weapons as I could
fit my hand to. Notably there was a most comprehensive manual which,
because it proposed instruction in so many languages, I called (from my
father's invention or my own, for I had early learnt the trick of his
drolling) a sixteen-bladed grammar. I wish now I could see that book,
which did not include Greek or Hebrew or German, but abounded in
examples of Latin, Italian, French, Spanish and probably Portuguese, and
other tongues of that kinship, with literal versions of the texts. These
versions falsified the native order of the words to the end that the
English of them might proceed in the wonted way, and when I detected the
imposition, I was the more offended because the right order of the words
in those idioms was always perplexing me. The sixteen-bladed grammar was
superseded by the ordinary school-books, Arnold's for Latin, and
Anthon's for Greek, but the perplexities of one sort or other persisted.
Such a very little instruction would have enlightened me; but who was to
give it me? My father, perhaps, but he may not have known how, though in
his own youth he had written an English grammar and more or less taught
it, or he may have thought I would find it out for myself. He would have
temperamentally trusted to that; he was always prouder than I of what I
did unaided; he believed I could do everything without help. That was an
error, but more than I ever could say do I owe to his taste in
literature and the constant guidance up to a certain limit which he gave
me. When I came back from the fields and woods with the sense of their
beauty, and eager to turn it into literature, he guarded me against
translating it in the terms of my English poets, with their larks and
nightingales, their daisies and cowslips. He contended that our own
birds and flowers were quite as good, besides being genuine; but he
taught me to love the earlier English classics; and if I began to love
the later classics, both English and American, and to be his guide in
turn, this is only saying that each one is born of his generation. The
time came early in our companionship when he thought fit to tell me that
he regarded me as different from other boys of my age; and I had a very
great and sweet happiness without alloy of vanity, from his serious and
considered words. He did not say that he expected great things of me;
though I had to check his fondness in offering my poor endeavors for the
recognition of print, and I soon had the support of editors in this. But
he justified himself and convinced me by once bringing to our house a
kindly editor from a neighboring city whom he showed some of my things,
and who carried away with him one of the minutely realistic sketches in
which I had begun to practise such art as I have been able to carry
farthest. When week after week the handsomely printed Ohio Farmer came
with something in it, verse or prose, which I had done, I am not sure I
had greater joy in it than my father, though now he thought it well to
hide his joy as I always did mine.
All the while I was doing sketches and studies and poems for our own
paper, which I put into type without first writing them, and short
stories imitated from some favorite author of the moment with an art
which I imagined must conceal itself from the reader. Once I carried
Shakespeare beyond himself in a scene transferred from one of the
histories, with such comedy characters as Pistol and Bardolph speaking
the interchangeable prose and verse of his plays in adapting themselves
to some local theme, which met with applause from the group of
middle-aged cronies whom I most consorted with at the time. Once, also.
I attempted a serial romance which, after a succession of several
numbers, faltered and at last would not go on. I have told in another
place how I had to force it to a tragic close without mercy for the
heroine, hurried to an untimely death as the only means of getting her
out of the way, and I will not repeat the miserable details here. It was
a thing which could not meet with praise from any one, not even my
father, though he did his best to comfort me in the strange disaster.
If my mother was the heart, he was the soul of our family life. In those
young days when he did so much of his newspaper work at home he would
always turn from it to take part in our evening jollity. He was gladly
our equal in the jokes which followed around our table; and when he was
stricken in his great age with the paralysis which he rallied from for a
time, it was his joy to join his gray-haired children at the board in
his wheeled chair and share in their laughing and making laugh. It seems
to me that I can render him intelligible by saying that while my very
religious-minded grandfather expected and humbly if fervently hoped to
reach a heaven beyond this world by means of prayers and hymns and
revivals and conversions, my not less religious-minded father lived for
a heaven on earth in his beloved and loving home; a heaven of poetry and
humor, and good-will and right thinking. He made it that sort of heaven
for himself, and as he was the bravest man I have known because he never
believed there was any danger, I think he must have felt himself as safe
from sorrow in it as if he were in the world beyond this. When one of my
younger brothers died, he was as if astonished that such a thing could
be; it burst his innocent and beautiful dream; and afterward when I
first met him, I was aware of his clinging, a broken man, to what was
left of it. Death struck again and again, and he shrank under the
bewildering blows; but a sense of that inexpressible pathos of his
first bereavement remains with me.
IX
The family scene that passed in that earlier time was not always as
idyllic as I have painted it. With five brothers in it there was often
the strife which is always openly or covertly between brothers. My elder
brother, who was four years my elder, had changed from the whimsical
tease and guardian angel of our childhood to the anxious taskmaster of
our later boyhood, requiring the same devotion in our common work that
his conscience exacted of himself. I must say that for my own part I
labored as faithfully as he, and I hotly resented his pressure. Hard
words passed between us two, as blows, not very hard, had passed, while
we were still children, between me and my younger brothers. But however
light the blows were, they had to be disclaimed, and formal regret
expressed, at my father's insistence. He would ascertain who struck the
first blow, and when he had pronounced that wrong he would ask, "And you
struck him back?" If the fact could not be denied, he went on to the
further question, "Well, do two wrongs make a right?" Clearly they did
not, and nothing remained but reluctant apology and reconciliation.
Reason and civic morality were on his side, but I could not feel that
justice was, and it seems to me yet that the primary offender was
guiltier than the secondary.
Long ago, long before our youth was passed, utter forgiveness passed
between my elder brother and me. The years since were years of such
mutual affection as I could not exaggerate the sense of in tenderness
and constancy, and the exchange of trust and honor. He came even in our
youth to understand my aim in life, and feel what was always leading me
on. He could not understand, perhaps, why poetry in literature should be
so all in all with me, but he felt it in nature as keenly and deeply as
I; and I have present now the experience of driving with him one
September afternoon (on some chase of the delinquent subscriber), when
he owned by his few spare words the unity of the beautiful in everything
as I spoke the melting lines of Tennyson:
    "Tears, idle tears, I know not what they mean.
     Tears from the depths of some divine despair
     Rise in the heart and gather to the eyes,
     In looking on the happy autumn-fields,
     And thinking of the days that are no more."
He had a grotesque humor which vented itself in jokes at the expense of
my mother's implicit faith in everything he said, as when she wondered
how the cow got into the garden, and he explained, "She pulled out the
peg with her teeth and put it under her fore leg and just walked through
the gate," and my mother answered, "Well, indeed, indeed, I believe she
did, child." She had little humor of her own, but she had a childlike
happiness in the humor of us others, though she would not suffer joking
from any but him. She relied upon him in everything, but in some things
she drew a sharp line between the duties of her boys and girls in the
tradition of her Pennsylvania origin. Indoor work was for girls, and
outdoor for boys, and we shared her slight for the Yankee men who went
by our gate to the pasture with their milk-pails. That was woman's work
though it was outdoor work; and though it was outdoor work to kill
chickens for the table, none of us boys had the heart to cut their heads
off because we could not bear to witness their post-mortem struggles;
but my brother brought out his gun and shot them, and this pursuit of
them as game in our barnyard got us over a difficulty otherwise
insuperable. The solution of our scruple, which my father shared, must
have amused him; but my brother took it seriously. His type of humor was
in the praise which long afterward he gave a certain passage of my
realistic fiction, when he said it was as natural as the toothache.
Throughout that earlier time my father's chief concern was first that
very practical affair of making his paper pay for the office and the
house, and then incidentally preventing the spread of slavery into the
territories. He was willing enough, I fancy, to yield his silent
partnership in my studies to the young printer who now, for no reason
that I can remember, began to take an active share in them. I have told
in My Literary Passions how J. W. and I read Cervantes and Shakespeare
together; but I could not say just why or when we began to be boon
companions in our self-conducted inquiries into Latin and Greek, and
then into German, which presently replaced Spanish in my affections
through the witchery of Heine. He had the definite purpose of making
those languages help him to a professorship in a Western college, but if
I had any clear purpose it was to possess myself of their literature. To
know them except to read them I do not think I cared; I did not try to
speak or write the modern tongues; to this day I could not frame a
proper letter in Spanish, German, French, or Italian, but I have a
literary sense of them all. I wished to taste the fruit of my study
before I had climbed the tree where it grew, and in a manner I did begin
to gather the fruit without the interposition of the tree. Without clear
knowledge of their grammatical forms, I imitated their literary forms. I
cast my poetry, such as it was, into the metres of the Spanish poets I
was reading, and without instruction or direction I acquainted myself
with much of their literary history. I once even knew from the archaic
tragedy of her name who Iñez de Castro was; I do not know now.
My friendship with J. W. early became chief of the many friends of a
life rich in friendships. He was like most of his craft in his eccentric
comings and goings to and from our employ, when sometimes we had no work
to give him, and sometimes he had none to give us. When he left us he
always went to Wisconsin, where he had once lived; and when he came back
from one of these absences he would bring with him bits of character
which he gave for our joy in his quaint observance, such as that of the
mother who complained of her daughter because "she didn't cultivate her
featur's none; she just let 'em hing and wallop," or the school-mistress
who genteelly explained in the blackberry-patch where he found her, that
she was "just out picking a few berries for tea-he-he-he," or the
country bachelor who belatedly made up his mind to marry, and in his
default of female acquaintance took his place on the top rail of a
roadside fence, and called to the first woman who passed, "Say! You a
married woman?" and then at the frightened answer, indignantly gasped
out, "Yes, sir!" offered a mere "Oh!" for all apology and explanation,
and let himself vanish by falling into the corn-field behind him.
J. W. literally made his home with us, for as if the burden of work for
our own large family were not enough for my mother, we had always some
of the printers, men or maids, to board. He entered into the spirit of
our life; but it was recognized that he was peculiarly my friend, and we
were left to our special comradeship. In that village nearly everybody
played or sang, and in the summer nights the young people went about
serenading one another's houses, under the moon which was then always
full; and J. W. shared in every serenade where a tenor voice was
welcome. At the printing-office, in the afternoon when the compositors
were distributing their cases, he led the apprentice-girls in the songs
which once filled the whole young world. The songs were often
poverty-stricken enough in sentiment, and I suppose cheap and vulgar in
music, but they were better than the silence that I should once have
said had followed them. Yet only last winter in a hotel on the New
Jersey coast, where there was some repairing in the corridor outside my
room, the young painters and carpenters gathered at their lunch near my
door, and after they had begun to joke they suddenly began to sing
together as if it were still the habit for people of their lot to do so,
in a world I had thought so hushed, except for its gramophones; and
though I could not make out the words, the gentle music somehow saved
them from seeming common. It went to my heart, and made me glad of life
where youth still sang as it used to sing when I was young.
Sometimes the village serenaders came to me, and then I left my books
and stumbled down to the gate, half dazed, to find the faces I knew
before they flashed away with gay shrieking and shouting; and J. W.
among them, momentarily estranged from me, jealous in that world where
we had our intimacy. My ambition was my barrier from the living world
around me; I could not beat my way from it into that; it kept me absent
and hampered me in the vain effort to be part of the reality I have
always tried to portray. Though J. W. expected to make a more definite
use of our studies, he seemed to understand me as well at least as I
understood myself in my vaguer striving. I do not now remember reading
him the things I was trying to write; or of his speaking to me of them.
Perhaps my shyness, my pride, went so far as keeping them from him,
though I kept from him so few of my vagaries in that region of hopes and
fears where youth chiefly has its being.
The songs he had were as many as the stories, but there was one song,
often on the tongues of the village serenaders, which was oftenest on
his, and which echoes to me still from those serenades and those choral
afternoons in the printing-office, and more distinctly yet from what we
felt a midnight of wild adventure, when he sang it alone. We had gone to
call together on two of our village girls at school fifteen miles away,
and had set out in the flattering temperature of a January thaw; but
when we started home, many hours into the dark, the wind had whipped
round from the south to the north and had frozen the curdling slush into
icy ruts under the runners of our sleigh. Our coats were such as had
suited the thaw, but J. W. had a pair of thin cotton gloves for driving,
while I had none. We took turns in driving at first, but as the way
lengthened the cold strengthened and I cowered definitively under our
buffalo robe, then the universal provision against the rigor of winter
travel. For a while we shouted together in some drama of the situation,
but by and by our fun froze at our lips, and then J. W. began to sing
that song he used oftenest to sing:
    "Talk not to me of future bliss,
     Talk not to me of joys gone by!
     The happiest time is this!"
He kept the measure of the tune by beating on the robe above my head,
first with one fist and then the other, as he passed the reins from hand
to hand, and by pounding with both feet on the floor of the sleigh
beside me. We lived through the suffering of that drive partly because
he was twenty-two years old and I was eighteen, but partly also because
we realized the irony of the song, with all the joke of it. Yet it was a
long nightmare of misery, with a moment of supreme anguish, when we
stopped at the last toll-gate, two miles from home, and the keeper came
shuddering out with his red blot of a lantern. Then the song stopped for
an instant, but seems to have begun again, and not ended till we sat
with our feet in the oven of the kitchen stove at home, counting our
adventure all gain. The memory of it brings before me again the face of
my friend, with its beautiful regularity of feature, its pale blue eyes,
its smooth, rich, girlish complexion, and its challenging, somewhat
mocking smile. But the date when I saw him last in life is lost to me.
He went to Wisconsin, as usual, but there was no wonted return; we kept
each other present in the long letters which we wrote so long, but they
faltered with time and ceased, and I can only make sure now that he got
the professorship he aimed at in some seat of learning so modest that it
has kept its name from me; and then, years after, that he went into the
war for the Union and was killed.
X
I had now begun to be impatient of the village, and when it came to my
last parting with J. W., which I did not know was the last, I felt the
life very dull and narrow which I had once found so vivid and ample.
There had come the radiant revelation of girlhood, and I had dwelt in
the incredible paradise where we paired or were paired off each with
some girl of his fancy or fancied fancy. There had been the ranging of
the woods in autumn for chestnuts and in the spring for wintergreen;
there had been the sleigh-rides to the other villages and the
neighboring farms where there was young life waiting to welcome us
through the drifting snows; there had been the dances at the taverns and
the parties at the girls' houses with the games and the frolics, and the
going home each with the chosen one at midnight and the long lingering
at the gate: there had been the moonlight walks; there had been the
debating societies and the spelling-matches; there had been the days of
the County Fair and the Fourths-of-July, and the Christmases
rehabilitated from Dickens; and there had been the impassioned interest
of the easily guessed anonymous letters of St. Valentine's day. But
these things had passed, and with a certain disappointment suffered and
yet prized there had come the sense of spent witchery and a spell
outworn, and I chose to revolt from it all and to pine for a wider world
and prouder pleasures. Distance in time and space afterward duly set the
village I had wearied of in a truer and kinder light, and I came to
value it as the potential stuff of such fiction as has never yet been
written, and now never will be by me. I came to see that it abounded in
characteristics and interests which differenced it from any other
village, and I still think the companionship to which I passed in the
absences of J. W. such as would make into the setting for as strange a
story as we could ask of reality in the days when we wished life to
surpass romance in strangeness.
I have told in My Literary Passions of the misanthropical Englishman
who led in our Dickens-worship and played the organ in the little
Episcopal church, and built the organs for such country churches about
as could afford to replace their moaning melodions with them. I have
said, I hope without too much attempt to establish the fact, that he was
also a house-painter, and that in the long leisures of our summer days
and winter nights and in the throes of his perpetual dyspepsia he was
the inveterate antagonist in argument of the vivid Yankee who built
steam-engines among us, and had taught school, and turned his quick head
and hand to any art or trade which making an easy living exacted of him.
They both lavishly lent me their books, and admitted me on equal terms
to their intellectual enmity and amity, which was shared in some tacit
way with a clever New England trader in watches, clocks, and jewelry. He
came and went among us on visits more or less prolonged from some
Eastern center of his commerce (my memory somehow specifies Springfield,
Massachusetts), and he had a shrewd smile and kindly twinkling eye which
represent him to me yet. He seldom took part in the disputes nightly
held at the drug-and-book store; but not from want of spirit, when he
had the boldness to deny some ferocious opinion exploded by the
organ-builder in an access of indigestion.
The disputes nearly always involved question of the existence of a God,
which was thought improbable by both of the debaters, and the
immortality of the soul, which was doubted, in spite of the spiritualism
rife in every second house in the village, with manifestations by
rappings, table-tippings, and oral and written messages from another
world through psychics of either sex, but oftenest the young girls one
met in the dances and sleigh-rides. The community was prevalently
unreligious; there was an ageing attendance at the Baptist and Methodist
churches, but there was no stated service of the Congregationalists,
though there was occasional preaching at their house and sometimes a
lecture from an anti-slavery apostle, who wasted his doctrine on a
community steeped in it already. Among many of the young people of the
village the prevalent tone was irreverent to mocking in matters of
religion; but their unlimited social freedom was without blame and
without scandal, and if our villagers were not religious, they were, in
a degree which I still think extraordinary, literary. Old and young they
read and talked about books, and better books than people read and talk
about now, as it seems to me, possibly because there were not so many
bad ones; the English serials pirated into our magazines were followed
and discussed, and any American author who made an effect in the East
became promptly known in that small village of the Western Reserve.
There were lawyers, of those abounding at every county-seat, who were
fond of reading, and imparted their taste to the young men studying law
in their offices. I might exaggerate the fact, but I do not think I have
done so, or that I was much deceived as to a condition which reported
itself, especially to me whose whole life was in books, through the
sympathy I met in the village houses. I was always reading whatever came
to hand, either with an instinct for what was good in my choice of books
or with good fortune in my chance of them. Literature was so commonly
accepted as a real interest, that I do not think I was accounted
altogether queer in my devotion to it. To be sure, at an evening session
in one of the dry-goods and grocery stores where question of me came up,
it was decided that I would be nowhere in a horse-trade, but this was a
rare instance of slight, and I do not believe that my disability would
have been generally counted against me.
XI
Somewhere about this time I gave a month to the study of law in the
office of the United States Senator dwelling among us. I have never
regretted reading a first volume of Blackstone through, or not going on
to the second; his frank declaration that the law was a jealous mistress
and would brook no divided love, was upon reflection quite enough for
one whose heart was given to a different muse. I was usually examined in
this author by the Senator's nephew, my fellow-student, whom I examined
in turn; but once, at least, the Senator himself catechized me, though
he presently began to talk about the four great English quarterly
reviews which I was known in the village for reading, and which it
seemed he read too. No doubt he found me more perfect in them than in
Blackstone; at least I felt that I did myself more credit in them. I
have elsewhere spoken more fully already of this episode of my life; but
I speak of it again because I think that the commonly accepted Wade
legend scarcely does justice to a man not only of great native power,
but of wider cultivation than it recognizes, and I would like to do what
I can to repair the injustice. He was famed in contemporary politics as
Old Ben Wade before he had passed middle life, and he was supposed to
stand up against the fierce pro-slavery leaders in Congress with an
intrepidity even with their own. He had a strong, dark face, and a deep,
raucous voice, with a defiant laugh, and these lent their support to the
popular notion of him as a rude natural force unhelped by teaching,
though he had taught himself in the days of his early struggle, as
Lincoln and most public men of his time had done, and later had taught
others as country schoolmaster. Farm-boy and cattle-drover and
canal-digger, more had remained to him from schoolmaster and medical
student, than from either of his other callings, and though he became
part of our history without the help of great intellectual refinement,
he was by no means without intellectual refinement, or without the
ability to estimate the value of it in others. Naturally he might also
underestimate it, and perhaps it was from an underestimate that he
judged the oratory of such a man as Charles Sumner, to whom he told me
he had said of a speech of his, "It's all very well, Sumner, but it has
no bones in it."
Wade was supposed by his more ill-advised admirers to lend especial
effect to his righteous convictions by a free flow of profanity, but I
have to bear witness that I never heard any profanity from him, though
profanity must have been the common parlance of the new country and the
rude conditions he grew up in. He was personally a man of silent
dignity, as we saw him in the village, going and coming at the
post-office, for he seldom seemed to pass the gate of his house yard on
any other errand, in the long summer vacations between the sessions of
the many Congresses when he sojourned among us. I have the sense of him
in a back room of the office which stood apart from his house, after the
old-fashioned use of country lawyers' and doctors' offices; and I can be
sure of his visiting the students in the front room only that once when
he catechized me in Blackstone, but I cannot say whether I stood in awe
of him as a great lawyer, or quite realized his importance as United
States Senator from the State of Ohio for eighteen years. Historically
it has been thought his misfortune to outlive the period when the
political struggle with slavery passed into the Civil War, and to carry
into that the spirit of the earlier time, with his fierce alienation
from the patient policy of Lincoln, and his espousal of the
exaggerations of the Reconstruction. But it would be easy to do
injustice to this part of his valiant career, and not easy to do justice
to that part of it where he stood with the very few in his defiance of
the pro-slavery aggression.
Probably he would not have understood my forsaking the law, and I evaded
the explanation he once sought of me when we met in the street, dreading
the contempt which I might well have fancied in him. I wish now that,
knowing him a little on his æsthetic side, I might have had the courage
to tell him why I could not give my heart to that jealous mistress,
being vowed almost from my first days to that other love which will have
my fealty to the last. But in the helplessness of youth I could not even
imagine doing this, and I had to remain in my dread of his contempt. Yet
he may not have despised me, after all. It was known with what
single-handed courage I was carrying on my struggle with the alien
languages, and their number was naturally over-stated. The general
interest in my struggle was reflected in the offer of a farmer from
another part of the county to be one of three or four who would see me
through Harvard. It was good-will which, if it had ever materialized, my
pride would have been fierce to refuse; but now I think of it without
shame, and across the gulf which I would fain believe has some thither
shore I should like to send that kind man the thanks which I fancy were
never adequately expressed to him while he lived. It remains vaguely,
from vague personal knowledge, that he was of Scotch birth and breeding;
he had a good old Scotch name, and he lived on his prosperous farm in
much more than the usual American state, with many books about him.
I went back not without shame, but also not without joy from the
Senator's law-office to my father's printing-office, and I did not go to
Harvard, or to any college or school thereafter. I still think that a
pity, for I have never agreed with Lowell, who, when I deplored my want
of schooling, generously instanced his own over-weight of learning as an
evil I had escaped. It still seems to me lamentable that I should have
had to grope my way and so imperfectly find it where a little light from
another's lamp would have instantly shown it. I still remain in depths
of incredible ignorance as to some very common things; for at school I
never got beyond long division in arithmetic, and after my
self-discovery of grammar I should be unable to say, in due piedi,
just what a preposition was, though I am aware of frequently using that
part of speech, and, I hope, not incorrectly.
I did what I could to repair the defect of instruction, or rather I
tried to make myself do it, for I had the nature of a boy to contend
with, and did not love my work so much as I loved the effect of it.
While I live I must regret that want of instruction, and the discipline
which would have come with it, though Fortune, as if she would have
flattered my vanity when she could bring her wheel round to it, bore me
the offer of professorships in three of our greatest universities. In
fact, when I thought of coming home from my consulship in Venice, ten
years after my failure to achieve any sort of schooling, it had been my
hope that I might get some sort of tutorship in a very modest college,
and I wrote to Lowell about it, but he did not encourage me. Yet I was
hardly fixed in the place which much better suited me as the assistant
editor of the Atlantic Monthly, when one of the faculty came to me
from Schenectady to offer me the sub-professorship of English in Union
College, and no long time after I was sounded by the first educational
authority in the country as to whether I would accept a like place in
Washington University at St. Louis. It was twice as long after this that
those three supreme invitations which I have boasted came to me. But I
knew better than any one, unless it was Fortune herself, the ignorance I
had hidden so long, and I forbore to risk a middling novelist on the
chance of his turning out a poor professor, or none. In every case the
offer was such as might well have allured me, but when, after a
sleepless night of longing and fearing over that of Harvard which Lowell
conveyed me with the promise, "You shall wear the gown that Ticknor
wore, and Longfellow wore, and I wore," I had the strength to refuse it,
he wrote me his approval of my decision. It was a decision that I have
rejoiced in ever since, with the breathless gratitude, when I think of
it, of one who has withheld himself from a step over the brink of a
precipice.
The other allurements to a like doom were hardly less gratifying. What
indeed could have been more gratifying, except the Harvard offer of the
professorship of the languages of the south of Europe (with the
privilege of two years' preparation in the Latin countries, whose
tongues I had tampered with), than the offer of the English
professorship in Yale? It was Lounsbury, now lately lost forever to
these skies, Lounsbury the fine scholar, the charming writer, the
delightful wit, the critic unsurpassed in his kind, who came smiling
with the kind eyes, dimmed almost to blindness on the field of
Gettysburg in the forgotten soldiership of his youth, to do me this
incredible honor. Later came the offer of the same chair in Johns
Hopkins, twice repeated by the president of that university. When in my
longing and my despair I asked, What was the nature of such a
professorship, he answered, Whatever I chose to make it; and this still
seems to me, however mistaken in my instance, the very measure of the
wisest executive large-mindedness. President Gilman had written to me
from New York, and had come to see me in London, and again written to me
in Boston, and I could not do less than go down to Baltimore and look at
the living body of the university and see what part in it I might
become. A day sufficed; where so many men were busy with the work which
they were so singularly qualified to do, I could not think of bringing
my half-heartedness to an attempt for which all the common sense I had
protested my unfitness, my entire unlikeness to the kind of man he had
so magnanimously misimagined me. I turned from that shining opportunity
of failure as I turned from the others, and if the reader thinks I have
dwelt too vaingloriously upon them he shall have his revenge in the
spectacle of my further endeavors not to be the stuff which professors
are made of.
XII
I could have been spared from the printing-office for the study of the
law, when I could not be spared from it otherwise, because I might soon
begin to make my living by practising before justices of the peace in
the pettifogging which was then part of the study in the country
offices. My labor, which was worth as much as a journeyman compositor's,
could not have been otherwise spared; much less could my father have
afforded the expense of my schooling; and I cannot recall that I thought
it an unjust hardship when it was decided after due family counsel, that
I could not be sent to an academy in a neighboring village. I had not
the means of estimating my loss; but the event seemed to have remained a
poignant regret with my brother, and in after years he lamented what he
felt to have been an irreparable wrong done me: now he is dead, and it
touches me to think he should have felt that, for I never blamed him,
and I am glad he gave me the chance to tell him so. I may have shed some
tears when first denied; I did shed a few very bitter ones when I once
confessed the hope I had that the editor of the Ohio Farmer might give
me some sort of literary employment at a sum I named, and he said, "He
would never pay you three dollars a week in the world for that," and I
had to own in anguish of soul that he was doubtless right. He worked
every day of the week and far into every night to help my father earn
the property we were all trying to pay for, and he rightfully came into
the eventual ownership of the newspaper. By an irony of fate not wholly
unkind he continued for half a century in the printing-business, once so
utterly renounced. Then, after a few years of escape to a consular post
in the tropics which he used to say was the one post which, if it had
been whittled out of the whole universe, would have suited him best, he
died, and lies buried in the village, the best-beloved man who ever
lived there.
It was the day with us of self-denials which I cannot trust myself to
tell in detail lest I should overtell them. I was willing to make a
greater figure in dress than nature has ever abetted me in, but I still
do not think it was from an excess of vanity that I once showed my
father the condition of my hat, and left him to the logic of the fact.
He whimsically verified it, and said, "Oh, get it half-soled," as if it
had been a shoe; and we had our laugh together, but I got the new hat,
which, after all, did not make me the dashing presence I might have
hoped, though the vision of it on the storekeeper's counter always
remained so distinct with me that in Seville, a few years ago, it seemed
as if its ghost were haunting me in the Cordovese hats on all the heads
I met. Like them it had a wide flat brim, and it narrowed slightly
upward to the low flat crown of those hats which I now knew better than
to buy.
But if we seem to have spared on dress, our table was of as unstinted
abundance as it might be in a place where there was no market, except as
the farmers brought us chickens and butter and vegetables and the small
fruits of the pastures and clearings, where every sort of wild berries
grew. The region had abounded in deer, and after we came to the village
in 1852 venison was only three cents a pound. Once a black bear was
chased from forest to forest across our land, but he did not wait to fix
the market price of his meat; half the sky was often hidden with wild
pigeons, and there was a summer when the gray squirrels swarmed through
the streets in one of their mystical migrations from west to east. Such
chances of game scarcely enriched our larder; and the salt-pork barrel
was our constant reliance. This was a hardship, after the varied
abundance of the larger places where we had lived, but we shared it with
our fellow-villagers, and in this as in other conditions of our life we
did not realize as deprivation what was the lot of the whole community.
If we denied ourselves it was to meet the debts which would not be
denied, and to possess ourselves of the roof over our heads and an
ampler future in the ownership of our means of living. But I think we
denied ourselves too much, and that we paid far beyond its moral worth
for the house we were buying. To own the house she lived in had always
been my mother's dream since her young married days when my father built
the first little house where they dwelt together, and where I was born.
In all the intervening quarter of a century they had lived in rented
houses, and she could not help feeling that the rent they paid ought to
have gone toward buying a house of their own. In this she was
practically right, but now the house which we all worked so hard to buy
belongs to strangers, and unless there is an effect of our self-denial
in some other world, the purchase was as much waste as rent paid to a
landlord. We were in fact always paying a certain rent in the interest
on the notes which we slowly accumulated the money to meet, but my
mother could not feel that the same, and I am glad she had her wish long
before she died, and her last years were passed under a roof which she
owned.
In time, but I do not know how long time, for such things did not
interest me, though I was doing my share in helping pay off our debt,
the promissory notes which my father had given for the purchase of our
newspaper were taken up, and the newspaper was also our property. Nobody
could molest us or make us afraid in its possession; and in my hope of
other things it did not concern me that the title vested in his
partnership with my brother, who had most justly earned his half, and
who by an enterprise of his own finally established the family fortunes
in undreamed-of prosperity. It was characteristic of my father that as
long as their partnership existed there were no accounts between them;
after my brother had a family of his own each drew from the common
income at his wish or need, and when I came of sufficient worldly
wisdom to realize the risks to their peace from this anomalous
arrangement, I protested against it in vain. They agreed with me that it
was precarious and in a way ridiculous, and that it certainly ought to
cease, but as long as they continued together they remained partners on
these terms. After my father withdrew, my brother took his own son into
partnership, and when he came in his turn to retire, he contritely owned
to me that they had not departed from the same old unbusiness-like
community of ways and means, though he had promised me very earnestly
many times to end it. While I am upon these matters it is a pleasure for
me to record that when I came home from Venice with the manuscript of
Venetian Life promised publication by a London house if I could find
an American house to take half the proposed edition, and I confessed
that I had very little hope of getting this taken in New York or Boston,
my brother promptly offered to take it himself. He was then in that
undreamed-of prosperity which I have mentioned, and though he had no
expectation of becoming a book-publisher, he was very willing to incur
the risks involved. As all my world knows, the book found an equally
courageous friend in New York, and came out with the American imprint of
Hurd & Houghton instead of Joseph A. Howells & Co.
It is not surprising to me that I cannot date the time of our acquiring
the newspaper, free and clear, as the real-estate phrase is, but I am
certainly surprised and more pained that I cannot remember just when the
house, endeared to us as home, became our very own. Its possession, as I
have said, had been the poetry of my mother's hard-working, loving life,
and no doubt she had watched with hope and fear the maturing of each of
the notes for it, with the interest they bore, until the last was paid
off. In my father's buoyant expectation of the best in
[Illustration: The four-story office erected by Mr. Howells's father.
In it the father and his oldest son, Joseph, published the Ashtabula
"Sentinel" for many years]
everything, I do not think he had any misgiving of the event; my brother
must have shared my mother's anxiety, but we younger children did not,
and the great hour arrived without record in my consciousness. Years
later, when I came back from long sojourn abroad, I found that the
little ground-wren's nest, as it looks to me in the retrospect, had
widened by half a dozen rooms without rising above its original story
and a half. All round it the garden space was red and purple with the
grapes which my father had induced, by his steady insistence, the
neighboring farmers to plant. My mother and he were growing sweetly old
in the keeping of the place, and certain wild furred and feathered
things had come to share their home with them. Not only the door-yard
trees which we boys had brought from the woods had each its colony of
birds, but in the eaves a family of flying-squirrels had nested. I do
not know whether I can impart the sense of peace and security which
seemed to have spread from the gentle household to them, but I am sure
that my mother could not have realized a fonder vision of the home she
had longed for through so many years.
XIII
I do not think my father so much cared for the ownership of the
newspaper. He took our enterprise more easily than my elder brother, but
that was temperamental in both, and one was no more devoted than the
other. My companionship was far more with my father, but before my
intimacy with J. W. interrupted this my studies had already ascertained
the limits of his learning in the regions where I was groping my way,
and where the light of my friend's greater knowledge now made him my
guide. If J. W. was more definite in his ambition of one day getting
some sort of college professorship than I in my plans of literary
achievement, he could not have been more intense in his devotion to what
we were trying to do. I was studying those languages because I wished to
possess myself of their literatures; still groping my way in the dark,
where a little light shed from larger learning would have helped me so
much. The grammars and the text-books could tell me what I wanted to
know, but they did not teach it; and I realize now as I could not then
that self-taught is half-taught. Yet I think my endeavor merited reward;
if I worked blindly, I worked hard; and in my attempts at fiction or at
verse where I could create the light by mere trituration, as it were, I
did not satisfy myself with less than final perfection so far as I could
imagine it. I loved form, I loved style, I loved diction, and I strove
for them all, rejecting my faultier ideals when I discovered them, and
cleaving to the truer. In some things, the minor things, I was of
wavering preference; I wrote a different hand every other week, and if I
have now an established handwriting it is more from disgust of change
than from preference. In the spirit of my endeavor there was no
variableness; always I strove for grace, for distinctness, for light;
and my soul detests obscurity still. That is perhaps why I am beating
out my meaning here at the risk of beating it into thin air.
In the final judgment of my father's help and unhelp in my endeavors, I
should say that they were the measure of his possibility. For a man of
his conditioning he had a wonderful outlook in many directions on life,
but he was without perspective; he could not see how my unaided efforts
were driving to the vanishing-point. He had been my instructor in many
things beyond my young ken; he had an instinct for beauty and truth; he
loved the poetry which was the best in his youth, though he did not deny
me the belief that the poetry of mine was better still; his gentle
intelligence could follow me where his liking failed, and he modestly
accepted my opinions. His interest had once been absorbed mostly, but
not wholly, by the faith which he had imbibed from his reading of
Swedenborg, but when I began to know him as a boy may know his elder, he
was more and more concerned in the national struggle with the
pro-slavery aggression. Politics had always been his main worldly
interest, and not only as to measures; he passionately favored certain
men, because he liked the nature of them, as well as because he believed
them right. It seems to me now that he took a personal interest in
conventions and nominations, but I am not sure, for I myself took no
interest whatever in them; their realities did not concern me so much as
the least unrealities of fiction; and I can only make sure of my
father's interest in the elections after the nominations. I suppose that
he was not very skilled in practical politics, as log-rolling and
wire-pulling have come to be called, though in a village which was the
home of a United States Senator, a Congressional Representative, a State
Senator, and a Legislative Representative, with the full corps of county
office-holders, and a Common Pleas Judge, the science might well have
forced itself upon his study. Many years after our coming to the Western
Reserve he was sent to the State Senate by a war-majority larger than
any majority which had yet returned a candidate, or yet has; but long
before that he began to find his way beyond the local favor or disfavor,
and was chosen one of the House clerks in the State Legislature. That
must have been when I was eighteen years old, but he seems to have left
our newspaper to my sole charge without misgiving, and fortunately no
trouble came of his trust in me. I was then taking my civic and social
opinions from the more Tory of the English quarterlies, but nobody knew
what I meant by them; I did not know myself, and I did no harm with
them.
In the mean time our Congressman was writing for us every week from
Washington a letter full of politics far more intelligible to our
readers than mine were to me. He was that Joshua R. Giddings, early one
