sensitive mind of his friend. He regretted having uttered them and
waited only until he should leave the company with Arnest, to express
his sorrow for what he had done. But his friend did not give him this
opportunity, for he managed to retire alone, thus expressing to Marston
the fact that he was seriously offended.

Early the next morning, Marston called at the residence of his friend,
in order to make an apology for having offended him; but he happened
not to be at home. On arriving at his office, he found a note from
Arnest, couched in the most offensive terms. The language was such as
to extinguish all desire or intention to apologize.

"Henceforth we are strangers," he said, as he thrust the note aside.

An hour afterward, they met on the street, looked coldly into each
other's face, and passed without even a nod. That act sealed the record
of estrangement.

Mr. Wellford was an old gentleman who was well acquainted with both of
the young men, and esteemed them for the good qualities they possessed.
When he heard of the occurrence just related, he was much grieved, and
sought to heal the breach that had been made; but without success.
Arnest's self-esteem had been sorely wounded, and he would not forgive
what he considered a wanton outrage. Marston felt himself deeply
insulted by the note he had received, and maintained that he would
forfeit his self-respect were he to hold any intercourse whatever with
a man who could, on so small a provocation, write such a scandalous
letter. Thus the matter stood; wounded self-esteem on one side, and
insulted self-respect on the other, not only maintaining the breach,
but widening it every day. Mr Wellford used his utmost influence with
his young friends to bend them from their anger, but he argued the
matter in vain. The voice of pride was stronger than the voice of
reason.

Months were suffered to go by, and even years to elapse, and still they
were as strangers. Circumstances threw them constantly together; they
met in places of business; they sat in full view of each other in
church on the holy Sabbath; they mingled in the same social circles;
the friends of one were the friends of the other; but they rarely
looked into each other's face, and never spoke. Did this make them
happier? No! For, "If ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither
will your heavenly Father forgive your trespasses." Did they feel
indifferent toward each other? Not by any means! Arnest still dwelt on
and magnified the provocation he had received, but thought that the
expression of his indignation had not been of a character to give as
great offence to Marston as it had done. And Marston, as time passed,
thought more and more lightly of the few jesting words he had spoken,
and considered them less and less provocation for the insulting note he
had received, which he still had, and sometimes turned up and read.

The old friends were forced to think of each other often, for both were
rising in the world, and rising into general esteem and respectability.
The name of the one was often mentioned with approbation in the
presence of the other; and it sometimes happened that they were thrown
together in such a way as to render their position toward each other
really embarrassing: as, for instance, one was called to preside at a
public meeting, and the other chosen secretary. Neither could refuse,
and there had to be an official intercourse between them; it was cold
and formal in the extreme; and neither could see as he looked into the
eyes of the other, a glimmer of the old light of friendship.

Mr. Wellford was present at this meeting, and marked the fact that the
intercourse between Arnest and Marston was official only--that they did
not unbend to each other in the least. He was grieved to see it, for he
knew the good qualities of both, and he had a high respect for them.

"This must not be," said he to himself, as he walked thoughtfully
homeward. "They are making themselves unhappy, and preventing a concert
of useful efforts for good in society, and all for nothing. I will try
again to reconcile them; perhaps I may be more successful than before."

So, on the next day, the old gentleman made it his business to call
upon Arnest, who expressed great pleasure in meeting him.

"I noticed," said Mr. Wellford, after he had conversed some time, and
finally introduced the subject of the meeting on the previous evening,
"that your intercourse with the secretary was exceedingly formal; in
fact, hardly courteous."

"I don't like Marston, as you are very well aware," replied Arnest.

"In which feeling you stand nearly alone, friend Arnest. Mr. Marston is
highly esteemed by all who know him."

"All don't know him as I do."

"Perhaps others know him better than you do; there may lie the
difference."

"If a man knocks me down, I know the weight of his arm much better than
those who have never felt it."

"Still nursing your anger, still harbouring unkind thoughts! Forgive
and forget, my friend--forgive and forget; no longer let the sun go
down upon your wrath."

"I can forgive, Mr. Wellford--I do forgive; for Heaven knows I wish him
no harm; but I cannot forget: that is asking too much."

"You do not forget, because you will not forgive," replied the old
gentleman. "Forgive, and you will soon forget. I am sure you will both
be happier in forgetting than you can be in remembering the past."

But Arnest shook his head, remarking, as he so--"I would rather let
things remain as they are. At least, I cannot stoop to any humiliating
overtures for a reconciliation. When Marston outraged my feelings so
wantonly, I wrote him a pretty warm expression of my sentiments in
regard to his conduct. This gave him mortal offence. I do not now
remember what I wrote, but nothing, certainly, to have prevented his
coming forward and apologizing for his conduct; but he did not choose
to do this, and there the matter rests. I cannot recall the angry
rebuke I gave him, for it was no doubt just."

"A man who writes a letter in a passion, and afterwards forgets what he
has written," said Mr. Wellford, "may be sure that he has said what his
sober reason cannot approve. If you could have the letter you then sent
before you now, I imagine that you would no longer wonder that Marston
was offended."

"That is impossible; without doubt, he burned my note the moment he
received it."

Mr. Wellford tried in vain to induce Arnest to consent to forget what
was past; but he affirmed that this was impossible, and that he had no
wish to renew an acquaintance with his old friend.

About the same time that this interview took place, Marston was alone,
thinking with sad and softened feelings of the past. The letter of
Arnest was before him; he had turned it over by accident.

"He could not have been himself when he wrote this," he thought. It was
the first time he had permitted himself to think so. "My words must
have stung him severely, lightly as I uttered them, and with no
intention to wound. This matter ought not to have gone on so long.
Friends are not so plentiful that we may carelessly cast those we have
tried and proved aside. He has many excellent qualities."

Pride came quickly, with many suggestions about self-respect, and what
every man owed to himself.

"He owes it to himself to be just to others," Marston truly thought.
"Was I just in failing to apologize to my friend, notwithstanding this
offensive letter? No, I was not; for his action did not exonerate me
from the responsibility of mine. Ah, me! How passion blinds us!"

After musing for some time, Marston drew towards him a sheet of paper,
and, taking up a pen, wrote:

"MY DEAR SIR:--What I ought to have done years ago, I do now, and that
is, offer you a sincere apology for light words thoughtlessly spoken,
but which I ought not to have used, as they were calculated to wound,
and, I am grieved to think, did wound. But for your note, which I
enclose, I should have made this apology the moment I had an
opportunity. But its peculiar tenor, I then felt, precluded me from
doing so. I confess that I erred in letting my feelings blind my cooler
judgment.

"Your old friend, MARSTON.

"To Mr. Herbert Arnest."

Enclosing the note alluded to in this letter, Marston sealed, and,
ringing for an attendant, despatched it.

"Better to do right late than never," he murmured, as he leaned
pensively back in his chair.

"Let what will come of it, I shall feel better, for I will gain my own
self-respect, and have an inward assurance that I have done
right,--more than I have for a long time had, in regard to this matter
at least."

Relieved in mind, Marston commenced looking over some papers in
reference to matters of business then on hand, and was soon so much
absorbed in them, that the subject which had lately filled his thoughts
faded entirely therefrom. Some one opened the door, and he turned to
see who was entering. In an instant he was on his feet. It was Arnest.

The face of the latter was pale and agitated, and his lips quivered. He
came forward hurriedly, extending his hand, not to grasp that of his
old friend, but to hold up his own letter that had been just returned
to him.

"Marston," he said, huskily, "did I send you this note?"

"You did," was the firm but mild answer.

"Thus I cancel it!" And he tore it into shreds, and scattered them on
the floor. "Would that its contents could be as easily obliterated from
your memory!" he added, in a most earnest voice.

"They are no longer there, my friend," returned Marston, with visible
emotion, now grasping the hand of Arnest. "You have wiped them out."

Arnest returned the pressure with both hands, his eyes fixed on those
of Marston, until they grew so dim that he could no longer read the old
familiar lines and forgiving look.

"Let us forgive and forget," said Marston, speaking in a broken voice.
"We have wronged each other and ourselves. We have let evil passions
