
"What do these hieroglyphics mean?"

"That stands for the 'Library of Entertaining Knowledge,' "
said Fleda.

"But how is this? do you go hop, skip, and jump through these
books, or read a little, and then throw them away'? Here it is
only seven days since you began the second volume of
Lacretelle  not time enough to get through it."

"Oh no, Sir," said Fleda, smiling: "I like to have several
books that I am reading in at once; I mean at the same time,
you know; and then if I am not in the mood of one I take up
another."

"She reads them all through," said Hugh, "always, though she
reads them very quick."

"Hum  I understand," said the old doctor, with a humorous
expression, going on with the list.

" 'March 3. 3 Hist. de France.'

"But you finish one of these volumes, I suppose, before you
begin another; or do you dip into different parts of the same
work at once?"

"Oh no, Sir; of course not!"

" 'Mar. 5. Modern Egyptians. L. E. K. Ap. 13.'

"What are these dates on the right, as well as on the left?"

"Those on the right show when I finished the volume."

"Well, I wonder what you were cut out for!" said the doctor.
"A Quaker! you aren't a Quaker, are you?"

"No, Sir," said Fleda, laughing.

"You look like it," said he.

" 'Feb. 24. Five Penny Magazines, finished Mar. 4.'

"They are in paper numbers, you know, Sir."

" 'April 4. 4 Hist. de. F.'

"Let us see  the third volume was finished, March 29  I
declare you keep it up pretty well."

" 'Ap. 19. Incidents of Travel.'

"Whose is that?"

"It is by Mr. Stephens."

"How did you like it?"

"Oh, very much, indeed."

"Ay, I see you did; you finished it by the first of May. 'Tour
to the Hebrides'  what, Johnson's?"

"Yes Sir."

"Read it all fairly through?"

"Yes, Sir; certainly."

He smiled, and went on.

" 'May 12. Peter Simple.'"

There was quite a shout at the heterogeneous character of
Fleda's reading, which she, not knowing exactly what to make
of it, heard rather abashed.

" 'Peter Simple!' " said the doctor, settling himself to go on
with his list; "well, let us see. 'World without Souls.' Why,
you Elf! read in two days."

"It is very short, you know, Sir."

"What did you think of it?"

"I liked parts of it very much."

He went on, still smiling.

" 'June 15. Goldsmith's Animated Nature.'

" 'June I8. 1 Life of Washington.'

"What Life of Washington?"

"Marshall's."

"Hum.  'July 9. 2 Goldsmith's An. Na.' As I live, begun the
very day the first volume was finished! Did you read the whole
of that?"

"Oh yes, Sir. I liked that book very much."

" 'July 12. 5 Hist. de France.'

"Two histories on hand at once! Out of all rule, Miss Fleda!
We must look after you."

"Yes Sir; sometimes I wanted to read one, and sometimes I
wanted to read the other."

"And you always do what you want to do, I suppose?"

"I think the reading does me more good in that way."

" 'July 15. Paley's Natural Theology!' "

There was another shout. Poor Fleda's eyes filled with tears.

"What in the world put that book into your head, or before
your eyes?" said the doctor.

"I don't know, Sir  I thought I should like to read it," said
Fleda, drooping her eyelids, that the bright drops under them
might not be seen.

"And finished in eleven days, as I live!" said the doctor,
wagging his head. " 'July 19. 3 Goldsmith's A. N.'

" 'Aug. 6. 4 Do. Do.' "

"That is one of Fleda's favourite books," put in Hugh.

"So it seems. '6 Hist. de France.'  What does this little
cross mean?"

"That shows when the book is finished," said Fleda, looking on
the page  "the last volume, I mean."

" 'Retrospect of Western Travel'  'Goldsmith's A. N., last
vol.'  'Mémoires de Sully'  in the French ?"

"Yes, Sir."

" 'Life of Newton'  What's this?  'Sep. 8. 1 Fairy Queen!' 
not Spenser's?"

"Yes, Sir, I believe so  the Fairy Queen, in five volumes."

The doctor looked up comically at his niece and her husband,
who were both sitting or standing close by.

" 'Sep. 10. Paolo e Virginia'  in what language?"

"Italian, Sir; I was just beginning, and I haven't finished it
yet."

" 'Sep. 16. Milner's Church History!' What the deuce!  'Vol.
2. Fairy Queen.'  Why, this must have been a favourite book,
too."

"That's one of the books Fleda loves best," said Hugh;  "she
went through that very fast."

"Over it, you mean, I reckon; how much did you skip, Fleda?"

"I didn't skip at all," said Fleda; "I read every word of it."

" ' Sep. 20. 2 Mém. de Sully.' Well, you're an industrious
mouse, I'll say that for you. What's this?  'Don Quixote!' 
'Life of Howard.'  'Nov. 17. 3 Fairy Queen.'  'Nov. 29. 4
Fairy Queen.'  'Dec. 8. 1 Goldsmith's England.'  Well, if
this list of books is a fair exhibit of your taste and
capacity, you have a most happily proportioned set of
intellectuals. Let us see  history, fun, facts, nature,
theology, poetry and divinity!  upon my soul!  and poetry
and history the leading features!  a little fun  as much as
you could lay your hand on, I'll warrant, by that pinch in the
corner of your eye. And here, the eleventh of December, you
finished the Fairy Queen; and ever since, I suppose, you have
been imagining yourself the 'faire Una,' with Hugh standing
for Prince Arthur or the Red-cross Knight  haven't you?"

"No, Sir. I didn't imagine anything about it."

"Don't tell me. What did you read it for?"

"Only because I liked it, Sir. I liked it better than any
other book I read last year."

"You did! Well, the year ends, I see, with another volume of
Sully. I wont enter upon this year's list. Pray, how much of
all these volumes do you suppose you remember? I'll try and
find out next time I come to see you. I can give a guess, if
you study with that little pug in your lap."

"He is not a pug!" said Fleda, in whose arms King was lying
luxuriously  "and he never gets into my lap, besides."
