  sitting in her chamber to sew, or engaged in her other household
  work, with her lacerated and bleeding back, her mutilated mouth, and
  heavy iron collar, without, so far as appeared, exciting any
  feelings of compassion.

This iron collar the author has often heard of from sources equally
authentic.[11] That one will meet with it every day in walking the
streets, is not probable; but that it must have been used with some
great degree of frequency, is evident from the fact of a law being
thought necessary to protect it. But look at the penalty of the two
protective laws! The fiendish cruelties described in the act of South
Carolina cost the perpetrator not more than five hundred dollars, if he
does them before white people. The act of humanity costs from two
hundred to one thousand dollars, and imprisonment from six months to two
years, according to discretion of court! What public sentiment was it
which made these laws?

-----

Footnote 11:

  The iron collar was also in vogue in North Carolina, as the following
  extract from the statute-book will show. The wearers of this article
  of apparel certainly have some reason to complain of the “tyranny of
  fashion.”

  “When the keeper of the said public jail shall, by direction of such
  court as aforesaid, let out any negro or runaway to hire, to any
  person or persons whomsoever, the said keeper shall, at the time of
  his delivery, cause an iron collar to be put on the neck of such negro
  or runaway, with the letters P. G. stamped thereon; and thereafter the
  said keeper shall not be answerable for any escape of the said negro
  or runaway.”—Potter’s Revisal, i. 162.




                              CHAPTER VI.
      PROTECTIVE ACTS WITH REGARD TO FOOD AND RAIMENT, LABOR, ETC.

  Illustrative Drama of Tom v. Legree, under the Law of South
    Carolina.—Separation of Parent and Child.


[Sidenote: Wheeler, p. 220. State v. Sue, Cameron & Norwood’s C. Rep.
           54.]

Having finished the consideration of the laws which protect the life and
limb of the slave, the reader may feel a curiosity to know something of
the provisions by which he is protected in regard to food and clothing,
and from the exactions of excessive labor. It is true, there are
multitudes of men in the Northern States who would say, at once, that
such enactments, on the very face of them, must be superfluous and
absurd. “What!” they say, “are not the slaves property? and is it likely
that any man will impair the market value of his own property by not
giving them sufficient food or clothing, or by over-working them?” This
process of reasoning appears to have been less convincing to the
legislators of Southern States than to gentlemen generally at the North;
since, as Judge Taylor says, “the act of 1786 (Iredell’s Revisal, p.
588) does, in the preamble, recognize the fact, that many persons, by
cruel treatment of their slaves, cause them to commit crimes for which
they are executed;” and the judge further explains this language, by
saying, “The cruel treatment here alluded to must consist in withholding
from them the necessaries of life; and the crimes thus resulting are
such as are necessary to furnish them with food and raiment.”

The State of South Carolina, in the act of 1740 (see Stroud’s Sketch, p.
28), had a section with the following language in its preamble:

[Sidenote: Stroud, p. 29.]

  Whereas many owners of slaves, and others who have the care,
  management, and overseeing of slaves, do confine them so closely to
  hard labor that they have not sufficient time for natural rest;—

And the law goes on to enact that the slave shall not work more than
fifteen hours a day in summer, and fourteen in winter. Judge Stroud
makes it appear that in three of the slave states the time allotted for
work to convicts in prison, whose punishment is to consist in hard
labor, cannot exceed ten hours, even in the summer months.

This was the protective act of South Carolina, designed to reform the
abusive practices of masters who confined their slaves so closely that
they had not time for natural rest! What sort of habits of thought do
these humane provisions show, in the makers of them? In order to protect
the slave from what they consider undue exaction, they humanely provide
that he shall be obliged to work only four or five hours longer than the
convicts in the prison of the neighboring state! In the Island of
Jamaica, besides many holidays which were accorded by law to the slave,
ten hours a day was the extent to which he was compelled by law
ordinarily to work.—See Stroud, p. 29.

With regard to protective acts concerning food and clothing, Judge
Stroud gives the following example from the legislation of South
Carolina. The author gives it as quoted by Stroud, p. 32.

  In case any person, &c., who shall be the owner, or who shall have
  the care, government or charge, of any slave or slaves, shall deny,
  neglect or refuse to allow, such slave or slaves, &c., sufficient
  clothing, covering or food, it shall and may be lawful for any
  person or persons, on behalf of such slave or slaves, to make
  complaint to the next neighboring justice in the parish where such
  slave or slaves live, or are usually employed, * * * and the said
  justice shall summons the party against whom such complaint shall be
  made, and shall inquire of, hear and determine, the same; and, if
  the said justice shall find the said complaint to be true, or that
  such person will not exculpate or clear himself from the charge, by
  his or her own oath, which such person shall be at liberty to do in
  all cases where positive proof is not given of the offence, such
  justice shall and may make such orders upon the same, for the relief
  of such slave or slaves, as he in his discretion shall think fit;
  and shall and may set and impose a fine or penalty on any person who
  shall offend in the premises, in any sum not exceeding twenty pounds
  current money, for each offence.—2 Brevard’s, Dig. 241. Also
  Cobb’s Dig. 827.

A similar law obtains in Louisiana.—Rev. Stat. 1852, p. 557, § 166.

Now, would not anybody think, from the virtuous solemnity and gravity of
this act, that it was intended in some way to amount to something? Let
us give a little sketch, to show how much it does amount to. Angelina
Grimké Weld, sister to Sarah Grimké, before quoted, gives the following
account of the situation of slaves on plantations:[12]

  And here let me say, that the treatment of plantation slaves
  cannot be fully known, except by the poor sufferers themselves, and
  their drivers and overseers. In a multitude of instances, even the
  master can know very little of the actual condition of his own
  field-slaves, and his wife and daughters far less. A few facts
  concerning my own family will show this. Our permanent residence was
  in Charleston; our country-seat (Bellemont) was two hundred miles
  distant, in the north western part of the state, where, for some
  years, our family spent a few months annually. Our plantation was
  three miles from this family mansion. There all the field-slaves
  lived and worked. Occasionally,—once a month, perhaps,—some of the
  family would ride over to the plantation; but I never visited the
  fields where the slaves were at work, and knew almost nothing of
  their condition; but this I do know, that the overseers who had
  charge of them were generally unprincipled and intemperate men. But
  I rejoice to know that the general treatment of slaves in that
  region of country was far milder than on the plantations in the
  lower country.

  Throughout all the eastern and middle portions of the state, the
  planters very rarely reside permanently on their plantations. They
  have almost invariably two residences, and spend less than half
  the year on their estates. Even while spending a few months on them,
  politics, field-sports, races, speculations, journeys, visits,
  company, literary pursuits, &c., absorb so much of their time, that
  they must, to a considerable extent, take the condition of their
  slaves on trust, from the reports of their overseers. I make this
  statement, because these slaveholders (the wealthier class) are, I
  believe, almost the only ones who visit the North with their
  families; and Northern opinions of slavery are based chiefly on
  their testimony.

With regard to overseers, Miss Grimké’s testimony is further borne out
by the universal acknowledgment of Southern owners. A description of
this class of beings is furnished by Mr. Wirt, in his Life of Patrick
Henry, page 34. “Last and lowest,” he says, [of different classes in
society] “a feculum of beings called overseers,—a most abject,
degraded, unprincipled race.” Now, suppose, while the master is in
Charleston, enjoying literary leisure, the slaves on some Bellemont or
other plantation, getting tired of being hungry and cold, form
themselves into a committee of the whole, to see what is to be done. A
broad-shouldered, courageous fellow, whom we will call Tom, declares it
is too bad, and he won’t stand it any longer; and, having by some means
become acquainted with this benevolent protective act, resolves to make
an appeal to the horns of this legislative altar. Tom talks stoutly,
having just been bought on to the place, and been used to better
quarters elsewhere. The women and children perhaps admire, but the
venerable elders of the plantation,—Sambo, Cudge, Pomp and old Aunt
Dinah,—tell him he better mind himself, and keep clar o’ dat ar. Tom,
being young and progressive, does not regard these conservative maxims;
he is determined that, if there is such a thing as justice to be got, he
will have it. After considerable research, he finds some white man in
the neighborhood verdant enough to enter the complaint for him. Master
Legree finds himself, one sunshiny, pleasant morning, walked off to some
Justice Dogberry’s, to answer to the charge of not giving his niggers
enough to eat and wear. We will call the infatuated white man who has
undertaken this fool’s errand Master Shallow. Let us imagine a
scene:—Legree, standing carelessly with his hands in his pockets,
rolling a quid of tobacco in his mouth; Justice Dogberry, seated in all
the majesty of law, reinforced by a decanter of whiskey and some
tumblers, intended to assist in illuminating the intellect in such
obscure cases.

Justice Dogberry. Come, gentlemen, take a little something, to begin
with. Mr. Legree, sit down; sit down, Mr.—a’ what’s-your-name?—Mr.
Shallow.

Mr. Legree and Mr. Shallow each sit down, and take their tumbler of
whiskey and water. After some little conversation, the justice
introduces the business as follows:

“Now, about this nigger business. Gentlemen, you know the act
of——um—um,—where the deuce is that act? [Fumbling an old law-book.]
How plagued did you ever hear of that act, Shallow? I’m sure I’m forgot
all about it;—O! here ‘tis. Well, Mr. Shallow, the act says you must
make proof, you observe.”
