he held in his own.

"The north hill-field is pretty much all ploughed already," he
remarked.

"You're a good farmer, Governor," said his mother. "But I am
afraid that praise doesn't please you."

"Yes it does, mamma," he answered smiling a little.

"But it don't satisfy you?"

"No more than it does you, mamma. It helps my hope of being a
good something else some day."

"I don't care much what you are, Governor, if it is only
something good," she said.

He met her grave, wistful eyes, but this time he did not
smile; and a stranger might have thought he was exceedingly
unimpressible. Both were silent a bit.

"Well, it will be good to see them," Mrs. Landholm said, again
with that half sighing breath; "and now we must make haste and
get all ready to welcome them home."


CHAPTER VII.


Happy he
With such a mother! faith in womankind
Beats with his blood, and trust in all things high
Comes easy to him.
TENNYSON.


What a coming home that was. Who could have guessed that any
ungrateful cause had had anything to do with it. What kisses,
what smiles, what family rejoicings at the table, what endless
talks round the fire. What delight in the returned Member of
Assembly; what admiration of the future Collegian. For nobody
had given that up; wishes were bidden to wait awhile, that was
all; and as the waiting had procured them this dear home-
gathering, who could quarrel with it. Nay, there was no eye
shaded, there was no voice untuned for the glad music of that
time.

"Well it's worth going away, to come back again, ain't it?"
said Mr. Landholm, when they were gathered round the fire that
first evening.

"No," said his wife.

"Well, I didn't think so last winter," said the father of the
family, drawing his broad hand over his eyes.

"I can tell you, I have thought so this great while," said
Rufus. "It's -- it's seven or eight months now since I have
been home."

"Papa," said little Winifred, squeezing in and climbing up on
her father's knees, -- "we have wanted you every night."

"You did!" said her father, bending his face conveniently down
to her golden curls; -- "and what did you do by day?"

"O we wanted you; but then you know we were so busy in the
day-time."

"Busy!" said her father, -- "I guess you were busy!"

She made herself busy then, for putting both arms round his
neck she pressed and kissed his face, till feeling grew too
excited with the indulgence of it, and she lay with her head
quite still upon his shoulder where nobody could see her eyes.
The father's eyes told tales.

"I think Winifred has forgotten me," observed Rufus.

But Winifred was in no condition to answer the charge.

"Winifred doesn't forget anybody," said her father fondly.
"We're none of us given to forgetting. I am thankful that we
have one thing that some richer folks want -- we all love one
another. Winifred, --I thought you were going to shew me that
black kitten o' your'n?"

"I haven't any kitten, papa, -- it is Asahel's."

"Well, let Asahel bring it then."

Which Asahel did.

"Have you looked at the cattle, Mr. Landholm?" said his wife.

"No -- not yet -- this is the first specimen of live stock I've
seen," said Mr. Landholm, viewing attentively a little black
kitten which was sprawling very uncomfortably upon the painted
floor. "I've heard of 'em though. Asahel has been giving me a
detail at length of all the concerns of the farm. I think
he'll make an excellent corresponding secretary by and by."

"I was only telling papa what Governor had been doing," said
Asahel.

"You were afraid he would be forgotten. There, my dear, I
would let the little cat go back to its mother."

"No papa, -- Asahel wanted you should know that Governor didn't
forget."

"Did you ever hear of the time, Asahel," said his elder
brother, "that a cat was sold by the length of her tail?"

"By the length of her tail!" said Asahel unbelievingly.

"Yes -- for as much wheat as would cover the tip of her tail
when she was held so --"

And suiting the action to the word, Rufus suspended the kitten
with its nose to the floor and the point of its tail at the
utmost height it could reach above that level. Winifred
screamed; Asahel sprang; Rufus laughed and held fast.

"It's a shame!" said Winifred.

"You have no right to do it!" said Asahel. "It isn't the
law, if it was the law; and it was a very cruel law!"

But Rufus only laughed; and there seemed some danger of a
break in that kindliness of feeling which their father had
vaunted, till Mrs. Landholm spoke. A word and a look of hers,
to one and the other, made all smooth; and they went on again
talking, of happy nothings, till it was time to separate for
the night. It was only then that Mr. Landholm touched on any
matter of more than slight interest.

"Well, Rufus," he said when at last they rose from their
chairs, -- "are you all ready for College?"

"Yes sir."

A little shadow upon both faces -- a very little.

"I am glad of it. Well keep ready; -- you'll go yet one of
these days -- the time will come. You must see if you can't be
contented to keep at home a spell. We'll shove you off by and
by."

Neither party very well satisfied with the decision, but there
was no more to be said.

To keep at home was plain enough; to be contented was another
matter. Rufus joined again in the farm concerns; the well-worn
Little River broadcloth was exchanged for homespun; and
Winthrop's plough, and hoe, and axe, were mated again as in
former time they used to be. This at least was greatly enjoyed
by the brothers. There was a constant and lively
correspondence between them, on all matters of interest, past,
present, and future, and on all matters of speculation
attainable by either mind; and though judgments and likings
were often much at variance, and the issues, to the same
argument, were not always the same with each; on one point,
the delight of communication, they were always at one. Clearly
Rufus had no love for the axe, nor for the scythe, but he
could endure both while talking with Winthrop; though many a
time it would happen that axe and scythe would be lost in the
interest of other things; and leaning on his snathe, or
flinging his axe into a cut, Rufus would stand to argue, or
demonstrate, or urge, somewhat just then possessing all his
faculties; till a quiet reminder of his brother's would set
him to laughing and to work again; and sweetly moved the
scythes through the grass, and cheerily rung the axes, for the
winrows were side by side and the ringing answered from tree
to tree. And the inside of home gave Rufus pleasure too. Yet
there were often times, -- when talk was at a standstill, and
mother's "good things" were not on the table, with a string of
happy faces round it, and neither axe nor scythe kept him from
a present feeling of inaction, -- that the shadow reappeared on
Rufus's brow. He would sit in the chimney corner, looking far
down into the hearth-stones, or walk moodily up and down the
floor, behind the backs of the other people, with a face that
seemed to belong to some waste corner of society.

"My son," said Mrs. Landholm, one evening when Mr. Landholm
was out and the little ones in bed, -- "what makes you wear
such a sober face?"

"Nothing, mother, -- only that I am doing nothing."

"Are you sure of that? Your father was saying that he never
saw anybody sow broadcast with a finer hand -- he said you had
done a grand day's work to day."

An impatiently drawn breath was the answer.

"Rufus, nobody is doing nothing who is doing all that God
gives him leave to do."

