
"But, your duties will become mine, Mary; and most gladly will I
assume them. Only give me your hand, and in return I will give you a
home for all you love, and you can do for them just as your heart
desires. Will you now be mine?"

"If my mother object not," she said, bursting into tears.

Of course, the mother had no objection to urge, and in a few weeks
they were married. It was, perhaps, three months after this event,
that the now happy family were seated in a beautifully furnished
parlor, large enough to suit even Mrs. Turner's ideas. Something had
turned their thoughts on the past, and Mary alluded to their sad
experience in keeping boarders.

"You did not lose much, did you?" asked her husband.

"We sunk over two thousand dollars," Mary replied.

"Is it possible! You paid rather dear, then, for your experience in
keeping a boarding house."

"So I then thought," Mary answered, looking into his face with a
smile, "But I believe it was money well laid out. What you call a
good investment."

"How so?"

Mary stooped down to the ear of her husband, who sat a little behind
her mother, and whispered,

"You are dull, dear--I got you by it, didn't I?"

His young wife's cheek was very convenient, and his lips touched it
almost involuntarily.

"What is that, Mary?" asked her mother, turning towards them, for
she had heard her remark, and was waiting for the explanation.

"Oh, nothing, mother, it was only some of my fun."

"You seem quite full of fun, lately," said Mrs. Turner, with a quiet
smile of satisfaction, and again bent her eyes upon the book she was
reading.




CHAPTER XXX.

TWO WAYS WITH DOMESTICS.


"AH, good morning, dear! I'm really glad to see you," said Helen
Armitage to her young friend Fanny Milnor, as the latter came in to
sit an hour with her. "I just wanted a little sunshine."

"There ought to be plenty of sunshine here," returned Fanny smiling.
"You always seem happy, and so does your mother and sister Mary,
whenever I meet you abroad."

"Abroad, or at home, makes quite a difference, Fanny. Precious
little sunshine have we here. Not a day passes over our heads, that
we are not thrown into hot water about something or other, with our
abominable servants. I declare! I never saw the like, and it grows
worse and worse every day."

"Indeed! That is bad, sure enough. But can't you remedy this defect
in some way?"

"We try hard enough, dear knows! I believe we have had no less than,
six cooks, and as many chambermaids in the last three months. But
change only makes the matter worse. Sometimes they are so idle and
dirty that we cannot tolerate them for a week. And then again they
are so ill-natured, and downright saucy, that no one can venture to
speak to them."

As Helen Armitage said this, she arose from her chair, and walking
deliberately across the room, rang the parlor bell, and then quietly
walked back again and resumed her seat, continuing her remarks as
she did so, upon the exhaustless theme she had introduced. In a
little while a domestic entered.

"That door has been left open by some one," the young lady said, in
a half vexed tone of authority, and with a glance of reproof, as she
pointed to the door of the back parlor leading into the passage.

The servant turned quickly away, muttering as she did so, and left
the parlor, slamming the door after her with a sudden, indignant
jerk.

"You see that!" remarked Helen, the color deepening on her cheeks,
and her voice indicating a good deal of inward disturbance. "That's
just the way we are served by nine out of ten of the people we get
about us. They neglect every thing, and then, when reminded of their
duty, flirt, and grumble, and fling about just as you saw that girl
do this moment. I'll ring for her again, and make her shut that door
as she ought to do, the insolent creature!"

Helen was rising, when Fanny laid her hand on her arm, and said, in
a quiet persuasive tone,

"No--no--don't, Helen. She is out of temper, and will only retort
angrily at further reproof. The better way is to pass over these
things as if you did not notice them."

"And let them ride over us rough shod, as they most certainly will!
The fact is, with all our efforts to make them know and keep their
places, we find it impossible to gain any true subordination in the
house."

"We never have any trouble of this kind," Fanny said.

"You must be very fortunate then."

"I don't know as to that. I never recollect an instance in which a
domestic opposed my mother or failed to obey, cheerfully, any
request. And we have had several in our house, within my
recollection. At least half a dozen."

"Half a dozen! Oh, dear! We have half a dozen a month sometimes! But
come, let us go up to my room; I have some new prints to show you.
They are exquisite. My father bought them for me last week."

The two young ladies ascended to Helen's chamber in the third story.
But the book of prints was not to be found there. "It is in the
parlor, I recollect now," said Helen, ringing the bell as she spoke,
with a quick, strong jerk.

In about three or four minutes, and just as the young lady's
patience was exhausted and her fingers were beginning to itch for
another pull at the bell rope, the tardy waiting women appeared.

"Hannah--Go down into the parlor, and bring me off of the piano a
book you will find there. It is a broad flat book, with loose sheets
in it."

This was said in a tone of authority. The domestic turned away
without speaking and went down stairs. In a little while she came
back, and handed Helen a book, answering the description given. But
it was a portfolio of music.

"O no! Not this!" said she, with a curl of the lip, and an impatient
tossing of her head. "How stupid you are, Hannah! The book I want,
contains prints, and this is only a music book! There! Take it back,
and bring me the book of prints."

Hannah took the book, and muttering as she went out, returned to the
parlor, down two long flights of stairs, and laid it upon the piano.

"If you want the pictures, you may get them yourself, Miss; you've
got more time to run up and down stairs than I have."

As she said this Hannah left the parlor, and the book of prints
lying upon the piano, and went back to the chamber she had been
engaged in cleaning up when called away by Helen's bell. It was not
long after she had resumed her occupation, before the bell sounded
loudly through the passages. Hannah smiled bitterly, and with an air
of resolution, as she listened to the iron summons.

"Pull away to your heart's content, Miss!" she said, half audibly.
"When you call me again take care and know what you want me for.
I've got something else to do besides running up and down stairs to
bring you pictures. Why didn't you look at them while you were in
the parlor, or, take them up with you, if you wanted them in your
chamber?"

"Did you ever see the like!" ejaculated Helen, deeply disturbed at
finding both her direction and her subsequent summons unattended to.
"That's just the way we are constantly served by these abominable
creatures."

Two or three heavy jerks at the bell rope followed these remarks.

"Pull away! It's good exercise for you!" muttered Hannah to herself.
And this was all the notice she took of the incensed young lady, who
was finally compelled to go down stairs and get the prints herself.
But she was so much disturbed and caused Fanny to feel so
unpleasantly that neither of them had any real enjoyment in
examining the beautiful pictures. After these had been turned over
and remarked upon for some time, and they had spent an hour in
conversation, the bell was again rung. Hannah, who came with her
usual reluctance, was directed to prepare some lemonade, and bring
it up with cake. This she did, after a good deal of delay, for which
she was grumbled at by Helen. After the cake bad been eaten, and the
lemonade drank, Hannah was again summoned to remove the waiter. This
was performed with the same ill grace that every other service had
been rendered.

"I declare! these servants worry me almost to death!" Helen again
broke forth. "This is just the way I am served whenever I have a
visiter. It is always the time Hannah takes to be ill-natured and
show off her disobliging, ugly temper."

Fanny made no reply to this. But she had her own thoughts. It was
plain enough to her mind, that her friend had only herself to blame,
for the annoyance she suffered. After witnessing one or two mote
petty contentions with the domestic, Fanny went away, her friend
promising, at her particular request, to come and spend a day with
her early in the ensuing week.
