“I never said that, and if I’d wanted advice I should have gone to
mother. You men go blundering off with half an idea in your heads,
and never see your stupidity till you have made a mess that can’t be
mended; we women don’t work so, but save people’s feelings, and are
called hypocrites for our pains. I never meant to tell you, but I
will now, to show you how I’ve been serving you, while you’ve been
harming me: every one of those notes from Fan which you admire so
much, answer so carefully, and wear out in your pocket, though
copied by her, were written by me.”

“The devil they were!” Up flew Dick, and clapping his hand on the
left breast-pocket, out came a dozen pink notes tied up with a blue
ribbon, and much the worse for wear. He hastily turned them over as
Dolly went on.

“Yes, I did it, for she didn’t know how to answer your notes, and
came to me. I didn’t laugh at them, or make fun of her, but helped
her silly little wits, and made you a happy boy for three months,
though you teased me day and night, for I loved you, and hadn’t the
heart to spoil your pleasure.”

“You’ve done it now with a vengeance, and you’re a pair of deceitful
minxes. I’ve paid you off. I’ll give Fan one more note that will
keep her eyes red for a month; and I’ll never love or trust a girl
again as long as I live,--never! never!”

Red with wrath, Dick flung the treasured packet into the fire,
punched it well down among the coals, flung away the poker, and
turned about with a look and gesture which would have been comically
tragic if they had not been decidedly pathetic, for, in spite of his
years, a very tender heart beat under the blue jacket, and it was
grievously wounded at the perfidy of the gentle little divinity whom
he worshipped with daily increasing ardor. His eyes filled, but he
winked resolutely; his lips trembled, but he bit them hard; his
hands doubled themselves up, but he remembered his adversary was a
woman; and, as a last effort to preserve his masculine dignity, he
began to whistle.

As if the inconsistencies of womankind were to be shown him as
rapidly as possible, at this moment the shower came on, for, taking
him tenderly about the neck, Dolly fell to weeping so infectiously,
that, after standing rigidly erect till a great tear dropped off the
end of his nose, ignominiously announcing that it was no go, Dick
gave in, and laying his head on Dolly’s shoulder, the twins quenched
their anger, washed away their malice, and soothed their sorrow by
one of those natural processes, so kindly provided for poor
humanity, and so often despised as a weakness when it might prove a
better strength than any pride.

Dick cleared up first, with no sign of the tempest but a slight mist
through which his native sunshine glimmered pensively.

“Don’t dear, don’t cry so; it will make you sick, and won’t do any
good, for things will come right, or I’ll make ‘em, and we’ll be
comfortable all round.”

“No, we never can be as we were, and it’s all my fault. I’ve
betrayed Fan’s confidence, I’ve spoiled your little romance, I’ve
been a thoughtless, wicked girl, I’ve lost August; and, oh, dear me,
I wish I was dead!” with which funereal climax Dolly cried so
despairingly that, like the youngest Miss Pecksniff, she was indeed
“a gushing creature.”

“Oh, come now, don’t be dismal, and blame yourself for every trouble
under the sun. Sit down and talk it over, and see what can be done.
Poor old girl, I forgave you the notes, and say I was wrong to
meddle with Bopp. I got you into the scrape, and I’ll get you out if
the sky don’t fall, or Bopp blow his brains out, like a second
Werther, before to-morrow.”

Dick drew the animated fountain to the wide chair, where they had
sat together since they were born, wiped her eyes, laid her wet
cheek against his own, and patted her back, with an idea that it was
soothing to babies, and why not to girls?

“I wish mother was at home,” sighed Dolly, longing for that port
which was always a haven of refuge in domestic squalls like this.

“Write, and tell her not to stay till Saturday.”

“No; it would spoil her visit, and you know she deferred it to help
us through this dreadful masquerade. But I don’t know what to do.”

“Why, bless your heart, it’s simple enough. I’ll tell Bopp, beg his
pardon, say ‘Dolly’s willing,’ and there you are all taut and
ship-shape again.”

“I wouldn’t for the world, Dick. It would be very hard for you, very
awkward for me, and do no good in the end; for August is so proud
he’d never forgive you for such a trick, would never believe that I
‘had a heart’ after all you’ve said and I’ve done; and I should only
hear with my own ears that he thanked me for that No. Oh, why can’t
people know when they are in love, and not go heels over head before
they are ready!”

“Well, if that don’t suit, I’ll let it alone, for that is all I can
suggest; and if you like your woman’s way better, try it, only
you’ll have to fly round, because to-morrow is the last night, you
know.”

“I shan’t go, Dick.”

“Why not? we are going to give him the rose-wood set of things, have
speeches, cheers for the King of Clubs, and no end of fun.”

“I can’t help it; there would be no fun for me, and I couldn’t look
him in the face after all this.”

“Oh, pooh! yes, you could, or it will be the first time you dared
not do damage with those wicked eyes of yours.”

“It is the first time I ever loved any one.” Dolly’s voice was so
low, and her head drooped so much, that this brief confession was
apparently put away in Dick’s pocket, and being an exceedingly novel
one, filled that inflammable youth with a desire to deposit a
similar one in the other pocket, which, being emptied of its
accustomed contents, left a somewhat aching void in itself and the
heart underneath. After a moment’s silence, he said,--

“Well, if you won’t go, you can settle it when he comes here, though
I think we should all do better to confess coming home in the dark.”

“He won’t come here again, Dick.”

“Won’t he! that shows you don’t know Bopp as well as I. He’ll come
to say good-by, to thank mother for her kindness, and you and me for
the little things we’ve done for him (I wish I’d left the last
undone!), and go away like a gentleman, as he is,--see if he don’t.”

“Do you think so? Then I must see him.”

“I’m sure he will, for we men don’t bear malice and sulk and bawl
when we come to grief this way, but stand up and take it without
winking, like the young Spartan brick when the fox was digging into
him, you know.”

“Then, of course, you’ll forgive Fan.”

“I’ll be hanged if I do,” growled Dick.

“Ah ha! your theory is very good, sir, but your practice is bosh,”
 quoted Dolly, with a gleam of the old mischief in her face.

Dick took a sudden turn through the room, burst out laughing, and
came back, saying heartily,--

“I’ll own up; it is mean to feel so, and I’ll think about forgiving
you both; but she may stop up the hole in the wall, for she won’t
get any more letters just yet; and you may devote your epistolary
powers to A. Bopp in future. Well, what is it? free your mind, and
have done with it; but don’t make your nose red, or take the starch
out of my collar with any more salt water, if you please.”

“No, I won’t; and I only want to say that, as you owe the
explanation to us both, perhaps it would be best for you to tell
August your part of the thing as you come home to-morrow, and then
leave the rest to fate. I can’t let him go away thinking me such a
heartless creature, and once gone it will be too late to mend the
matter. Can you do this without getting me into another scrape, do
you think?”

“I haven’t a doubt of it, and I call that sensible. I’ll fix it
capitally,--go down on my knees in the mud, if it is necessary;
treat you like eggs for fear of another smash-up; and bring him home
in such a tip-top state, you’ll only have to nod and find yourself
Mrs. B. any day you like. Now let’s kiss and be friends, and then go
pitch into that pie for luncheon.”

So they did, and an hour afterward were rioting in the garret under
pretence of putting grandma’s things away; for at eighteen, in spite
of love and mischief, boys and girls have a spell to exorcise blue
devils, and a happy faculty of forgetting that “the world is hollow,
and their dolls stuffed with saw-dust.”

Dick was right, for on the following evening, after the lesson, Mr.
Bopp did go home with him, “to say good-by, like a gentleman as he
was.” Dolly got over the first greeting in the dusky hall, and as
her guest passed on to the parlor, she popped her head out to ask
anxiously,--

“Did you say anything, Dick?”

“I couldn’t; something has happened to him; he’ll tell you about it.
I’m going to see to the horse, so take your time, and do what you
like,” with which vague information Dick vanished, and Dolly wished
herself anywhere but where she was.

Mr. Bopp sat before the fire, looking so haggard and worn out that
the girl’s conscience pricked her sorely for her part in the change,
but plucking up her courage, she stirred briskly among the tea-cups,
asking,--

“What shall I give you, sir?”

“Thank you, I haf no care to eat.”

Something in his spiritless mien and sorrowful voice made Dolly’s
eyes fill; but knowing she must depend upon herself now, and make
the best of her position, she said kindly, yet nervously,--

