
"Girls, did any of you make that sound?"

Nobody had. Miss Cardrew began to read again. All at once Joy pulled
Gypsy's sleeve.

"Just look there!"

"Where?"

"Trickling down the outside of the desk!"

"You don't suppose she's upset the——"

"Ink-bottle—yes."

Miss Cardrew was in the tenth verse, and the room was very still. Right
into the stillness there broke again a distinct, prolonged, dolorous—

"Mi-aow-aow!"

And this time Miss Cardrew laid down her Bible and lifted the
desk-cover.

It is reported in school to this day that Miss Cardrew jumped.

Out flew the kitten, like popped corn from a shovel, glared over the
desk in the nightcap and black apron, leaped down, and flew, all
dripping with ink, down the aisle, out of the door, and bouncing
downstairs like an India-rubber ball.

Delia Guest and one or two of the other girls screamed. Miss Cardrew
flung out some books and papers from the desk. It was too late; they
were dripping, and drenched, and black. The teacher quietly wiped some
spots of ink from her pretty blue merino, and there was an awful
silence.

"Girls," said Miss Cardrew then, in her grave, stern way, "who did
this?"

Nobody answered.

"Who put that cat in my desk?" repeated Miss Cardrew.

It was perfectly still. Gypsy's cheeks were scarlet. Joy was looking
carelessly about the room, scanning the faces of the girls, as if she
were trying to find out who was the guilty one.

"It is highly probable that the cat tied herself into an apron, opened
the desk and shut the cover down on herself," said Miss Cardrew; "we
will look into this matter. Delia Guest, did you put her in?"

"No'm—he, he! I guess I—ha, ha!—didn't," said Delia.

"Next!"—and down the first row went Miss Cardrew, asking the same
question of every girl, and the second row, and the third. Gypsy sat on
the end of the fourth settee.

"Gypsy Breynton, did you put the kitten in my desk?"

"No'm, I didn't," said Gypsy; which was true enough. It was Joy who did
that part of it.

"Did you have anything to do with the matter, Gypsy?" Perhaps Miss
Cardrew remembered that Gypsy had had something to do with a few other
similar matters since she had been in school.

"Yes'm," said honest Gypsy, with crimson face and hanging head, "I did."

"What did you do?"

"I put on the apron and the tippet, and—I gave her the biscuit.
I—thought she'd keep still till prayers were over," said Gypsy,
faintly.

"But you did not put her in the desk?"

"No'm."

"And you know who did?"

"Yes'm."

Miss Cardrew never asked her scholars to tell of each other's
wrong-doings. If she had, it would have made no difference to Gypsy. She
had shut up her lips tight and not another word would she have said for
anybody. She had told the truth about herself, but she was under no
obligations to bring Joy into trouble. Joy might do as she liked.

"Gypsy Breynton will lose her recesses for a week and stay an hour after
school tonight," said Miss Cardrew. "Joy, did you put the kitten in my
desk?"

"No, ma'am," said Joy, boldly.

"Nor have anything to do with it?"

"No, ma'am," said Joy, without the slightest change of color.

"Next!—Sarah Rowe."

Of course Sarah had not, nor anybody else. Miss Cardrew let the matter
drop there and went on with her reading.

Gypsy sat silent and sorry, her eyes on her Testament. Joy tried to
whisper something to her once, but Gypsy turned away with a gesture of
impatience and disgust. This thing Joy had done had shocked her so that
she felt as if she could not bear the sight of her face or touch of her
hand. Never since she was a very little child had Gypsy been known to
say what was not true. All her words were like her eyes—clear as
sunbeams.

At dinner Joy did all the talking. Mrs. Breynton asked Gypsy what was
the matter, but Gypsy said "Nothing." If Joy did not choose to tell of
the matter, she would not.

"What makes you so cross?" said Joy in the afternoon; "nobody can get a
word out of you, and you don't look at me any more than if I weren't
here."

"I don't see how you can ask such a question!" exploded Gypsy, with
flashing eyes. "You know what you've done as well as I do."

"No, I don't," grumbled Joy; "just 'cause I didn't tell Miss Cardrew
about that horrid old cat—I wish we'd let the ugly thing alone!—I
don't see why you need treat me as if I'd been murdering somebody and
were going to be hung for it. Besides, I said 'Over the left' to myself
just after I'd told her, and I didn't want to lose my recess if you
did."

Gypsy shut up her pink lips tight, and made no answer.

Joy went out to play at recess, and Gypsy stayed in alone and studied.
Joy went home with the girls in a great frolic after school, and Gypsy
stayed shut up in the lonely schoolroom for an hour, disgraced and
miserable. But I have the very best of reasons for thinking that she
wasn't nearly as miserable as Joy.

Just before supper the two girls were sitting drearily together in the
dining-room, when the door-bell rang.

"It's Miss Cardrew!" said Joy, looking out of the window; "what do you
suppose she wants?"

Gypsy looked up carelessly; she didn't very much care. She had told Miss
Cardrew all she had to tell and received her punishment.

As for her mother, she would have gone to her with the whole story that
noon, if it hadn't been for Joy's part in it.

"What is that she has in her hand, I wonder?" said Joy uneasily, peeping
through a crack in the door as Miss Cardrew passed through the entry;
"why, I declare! if it isn't a handkerchief, as true as you
live—all—inky!"

When Miss Cardrew had gone, Mrs. Breynton came out of the parlor with a
very grave face, a purple-bordered handkerchief in her hand; it was all
spotted with ink, and the initials J. M. B. were embroidered on it.

"Joy."

Joy came out of the corner slowly.

"Come here a minute."

Joy went and the door was shut. Just what happened that next half hour
Gypsy never knew. Joy came upstairs at the end of it, red-eyed and
crying, and gentle.

Gypsy was standing by the window.

"Gypsy."

"Well."

"I love auntie dearly, now I guess I do."

"Of course," said Gypsy; "everybody does."

"I hadn't the least idea it was so wicked—not the least idea. Mother
used to——"

But Joy broke off suddenly, with quivering, crimson lips.

What that mother used to do Gypsy never asked; Joy never told
her—either then, or at any other time.




CHAPTER VII

PEACE MAYTHORNE'S ROOM


"Tis, too."

"It isn't, either."

"I know just as well as you."
