
“If you will take the trouble to examine the note, you will find that it
comes through a third person, Richard Sharp. You probably remember him.”

“Yes, I know him.”

Mr. Ford glanced at the paper in his hand.

“I think there must be some mistake,” he said. “The sum should be two
hundred dollars, not three.”

“There is no mistake,” said Blunt, positively. “It is just as he gave it
to me.”

“Mr. Sharp mentioned yesterday,” said Mr. Ford, with a sudden effort at
recollection, “that he had parted with this note to some one, but on
condition that it should not be presented. You had better see him about
it.”

“I have nothing further to do with him,” replied Blunt, “I believe he
did mention something of the kind; but of course he cannot expect me to
keep this note when I want the money.”

“Then, sir,” said Mr. Ford, “if, as you admit, Mr. Sharp made this
condition, it is incumbent on you, as a man of honor, to keep it. I am
sure it is very far from Mr. Sharp’s intention to trouble me for the
payment of a sum which he loaned without the expectation of immediate
repayment. I should wrong his disinterested generosity by harboring such
a suspicion.”

“His disinterested generosity!” repeated Blunt, with a loud laugh.

“Sir,” said the inventor, with calm dignity, “I must request you to
forbear insinuating by word or manner anything derogatory to a man who
has proved himself my benefactor, and, solely impelled by his interest
in science, has offered me the aid of his purse, without even an
application on my part.”

“Very well,” said Blunt, “although it’s rather amusing to me to hear
Sharp spoken of as interested in science, I won’t quarrel with your
opinion of him, especially as his character isn’t in question just now.
The main point is, can you pay this note?”

“I cannot.”

“Then I shall be under the disagreeable necessity of calling two of my
friends in waiting.”

Two Irishmen, who appeared to have been waiting outside, entered at
Blunt’s call.

“Take that machinery,” said Blunt, in a tone of command, “and carry it
down stairs.”

“Stay!” said Mr. Ford, in alarm; “what do you intend to do?”

“I am only acting in self-defence,” said Blunt, doggedly. “You cannot
pay your money. If I can’t get my pay in one way, I must in another;
therefore, I take this machinery of yours in execution.”

The thought of this calamity nearly overcame Mr. Ford. He did not pause
to consider whether the seizure was legal or illegal, but, in an
agitated voice, urged, “Take everything else, but spare me this. It is
to me of inestimable value,—greater than you can possibly imagine.”

“That’s the very reason I take it,” said Blunt. “All the rest of your
trumpery,” glancing contemptuously at the plain furniture, “wouldn’t be
worth carrying away.”

“At least,” implored the inventor, “wait till to-morrow, till I can see
Mr. Sharp.”

“And where would you be?” sneered Blunt. “Don’t think to catch me with
such chaff; I’m too old a bird. I will take it while it is here.”

“But,” urged Mr. Ford, “it can be of little value to you. You cannot
sell it for one quarter of the debt.”

“Perhaps not. But that isn’t what I take it for.”

“What then?”

“As a pledge for its final payment. I care nothing for the trumpery,
while you, I know, do. When you come forward and pay the note, you shall
have it back again.”

“Do you promise that?” asked the inventor, more cheerfully.

“I will agree to wait a reasonable time.”

Little ceremony was used in the removal of the complicated machinery.
Within ten minutes, all that had so fully occupied the thoughts of Mr.
Ford, and furnished the pleasure and the occupation of his quiet life,
was swept away, and he was left alone. That the labor was to no purpose,
and the hopes which he cherished vain, imported little. To him, at
least, they were realities, and upon them he had built a dazzling
superstructure, which now suddenly crumbled into pieces at his feet.

Lewis Rand’s triumph was thus far complete.




                             CHAPTER XXIV.
                         HELEN’S GOOD FORTUNE.


Mr. Bowers, the manager, sat at his desk in the little office adjoining
the stage, running his eye over a manuscript play presented for
examination by an ambitious young man in spectacles.

“Bah!” said the manager, tossing aside the play after a very brief
examination, “what can the man be thinking of? Two murders in the first
act, and a suicide in the first scene of the second! Such an
accumulation of horrors will never do. Here, Jeffries.”

The messenger made his appearance, and stood awaiting orders.

“Here,” said Mr. Bowers, tossing the play towards him, “just do this
thing up, and when the author calls this afternoon, tell him from me
that it is a very brilliant production, and so on, but, like Addison’s
Cato, for example, not adapted for dramatic representation. That will
sugar the pill.”

“Is it the tall young man, with a thin face?”

“Yes; his name is Ichabod Smith; but he writes under the nom de plume
of Lionel Percy.”

“Yes, sir; I have seen his name in the story papers. He has just written
one called ‘The Goblin Lover; or, The Haunted Tower.’”

“Any further orders, sir?” inquired Jeffries, deferentially.

“Has Miss Ford come?”

“No, sir; I think not.”

“Notice when she does, and request her to call at the office a moment.”

“Yes, sir.”

“It is no more than fair that I should increase her salary,”
soliloquized Mr. Bowers. “She has really proved quite a card, and richly
deserves double what I have hitherto paid. Besides,” he mused, for the
manager was by no means neglectful of his own interests, “I should not
be surprised if another establishment should try to entice her away by a
larger offer. I must bind her till the end of the season.”

At this moment Helen was announced by Jeffries.

She entered, not without a little feeling of embarrassment. She had not
often been brought into communication with Mr. Bowers, since her
engagement, and now the only reason that occurred to her to account for
this unexpected summons was, that she might in some way have given
dissatisfaction, although the applause which greeted her nightly seemed
hardly consistent with this idea.

Her apprehensions were at once dispelled by the unusually gracious
manner in which she was received.

“I am glad to see you, Miss Ford,” said Mr. Bowers, affably; motioning
her to a seat. “I have sent for you to say that your services are in the
highest degree acceptable to me and to the public. The marks of approval
which you receive nightly must be very gratifying to you as they are to
me.”

Quite overpowered by this extraordinary condescension on the part of the
manager, whom she had been accustomed to regard with a feeling of
distant awe and respect, Helen answered that she was very glad that he
was satisfied with her.

“To prove how highly I value your services,” continued Mr. Bowers, “I
have decided to double your weekly salary, provided you will sign an
engagement to remain with us till the end of the season.”

Helen, who had feared on being summoned to the manager’s presence, that
it was to be told that her services were dispensed with, hardly knew how
to express her gratitude for what was so far beyond her expectations.

“It is very generous in you, sir,” she said, “to increase my salary
without my asking for it.”

“I always make it a point,” was the reply, “to recompense merit to the
extent of my means.”

“And now,” he added, pushing towards her a contract already drawn up,
“if you will sign this obligation to sing for me the remainder of the
season on these terms, I shall have no further cause to trespass on your
time.”

Helen wrote her name hastily, and withdrew from the manager’s presence,
it being already time for rehearsal.

“A very pretty little girl, and not at all aware of her own value,”
mused Mr. Bowers. “I am lucky to have secured her.”

Eager to communicate her increase of salary to her father and good
Martha Grey, who had always shown so warm an interest in her welfare,
Helen hastened home immediately after rehearsal.
