"The handwriting is the same, and the substance of both letters is
essentially the same. That's odd--isn't it?" continued the lieutenant,
as he drew the epistle he had received from his pocket. "I got mine when
I came in, about ten o'clock; and thinking I might go to New York in the
morning for a couple of days, I thought I would attend to the matter at
once."

Somers took the letters, and compared them. They were written by the
same person, on the same kind of paper, and were both mailed on the same
day.

"This looks rather suspicious to me," added Pillgrim, reflecting on the
circumstances.

"Why suspicious?"

"Why should both of us have been called? Tom Barron claims to have
served with me, as he did with you. I don't remember any such person."

"Neither do I."

"Did you find out whether there was any such person at the house as Tom
Barron?"

"The woman at the bar told me there was a wounded sailor there whose
description answered to that contained in the letter."

"So she told me. Did you see him?"

"No."

"I did not; and between you and me, I don't believe there is any Tom
Barron there, or anywhere else. This business must be investigated,"
said Pillgrim, very decidedly.

Somers did not wish it to be investigated. He was utterly opposed to an
investigation, for he was fearful, if the matter should be "ventilated,"
that more would be shown than he was willing to have exhibited at the
present time; in other words, Coles would find out that his enterprising
scheme had been exposed to a third person.

"I don't care to be mixed up in any revelations of low life, Mr.
Pillgrim; and, as I have lost nothing, and the hard knocks I received
were given under a mistake, I think I would rather let the matter rest
just where it is."

"Very natural for a young man of your style," laughed the lieutenant.
"You are afraid the people of Pinchbrook will read in the papers that
Mr. Somers has been in bad places."

"They might put a wrong construction on the case," replied Somers,
willing to have his reasons for avoiding an investigation as strong as
possible.

"I can hand these letters over to the police, and let the officers
inquire into the matter," added Pillgrim. "They need not call any
names."

"I would rather not stir up the dirty pool. Besides, Tom Barron and his
mother may be in the house, after all. There is no evidence to the
contrary."

"I shall satisfy myself on that point by another visit to the house. If
I find there is such a person there, I shall be satisfied."

"That will be the better way."

Just then it occurred to Somers that Coles might have seen him while he
was insensible, and was already aware that his scheme had miscarried. He
questioned Pillgrim, therefore, in regard to the persons in the bar-room
when he entered. From the answers received he satisfied himself that
the conspirators had departed before the "row" in the front room
occurred.

"Now, Somers, I am going down to that house again before I sleep," said
the lieutenant. "This time, I shall take my revolver. Will you go with
me?"

"I don't feel exactly able to go out again to-night. My head doesn't
feel just right," replied Somers, who, however, had other reasons for
keeping his room, the principal of which was the fear that he might meet
Coles there, and that, by some accident, his presence in the front room
during the conference might be disclosed.

"I think you are right, Somers. You had better keep still to-night,"
said Pillgrim. "Shall I send you up anything?"

"Thank you; I don't need anything."

"A glass of Bourbon whiskey would do you good. It would quiet your
nerves, and put you to sleep."

"Perhaps it would, but I shall lie awake on those terms."

"Don't be bigoted, my dear fellow. Of course I prescribe the whiskey as
a medicine."

"You are no surgeon."

"It would quiet your nerves."

"Let them kick, if nothing but whiskey will quiet them," laughed Somers.
"Seriously, Mr. Pillgrim, I am very much obliged to you for your
kindness, and for your interest in me; but I think I shall be better
without the whiskey than with it."

"As you please, Somers. If you are up when I return, I will tell you
what I find at the house."

"Thank you; I will leave my door unfastened."

Mr. Pillgrim left the room to make his perilous examination of the
locality of his friend's misfortunes. Somers walked the apartment,
nervous and excited, considering the events of the evening. He then
seated himself, and carefully wrote out the statement of Coles in regard
to the Ben Nevis, and the method by which he purposed to operate in
getting her to sea as a Confederate cruiser, with extended memoranda of
all the conversation to which he had listened. Before he had finished
this task, Lieutenant Pillgrim returned.

"It is all right," said he, as he entered the room.

"What's all right?"

"There is such a person as Thomas Barron. The facts contained in the
letters are essentially true."

"Then no investigation is necessary," replied Somers, with a feeling of
relief.

"None whatever; to-morrow I will see that the poor fellow is sent to the
hospital, and his mother provided for."

Mr. Pillgrim, after again recommending a glass of whiskey, took his
leave, and Somers finished his paper. He went to bed, and in spite of
the fact that he had drank no whiskey, his nerves were quiet, and he
dropped asleep like a good Christian, with a prayer in his heart for the
"loved ones at home" and elsewhere.

The next morning, though he was still quite sore, and his head felt
heavier than usual, he was in much better condition, physically, than
could have been expected. After breakfast, as he sat in the parlor of
the hotel, he was accosted by a gentleman in blue clothes, with a very
small cap on his head.

"An officer of the navy, I perceive," said the stranger, courteously.

"How are you, Langdon?" was the thought, but not the reply, of Somers.




CHAPTER VI.

LIEUTENANT WYNKOOP, R. N.


The gentlemanly individual who addressed Somers wore the uniform of an
English naval officer. By easy and gentle approaches, he proceeded to
make himself very agreeable. He was lavish in his praise of the
achievements of the "American navy," and was sure that no nation on the
face of the globe had ever displayed such skill and energy in creating a
war marine. Somers listened patiently to this eloquent and just tribute
to the enterprise of his country; and if he had not suspected that the
enthusiastic speaker was playing an assumed character, he would have
ventured to suggest that the position of John Bull was rather equivocal;
that a little less admiration, and a little more genuine sympathy, would
be more acceptable.

"We sailors belong to the same fraternity all over the world," said the
pretended Englishman. "There is something in sailors which draws them
together. I never meet one without desiring to know him better. Allow me
to present you my card, and beg the favor of yours in return."

He handed his card to Somers, who read upon it the name of "Lieutenant
Wynkoop, R. N." It was elaborately engraved, and our officer began to
have some doubts in regard to his new-found acquaintance, for the card
could hardly have been got up since the interview of the preceding
evening. This gentleman might not be Langdon, after all; but whether he
was or not, it was proper to treat him with respect and consideration.
Somers wrote his name on a blank card, and gave it to him.

"Thank you, Mr. Somers: here is my hand," said Lieutenant Wynkoop, when
he had read the name. "I am happy to make your acquaintance."

Somers took the offered hand, and made a courteous reply, to the
salutations of the other.

"May I beg the favor of your company to dinner with me in my private
parlor to-day?" continued Mr. Wynkoop. "I have a couple of bottles of
fine old sherry, which have twice made the voyage to India, sent to me
by an esteemed American friend residing in this city."

"Thank you, Mr. Wynkoop. To the dinner I have not the slightest
objection; to the wine I have; and I'm afraid you must reserve it for
some one who will appreciate it more highly than I can. I never drink
wine."

"Ah, indeed?" said the presumed representative of the royal navy, as he
adjusted an eye-glass to his left eye, keeping it in position by
