could not do less than be civil to him. He invited me to drink wine with
him at lunch, and to smoke his cigars afterwards, neither of which I
could do.

At four we dined, and Mr. Dunkswell renewed his efforts to be intimate
with me; and the more he persevered, the more he didn't accomplish
anything. I did not like him, and I could not like him. At dinner he
drank more wine than his head could bear, and this did not make him any
more agreeable to me. After dinner, Mr. Solomons and myself took seats
upon the hurricane deck. He mentioned that he had called to see Kate
the preceding evening, and this afforded me an opportunity to tell my
story, to which my friend listened with the deepest interest.

He assured me that I had done right; that it was my duty to find my
mother; that the fact of my uncle's misapplying my father's fortune
justified me in taking the money and the papers from the safe. He
commended me for my spirit, and for my devotion to my mother. If I had
not felt sure of his approbation beforehand, I suppose I should not have
had the courage to tell him my history. At half past seven we went down
to tea; and this time Mr. Dunkswell did not make his appearance.

After a promenade on deck till nine o'clock, I found myself tired enough
to retire, and more inclined to sleep than I had been before since I
left Parkville. I went to my state-room, and found the door locked on
the inside. I knocked, but Mr. Dunkswell, politely but in rather muddled
tones, requested me to wait a moment. I did wait a moment, and was
admitted. My room-mate was tipsy, but not enough so to make him anything
more than silly. He was lying in his berth, with his clothes off Having
occasion to open my valise, I found the contents in a very confused
state, and not as I had left them. I was somewhat startled, and hastened
to examine further. I had put my letter of credit, and about two hundred
dollars in bank bills, in my money belt. The letters I had taken from my
uncle's safe I had deposited in my valise. They could be of no value to
any one on board but myself, and I thought they would be safe in the
state-room.

They were not safe; to my astonishment and dismay, they were not to be
found. I had placed them under my best suit, and they were certainly
gone. The confusion in my valise indicated that they had been stolen.




CHAPTER XXIII.

IN WHICH ERNEST FINDS THAT E. DUNKSWELL IS A DISAGREEABLE ROOM-MATE.


I WAS vexed, and almost disheartened, by the loss of the letter
addressed to Bunyard. My plan to find my mother rested mainly on the
possession of it. I had placed the letters in the valise after I came on
board, and they must have been taken out after the steamer discharged
her pilot. There was not much room for a mystery, for I immediately
jumped to the conclusion that E. Dunkswell was the person who had robbed
me.

E. Dunkswell was at that moment in his berth, at least half drunk, and a
bottle labelled "Old Bourbon" stood on his wash-stand. The odor in the
state-room was quite equal to that of a third-class bar-room. Why had E.
Dunkswell taken those letters? In what manner did they concern him?
This was an interesting, and rather exciting question to me, and it
suggested other pertinent inquiries. He had not taken his passage till
after I applied for mine. He had practically insisted that I should
occupy the same state-room with him. Why did he refuse to exchange
berths with Mr. Solomons? Why did he labor so hard to become intimate
with me?

The answer to all these questions was plain enough to me after a little
consideration. He was an agent of Tom Thornton. He had been sent to worm
himself into my friendship, and take from me the will, which Tom
probably supposed I carried in my pocket, and the other papers which
would enable me to find my mother. Force and violence had failed, and
Tom had resorted to cunning and stratagem.

E. Dunkswell had drank too much wine at dinner, and too much whiskey
after dinner. Perhaps the frequent libations he had taken increased his
zeal, but they diminished his discretion in a corresponding ratio. He
had begun his work too soon, and had done it in a very bungling manner.
If whiskey was a curse to him, it was a blessing to me, for in his sober
senses he would not have exposed himself and his plans by robbing my
valise so early on the voyage.

My blood was up; and while I sat on the sofa debating whether or not I
should take E. Dunkswell by the throat, and "have it out" with him, he
got out of his berth, and took another pull at the bottle. It was plain
that he had no intention of keeping sober, and I concluded to wait and
let the whiskey help me do my work.

"How is it, old boy?" said he.

"First rate," I replied.

"How zhe head?"

"Sou'-sou'-west, half-west."

"I mus' zgo on deck an zee to it."

He put on his hat, straightened himself up, and walked out of the room
as well as he could. I locked the door after him. If his key would fit
my valise, it followed that my key would fit his trunk. I tried the
experiment, and the logic failed. It was evident that he had other keys,
or that he was a regular operator, and carried implements for the
purpose of picking locks. I was not sure that the papers he had stolen
from me were in his trunk; but I was determined to have them before
morning, if I had to split the trunk open.

I unlocked the door, and presently E. Dunkswell staggered into the
room. The first thing he did was to drink from the bottle again.

"Thornton--hic!" said he. "You're a good fellow. Take some whisk--good
whisk zever you drank--hic--or any other man. Take zome whisk."

"No, I thank you; I never drink it."

"You dzon't zrink whisk! Then you are a to-tzeetler."

"I am," I replied, inclined to encourage him in talking, hopeful that he
would say something which would be of use to me.

"I'm not a to-tzeetler. My name's Dzunkswell. You're a to-tzeetler, and
I mus zrink for boze of us;" and, suiting the action to the word, he
imbibed again. "If I'm zrunk to-night, 'll be your fault,
Thornton--'cause I've got to zrink for boze of us."

But he was no longer in condition even to drink for both of us. He had
already taken more than he could carry, and he had just sense enough
left to roll into his berth, all in a heap. I straightened him out a
little, and in a few moments I heard him snoring in his drunken
slumbers. The time for action had come, and I was determined to search
him and his effects till I found the precious letters. I first examined
his pockets, but without finding the papers. The key of his trunk,
however, I did find. It was exceedingly disagreeable business to me; and
if only my own rights, instead of the life, liberty, and happiness of my
mother, had been at stake, I should have taken a less direct and more
uncertain method of enforcing them.

The trunk, which he had placed under his berth, I pulled out into the
floor. With trembling hand and eager heart I opened it. The package of
letters had been thrust down between the clothing and one end, evidently
in great haste, for I had probably disturbed him when I came to the
door. After assuring myself I had all that belonged to me, I closed the
trunk,--for I had no desire to explore it any further,--and restored it
to its place under the berth. The drunken agent of Tom Thornton still
snored unconscious of my proceedings.

I took the precaution to place the Bunyard letter in my money-belt; the
others, being of minor importance, I put in my valise again. I looked at
the miserable being who lay groaning and uneasy in the stupor of
intoxication. The state-room was not fit for the occupancy of a decent
person. The fumes of the whiskey were sickening to me, and I could no
longer stay there. Taking my valise in my hand, I left it, resolved not
to be the room-mate of such a filthy swine.

I deposited my valise in a corner in the passageway, and went into the
saloon. Mr. Solomons was there, and expressed his surprise at seeing me.
I freely told him what had transpired in the state-room.

"And you recovered your papers--did you?" said he.

"I did; I was satisfied the fellow had been sent by Tom Thornton, to
prevent me from finding my mother."

"No doubt of it, my lad. You must keep away from him now."

"That I shall certainly do, for I would rather sleep in a hog-pen than
in such a place as that state-room."

"You shall not sleep there," replied my friend, decidedly; "come with
me."

I followed him below, and he conducted me to his own room, and told me
to occupy his berth.

"But what will you do?" I asked.

"I will take your berth, and the fellow shall not turn the room into a
pigsty."

I objected to this arrangement, and offered to sleep on a sofa in the
saloon; but Mr. Solomons persisted, assuring me he should take good care
of himself, and would not submit to any annoyance from his room-mate. As
soon as this point was settled, I retired, and slept soundly till the
breakfast gong roused me from my tired slumbers. When I went to the
saloon, E. Dunkswell was in his place at the table; but Mr. Solomons had
taken the place which I occupied the day before, so as to bring himself
between the obnoxious individual and myself.

E. Dunkswell did not appear to have a ravenous appetite. He looked
sheepish and disconcerted; and I could not tell whether it was on
account of his spree, because he had discovered the loss of the papers,
or because he found in the morning that he had a new room-mate. My
friend was cheerful and happy, and so was I. We talked and laughed as
though E. Dunkswell had been tipsy, or out of existence. We took no
notice of him, either by word or look.

It was a beautiful day, and we adjourned to the hurricane deck to enjoy
the cool air and the prospect of the ever-throbbing ocean. Tom
Thornton's agent soon followed us. He walked up and down the uneasy
deck; and occasionally glanced at me. I thought he had something to say
