Mr. Watson and Levi discussed the situation coolly, though the ladies,
with their warmer sympathies, were indignant, and disposed to be
violent in their measures. Nothing could be done but to wait the issue
of events; and Levi walked as proudly as ever through the streets of
the town. The next day he took the ladies out to sail in the yacht; but
before he went he called at his uncle's house, carrying a nice
tenderloin steak and a jar of jelly for the sufferer, who was
improving, in spite of the heat and excitement to which he agitated
himself.

"Don't tell him, aunt Susan, that I brought these, things," said Levi.
"I pity him, and I don't hate him. I shall try to be a Christian
towards him now, whatever he does."

The old lady burst into tears. Such a spirit amazed and overwhelmed
her. The reading of her religious paper had prepared her, in some
measure, to appreciate such conduct. The next day, which was Sunday,
Levi carried some other luxuries for the invalid; but he did not
venture to see his uncle after the violent scene which had attended his
first visit to the sick room.

On Monday morning Mr. and Mrs. Watson, Mrs. McGilvery, and Bessie were
conveyed on board of The Starry Flag. The foresail and the mainsail had
been hoisted, and the hands were heaving up the anchor, when a boat
from the shore was discovered approaching the yacht.

"Hold on!" shouted Constable Cooke; when the boat came nearer, and was
found to contain, besides the officer, Dock Vincent and two other men.

"Belay, all!" said Captain Fairfield; and the operations at the cable
were suspended.

"I've come to search this vessel," said Constable Cooke, when he and
his party had reached the deck. "I have a warrant."

"I will afford you every facility for the discharge of your duty,"
replied Levi, as he led the way to the cabin.

"Don't let Vincent go into the cabin," said Mr. Watson, in a whisper.

Levi promptly informed the officer that Captain Vincent must not go
below.

"I want him to help me," persisted Constable Cooke.

"Captain Vincent can't go into my cabin. If he attempts to do so, I'll
throw him overboard!" added Levi, rolling up his coat sleeves.

"I've a right to call in aid accordin' to law," said the officer,
angrily.

"You shall not call him in," protested Levi.

Mr. Watson spoke,--he had money, and the constable was afraid of
him,--and the matter was compromised. One of the other men went with
the officer, who proceeded directly to Levi's state-room. The desk was
opened, the lockers examined, and the drawers searched. In one of the
latter, a shot-bag, With ten half eagles in it, was found.

"That's one of the bags!" almost yelled the constable, in the fury of
his malignity.

"I never saw it before," said Levi, quietly, "nor the gold it
contains."

"I have a warrant for your arrest, Levi Fairfield; and sence you showed
fight on deck, I shall put the handcuffs on you."



Mr. Watson and the ladies were shocked and alarmed; but not one of them
for a moment doubted the innocence of Levi, who suffered himself to be
ironed without resistance.




CHAPTER IX.

THE EXAMINATION.


Constable Cooke put the irons on the wrists of Levi Fairfield, not from
a sense of duty, but with a keen relish for the act itself. It is but
justice to the officer, prejudiced though he was, to say that he was
entirely sincere in the belief that his prisoner had stolen the miser's
gold. He was needlessly rough and severe in the discharge of his duty,
and the irons were a gratuitous indignity. Mr. Watson protested
vigorously against the constable's useless display of authority. Bessie
was frightened and terribly grieved by the harsh treatment bestowed
upon her ideal of a hero.

Levi himself was the only person in the cabin who was calm. His quiet
dignity was unruffled by the insults heaped upon him, and he looked
proudly conscious of his innocence.

"What does all this mean?" demanded Mr. Watson, when Levi had been
effectually ironed, so that he could not tear the constable and his
assistant to pieces, as they seemed to fear he would.

"I do not know, sir," replied Levi, shaking his head, with a smile.

"I think it is all clear enough, Mr. Watson," interposed Constable
Cooke.

"I don't think it is," replied Mr. Watson, sharply. "You have found a
shot-bag with ten five-dollar gold pieces in it. What does that prove?"

"It proves that Levi stole the money just as clear as the sun proves
it's day."

"Is it anything surprising that the captain of a yacht has fifty
dollars in gold in his state-room?"

"I don't know's 'tis, but it's sunthin surprisin' that he should have
one of the bags the old man kept his money in, in his state-room," said
the officer, with a sneer.

"How do you know that is one of the bags?"

"How do I know?" repeated the constable, taking the bag from his
pocket. "Mr. Fairfield told me he writ his name on all the bags. There
it is."

The bag was exhibited, and over the imprint of the manufacturers of the
shot it had originally contained was the name, "N. Fairfield," rudely
traced in large, awkward characters, in pencil, on the cloth. Levi saw
it, and the formation of the two capital letters assured him it had
been written by his uncle. The bag was found in one of his drawers; but
it was plain that "an enemy had done this."

"If that don't satisfy you, Mr. Watson, I don't know what will. This
ain't pleasant business, but I can't help it," added Constable Cooke,
who perhaps had begun to think it was imprudent to offend a rich man.

"That doesn't satisfy me," replied the obstinate merchant. "Do you
suppose Levi put that bag and the gold into the drawer?"

"I suppose he did, sir. That's his state-room--isn't it?"

"There are half a dozen places there with locks on them. Do you think
he would put his money into a drawer without any lock upon it?"

"I don't know anything about that," answered the constable, who could
not help seeing that the argument was a good one. "I've got a warrant
for his arrest."

"Did you know the money was there before you came on board?" demanded
Mr. Watson, warmly.

"I supposed it was there."

"What made you suppose so?"

"I was told it was there."

"Who told you so?"

"I don't know as I'm obliged to tell you who told me," replied the
officer.

"I don't know that you are, either; but some of you shall be indicted
for conspiracy if you don't answer. You came on board with a warrant in
your pocket for the arrest of Captain Fairfield. You expected to find
the gold here, you say. Somebody told you it was here, and that
somebody knows more about it than the person you have arrested and put
in irons," continued the merchant, indignantly.

"You know why I put him in irons. Didn't he threaten to throw one of us
overboard?" replied the constable.

"When officers take graduates of the state prison to assist them in the
discharge of their duties, they must expect some opposition."

"But Captain Vincent is acting for Mr. Fairfield, who's too sick to do
anything himself," pleaded the officer, who could not help seeing that
Dock was not a proper person to aid him in the performance of his duty.
"I'll take the bracelets off, if you say so."

"I do say so, most emphatically!" added Mr. Watson.

Constable Cooke removed the irons, stepping between Levi and Bessie to
do so.

"So long as you and your father do not believe I am guilty of any
crime, I don't care for the irons or the prison," said Levi,
cheerfully. "I am rather glad of an opportunity to vindicate myself,
for I have no doubt there are some people who think I took my uncle's
money."

"But it is so terrible to be sent to prison, and to be ironed!" added
Bessie, her pretty face full of tender sympathy.

"Not at all. As I view it, the guilt is the only thing that is
terrible. This may lead to the discovery of the real thief."

"Levi, have you any idea how that bag came in your state-room?" asked
Mr. Watson.

"Not the least, sir. It must have been put there by the thief, or by
