a magnificent town hall, decorated in the most elaborate style.

From Louvain the party hurried on to Mechlin, or Malines, a picturesque
old city, still famous for its fine lace. It is about the size of
Louvain, and, like that, presents a deserted appearance, being only the
shadow of its former greatness. Its principal object of interest to the
tourist is the Cathedral of St. Romuald, a structure of the fifteenth
century, and, like the great churches at Cologne and Antwerp, still
unfinished. It was built with money obtained by the sale of the pope's
indulgences, which, happily, "gave out" at last. Its spire, which was to
have been six hundred and forty feet high, remains incomplete, at little
more than half this height, which, however, is only eighteen feet less
than the cross on St. Paul's, in London. The church is an immense
structure, said to cover nearly two acres of ground. It is the cathedral
of the Belgian archbishop, or primate.

"There, Paul, we have finished Belgium," said Dr. Winstock, as the train
started for Antwerp.

"I am glad of it; for I am tired of sight-seeing. It seems to me now
that I have no desire to see another Cathedral, HÃ´tel de Ville, or
Grande Place," replied Paul, languidly, as he settled himself back in
his seat.

"A new country will wake you up," laughed the doctor. "I suppose we
shall be in Rotterdam to-morrow."

"I hope so, though I don't know but I should like blue water better than
being shut up in these rivers and canals."

"You will get blue water enough before the season is ended."

In half an hour from Malines, the train reached Antwerp. Mr. Fluxion had
arrived before; and there were two tugs at the Quai Vandyck, which had
been employed to tow the vessels down the river. They conveyed the
students on board, and the orders for sailing were given immediately.

Mr. Hamblin, who had not yet recovered from his disappointment, hastened
to the cabin. He commenced a diligent search for papers written by the
captain, in order to compare their penmanship with that of the forged
note. As Mr. Stoute had been compelled to acknowledge, there was a
general resemblance between the handwriting of Paul and that of the
unknown scribbler of the note. Though a minute comparison failed to
establish any closer connection between them, the professor wanted to
make out his point; and it was not difficult for him to find a
particular similarity.

Paul was busy on deck, getting the Josephine under weigh, and Mr.
Hamblin had the cabin to himself for his investigation. The stamp on the
paper of the fictitious note had already excited his attention, and he
took the liberty to enter Paul's state-room, in search of some like it.
He opened the upper drawer of the bureau, which formed a writing-table
when the front was dropped. The first object that attracted his
attention was a package of paper of the size, and apparently of the
quality, he sought. He picked up a quire of it, and a smile of
vindictive satisfaction played upon his wrinkled face, as he discovered
upon it the identical stamp of the forged note.

His case was made out, and great was his joy. Paul would certainly be
disgraced and removed for such an outrage as a practical joke upon one
of the most dignified instructors in the squadron. We must do Mr.
Hamblin the justice to say, that he did not wish to prove any more than
he believed to be true; but it is very easy for a prejudiced person to
believe a great deal against one who has offended him. A student who was
not fond of Greek could not be a very noble, or even a very upright one;
and he was confident that, when Paul's true character became known, when
he was no longer stimulated to great deeds by his high office, he would
prove to be a very different person from what he now appeared to be.

Mr. Hamblin confiscated a half quire of the paper, and secured several
French exercises written by Captain Kendall, to be used as evidence
against him. He then searched the vessel for similar paper in the
possession of other students, but found none. He went on deck, to
ascertain what was to be done; for Mr. Lowington had assured him he
would not be any longer obliged to sail in the same vessel with the
obnoxious student. A boat from the ship was alongside, and Mr. Fluxion
had just stepped on board. The boatswain was hoisting his baggage out of
the boat, which indicated that he was to remain.

Paul was reading an order just handed to him by Mr. Fluxion, which
appeared to settle the difficulty between him and the learned professor.
The order was in these words:--

    Mr. James E. Fluxion is hereby appointed vice-principal of the
    academy squadron, and will be obeyed and respected accordingly.

    Mr. Fluxion is also hereby instructed temporarily to discharge the
    duties of Professor of Greek, Latin, and Mathematics, on board of
    the Josephine.

                                         R. LOWINGTON, Principal.

The new vice-principal handed a note to Mr. Hamblin as he came upon
deck, in which he was directed to repair, with his baggage, on board of
the ship. The learned gentleman was not quite satisfied with this
arrangement. It looked a little ominous.

"Have you no order for Captain Kendall, Mr. Fluxion?" he asked, as the
vice-principal waited for him to read his letter.

"I have given him an order from the principal."

"Is he not directed to go on board of the ship?"

"He is not."

"I have preferred charges against him, and I was led to believe that he
would be suspended," added Mr. Hamblin, who was not quite sure that he
was not to be suspended himself.

"No order to that effect was sent by me," replied Mr. Fluxion. "You will
excuse me, but the vessel is about to get under weigh."

"I am not satisfied with these proceedings. I complained to Mr.
Lowington that it was impossible for me to instruct my classes while
they were under the influence of Captain Kendall. No notice appears to
have been taken of my charges."

"I think some notice has been taken of them. You are directed to report
to the principal, with your baggage, on board of the ship."

"Am I to be punished instead of that obstinate and impudent pupil?"
demanded the professor.

"I have nothing to say about it, Mr. Hamblin," added Mr. Fluxion,
sharply. "If you are not going to the ship, we will weigh anchor and
proceed on our voyage."

The professor went down into his state-room, and hastily packed his
trunk, which was brought up and put in the boat by one of the stewards.
The students watched these movements with the deepest interest, and they
could hardly conceal their satisfaction when it was clear that the
obnoxious instructor was going to leave the Josephine, "bag and
baggage." There was a great deal of punching each other in the ribs, a
great deal of half-suppressed chuckling, and a very decided inclination
to give three cheers. A few of the more prudent ones checked any noisy
demonstration; but the moment that Mr. Hamblin went over the side was a
very joyous one.

The Josephine tripped her anchor, and, hugged by the steam-tug, stood
down the river on her way to Rotterdam. Mr. Fluxion went below, and
installed himself in the state-room vacated by Professor Hamblin. Mr.
Stoute gave the vice-principal a hearty welcome; and it was soon evident
that they were men who could cordially agree. Paul was delighted with
the change; for if there was any one in the squadron, besides the
principal and the doctor, for whom he had a high regard and a thorough
respect, it was Mr. Fluxion. He was a sailor from the sole of his foot
to the crown of his head. He had visited all the maritime ports of
Europe, spoke half a dozen modern languages with facility, and was
popular with the boys. He was a sharp disciplinarian, and the students
found it difficult to outwit him. He knew all the tricks of sailors,
and especially of man-of-war's men. He was the right hand man of Mr.
Lowington, and the new arrangement, whereby the professor had been
created vice-principal, and sent on board the consort, was to prevent
the recurrence of such an incident as that which had imperilled her in
the German Ocean during the squall.

Though Paul felt that his own powers were in some degree abridged by the
presence of the new officer, whose authority, unlike that of the
instructors before, extended to the vessel, and was equal to that of Mr.
Lowington, he was now satisfied. A competent person was present, with
whom he could share the responsibility of the navigation of the vessel
in case of an emergency. He was on the best of terms with Mr. Fluxion,
and he was happier than he had been before since the Josephine sailed
from Hull. Leaving him to the enjoyment of the new order of things, we
will follow Mr. Hamblin on board of the ship.

The barge ran up alongside, and the professor's trunk was hoisted on
board. As soon as the students saw the barge and the baggage, which
indicated that the obnoxious old gentleman had been transferred to the
Young America, a murmur of disapprobation went through the ship.

"I say, Wilton, we are to have that old humbug in the ship!" exclaimed
Perth, the chief of the Red Cross Knights, who, however, had changed
their name to the Knights of the Golden Fleece.

"That's so," replied Wilton, who had contrived to keep out of the brig
nearly a week. "He has his plunder with him."

"We must do as the Josephines did," added Perth, in a whisper.

"What's that?"

"Get rid of him. This shall be the first job of the Knights of the
Golden Fleece. McDougal, who is a capital fellow, told me all about how
the fellows in the Josephine managed it."

"I heard they had been hazing him."

"That they did," laughed Perth. "There is fun in the thing. If the old
fossil was a decent fellow, of course we wouldn't disturb him. Just as
soon as he made a row on board, all the fellows took the captain's part.
Morgan dropped him into the river, by drawing out the nail that held the
boat-hook in the wood; Blount dropped a coil of signal halyards on his
head; and McDougal ducked him with the hose-pipe; and the old fellow got
a bogus letter from Antwerp, inviting him to visit some of those kings,
or something of that sort."

"Who sent the letter?" asked Wilton, greatly interested, as he always
was, in anything of this kind.
