
"South-west by south," added Little, gloomily; for even he had almost
lost hope.

"I heard Perth say there were over two points and a half variation; and
that makes the course about south by west. Where do you suppose we are
bound?"

"I can't guess. I suppose we shall fetch up somewhere. When we do, I'm
off as soon as the mud-hook finds bottom. I'm not sure that I shall
wait till we go into port," added Little, desperately.

"Why, what can you do?"

"We are not more than ten or fifteen miles from the coast of Spain. If
we could only drop a boat into the water, I would risk getting ashore."

"You can't do that."

"Fluxion has turned in now. Cleats and Bitts have the next watch,"
continued Little, suggestively.

"They won't let you off."

"Bitts goes to sleep; and Cleats may go below for something," said
Little, dropping his voice to a whisper. "We will talk it over
to-morrow with Perth and Herman."

"But you can't do anything."

"Perhaps we can," answered the little villain; but there was not much
of his usual elasticity of spirits in his tones.

Ibbotson had no faith, and did not even care to talk about what seemed
to him such an impracticable scheme. At four bells they were relieved,
and the night wore away without any incident. All the following day the
Josephine kept in about the same position with regard to the shore,
running rapidly to the southward. Mr. Fluxion "made no sign," and the
acting officers were as reticent as ever.

"Perth, I have an idea," said Little, as they met on deck.

"So have I," replied the disgusted leader of the runaways. "I have an
idea that we are going round the world. This is our third day out, and
no signs of turning back."

"I mean that I have a plan."

"You always have a plan," added Perth, with a sickly grin.

"If you don't want to hear it, all right; but I mean to get out of this
scrape, if I can."

"So do I. If we don't do something we shall be the laughing-stock of
the whole ship's company, if we ever join them again, of which I have
some doubts. Lowington has hauled us up to the bull-ring this time, if
he never did before. He has the weather-gage of us."

"That's so."

"If you have a plan, let's hear it."

"O, I won't trouble you with it. You don't think much of my plans."

"Yes, I do. I regard you as a genius in that line. You gave us the plan
by which we got off in the Josephine."

"This little thing is for our four fellows only," continued Little,
mollified by the credit awarded to him.

"All right; propel."

"We are only ten or fifteen miles from land. This is Portugal off here,
I suppose."

"Yes; we shall be off Cape Roca to-night, if the wind keeps up, and I
think we go within five or six miles of the shore."

"So much the better."

"Well, what's up?" asked Perth, with a yawn which indicated that he had
not much hope of any scheme.

"Cleats and Bitts will be on the mid watch to-night. I notice that
Cleats goes into the cabin once or twice in our quarter watch, and I
suppose he does in yours."

"Yes, after his coffee, I suppose. He always comes back eating a
biscuit."

"Just so; and Bitts goes to sleep."

"Not often."

"I've seen him asleep."

"The officers on duty have to keep on their feet all the time," said
Perth.

"No matter if they do. Bitts leans against the foremast, and goes to
sleep. He isn't used to being on watch lately."

"Well, go ahead."

"When Peaks goes below, we will draw the slide on him, and lock him
into the cabin," added Little.

"Good! Go on," replied Perth, beginning to be interested. "Bitts is
still on deck."

"Pass a line around him, and make him fast to the foremast while he is
asleep."

"It will be apt to wake him."

"No matter; he is fast."

"He will make a noise."

"But the other officers are locked into the cabin."

"It might work. What then?"

"Lower the second cutter, and go ashore."

"They would pick us up as soon as they broke out of the cabin. The
other fellows would work against us if we don't take them with us."

"Well, make a big thing of it, and take all the fellows and all the
boats," said the accommodating little villain.

"That would do better; and there isn't a fellow on board who isn't up
to such a move."

"That's so."

"It will take some time to work up the idea, though we have the
steerage all to ourselves," added Perth, musing.

The conspirators discussed the scheme at every opportunity during the
day, and imparted it to the rest of the crew. Some of them suggested
objections, but all of them were willing to take part in the
enterprise, for they were so utterly disgusted with the course of Mr.
Fluxion, that anything was preferable to submission.

"Suppose we get ashore," said Sheffield. "We shall be in Portugal,
perhaps fifty miles from any large place."

"Cape Roca isn't twenty miles from Lisbon," replied Perth. "We can walk
that distance in a day."

"What are you going to do in Lisbon? Not one of us can speak a word of
Portuguese."

"We can do just the same as we should have done in Brest, and raise
money on our letters of credit, and get to Paris. We can take a steamer
back to Brest. The fare will not be more than ten dollars apiece in the
fore cabin."

"Why not wait till we see where we are going?" suggested Sheffield.

"It may be too late then," answered Perth. "If Fluxion should suddenly
head the vessel to the westward, that would mean home. The cook says we
have fresh provisions enough for thirty days, which they took in while
we were attending lecture."

"Does he know where we are bound?"

"No; or if he does, he won't say anything."

"I don't believe in landing at any such place as Lisbon, or anywhere in
Portugal; though, of course, I will do what the rest of the fellows
wish."

Perth and Little were too impatient to postpone the enterprise, though
they acknowledged the difficulty of landing in Portugal. They worked up
the details of the plan, and a part was assigned to each of the
runaways. Phillips was to secure Bitts, with the assistance of half a
dozen others. Perth was to close the companion way, lock it, and also
drive a nail into the slide to make it sure. Greenway was to cover and
secure the sky-lights. Herman was to fasten the door leading from the
cabin to the steerage with a handspike. Ibbotson was to bar the door of
the forecastle, where the cooks and under stewards slept. Others were
to back the head sails, so as to lay to the vessel; and when all these
things had been done, the boats were to be lowered,--the places of all
the party having been assigned to them,--and they were to pull for the
shore.

The night came on, and the light on Cape Roca was identified by Perth,
at four bells; but a fog set in from seaward, and he decided that it
was not prudent to take to the boats under such circumstances, for the
reason that the boat compasses were in the cabin, and could not be
obtained. At seven bells on Saturday morning the Josephine was off Cape
St. Vincent.

"Keep her south-east," said Mr. Fluxion to the quarter-master at the
wheel, when the headland bore north-east from the vessel.

"South-east!" exclaimed Perth, when the order had been repeated. "That
means the Straits of Gibraltar. Fellows, we are bound up the
