
"Don't you think they told the truth?"

"In the main, they did; but in my opinion they got drunk. If not, they
would have returned to Leavenworth. Probably they have stretched the
story a little. At any rate, you can't tell how sick the lady is from
anything they said."

"She got wet in the boat, and took cold, I suppose."

"I suppose so."

The news from my friends was not very cheering, but it was a relief to
be assured that no calamity had overtaken them. I would have gone to
them at once if I had had the money to pay my passage; and I said as
much to Captain Davis.

"That would be a useless step, Phil," he replied. "If the lady is sick,
you can do them no good. It would be a waste of money for you to do so."

"If I had it, I should be willing to waste it in that way," I added.

"Then it is fortunate that you haven't it, Phil. What do you mean to do
here in St. Louis? Does Mr. Gracewood intend to support you?"

"I don't intend to be supported by any one," I answered, perhaps with a
little indignation; "I mean to support myself."

"What do you intend to do?"

"I am going to learn the carpenter's trade, if I can find a place."

"All right, Phil. That's a sensible idea. I didn't know but you
expected to be a gentleman, as most of the boys do who come from the
country," said the captain. "Come with me, my boy, and we will see
about a place."

"That's just what I want, captain--a chance to learn the carpenter's
trade. I know something about it now."

I followed the captain on shore, and we went to a quiet street in one
of the humbler sections of the city, where he rang the bell at a house.

"Is Mr. Clinch at home?" asked Captain Davis of the woman who answered
the summons.

"Yes, sir; he has just come in from his work. Won't you walk in?"

We entered the house, and were shown to a very plainly furnished
parlor, where Mr. Clinch soon appeared. He was clothed in coarse
garments, but he had a very intelligent countenance, and I liked the
looks of him.

"O, Captain Davis," exclaimed the carpenter, grasping the hand of my
companion, "I am glad to see you."

"It always does me good to take your honest hand, Clinch. This young
man is Phil Farringford, and he comes from the upper Missouri. He is a
smart boy, and wants to learn your trade."

Mr. Clinch took me by the hand, and gave me a cordial greeting.

"I don't take any apprentices, now," he added. "I find it don't pay. As
soon as we get a boy so that he can drive a nail without pounding his
fingers, he wants a man's wages, or runs away as soon as he is worth
anything to me."

"If I make a trade, sir, I shall stick to it," I ventured to say.

"You look like an honest young man, but I can't take apprentices, as we
used to in former years."

"Phil knows something about the business now," interposed the captain.
"He is handy with tools, and is as tough as an oak knot. He knows what
hard work is, and has just come out of the woods."

"But I can't take a boy into my family," continued Mr. Clinch; "I
haven't room, and it makes the work too hard for my wife."

"He might board somewhere else," said the captain.

"That indeed. I like the looks of the boy."

"If you can do anything for him, I shall regard it as a favor to me,"
added my friend.

"I should be very glad to serve you, Captain Davis. I want more help,
but a boy isn't of much use. How old are you, Phil?"

"Thirteen, sir."

"You look older. What can you do?"

I told him what I could do; that I could handle a saw, axe, hammer, and
auger; that I had built a bateau, made boxes, and done similar work.
He seemed to be very sceptical, but finally agreed to give me three
dollars a week, which he thought would board and clothe me, if, upon
trial, I proved to be worth that. He told me where he was at work, and
wished me to be on hand the next morning.




  CHAPTER VIII.

  IN WHICH PHIL GOES TO WORK, AND MEETS AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE.


"Everything depends upon yourself now, Phil," said Captain Davis, as we
walked back to the steamer. "When Clinch finds that you are worth more
than three dollars a week, he will give you more."

"I didn't expect any more than that," I replied. "If it will pay my
board for a time, I shall be satisfied. I will do the best I can, and I
hope my wages will be increased very soon."

"Now you want a boarding-house," continued the captain. "I don't know
where to look for one, but I suppose you will not think of living at
the Planters' Hotel?"

"Not exactly, sir."

We entered a grocery store, near the house of Mr. Clinch, where the
captain was acquainted, and he inquired for a suitable boarding-place
for a boy like me.

"If he's a good boy, I know just the place for him," replied the grocer.

"He is as good a boy as there is in the world," answered the captain,
with a zeal that caused me to blush.

"Mrs. Greenough, who lives over my store, spoke to me, a few days ago,
about a boy. She is an elderly woman, whose husband died about a year
ago, leaving her this house. She has no other property except her
furniture, and the rent of this store about pays her expenses. She is a
little timid, and does not like to be alone in the house at night. She
is a nice woman, and perhaps she will take your young man to board. She
wanted one of my young men to occupy a room up stairs, but both of them
live at home."

"We will go up and see her. This boy is going to work for Clinch
to-morrow, and this will be a good locality for him."

"Just the place," added the grocer, as he conducted us up stairs to the
rooms of Mrs. Greenough.

The house was a small one, and the store occupied the whole of the
ground floor, except a small entry. It was three stories high, with a
flat roof, and I judged that the tenement could not contain more than
four rooms. We were taken up stairs, and found the lady in her little
parlor. She was about fifty years old, and did not appear to be in good
health. The grocer explained our business, and having vouched for the
good character of Captain Davis, he left us.

"I didn't think of taking a boy to board," said Mrs. Greenough. "I
thought if I could get one of the young men in the store to sleep in
the house, I should feel safer. But I don't know but I might take him,
if he is a very steady boy."

"Steady as a judge, Mrs. Greenough," replied Captain Davis. "He's going
to be a carpenter."

"Is he? My poor husband was a carpenter," added the lady, wiping a tear
from her eye. "I am a lone woman now."

"Phil will be good company for you. He knows more than most boys of his
age. He has fought through one campaign against the Indians, and is a
dead shot with his rifle."

"Not always, captain," I remonstrated.

"He has brought down his man, at any rate. He speaks French, and--"

"O, no, I don't, captain. I have studied it, and can read it a little."

"I don't talk any French," added the old lady, with a smile; so that
won't make any difference. I thought, at one time, I would take a boy
who would help me, and work a little for his board, but I concluded I
couldn't afford to do that; for I don't have anything but the rent of
the store to live on."

"Well, Mrs. Greenough, you can split the difference. Phil can't afford
to pay much for his board. He can help you a little in the morning and
at night."

"I haven't much to do, except to bring up the wood and water from the
cellar, which is down two flights, and it's rather hard work for me,
for I'm not very strong."

"I shall be very glad to help you, Mrs. Greenough," I added.

"How much can you take him for, madam?" said the captain, beginning to
be a little impatient.

The old lady had not made up her mind on this important subject, and
the captain suggested two dollars a week as a fair price, if I helped
about the house when I had time. She was satisfied with this amount,
and I am sure I was; so the bargain was closed. Mrs. Greenough wanted
to know more about me, and the captain spoke so handsomely of me, that
my modesty will not permit me to quote his testimony. I walked back
