things I was emulous to do; and I resolved to lift very heavy pails full
of water, and very many of them, and to climb into the mow, and throw
down great armfulls of hay, and in every possible way to grow big and
strong.

I remember the next day after my talk with my mother was Saturday, and
I had leave to go up and spend it with Susie.

There was a meadow just back of her mother's house, which we used to
call the mowing lot. It was white with daisies, yellow with buttercups,
with some moderate share of timothy and herds grass intermixed. But what
was specially interesting to us was, that, down low at the roots of the
grass, and here and there in moist, rich spots, grew wild strawberries,
large and juicy, rising on nice high stalks, with three or four on a
cluster. What joy there was in the possession of a whole sunny Saturday
afternoon to be spent with Susie in this meadow! To me the amount of
happiness in the survey was greatly in advance of what I now have in the
view of a three weeks' summer excursion.

When, after multiplied cautions and directions, and careful adjustment
of Susie's clothing, on the part of her mother, Susie was fairly
delivered up to me; when we had turned our backs on the house and got
beyond call, then our bliss was complete. How carefully and
patronizingly I helped her up the loose, mossy, stone wall, all hedged
with a wilderness of golden-rod, ferns, raspberry bushes, and asters!
Down we went through this tangled thicket, into such a secure world of
joy, where the daisied meadow received us to her motherly bosom, and we
were sure nobody could see us.

We could sit down and look upward, and see daisies and grasses nodding
and bobbing over our heads, hiding us as completely as two young grass
birds; and it was such fun to think that nobody could find out where we
were! Two bob-o-links, who had a nest somewhere in that lot, used to
mount guard in an old apple tree, and sit on tall, bending twigs, and
say, "Chack! chack! chack!" and flutter their black and white wings up
and down, and burst out into most elaborate and complicated babbles of
melody. These were our only associates and witnesses. We thought that
they knew us, and were glad to see us there, and wouldn't tell anybody
where we were for the world. There was an exquisite pleasure to us in
this sense of utter isolation--of being hid with each other where nobody
could find us.

We had worlds of nice secrets peculiar to ourselves. Nobody but
ourselves knew where the "thick spots" were, where the ripe, scarlet
strawberries grew; the big boys never suspected them, we said to one
another, nor the big girls; it was our own secret, which we kept between
our own little selves. How we searched, and picked, and chatted, and
oh'd and ah'd to each other, as we found wonderful places, where the
strawberries passed all belief!

But profoundest of all our wonderful secrets were our discoveries in the
region of animal life. We found, in a tuft of grass overshadowed by wild
roses, a grass bird's nest. In vain did the cunning mother creep yards
from the cherished spot, and then suddenly fly up in the wrong place; we
were not to be deceived. Our busy hands parted the lace curtains of
fern, and, with whispers of astonishment, we counted the little
speckled, bluegreen eggs. How round and fine and exquisite, past all
gems polished by art, they seemed; and what a mystery was the little
curious smooth-lined nest in which we found them! We talked to the birds
encouragingly. "Dear little birds," we said, "don't be afraid; nobody
but we shall know it;" and then we said to each other, "Tom Halliday
never shall find this out, nor Jim Fellows." They would carry off the
eggs and tear up the nest; and our hearts swelled with such a
responsibility for the tender secret, that it was all we could do that
week to avoid telling it to everybody we met. We informed all the
children at school that we knew something that they didn't--something
that we never should tell!--something so wonderful!--something that
it would be wicked to tell of--for mother said so; for be it observed
that, like good children, we had taken our respective mothers into
confidence, and received the strictest and most conscientious charges as
to our duty to keep the birds' secret.

In that enchanted meadow of ours grew tall, yellow lilies, glowing as
the sunset, hanging down their bells, six or seven in number, from high,
graceful stalks, like bell towers of fairy land. They were over our
heads sometimes, as they rose from the grass and daisies, and we looked
up into their golden hearts spotted with black, with a secret, wondering
joy.

"Oh, don't pick them, they look too pretty," said Susie to me once when
I stretched up my hand to gather one of these. "Let's leave them to be
here when we come again! I like to see them wave."

And so we left the tallest of them; but I was not forbidden to gather
handfuls of the less wonderful specimens that grew only one or two on a
stalk. Our bouquets of flowers increased with our strawberries.

Through the middle of this meadow chattered a little brook, gurgling and
tinkling over many-colored pebbles, and here and there collecting itself
into a miniature waterfall, as it pitched over a broken bit of rock.
For our height and size, the waterfalls of this little brook were equal
to those of Trenton, or any of the medium cascades that draw the
fashionable crowd of grown-up people; and what was the best of it was,
it was our brook, and our waterfall. We found them, and we verily
believed nobody else but ourselves knew of them.

By this waterfall, as I called it, which was certainly a foot and a half
high, we sat and arranged our strawberries when our baskets were full,
and I talked with Susie about what my mother had told me.

I can see her now, the little crumb of womanhood, as she sat, gaily
laughing at me. "She didn't care a bit," she said. She had just as
lief wait till I grew to be a man. Why, we could go to school together,
and have Saturday afternoons together. "Don't you mind it, Hazzy Dazzy,"
she said, coming close up to me, and putting her little arms coaxingly
round my neck; "we love each other, and it's ever so nice now."

I wonder what the reason is that it is one of the first movements of
affectionate feeling to change the name of the loved one. Give a baby a
name, ever so short and ever so musical, where is the mother that does
not twist it into some other pet name between herself and her child. So
Susie, when she was very loving, called me Hazzy, and sometimes would
play on my name, and call me Hazzy Dazzy, and sometimes Dazzy, and we
laughed at this because it was between us; and we amused ourselves with
thinking how surprised people would be to hear her say Dazzy, and how
they would wonder who she meant. In like manner, I used to call her
Daisy when we were by ourselves, because she seemed to me so neat and
trim and pure, and wore a little flat hat on Sundays just like a daisy.

"I'll tell you, Daisy," said I, "just what I'm going to do--I'm going to
grow strong as Sampson did."

"Oh, but how can you?" she suggested, doubtfully.

"Oh, I'm going to run and jump and climb, and carry ever so much water
for Mother, and I'm to ride on horseback and go to mill, and go all
round on errands, and so I shall get to be a man fast, and when I get to
be a man I'll build a house all on purpose for you and me--I'll build it
all myself; it shall have a parlor and a dining-room and kitchen, and
bed-room, and well-room, and chambers"--

"And nice closets to put things in," suggested the little woman.

"Certainly, ever so many--just where you want them, there I'll put
them," said I, with surpassing liberality. "And then, when we live
together, I'll take care of you--I'll keep off all the lions and bears
and panthers. If a bear should come at you, Daisy, I should tear him
right in two, just as Sampson did."

At this vivid picture, Daisy nestled close to my shoulder, and her eyes
grew large and reflective. "We shouldn't leave poor Mother alone," said
she.

"Oh, no; she shall come and live with us," said I, with an exalted
generosity. "I will make her a nice chamber on purpose, and my mother
shall come, too."

"But she can't leave your father, you know."

"Oh, father shall come, too--when he gets old and can't preach any more.
I shall take care of them all."

And my little Daisy looked at me with eyes of approving credulity, and
said I was a brave boy; and the bobolinks chittered and chattered
applause as they sung and skirmished and whirled up over the meadow
grasses; and by and by, when the sun fell low, and looked like a great
golden ball, with our hands full of lilies, and our baskets full of
strawberries, we climbed over the old wall, and toddled home.

After that, I remember many gay and joyous passages in that happiest
summer of my life. How, when autumn came, we roved through the woods
together, and gathered such stores of glossy brown chestnuts. What joy
it was to us to scuff through the painted fallen leaves and send them
flying like showers of jewels before us! How I reconnoitered and marked
available chestnut trees, and how I gloried in being able to climb like
a cat, and get astride high limbs and shake and beat them, and hear the
glossy brown nuts fall with a rich, heavy thud below, while Susie was
busily picking up at the foot of the tree. How she did flatter me with
my success and prowess! Tom Halliday might be a bigger boy, but he could
never go up a tree as I could; and as for that great clumsy Jim Fellows,
she laughed to think what a figure he would make, going out on the end
of the small limbs, which would be sure to break and send him bundling
down. The picture which Susie drew of the awkwardness of the big boys
often made us laugh till the tears rolled down our cheeks. To this day I
observe it as a weakness of my sex that we all take it in extremely good
part when the pretty girl of our heart laughs at other fellows in a
snug, quiet way, just between one's dear self and herself alone. We
encourage our own dear little cat to scratch and claw the sacred
memories of Jim or Tom, and think that she does it in an extremely
cunning and diverting way--it being understood between us that there is
no malice in it--that "Jim and Tom are nice fellows enough, you
know--only that somebody else is so superior to them," etc.

Susie and I considered ourselves as an extremely forehanded, well-to-do
partnership, in the matter of gathering in our autumn stores. No pair of
chipmonks in the neighborhood conducted business with more ability. We
had a famous cellar that I dug and stoned, where we stored away our
spoils. We had chestnuts and walnuts and butternuts, as we said, to last
us all winter, and many an earnest consultation and many a busy hour did
the gathering and arranging of these spoils cost us.

Then, oh, the golden times we had when father's barrels of new cider
came home from the press! How I cut and gathered and selected bunches of
choice straws, which I took to school and showed to Susie,
surreptitiously, at intervals, during school exercises, that she might
see what a provision of bliss I was making for Saturday afternoons. How
Susie was sent to visit us on these occasions, in leather shoes and
checked apron, so that we might go in the cellar; and how, mounted up on
logs on either side of a barrel of cider, we plunged our straws through
the foamy mass at the bung-hole, and drew out long draughts of sweet
