it out o’ him. ‘Member once Joe walked clear up to the cranberry-pond
artor that ‘are two dollars; but Mother Hokum she see him a comin’ jest
as he come past the juniper-bush on the corner. She says to Hokum, ‘Get
into bed, old man, quick, and let me tell the story,’ says she. So she
covered him up; and when Gidger come in she come up to him, and says
she, ‘Why, Mr. Gidger, I’m jest ashamed to see yo: why, Mr. Hokum was
jest a comin’ down to pay yo that ‘are money last week, but ye see
he was took down with the small-pox’--Joe didn’t hear no mow: he
just turned round, and he streaked it out that ‘are door with his
coat-tails flyin’ out straight ahind him; and old Mother Hokum she jest
stood at the window holdin’ her sides and laughin’ fit to split, to see
him run. That ‘are’s jest a sample o’ the ways them Hokums cut up.

“Wal, you see, boys, there’s a queer kind o’ rock down on the bank ‘o
the river, that looks sort o’ like a grave-stone. The biggest part
on’t is sunk down under ground, and it’s pretty well growed over with
blackberry-vines; but, when you scratch the bushes away, they used to
make out some queer marks on that ‘are rock. They was sort o’ lines and
crosses; and folks would have it that them was Kidd’s private marks, and
that there was one o’ the places where he hid his money.

“Wal, there’s no sayin’ fairly how it come to be thought so; but fellers
used to say so, and they used sometimes to talk it over to the tahvern,
and kind o’ wonder whether or no, if they should dig, they wouldn’t come
to suthin’.

“Wal, old Mother Hokum she heard on’t, and she was a sort o’
enterprisin’ old crittur: fact was, she had to be, ‘cause the young
Hokums was jest like bag-worms, the more they growed the more they eat,
and I expect she found it pretty hard to fill their mouths; and so she
said ef there was any thing under that ‘are rock, they’d as good’s
have it as the Devil; and so she didn’t give old Hokum no peace o’ his
life, but he must see what there was there.

“Wal, I was with ‘em the night they was a talk-in’ on’t up. Ye see,
Hokum he got thirty-seven cents’ worth o’ lemons and sperit. I see him
goin’ by as I was out a splittin’ kindlin’s; and says he, ‘Sam, you jest
go ‘long up to our house to-night,’ says he: ‘Toddy Whitney and Harry
Wiggin’s com-in’ up, and we’re goin’ to have a little suthin’ hot,’ says
he; and he kind o’ showed me the lemons and sperit. And I told him I
guessed I would go ‘long. Wal, I kind o’ wanted to see what they’d be up
to, ye know.

“Wal, come to find out, they was a talkin’ about Cap’n Kidd’s treasures,
and layin’ out how they should get it, and a settin’ one another on with
gret stories about it.

“‘I’ve heard that there was whole chists full o’ gold guineas,’ says
one.

“‘And I’ve heard o’ gold bracelets and ear-rings and finger-rings all
sparklin’ with diamonds,’ says another.

“‘Maybe it’s old silver plate from some o’ them old West Indian
grandees,’ says another.

“‘Wal, whatever it is,’ says Mother Hokum, ‘I want to be into it,’ says
she.

“‘Wal, Sam, won’t you jine?’ says they.

“‘Wal, boys,’ says I, ‘I kind o’ don’t feel jest like j’inin’. I sort
o’ ain’t clear about the rights on’t: seems to me it’s mighty nigh like
goin’ to the Devil for money.’

“‘Wal,’ says Mother Hokum, ‘what if ‘tis? Money’s money, get it how ye
will; and the Devil’s money ‘ll buy as much meat as any. I’d go to the
Devil, if he gave good money.’

“‘Wal, I guess I wouldn’t,’ says I. ‘Don’t you ‘member the sermon Parson
Lothrop preached about hastin’ to be rich, last sabba’ day?’

“‘Parson Lothrop be hanged!’ says she. ‘Wal, now,’ says she, ‘I like
to see a parson with his silk stockin’s and great gold-headed cane, a
lollopin’ on his carriage behind his fat, prancin’ hosses, comin’ to
meetin’ to preach to us poor folks not to want to be rich! How’d he like
it to have forty-’leven children, and nothin’ to put onto ‘em or into
‘em, I wonder? Guess if Lady Lothrop had to rub and scrub, and wear
her fingers to the bone as I do, she’d want to be rich; and I guess the
parson, if he couldn’t get a bellyful for a week, would be for diggin’
up Kidd’s money, or doing ‘most any thing else to make the pot bile.’

“‘Wal,’ says I, ‘I’ll kind o’ go with ye, boys, and sort o’ see how
things turn out; but I guess I won’t take no shere in’t,’ says I.

“Wal, they got it all planned out. They was to wait till the full moon,
and then they was to get Primus King to go with ‘em and help do the
diggin’. Ye see, Hokum and Toddy Whitney and Wiggin are all putty softly
fellers, and hate dreffully to work; and I tell you the Kidd money ain’t
to be got without a pretty tough piece o’ diggin. Why, it’s jest like
diggin’ a well to get at it. Now, Primus King was the master hand for
diggin’ wells, and so they said they’d get him by givin’ on him a shere.

“Harry Wiggin he didn’t want no nigger a sherin’ in it, he said; but
Toddy and Hokum they said that when there was such stiff diggin’ to be
done, they didn’t care if they did go in with a nigger.

“Wal, Wiggin he said he hadn’t no objection to havin’ the nigger do the
diggin,’ it was sherin’ the profits he objected to.

“‘Wal,’ says Hokum, ‘you can’t get him without,’ says he. ‘Primus knows
too much,’ says he: ‘you can’t fool him.’ Finally they ‘greed that
they was to give Primus twenty dollars, and shere the treasure ‘mong
themselves.

“Come to talk with Primus, he wouldn’t stick in a spade, unless they’d
pay him aforehand. Ye see, Primus was up to ‘em; he knowed about Gidger,
and there wa’n’t none on ‘em that was particular good pay; and so they
all jest hed to rake and scrape, and pay him down the twenty dollars
among ‘em; and they ‘greed for the fust full moon, at twelve’ o’clock at
night, the 9th of October.

“Wal, ye see I had to tell Hepsy I was goin’ out to watch. Wal, so I
was; but not jest in the way she took it: but, Lordy massy! a feller has
to tell his wife suthin’ to keep her quiet, ye know, ‘specially Hepsy.

“Wal, wal, of all the moonlight nights that ever I did see, I never did
see one equal to that. Why, you could see the color o’ every thing. I
‘member I could see how the huckleberry-bushes on the rock was red as
blood when the moonlight shone through ‘em; ‘cause the leaves, you see,
had begun to turn.

“Goin’ on our way we got to talkin’ about the sperits.

“‘I ain’t afraid on ‘em,’ says Hokum. ‘What harm can a sperit do me?’
says he. ‘I don’t care ef there’s a dozen on ‘em;’ and he took a swig at
his bottle.

“‘Oh! there ain’t no sperits,’ says Harry Wiggin. ‘That ‘are talk’s all
nonsense;’ and he took a swig at his bottle.

“‘Wal,’ says Toddy, ‘I don’t know ‘bout that ‘are. Me and Ike Sanders
has seen the sperits in the Cap’n Brown house. We thought we’d jest have
a peek into the window one night; and there was a whole flock o’ black
colts without no heads on come rushin’ on us and knocked us flat.’

“‘I expect you’d been at the tahvern,’ said Hokum.

“‘Wal, yes, we had; but them was sperits: we wa’n’t drunk, now; we was
jest as sober as ever we was.’

“‘Wal, they won’t get away my money,’ says Primus, for I put it safe
away in Dinah’s teapot afore I come out;’ and then he showed all his
ivories from ear to ear. ‘I think all this ‘are’s sort o’ foolishness,’
says Primus.

“‘Wal,’ says I, ‘boys, I ain’t a goin’ to have no part or lot in this
‘ere matter, but I’ll jest lay it off to you how it’s to be done. Ef
Kidd’s money is under this rock, there’s ‘sperits’ that watch it, and
you mustn’t give ‘em no advantage. There mustn’t be a word spoke from
the time ye get sight o’ the treasure till ye get it safe up on to firm
ground,’ says I. ‘Ef ye do, it’ll vanish right out o’ sight. I’ve talked
with them that has dug down to it and seen it; but they allers lost it,
‘cause they’d call out and say suthin’; and the minute they spoke, away
it went.’

“Wal, so they marked off the ground; and Primus he begun to dig, and the
rest kind o’ sot round. It was so still it was kind o’ solemn. Ye see,
it was past twelve o’clock, and every critter in Oldtown was asleep;
and there was two whippoorwills on the great Cap’n Brown elm-trees, that
kep’ a answerin’ each other back and forward sort o’ solitary like; and
then every once in a while there’d come a sort o’ strange whisper up
among the elm-tree leaves, jest as if there was talkin’ goin’ on; and
every time Primus struck his spade into the ground it sounded sort
o’ holler, jest as if he’d been a diggin’ a grave. ‘It’s kind o’
melancholy,’ says I, ‘to think o’ them poor critters that had to be
killed and buried jest to keep this ‘ere treasure. What awful things ‘ll
be brought to light in the judgment day! Them poor critters they loved
to live and hated to die as much as any on us; but no, they hed to die
jest to satisfy that critter’s wicked will. I’ve heard them as thought
they could tell the Cap’n Kidd places by layin’ their ear to the ground
at midnight, and they’d hear groans and wailin’s.”

“Why, Sam! were there really people who could tell where Kidd’s money
was?” I here interposed.

“Oh, sartin! why, yis. There was Shebna Basconx, he was one. Shebna
could always tell what was under the earth. He’d cut a hazel-stick, and
hold it in his hand when folks was wantin’ to know where to dig wells;
and that ‘are stick would jest turn in his hand, and p’int down till it
would fairly grind the bark off; and ef you dug in that place you was
sure to find a spring. Oh, yis! Shebna he’s told many where the Kidd
money was, and been with ‘em when they dug for it; but the pester on’t
was they allers lost it, ‘cause they would some on ‘em speak afore they
thought.”

“But, Sam, what about this digging? Let’s know what came of it,” said
we, as Sam appeared to lose his way in his story.

“Wal, ye see, they dug down about five feet, when Primus he struck his
spade smack on something that chincked like iron.



“Wal, then Hokum and Toddy Whitney was into the hole in a minute: they
made Primus get out, and they took the spade, ‘cause they wanted to be
sure to come on it themselves.

“Wal, they begun, and they dug and he scraped, and sure enough they come
to a gret iron pot as big as your granny’s dinner-pot, with an iron bale
