
“For shame, Basil!” retorted Isabel. “You know it was you who were
afraid of that bridge.”

The children, who knew the story by heart, laughed with their father at
the monstrous pretension; and his simulated hilarity only increased upon
paying a toll of two dollars at the Goat Island bridge.

“What extortion!” cried Isabel, with an indignation that secretly
unnerved him. He trembled upon the verge of confession; but he had
finally the moral force to resist. He suffered her to compute the cost
of their stay at Niagara without allowing those three dollars to
enter into her calculation; he even began to think what justificative
extravagance he could tempt her to. He suggested the purchase of
local bric-a-brac; he asked her if she would not like to dine at the
International, for old times’ sake. But she answered, with disheartening
virtue, that they must not think of such a thing, after what they had
spent already. Nothing, perhaps, marked the confirmed husband in Basil
more than these hidden fears and reluctances.

In the mean time Isabel ignorantly abandoned herself to the charm of the
place, which she found unimpaired, in spite of the reported ravages of
improvement about Niagara. Goat Island was still the sylvan solitude of
twelve years ago, haunted by even fewer nymphs and dryads than of old.
The air was full of the perfume that scented it at Prospect Park; the
leaves showered them with shade and sun, as they drove along. “If it
were not for the children here,” she said, “I should think that our
first drive on Goat Island had never ended.”

She sighed a little, and Basil leaned forward and took her hand in his.
“It never has ended; it’s the same drive; only we are younger now, and
enjoy it more.” It always touched him when Isabel was sentimental about
the past, for the years had tended to make her rather more seriously
maternal towards him than towards the other children; and he recognized
that these fond reminiscences were the expression of the girlhood still
lurking deep within her heart.

She shook her head. “No, but I’m willing the children should be young in
our place. It’s only fair they should have their turn.”

She remained in the carriage, while Basil visited the various points
of view on Luna Island with the boy and girl. A boy is probably of
considerable interest to himself, and a man looks back at his own
boyhood with some pathos. But in his actuality a boy has very little to
commend him to the toleration of other human beings. Tom was very well,
as boys go; but now his contribution to the common enjoyment was to
venture as near as possible to all perilous edges; to throw stones into
the water, and to make as if to throw them over precipices on the people
below; to pepper his father with questions, and to collect cumbrous
mementos of the vegetable and mineral kingdoms. He kept the carriage
waiting a good five minutes, while he could cut his initials on a
band-rail. “You can come back and see ‘em on your bridal tower,” said
the driver. Isabel gave a little start, as if she had almost thought of
something she was trying to think of.

They occasionally met ladies driving, and sometimes they encountered
a couple making a tour of the island on foot. But none of these people
were young, and Basil reported that the Three Sisters were inhabited
only by persons of like maturity; even a group of people who were eating
lunch to the music of the shouting Rapids, on the outer edge of the last
Sister, were no younger, apparently.

Isabel did not get out of the carriage to verify his report; she
preferred to refute his story of her former panic on those islands by
remaining serenely seated while he visited them. She thus lost a superb
novelty which nature has lately added to the wonders of this Fall, in
that place at the edge of the great Horse Shoe where the rock has fallen
and left a peculiarly shaped chasm: through this the spray leaps up from
below, and flashes a hundred feet into the air, in rocket-like jets and
points, and then breaks and dissolves away in the pyrotechnic curves
of a perpetual Fourth of July. Basil said something like this in
celebrating the display, with the purpose of rendering her loss more
poignant; but she replied, with tranquil piety, that she would rather
keep her Niagara unchanged; and she declared that, as she understood
him, there must be something rather cheap and conscious in the new
feature. She approved, however, of the change that had removed that
foolish little Terrapin Tower from the brink on which it stood, and she
confessed that she could have enjoyed a little variety in the stories
the driver told them of the Indian burial-ground on the island: they
were exactly the stories she and Basil had heard twelve years before,
and the ill-starred goats, from which the island took its name, perished
once more in his narrative.

Under the influence of his romances our travelers began to find the
whole scene hackneyed; and they were glad to part from him a little
sooner than they had bargained to do. They strolled about the anomalous
village on foot, and once more marveled at the paucity of travel and the
enormity of the local preparation. Surely the hotels are nowhere else
in the world so large! Could there ever have been visitors enough at
Niagara to fill them? They were built so big for some good reason,
no doubt; but it is no more apparent than why all these magnificent
equipages are waiting about the empty streets for the people who never
come to hire them.

“It seems to me that I don’t see so many strangers here as I used,”
 Basil had suggested to their driver.

“Oh, they haven’t commenced coming yet,” he replied, with hardy
cheerfulness, and pretended that they were plenty enough in July and
August.

They went to dine at the modest restaurant of a colored man, who
advertised a table d’hote dinner on a board at his door; and they put
their misgivings to him, which seemed to grieve him, and he contended
that Niagara was as prosperous and as much resorted to as ever. In fact,
they observed that their regret for the supposed decline of the Falls as
a summer resort was nowhere popular in the village, and they desisted in
their offers of sympathy, after their rebuff from the restaurateur.

Basil got his family away to the station after dinner, and left them
there, while he walked down the village street, for a closer inspection
of the hotels. At the door of the largest a pair of children sported in
the solitude, as fearlessly as the birds on Selkirk’s island; looking
into the hotel, he saw a few porters and call-boys seated in statuesque
repose against the wall, while the clerk pined in dreamless inactivity
behind the register; some deserted ladies flitted through the door of
the parlor at the side. He recalled the evening of his former visit,
when he and Isabel had met the Ellisons in that parlor, and it seemed,
in the retrospect, a scene of the wildest gayety. He turned for
consolation into the barber’s shop, where he found himself the only
customer, and no busy sound of “Next” greeted his ear. But the barber,
like all the rest, said that Niagara was not unusually empty; and he
came out feeling bewildered and defrauded. Surely the agent of the boats
which descend the Rapids of the St. Lawrence must be frank, if Basil
went to him and pretended that he was going to buy a ticket. But a
glance at the agent’s sign showed Basil that the agent, with his brave
jollity of manner and his impressive “Good-morning,” had passed away
from the deceits of travel, and that he was now inherited by his widow,
who in turn was absent, and temporarily represented by their son.
The boy, in supplying Basil with an advertisement of the line, made
a specious show of haste, as if there were a long queue of tourists
waiting behind him to be served with tickets. Perhaps there was, indeed,
a spectral line there, but Basil was the only tourist present in the
flesh, and he shivered in his isolation, and fled with the advertisement
in his hand. Isabel met him at the door of the station with a frightened
face.

“Basil,” she cried, “I have found out what the trouble is! Where are the
brides?”

He took her outstretched hands in his, and passing one of them through
his arm walked with her apart from the children, who were examining at
the news-man’s booth the moccasins and the birchbark bric-a-brac of the
Irish aborigines, and the cups and vases of Niagara spar imported from
Devonshire.

“My dear,” he said, “there are no brides; everybody was married twelve
years ago, and the brides are middle-aged mothers of families now, and
don’t come to Niagara if they are wise.”

“Yes,” she desolately asserted, “that is so! Something has been hanging
over me ever since we came, and suddenly I realized that it was the
absence of the brides. But--but--down at the hotels--Didn’t you see
anything bridal there? When the omnibuses arrived, was there no burst of
minstrelsy? Was there--”

She could not go on, but sank nervelessly into the nearest seat.

“Perhaps,” said Basil, dreamily regarding the contest of Tom and Bella
for a newly-purchased paper of sour cherries, and helplessly forecasting
in his remoter mind the probable consequences, “there were both brides
and minstrelsy at the hotel, if I had only had the eyes to see and the
ears to hear. In this world, my dear, we are always of our own time,
and we live amid contemporary things. I daresay there were middle-aged
people at Niagara when we were here before, but we did not meet them,
nor they us. I daresay that the place is now swarming with bridal
couples, and it is because they are invisible and inaudible to us
that it seems such a howling wilderness. But the hotel clerks and the
restaurateurs and the hackmen know them, and that is the reason why
they receive with surprise and even offense our sympathy for their
loneliness. Do you suppose, Isabel, that if you were to lay your head
on my shoulder, in a bridal manner, it would do anything to bring us en
rapport with that lost bridal world again?”

Isabel caught away her hand. “Basil,” she cried, “it would be
disgusting! I wouldn’t do it for the world--not even for that world. I
saw one middle-aged couple on Goat Island, while you were down at the
Cave of the Winds, or somewhere, with the children. They were sitting on
some steps, he a step below her, and he seemed to want to put his head
on her knee; but I gazed at him sternly, and he didn’t dare. We should
look like them, if we yielded to any outburst of affection. Don’t you
think we should look like them?”

“I don’t know,” said Basil. “You are certainly a little wrinkled, my
dear.”

“And you are very fat, Basil.”

They glanced at each other with a flash of resentment, and then they
both laughed. “We couldn’t look young if we quarreled a week,” he said.
“We had better content ourselves with feeling young, as I hope we shall
do if we live to be ninety. It will be the loss of others if they don’t
see our bloom upon us. Shall I get you a paper of cherries, Isabel? The
children seem to be enjoying them.”

Isabel sprang upon her offspring with a cry of despair. “Oh, what shall
I do? Now we shall not have a wink of sleep with them to-night. Where
is that nux?” She hunted for the medicine in her bag, and the children
submitted; for they had eaten all the cherries, and they took their
medicine without a murmur. “I wonder at your letting them eat the sour
