"Mamma, she looks pale; and her voice sounds thin; aren't you going to
give her something to strengthen her up?"

"She is going to have her supper in a few minutes."

"What are you going to give her?"

"Roast oysters and bread and butter."

"That sounds jolly. I'd stay and have some too; only I have got to see
a fellow round the corner. Good-bye, Pink. I'm off. Eat as many oysters
as you can!"

And off he ran. Matilda was disappointed; she was very fond of him, and
she thought he might have liked better to stay with her this first
evening. A little creeping feeling of homesickness came over her; not
for any place that was once called home, but for the clinging affection
of more hands and voices than one.

"He's a boy, dear," said Mrs. Laval, noticing her look. "Boys cannot
bear to be shut up, even with what they love the best. And you are a
girl--just full of womanly tenderness. I see it well enough. You will
have something to bear in this world, my child. Boys will be boys, and
men will be men; but Norton loves you dearly, for all that."

"I know he does, mamma," said Matilda.

But when a few minutes later, Mrs. Laval was called downstairs to see
somebody, the feeling she had kept back rushed upon her again. She
wanted something she had not got. And she began to think of her best
Friend. Matilda had not forgotten him; yet through these days of
sickness and weakness, and the constant presence of somebody in her
room, she had missed for a long time her Bible readings and all but
very short and scattering prayer. She recollected this now; and longing
after the comfort of a nearer thought of God and closer feeling of his
presence, she got up out of her chair and tottered across the room,
holding by everything in her way, to the place where she kept her
Bible. Once back in her easy chair, she had to rest a bit before she
could read; then she found a place of sweet words that she knew, and
rested herself in a more thorough fashion over them.

She was bending down with her volume in her hand to catch the fading
light from the window, when another visiter came in. It was David
Bartholomew, who having knocked and fancied that he heard the word of
permission, walked in and was at her side before she knew it. Matilda
started, and then looked very much pleased.

"You are not strong enough to be studying," David said kindly.

"O I am not studying."

"What have you got there that interests you so much, then? to be
bending over it like that."

Now Matilda was afraid to say she was reading the Bible, knowing in
what abhorrence David held part of her Bible; so she answered with a
quick sort of instinct, "It was only a chapter in Isaiah, David."

"Isaiah!" he repeated; "our Isaiah? Let me see, please."

He took the book and looked keenly at the page.

"What interested you so here, Matilda?"

"I was reading that little twelfth chapter. I was thinking of those
'wells of salvation.'"

She was trembling with the fear of saying something or other to
displease him, afraid to answer at all; but the simplest answer seemed
the best; and she prayed for wisdom and boldness. David was looking
hard at the page, and alternately at her.

"It is our Isaiah," he said, turning the leaves back and forward; "it
is our Scriptures; but not the Hebrew. I shall learn to read the
Hebrew. What were you thinking about the 'wells of salvation,' Matilda?"

Matilda was getting very nervous; but as before, she answered simply
the truth.

"I was thinking how sweet the water is."

"You?" said David, with a depth of astonishment which might have made
her laugh if she had not been so frightened. "You? what do you know of
them, or think you know? These words belong to the time of Messiah ben
David."

"Yes," said Matilda.

"What do you think you know about them?"

Matilda thought within herself that here was the end of David's
friendship for her. Her heart sank, yet she spoke as before.

"I have drawn water out of them, David; and I know that the water is
sweet."

He stood and looked at her, as if he were full of something to say; but
perhaps he guessed at her reference, or perhaps he saw her too feeble
to be attacked with exciting topics. He shut his mouth and said
nothing; and just then the servant entered bearing the tray with
Matilda's supper. That made a nice diversion. I think David was glad of
it. At any rate he made himself useful; brought up the little table to
Matilda's side; set the tea-pot out of her way and spread her napkin on
her lap. Then, hearing that Mrs. Laval was detained downstairs, he took
the management of things upon himself. He made Matilda's cup of tea; he
spread bread and butter; he opened oysters. Nobody could have done it
better; but it was always acknowledged that David Bartholomew was born
a gentleman. Matilda enjoyed it hugely. She was ready for her oysters,
as a little convalescent child should be; and bread and butter was
good; but to have David helping her and ministering to her gave to both
an exquisite flavour. He was so nice about it, and it was so kind of
him.

"That other supper has been sadly put off, hasn't it?" he said as he
opened Matilda's last oyster.

"What supper?" said Matilda.

"The supper we had arranged so finely, a long while ago. The
celebration of your good woman's moving in."

"My good woman?--O, you mean Mrs. Staples. She hasn't moved in yet?"

"No! we waited for you to get well."

"Waited all this while!" said Matilda. "David, I wonder when I shall be
able to go out?"

"Not in a good while, Tilly, to any such entertainment as that. I dare
say you can go driving in the Park in two or three weeks."

"But she cannot wait all that while!" said Matilda; and then she
stopped. If not, then the moving of Mrs. Staples, and all the delight
of the supper to be prepared for her, and the pleasure of seeing her
pleasure, must be for others; not for the little planner and contriver
of the whole. For a minute Matilda felt as if she could not give it up;
this rare and exquisite joy; such a chance might not come again in a
very long while. She wanted to see how the stove would work; she wanted
to hear the kettle sing, and to set the table with the new cups and
saucers, and to make the tea that first time, and give the in comers a
welcome. Could all that be lost? It seemed very hard. Matilda's eyes
filled with tears.

"What is the matter?" said David kindly.

Matilda struggled to speak. She knew what she must say; but at first
she could hardly get the words out. She hesitated, and David repeated
his question.

"It won't do for them to wait so long," she said, lifting her eyes to
his face.

"Who? your poor people there? Well, it does seem a pity, looking at the
place where they are now."

"It won't do," Matilda repeated. "It is best for them to go right in,
David. But I can't manage it. I can't do anything."

"Will you trust me?"

"O yes! if you'll do it. But won't it be a great trouble to you, David?"

"On the contrary, I shall like it capitally. You tell me exactly what
you want done, and I'll attend to it."

"O thank you! Then you'll have to get the supper things, David."

"Yes, I know all about that."

"And get Mr. Wharncliffe to tell Mrs. Staples."

"Yes."

"And--can you buy some calico for me?"

"Certainly. But I'd put something warmer on them than calico, Tilly."

"What?"

"I don't know," said David laughingly; "I don't know what women wear.
But I suppose I can find out. Something warm, Tilly; the air is
snapping and biting out of doors, I can tell you."

"O well, do see about it as soon as you can, David, and let them move
in by Saturday; can't you?"

David promised. And when he was gone, and Matilda was alone in bed
again at night, she fought out her whole fight with disappointment.
Rather a hard fight it was. Matilda did not see why, when she was about
a very good thing, so much of the pleasure of it should have been taken
away from her. Why could not her sickness have been delayed for one
week? and now the very flower and charm of her scheme must fall into
the hands of others. She dwelt upon the details, from which she had
looked for so much pleasure, and poured out hearty tears over them. She
was as much in the dark nearly as Job had been; as much at a loss to
know why all this should have befallen her. All the comfort she could
get at was in imagining the scenes she could not now see, and fancying
all over and over to herself how Sarah and her mother would look and
feel.

