He enjoyed the novelty of the incident and the laugh it gave
him--was sincere in the half-spoken regret--"What a pity I cannot
publish this verdict and the manner of its delivery, in Hamilton."

With that, he pulled down a branch of musk roses nodding above his
head; broke it, tore off the petals, until he had a double handful,
and buried his face in the odorous mass. Roy came up with him as the
sound of low, sweet singing moved the stillness of the garden and
the sunset into music. The songstress was Jessie, lying within her
oriel-window alone, and gazing at the amber ocean billowing above
the purple hills at the outlet of the valley. Her rich contralto
voice was like the colored light and the musk roses, Orrin thought,
in no wise tempted to dislike or underrate her because she did not
value him aright. That mistake would rectify itself, by and by. He
could stay a fortnight in Dundee as well as not. Roy had pressed him
to do so, and he began to think he would.

This was what Jessie sang, never dreaming of the audience, fit, but
few, hidden in the blossoming thicket:

    "Sleeping, I dreamed, Love--dreamed, Love, of thee;
    O'er the bright wave, Love, floating were we.
    Light in thy fair hair played the soft wind,
    Gently thy white arms round me were twined;
    And as thy song, Love, swelled o'er the sea,
    Fondly thy blue eyes beamed, Love, on me."

Neither of the cousins stirred until the song was finished, when a
robin in the nearest elm began his vespers.

"This is Arcadia!" said Orrin, ravishing another spray--great white
roses this time, with creamy hearts.

"It is home!" replied the other, softly.

Orrin appeared not to hear him.

"Or the Vale of Cashmere!" he went on, drawing in long breaths of
perfume. "Here are

    "'Timid jasmine buds that keep
    Their odors to themselves all day,
    But when the sunlight dies away
    Let the delicious secret out--'

roses of Kathay and bulbuls--and Nourmahal!"

Roy looked at him over his shoulder.

"If you have pulled enough of Eunice's rare, early roses to pieces
to satisfy your destructive proclivities, we will go in," he said,
pleasantly.

Something in his friend's eye and tone disinclined him to pursue the
theme. He could not suspect him of an intention to ridicule Jessie
or her home, but he felt the absence of sympathy with his own mood.

"Are they hers?" asked the other, brushing the wasted leaves in an
unheeded shower to the floor.

Roy paid no regard to the emphasis. He was strangely averse to
talking about Jessie at that moment.

"They are," he said, leading the way to the house, Orrin treading on
the scattered flakes of fragrance, to gain the door of the bower.
"She is an able florist. There is not another garden like hers for
many miles around."

No one excepting Jessie observed that Mr. Wyllys did not accost her
of his own accord while they were at tea, which was set out upon a
small table near the large window in the parlor. She, used to
petting, and what might have been considered by an impartial judge
more than her share of general attention, and a trifle nervous
withal, in her desire to produce an agreeable impression upon Roy's
kinsman, did remark it, and was conscience-smitten by the fear lest
her chagrin at beholding a man so unlike her preconceived ideal had
been reflected in her manner. She seized an opportunity, therefore,
when Roy rolled the table to its accustomed place in the middle of
the apartment, to court Orrin's notice.

"So you ascended our Mont Blanc this afternoon?" she said, smiling
engagingly. "I must retract my saucy innuendoes touching your
fondness for ease."

He was quite near her, but he must have been inattentive, for he
turned his face to her, with--"Pardon me! I did not catch your
observation!"

"It was nothing so dignified as an observation," she retorted,
coloring and laughing. "If I were to repeat it, you would be
reminded of the poor girl whose complaint--'The soup is hot,'
uttered confidentially to a deaf old lady who chanced to sit next
her at a dinner-party, was the signal for the solemn production of
an ear-trumpet, and the remark--audible to all present--'A very
profound and interesting observation, I doubt not, my dear! Will you
oblige me by repeating it?'"

Mr. Wyllys laughed in well-bred moderation that, somehow, made
Jessie feel that her little story was not very amusing, and had been
tamely told.

"I submit to the consequences of my deafness, rather than annoy you
by the ear-trumpet," was his answer.

Bowing, in quitting her, he followed Mr. Kirke to another window.

"We were speaking of Ruskin's 'Stones of Venice,' to-day," Jessie
heard him begin.

She had read the book, and would have enjoyed listening to their
discussion of it, as did Eunice, to whom Mr. Wyllys appealed at her
re-entrance, setting a chair for her by her father's, and
establishing himself in front of them.

Roy apparently did not object to this arrangement, for he drew a
stool to the sofa, and talked to Jessie, aside, of things that would
have interested her beyond all other subjects, but for the sight of
that group in the moonlight that now flooded the room. It kept astir
the uneasy sensation produced by Mr. Wyllys' marked avoidance of
her at tea-time. While her hand lay within her lover's, and her ear
drank in all he said, and her heart beat, fast and warm, as he only
could make it pulsate, she was ashamed to catch herself watching the
slender figure, bending easily forward, his elbow upon the table at
his side, his chin upon his hand, now in an attitude of respectful
attention, while her father or Eunice spoke, again talking
earnestly--she was sure, eloquently also,--in the low, cleverly
modulated accents of which he was the consummate master. Did he then
regard her as a feather-brained rattle? a forward school girl, of
whose prattle he was already weary, and whom he adjudged incapable
of entering into, or appreciating, intellectual conversation?

"Oh dear!" escaped her, when she reached this point.

Roy looked amazed--almost aghast--as well he might. He was in the
middle of a description of their future home, prefatory of a hint he
deemed it best to drop relative to a petition he had laid before the
trustees of the college in which he was professor. This had asked a
year's leave of absence, that he might pursue the study of the
German language and literature abroad with one or two other branches
of his profession. Orrin Wyllys had brought him letters of
approbation from the body named, and the time had come when he must
feel his way gently to the announcement of the approaching
separation.

"My darling!" he said. "What is it? Are you in pain?"

"Yes! Not my foot!" seeing him look at it. "I have a desperate
heartache! I shall never be good and wise enough for you, Roy! And
you will discover this for yourself, one day."

"That is the only really foolish thing I have ever heard you say!"
returned he, in fond raillery. "I am tormented, without
intermission, by the conviction that I am unworthy of your regard,
so we will let the one fear neutralize the other. Love is a powerful
solvent, dear. It will melt these stubborn doubts--these flintstones
of fancied incompatibility, that fret your heart when you meditate
upon the chances that we shall make one another happy."

"But if I were sedate and discreet; cautious as to what I say, and
to whom I say it,--more learned and beautiful--more like the blessed
old Euna over there. You see"--in real mortification--"I cannot
express the wish to reform without falling into my nonsensical
tricks of speech!"

Roy could not preserve his gravity.

"I am not laughing at you!" he whispered, as she flung her arm over
her eyes. "What has moved you to this sensitiveness--and with me?
I could but liken my sentiments in the imaginary survey of the
pattern bride you would give me to those of Jacob, who was put off
with the demure Leah, when he had bargained for witching wicked
Rachel."

"The comparison is an insult to Euna!" interrupted Jessie, warmly.
"I said you ought to marry a woman like her--pure as a pearl, true
as steel--in principle like adamant. Leah! Bah! I always detested
her! She was a sly, heartless traitor--a smooth-tongued hypocrite,
who cozened the pretty young sister whom she envied--becoming, as
she did, a willing party to her father's fraud. She deserved all
the unhappiness she got!"

"We shall not differ there. The 'tender-eyed' Jewess is no favorite
of mine. But, even supposing that I were to sacrifice inclination to
a sense of what you consider the fitness of things, Eunice or one
like her would never elect to marry me. It is dissimilarity in
certain characteristics that provides the best sauce for courtship.
Your sister, for instance, would be well-mated with a man like Mr.
Wyllys, the salient points of whose character are those which she
has not."

"In other words, you think the interests of the drama demand that I
should do the light comedy as a counter-poise to your heavy
tragedy?" said Jessie, appeased. "I am sure I could never like your
cousin--or one like him--well enough to think of marrying him."

"I don't ask you to do it!" rejoined Roy, playfully. "But do not, on
that account, shut your eyes to his real excellence. He is to be
your brother, remember--for I have no other. His father was my
guardian, and while he lived, I scarcely felt the early loss of my
parents. To Orrin personally, I owe much. He is four years my
