Like a flash the men were on their assailants. The mob had not expected
this. Right and left valorous blows were dealt, and two or three burly
fellows were laid low. Some nearer sober, and more cowardly, took to
their heels. Two men fought like tigers; and once Ben Hay came near
getting the worst; but, by the time the dilatory guards of peace
arrived, there was only a pile of bruised and battered bodies lying on
the door-step.

"A pretty tough scrimmage!" was the comment. "Weren't you a little hard
on these fellows?"

"A man has a right to defend his own life and his own nose," said Ben
Hay decisively. "His life may be useful, his nose is ornamental when
it is a handsome one like mine."

What with drunkenness and the drubbing, two of the ruffians were unable
to walk. Two others were marched off under the escort of the officers,
the disabled sent for, and a guard detached to protect Mrs. Connelly's
house. When everybody had been quieted, Jack took a tour down to the
mills. Some poor object was huddled up in the corner of the main stoop.

"What are you doing here?" demanded Darcy.

"Oh, Mr. Darcy, don't strike me! I'm Bart Kane. I've had enough of this
night, and I crawled here"--

The boy began to sob and talk brokenly. He lifted his face in the
moonlight. It was ghastly; one eye swollen shut, and purple-black, and
streaks of blood and dirt over it; the clothing torn, the throat bare.

"Were you down there at Connelly's?"

"I warn't nowhere. It was along o' father: he comed home drunk."

Barton Kane was a mill-boy, about nineteen now. Darcy's first feeling
had been one of outrage and anger, but he cooled suddenly.

"Tell me, my lad," in a kindly tone, taking the shivering fingers in
his.

"You see, Mr. Darcy, father'd been out along of the hatters all day,
gettin' more and more rum in him. He said on Sunday, as how't I should
strike; but they went to work here, and I worked with 'em. When I went
home, mother, she gev me my supper, and ses she, 'Keep out o' sight,
lad, happen thy dad's powerful mad wi' thee!' So I went to bed. But
about nine he comed home, and tore up the house wi' his tantrums, and
then lathered me. He called me a rat, and a sneak, and a turn-coat, and
kicked me out o' the house, and threw my traps to me. Then afore I was
fairly dressed he at me again, and said if ever I darkened the door,
he'd murder me! I strayed round, afeared of everybody, and crawled up
here. 'Pears like every bone in my body is broke, and my eye, he do hurt
so!"

With that Barton Kane broke out sobbing again, and clung to Jack Darcy's
knees.

"My poor lad!" the tone was infinitely tender. "Can you walk a little
way, to Kit Connelly's? You can be nursed up there, and go to bed
peaceably. Come, Barton, my boy, you are the hero of Hope Mills. When
this is over, we shall have to give you a medal."

He put his strong arm around the shivering body, and led him back to a
kindly shelter.

"Hay, Mrs. Connelly, and all of you: here's a lad that has been
half-killed for standing by his colors to-day. Look here, Armstrong,
would you mind going for Dr. Maverick? this poor chap needs some
patching-up. And, Kit, give me some water and a napkin: we'll get his
face a little cool and clean."

"Let me do it, Mr. Darcy. Sure, I've boys of my own, and am used to it.
Oh, the poor, poor lad!"

Barton told his story over again. He was weak and hysterical now, and
they made him a shake-down on the floor until the doctor came.

"Now I'll start on my inspection-tour again," said Darcy, turning away.
"We are all likely to make a night of it."

He thought he would go around before he went in to see the watchmen:
they had placed a force on guard quietly. He had just turned the second
corner, when he saw a man jump from the high fence, and lie for an
instant as if stunned. He hastened on, but the man sprang up and ran
down the dark side of the street. His first impulse was to follow; then
it struck him as strange that the dog gave no alarm. He had a gate-key
in his pocket, and unlocked it at once.

"Bruno!" he called, "Bruno, good fellow, come here."

There was not a sound. The ominous silence thrilled Jack.

"Bruno!"

Hark! a curious crackling or sweep of wind, and smoky smell. He ran
round to the rear. Close up against the back door, quite out of the
moonlight, something was piled. Forked tongues of flame were shooting
out of it everywhere. He seized the chain attached to the factory-bell,
and rang it rapidly. There was a window thrown up, and a voice called.

"Fire! fire!" he shouted. "Turn on the hose,--the lower back door."

The flames streamed up fiercely now. It was plain that the mound had
been saturated with kerosene.

Daly hurried down, and opened a door. "Hurd and Byrnes are at the
buckets and hose," he cried. "Where is it? O Mr. Darcy!"

"Quick, quick!" shouted Jack, rushing by him.

The men had the hose ready. They put it out of the window, turned on the
stream, and in a few moments a column of dense smoke rose amid the
arrowy flashes of lurid splendor. The watchman ran down from Connelly's.

It was subdued in a few moments. They tore away the charred boxes and
d√©bris, smoking and smouldering. Underneath all they found the body of
princely Bruno.

"This is fiendish!" cried Jack, dragging the poor fellow away, his
scorched coat smelling horribly. "Brave Bruno, you are the second hero
of the night!"

"Whatever dastardly devil did this, knows as much about Hope Mills as
you or I," shouted Hurd savagely. "Bruno was poisoned first; and he
wouldn't have taken any thing from a strange hand. But the fellow was a
fool to build the fire here."

"I don't know about that," said Darcy. "If it had burned the door down,
it would have gone in the hall, and up the hatchway--if it was open."

"By thunder! so it would; and right to the stock-room. That place must
never be left open again while Hope Mills stands, or co-operation waves
her starry banner in the breeze."

"Loud applause!" said some one.

The fire was thoroughly extinguished; and the guardian of the night
decided to remain here, being within call if another disturbance should
occur at Mrs. Connelly's. The bells rang out for midnight. A few, who
had gathered at the alarm, dispersed: and every thing became quiet
again,--deadly, solemnly quiet.

Jack wanted to see Maverick, so he paced back to Mrs. Connelly's. He was
trying to remember some distinctive mark of the man he had seen jump. He
was too stout for Davy, and he could not believe such villany of the
man. Then Price was a little lame from an old rheumatic affection, and
would not have dared such a deed.

Barton Kane had been washed, patched, bandaged, put to bed, and given an
opiate; so now he was in a sound but rather disturbed sleep. The men
gathered in the lunch-room, and discussed the cowardly attempt upon the
mill, the day's affairs generally.

"See how great a matter a little fire kindles," said Maverick. "But for
McPherson's lecture here, I don't believe any of these things would have
happened. It is a free country, of course, and a man has a right to air
his ideas; but capital is not set firmly enough on its legs to stand a
severe fire, and labor is in too great a superabundance. To seek to
drain the ocean with a silver mug may be grand, but quite hopeless."

One! The witching hour, and a few sleepy men began to yawn.

"How odd it seems, not to hear trains in the night!" Maverick said
presently. "A queer lock-out this."

One, again. One, two, three: this time the fire-alarm.

They rushed out toward the mill. Then they as suddenly wheeled around.
In an instant the air seemed full of shouts and cries, and a broad sheet
of flame flared up in the face of the tranquil heavens. A roar, like a
mighty tramping of hosts, a crackling, snapping, sweeping sound.

"It's Keppler's. Boyd's block will surely go!"

The houses were frame, old and dry: Keppler's on the corner, the rest
joined, like a row of sheds, and filled with the very poorest; a few
apartments standing empty. The engines were out, but it was of little
avail. The corner was just one brilliant sheet of lurid light. Shrieking
women and children fled for their lives. The street swarmed again, and
people trampled over one another in their wild terror. There was a
crash, and the building fell in. The flames licked up the other fiery
flood, and had a brave battle in the cellar. The engines played until
the air was filled with smothering smoke, and there was nothing left but
a long, blackened ruin.

"It may be ungenerous to rejoice in any man's misfortune," said
Maverick, "but in a sanitary point of view I am thankful those old
rookeries have come to an end. Boyd wouldn't do any thing to them, and
they were unfit for pigs to live in. And, as for Keppler's, there will
be but one verdict this end of the town."

Some one laid a hand on Jack Darcy's shoulder. He turned and saw Fred
Lawrence.

"They are all worried to death about you, old chap," began Fred. "Your
mother, Miss Morgan, Sylvie,--and Irene is walking the floor. I have not
seen her so excited since--since she had the fever. What a horrible
thing! Was any one lost, do you know?"

"They will not be able to tell that until morning, every thing is in
such confusion. Pray God that the morning may dawn soon! I seem to have
