you--that is, it’s for HER. Well, I don’t know who it’s for! But mother
doesn’t like any of my gentlemen friends. She’s right down timid. She
always makes a fuss if I introduce a gentleman. But I DO introduce
them--almost always. If I didn’t introduce my gentlemen friends to
Mother,” the young girl added in her little soft, flat monotone, “I
shouldn’t think I was natural.”

“To introduce me,” said Winterbourne, “you must know my name.” And he
proceeded to pronounce it.

“Oh, dear, I can’t say all that!” said his companion with a laugh. But
by this time they had come up to Mrs. Miller, who, as they drew near,
walked to the parapet of the garden and leaned upon it, looking intently
at the lake and turning her back to them. “Mother!” said the young
girl in a tone of decision. Upon this the elder lady turned round. “Mr.
Winterbourne,” said Miss Daisy Miller, introducing the young man very
frankly and prettily. “Common,” she was, as Mrs. Costello had pronounced
her; yet it was a wonder to Winterbourne that, with her commonness, she
had a singularly delicate grace.

Her mother was a small, spare, light person, with a wandering eye,
a very exiguous nose, and a large forehead, decorated with a certain
amount of thin, much frizzled hair. Like her daughter, Mrs. Miller was
dressed with extreme elegance; she had enormous diamonds in her ears.
So far as Winterbourne could observe, she gave him no greeting--she
certainly was not looking at him. Daisy was near her, pulling her shawl
straight. “What are you doing, poking round here?” this young lady
inquired, but by no means with that harshness of accent which her choice
of words may imply.

“I don’t know,” said her mother, turning toward the lake again.

“I shouldn’t think you’d want that shawl!” Daisy exclaimed.

“Well I do!” her mother answered with a little laugh.

“Did you get Randolph to go to bed?” asked the young girl.

“No; I couldn’t induce him,” said Mrs. Miller very gently. “He wants to
talk to the waiter. He likes to talk to that waiter.”

“I was telling Mr. Winterbourne,” the young girl went on; and to the
young man’s ear her tone might have indicated that she had been uttering
his name all her life.

“Oh, yes!” said Winterbourne; “I have the pleasure of knowing your son.”

Randolph’s mamma was silent; she turned her attention to the lake. But
at last she spoke. “Well, I don’t see how he lives!”

“Anyhow, it isn’t so bad as it was at Dover,” said Daisy Miller.

“And what occurred at Dover?” Winterbourne asked.

“He wouldn’t go to bed at all. I guess he sat up all night in the public
parlor. He wasn’t in bed at twelve o’clock: I know that.”

“It was half-past twelve,” declared Mrs. Miller with mild emphasis.

“Does he sleep much during the day?” Winterbourne demanded.

“I guess he doesn’t sleep much,” Daisy rejoined.

“I wish he would!” said her mother. “It seems as if he couldn’t.”

“I think he’s real tiresome,” Daisy pursued.

Then, for some moments, there was silence. “Well, Daisy Miller,” said
the elder lady, presently, “I shouldn’t think you’d want to talk against
your own brother!”

“Well, he IS tiresome, Mother,” said Daisy, quite without the asperity
of a retort.

“He’s only nine,” urged Mrs. Miller.

“Well, he wouldn’t go to that castle,” said the young girl. “I’m going
there with Mr. Winterbourne.”

To this announcement, very placidly made, Daisy’s mamma offered no
response. Winterbourne took for granted that she deeply disapproved of
the projected excursion; but he said to himself that she was a simple,
easily managed person, and that a few deferential protestations would
take the edge from her displeasure. “Yes,” he began; “your daughter has
kindly allowed me the honor of being her guide.”

Mrs. Miller’s wandering eyes attached themselves, with a sort of
appealing air, to Daisy, who, however, strolled a few steps farther,
gently humming to herself. “I presume you will go in the cars,” said her
mother.

“Yes, or in the boat,” said Winterbourne.

“Well, of course, I don’t know,” Mrs. Miller rejoined. “I have never
been to that castle.”

“It is a pity you shouldn’t go,” said Winterbourne, beginning to feel
reassured as to her opposition. And yet he was quite prepared to find
that, as a matter of course, she meant to accompany her daughter.

“We’ve been thinking ever so much about going,” she pursued; “but it
seems as if we couldn’t. Of course Daisy--she wants to go round. But
there’s a lady here--I don’t know her name--she says she shouldn’t think
we’d want to go to see castles HERE; she should think we’d want to wait
till we got to Italy. It seems as if there would be so many there,”
 continued Mrs. Miller with an air of increasing confidence. “Of course
we only want to see the principal ones. We visited several in England,”
 she presently added.

“Ah yes! in England there are beautiful castles,” said Winterbourne.
“But Chillon here, is very well worth seeing.”

“Well, if Daisy feels up to it--” said Mrs. Miller, in a tone
impregnated with a sense of the magnitude of the enterprise. “It seems
as if there was nothing she wouldn’t undertake.”

“Oh, I think she’ll enjoy it!” Winterbourne declared. And he desired
more and more to make it a certainty that he was to have the privilege
of a tete-a-tete with the young lady, who was still strolling along
in front of them, softly vocalizing. “You are not disposed, madam,” he
inquired, “to undertake it yourself?”

Daisy’s mother looked at him an instant askance, and then walked forward
in silence. Then--“I guess she had better go alone,” she said simply.
Winterbourne observed to himself that this was a very different type of
maternity from that of the vigilant matrons who massed themselves in the
forefront of social intercourse in the dark old city at the other end of
the lake. But his meditations were interrupted by hearing his name very
distinctly pronounced by Mrs. Miller’s unprotected daughter.

“Mr. Winterbourne!” murmured Daisy.

“Mademoiselle!” said the young man.

“Don’t you want to take me out in a boat?”

“At present?” he asked.

“Of course!” said Daisy.

“Well, Annie Miller!” exclaimed her mother.

“I beg you, madam, to let her go,” said Winterbourne ardently; for
he had never yet enjoyed the sensation of guiding through the summer
starlight a skiff freighted with a fresh and beautiful young girl.

“I shouldn’t think she’d want to,” said her mother. “I should think
she’d rather go indoors.”

“I’m sure Mr. Winterbourne wants to take me,” Daisy declared. “He’s so
awfully devoted!”

“I will row you over to Chillon in the starlight.”

“I don’t believe it!” said Daisy.

“Well!” ejaculated the elder lady again.

“You haven’t spoken to me for half an hour,” her daughter went on.

“I have been having some very pleasant conversation with your mother,”
 said Winterbourne.

“Well, I want you to take me out in a boat!” Daisy repeated. They had
all stopped, and she had turned round and was looking at Winterbourne.
Her face wore a charming smile, her pretty eyes were gleaming, she was
swinging her great fan about. No; it’s impossible to be prettier than
that, thought Winterbourne.

“There are half a dozen boats moored at that landing place,” he said,
pointing to certain steps which descended from the garden to the lake.
“If you will do me the honor to accept my arm, we will go and select one
of them.”

Daisy stood there smiling; she threw back her head and gave a little,
light laugh. “I like a gentleman to be formal!” she declared.

“I assure you it’s a formal offer.”

“I was bound I would make you say something,” Daisy went on.

“You see, it’s not very difficult,” said Winterbourne. “But I am afraid
you are chaffing me.”

“I think not, sir,” remarked Mrs. Miller very gently.

“Do, then, let me give you a row,” he said to the young girl.

“It’s quite lovely, the way you say that!” cried Daisy.

“It will be still more lovely to do it.”

“Yes, it would be lovely!” said Daisy. But she made no movement to
accompany him; she only stood there laughing.

“I should think you had better find out what time it is,” interposed her
mother.

“It is eleven o’clock, madam,” said a voice, with a foreign accent, out
of the neighboring darkness; and Winterbourne, turning, perceived the
