brother Peter on his mind also, and invested his earnings, then and for
some years after, in enterprises for his benefit that ended in
disappointment.

The "Sketch-Book" was making a great fame for him in England. Jeffrey,
in the "Edinburgh Review," paid it a most flattering tribute, and even
the savage "Quarterly" praised it. A rumor attributed it to Scott, who
was always masquerading; at least, it was said, he might have revised
it, and should have the credit of its exquisite style. This led to a
sprightly correspondence between Lady Littleton, the daughter of Earl
Spencer, one of the most accomplished and lovely women of England, and
Benjamin Rush, Minister to the Court of St. James, in the course of
which Mr. Rush suggested the propriety of giving out under his official
seal that Irving was the author of "Waverley." "Geoffrey Crayon is the
most fashionable fellow of the day," wrote the painter Leslie. Lord
Byron, in a letter to Murray, underscored his admiration of the author,
and subsequently said to an American: "His Crayon,--I know it by heart;
at least, there is not a passage that I cannot refer to immediately."
And afterwards he wrote to Moore, "His writings are my delight." There
seemed to be, as some one wrote, "a kind of conspiracy to hoist him over
the heads of his contemporaries." Perhaps the most satisfactory evidence
of his popularity was his publisher's enthusiasm. The publisher is an
infallible contemporary barometer.

It is worthy of note that an American should have captivated public
attention at the moment when Scott and Byron were the idols of the
English-reading world.

In the following year Irving was again in England, visiting his sister
in Birmingham, and tasting moderately the delights of London. He was,
indeed, something of an invalid. An eruptive malady,--the revenge of
nature, perhaps, for defeat in her earlier attack on his
lungs,--appearing in his ankles, incapacitated him for walking,
tormented him at intervals, so that literary composition was impossible,
sent him on pilgrimages to curative springs, and on journeys undertaken
for distraction and amusement, in which all work except that of seeing
and absorbing material had to be postponed. He was subject to this
recurring invalidism all his life, and we must regard a good part of the
work he did as a pure triumph of determination over physical
discouragement. This year the fruits of his interrupted labor appeared
in "Bracebridge Hall," a volume that was well received, but did not add
much to his reputation, though it contained "Dolph Heyliger," one of his
most characteristic Dutch stories, and the "Stout Gentleman," one of
his daintiest and most artistic bits of restrained humor.[1]

     [Footnote 1: I was once [says his biographer] reading aloud in
     his presence a very flattering review of his works, which had
     been sent him by the critic in 1848, and smiled as I came to
     this sentence: "His most comical pieces have always a serious
     end in view." "You laugh," said he, with that air of whimsical
     significance so natural to him, "but it is true. I have kept
     that to myself hitherto, but that man has found me out. He has
     detected the moral of the Stout Gentleman."]

Irving sought relief from his malady by an extended tour in Germany. He
sojourned some time in Dresden, whither his reputation had preceded him,
and where he was cordially and familiarly received, not only by the
foreign residents, but at the prim and antiquated little court of King
Frederick Augustus and Queen Amalia. Of Irving at this time Mrs. Emily
Fuller (n√©e Foster), whose relations with him have been referred to,
wrote in 1860:--

     "He was thoroughly a gentleman, not merely in external manners and
     look, but to the inner-most fibres and core of his heart:
     sweet-tempered, gentle, fastidious, sensitive, and gifted with the
     warmest affections; the most delightful and invariably interesting
     companion; gay and full of humor, even in spite of occasional fits
     of melancholy, which he was, however, seldom subject to when with
     those he liked; a gift of conversation that flowed like a full
     river in sunshine,--bright, easy, and abundant."

Those were pleasant days at Dresden, filled up with the society of
bright and warm-hearted people, varied by royal boar hunts, stiff
ceremonies at the little court, tableaux, and private theatricals, yet
tinged with a certain melancholy, partly constitutional, that appears in
most of his letters. His mind was too unsettled for much composition. He
had little self-confidence, and was easily put out by a breath of
adverse criticism. At intervals he would come to the Fosters to read a
manuscript of his own.

     "On these occasions strict orders were given that no visitor should
     be admitted till the last word had been read, and the whole praised
     or criticised, as the case may be. Of criticism, however, we were
     very spare, as a slight word would put him out of conceit of a
     whole work. One of the best things he has published was thrown
     aside, unfinished, for years, because the friend to whom he read
     it, happening, unfortunately, not to be well, and sleepy, did not
     seem to take the interest in it he expected. Too easily
     discouraged, it was not till the latter part of his career that he
     ever appreciated himself as an author. One condemning whisper
     sounded louder in his ear than the plaudits of thousands."

This from Miss Emily Foster, who elsewhere notes his kindliness in
observing life:--

     "Some persons, in looking upon life, view it as they would view a
     picture, with a stern and criticising eye. He also looks upon life
     as a picture, but to catch its beauties, its lights,--not its
     defects and shadows. On the former he loves to dwell. He has a
     wonderful knack at shutting his eyes to the sinister side of
     anything. Never beat a more kindly heart than his; alive to the
     sorrows, but not to the faults, of his friends, but doubly alive to
     their virtues and goodness. Indeed, people seemed to grow more good
     with one so unselfish and so gentle."

In London, some years later:--

     "He was still the same; time changed him very little. His
     conversation was as interesting as ever [he was always an excellent
     relater]; his dark gray eyes still full of varying feeling; his
     smile half playful, half melancholy, but ever kind. All that was
     mean, or envious, or harsh, he seemed to turn from so completely
     that, when with him, it seemed that such things were not. All
     gentle and tender affections, Nature in her sweetest or grandest
     moods, pervaded his whole imagination, and left no place for low or
     evil thoughts; and when in good spirits, his humor, his droll
     descriptions, and his fun would make the gravest or the saddest
     laugh."

As to Irving's "state of mind" in Dresden, it is pertinent to quote a
passage from what we gather to be a journal kept by Miss Flora Foster:--

     "He has written. He has confessed to my mother, as to a true and
     dear friend, his love for E----, and his conviction of its utter
     hopelessness. He feels himself unable to combat it. He thinks he
     must try, by absence, to bring more peace to his mind. Yet he
     cannot bear to give up our friendship,--an intercourse become so
     dear to him, and so necessary to his daily happiness. Poor Irving!"

It is well for our peace of mind that we do not know what is going down
concerning us in "journals." On his way to the Herrnhuthers, Mr. Irving
wrote to Mrs. Foster:--

     "When I consider how I have trifled with my time, suffered painful
     vicissitudes of feeling, which for a time damaged both mind and
     body,--when I consider all this, I reproach myself that I did not
     listen to the first impulse of my mind, and abandon Dresden long
     since. And yet I think of returning! Why should I come back to
     Dresden? The very inclination that dooms me thither should furnish
     reasons for my staying away."

In this mood, the Herrnhuthers, in their right-angled, whitewashed
world, were little attractive.

     "If the Herrnhuthers were right in their notions, the world would
     have been laid out in squares and angles and right lines, and
     everything would have been white and black and snuff-color, as they
     have been clipped by these merciless retrenchers of beauty and
     enjoyment. And then their dormitories! Think of between one and two
     hundred of these simple gentlemen cooped up at night in one great
     chamber! What a concert of barrel-organs in this great resounding
     saloon! And then their plan of marriage! The very birds of the air
     choose their mates from preference and inclination; but this
     detestable system of lot! The sentiment of love may be, and is,
     in a great measure, a fostered growth of poetry and romance, and
     balderdashed with false sentiment; but with all its vitiations, it
     is the beauty and the charm, the flavor and the fragrance, of all
     intercourse between man and woman; it is the rosy cloud in the
     morning of life; and if it does too often resolve itself into the
     shower, yet, to my mind, it only makes our nature more fruitful in
     what is excellent and amiable."

Better suited him Prague, which is certainly a part of the "naughty
world" that Irving preferred:--

     "Old Prague still keeps up its warrior look, and swaggers about
     with its rusty corselet and helm, though both sadly battered. There
     seems to me to be an air of style and fashion about the first
     people of Prague, and a good deal of beauty in the fashionable
     circle. This, perhaps, is owing to my contemplating it from a
     distance, and my imagination lending it tints occasionally. Both
     actors and audience, contemplated from the pit of a theatre, look
     better than when seen in the boxes and behind the scenes. I like to
     contemplate society in this way occasionally, and to dress it up by
     the help of fancy, to my own taste. When I get in the midst of it,
     it is too apt to lose its charm, and then there is the trouble and
     ennui of being obliged to take an active part in the farce; but
     to be a mere spectator is amusing. I am glad, therefore, that I
     brought no letters to Prague. I shall leave it with a favorable
     idea of its society and manners, from knowing nothing accurate of
     either; and with a firm belief that every pretty woman I have seen
     is an angel, as I am apt to think every pretty woman, until I have
     found her out."

In July, 1823, Irving returned to Paris, to the society of the Moores
and the fascinations of the gay town, and to fitful literary work. Our
author wrote with great facility and rapidity when the inspiration was
on him, and produced an astonishing amount of manuscript in a short
period; but he often waited and fretted through barren weeks and months
for the movement of his fitful genius. His mind was teeming constantly
with new projects, and nothing could exceed his industry when once he
had taken a work in hand; but he never acquired the exact methodical
habits which enable some literary men to calculate their power and
quantity of production as accurately as that of a cotton mill.

The political changes in France during the period of Irving's long
sojourn in Paris do not seem to have taken much of his attention. In a
letter dated October 5, 1824, he says: "We have had much bustle in Paris
of late, between the death of one king and the succession of another. I
have become a little callous to public sights, but have,
