
Mr. Southwode turned his eyes upon her with one of his grave smiles. Mrs. 
Busby seemed to ponder the subject. 

"Is it raining to-night, Mr. Southwode?" Antoinette went on. 

"Yes." 

"How provoking! then I can't go out. Mr. Southwode, you never took me 
anywhere, to see anything." 

"True, I believe," he answered. "How could I ask Mrs. Busby to trust me 
with the care of such an article?" 

"What 'such an article'?" 

"Subject to damage; in which case the damage would be very great." 

"I am not subject to damage. I never get cold or anything. Mr. Southwode, 
won't you take me, some night, to see the Minstrels?" 

"They are not much to see." 

"But to hear, they are. Won't you, Mr. Southwode? I am crazy to hear 
them, and mamma won't take me; and papa never goes anywhere but to his 
office and to court; won't you, Mr. Southwode?" 

"Perhaps; if Mrs. Busby will honour me so much." 

"O mamma will trust you, I know. Then the first clear evening, Mr. 
Southwode? the first that you are at leisure?" 

Without answering her he turned to Mrs. Busby. 

"How is Rotha?" 

"Very well!" the lady answered smoothly. 

"Shall I have the pleasure of seeing her?" 

"I am afraid, not to-night. She was unable to come down stairs this 
afternoon, and so took her dinner alone. Next time, I hope, she will be 
able to see you." 

Mr. Digby privately wondered what the detaining cause could be, but 
thought it most discreet not to inquire; at least, not in this quarter. 
"Is the school question decided?" he therefore went on quietly. 

"Why no. I have been debating the pros. and cons.; in which process one 
is very apt to get confused. As soon as one makes up one's mind to forego 
certain advantages in favour of certain others, the rejected ones 
immediately rise up in fresh colours of allurement before the mind, and 
disturb one's judgment, and the whole calculation has to be gone over 
again." 

"The choice lies between--?" 

"Mrs. Mulligan, Miss Wordsworth, and Mrs. Mowbray, have the highest name 
in the city." 

"And may I know the supposed counter advantages and disadvantages?" 

"I'll tell you, Mr. Southwode," said Antoinette. "At Mrs. Mulligan's you 
learn French and manners. At Miss Wordsworth's you learn arithmetic and 
spelling. At Mrs. Mowbray's you learn Latin and the Catechism." 

Mr. Southwode looked to Mrs. Busby. 

"That's rather a caricature," said the lady smiling; "but it has some 
truth. I think Mrs. Mowbray's is quite as fashionable a school as Mrs. 
Mulligan's. It is quite as dear." 

"Is it thought desirable, that it should be fashionable?" 

"Certainly; for that shews what is public opinion. Besides, it secures 
one against undesirable companions for a girl. Both at Mrs. Mulligan's 
and Mrs. Mowbray's the pupils come from the very best families, both 
South and North. There is a certain security in that." 

Mr. Southwode allowed the conversation presently to take another turn, 
and soon took his leave. 

Rotha had watched and listened from the upper hall; had heard him come 
in, and then had waited in an ecstasy of impatient eagerness till she 
should be sent for. She could hear the murmur of voices in the parlour; 
but otherwise the house was ominously quiet. No doors opening, no bell to 
call the servant, no stir at all; until the parlour door opened and Mr. 
Digby came out. Rotha was in a very agony, half ready to rush down, 
unsummoned, and see him; and yet held back by a shy feeling of proud 
reserve. He could ask for her if he had wanted her, she thought bitterly; 
and while she lingered he had put on his overshoes and was gone. Rotha 
crept up stairs to her own room, feeling desperately disappointed. That 
her aunt might have made excuses to keep her up stairs, she divined; but 
the thought put her in a rage. She had to sit a long while looking out of 
her window at the lights twinkling here and there through the rain, 
before the fever in her blood and her brain had cooled down enough to let 
her go to bed and to sleep. 

The next day she began her school experience. The intervening day had 
been used by Mrs. Busby to make a call upon Mrs. Mowbray, in which she 
explained that she had an orphan niece left under her care, for whom she 
much desired the training and the discipline of Mrs. Mowbray's excellent 
school. The girl had had no advantages; her mother had been ill and the 
child neglected; she supposed Mrs. Mowbray would find that she knew next 
to nothing of all that she ought to know. So it was arranged that Rotha 
should accompany her cousin the very next morning, and make her beginning 
in one of the younger classes. 

Rotha went in her old grey dress. The walk was not long. Antoinette 
stopped at the area gate of a house in a fine open street. 

"Where are you going?" said Rotha. 

"Here. This is the place." 

"This? Why it is a very handsome house," said Rotha. "As good as yours." 

"Of course it is handsome," Antoinette replied. "Do you think my mother 
would let me go to a shabby place. Handsome! of course it is. Come down 
this way; we don't ring the bell." 

What a new world it was to Rotha! In the lower hall the girls took off 
bonnets and wraps, hanging them up on hooks arranged there. Then 
Antoinette took her up stairs, up a second flight of stairs, through 
halls and stairways which renewed Rotha's astonishment. Was this a 
school? All the arrangements seemed like those of an elegant private 
home; soft carpet was on the stairs, beautiful engravings hung on the 
walls. The school rooms filled the second floor; they were already 
crowded, it seemed to Rotha, with rows and ranks of scholars of all 
sizes, from ten years old up. Antoinette and she, being later than the 
rest, slipped into the first seats they could find, near the door. 

There was deep silence and great order, and then Rotha heard a voice in 
the next room beginning to read a chapter in the Bible. The sound of the 
voice struck her and made her wish to get a sight of the reader; but that 
was impossible, for a bit of partition wall hid her and indeed most of 
the room in which she was from Rotha's view. So Rotha's attention 
concentrated itself upon what she could see. The pleasant, bright 
apartments; the desks before which sat so many well-dressed and well-
looking girls; ah, they were very well dressed, and many of them, to her 
fancy, very richly dressed; as for the faces, she found there was the 
usual diversity. But what would anybody think of a girl coming among them 
so very shabby and meanly attired as she was? If she had known-- However, 
self-consciousness was not one of Rotha's troubles, and soon in her 
admiration of the maps and pictures on the walls she almost forgot her 
own poor little person. She was aware that after the reading came a 
prayer; but though she knelt as others knelt, I am bound to say very 
little of the sense of the words found its way to her mind. 

After that the girls separated. Rotha was introduced by her cousin to a 
certain Miss Blodgett, one of the teachers, under whose care she was 
placed, and by whom she was taken to a room apart and set down to her 
work along with a class of some forty girls, all of them or nearly all, 
younger than she was. And here, for a number of days, Rotha's school life 
went on monotonously. She was given little to do that she could not do 
easily; she was assigned no lessons that were not already familiar; she 
was put to acquire no knowledge that she did not already possess. She got 
sight of nobody but Miss Blodgett and the girls; for every morning she 
was sure to be crowded into that same corner at school-opening, where she 
could not look at Mrs. Mowbray; nobody else wanted that place, so they 
gave it to her; and Rotha was never good at self-assertion, unless at 
such times as her blood was up. She took the place meekly. But school was 
very tiresome to her; and it gave her nothing to distract her thoughts 
from her troubles at home. 

Those were threefold, to take them in detail. She wore still the old 
dress; she was consequently still kept up stairs; and it followed also of 
course that Mr. Digby came and went and she had no sight of him. It 
happened thus. 

Several days he allowed to pass without calling again. Not that he forgot 
Rotha, or was careless about her; but he partly knew his adversary and 
judged this course wise, for Rotha's sake. His first visit had been on 
Tuesday evening; he let a week go by, and then he went again. Mrs. Busby 
was engaged with other visitors; he had to post-pone the inquiries he 
wished to make. Meanwhile Antoinette attacked him. 

"Mr. Southwode,--now it is a nice evening, and you promised;--will you 
take me to the Minstrels?" 

"I always keep my promises." 

"Then shall we go?" with great animation. 

"Did I say I would go to-night?" 

"No; but to-night is a good time; as good as any. Ah, Mr. Southwode! let 
us go. You'll never take me, if you do not to-night." 

"What would Mrs. Busby say?" 

"O she'd say yes. Of course she'd say yes. Mamma always says yes when I 
ask her things. Mamma! I say, mamma! listen to me one moment; may I go 
with Mr. Southwode?" 

One moment Mrs. Busby turned her head from the friend with whom she was 
talking, looked at her daughter, and said, "Yes"; then turned again and 
went on with what she was saying. Antoinette jumped up. 

"And bring your cousin too," said Mr. Southwode as she was flying off. 
