Mr. Jepson, the master machinist, was the only instructor they could
find about the premises, and he agreed with Dory and Matt that something
should be done at once.




CHAPTER XIV.

THE PURSUIT IN THE GOLDWING.


It was easier to decide that something should be done than it was to
determine what to do. Mr. Jepson suggested the Sylph, but it would take
some time to get up steam, and Dory thought she would not be the most
convenient craft in a conflict with the barges. He was decidedly in
favor of pursuing the marauders in the Goldwing.

In the smashing breeze on the lake she would sail nearly as fast as the
steamer, and he could have her under way in five minutes. The schooner
could follow the boats into shoal water, while the Sylph must have eight
or nine feet, and if Tom Topover was smart, she might not be able to go
within a mile of the barges.

"I am more afraid the rascals will smash the boats than that we shall
not get them again," said Matt Randolph. "They are reckless fellows, and
will run them on the rocks or shoals."

"We must look out for that," replied Dory. "If they go out on the lake
they are more likely to swamp them than they are to smash them. But we
are losing time, and I should like to catch the villains before they are
out of the river, for I think they won't hurry after they get out of
sight of Beech Hill."

"Goldwing it is!" exclaimed Luke Bennington.

"So say we all of us!" shouted the others, beginning to be somewhat
excited at the prospect of a lively time with the Topovers.

"Dory shall command the expedition," added Thad Glovering.

"Matt is a better skipper than I am," modestly added Dory.

"No, I am not," protested Matt. "And Dory is better acquainted with the
Goldwing than I am, and he shall conduct the affair."

"But you can't all go in the Goldwing," interposed Mr. Jepson. "There
are eighteen of you, and you will be so crowded that you will knock one
another overboard."

"Although the schooner will carry eighteen well enough, we can do
nothing on board with so many, and nine or ten are all we need," added
Dory.

"But there are fourteen of the ruffians," suggested Thad Glovering.
"They are used to fighting, and we want as many fellows as they have."

"I don't believe there will be much fighting," replied Dory, laughing;
"but if there should be, we can do better with ten than we can with
twice that number. With eighteen we should be in one another's way."

"Ten only will go," said Mr. Jepson decidedly.

"But who shall they be?" demanded Luke Bennington. "Every fellow wants
to go and have a hand in the fun."

"There is where the difficulty comes in," added Matt. "I think Dory had
better select his own crew; and for one, if I am elected to stay at
home, I won't complain."

"You know very well that you will be elected to go, Matt," said Will
Orwell.

"I don't like to select a crew; I wish all could go, and I shall be
satisfied with any nine," interposed Dory.

"Under these circumstances the best thing a fellow can do is to
volunteer to stay behind; and I volunteer not to go," said Oscar
Chester. "I should like to go as well as the next one, and I don't want
any fellow to think I am chickenish."

"We know you are not, Oscar," added Dave Windsor; and all the students
began to clap their hands at the self-sacrifice of the first volunteer.

Bolingbroke Millweed followed Oscar's example; then came Matt Randolph
and Luke Bennington. It was the unselfish and brave thing to volunteer
to stay at home, and no one was willing to stay behind in doing a good
deed. In a moment more the whole seventeen had volunteered to remain at
Beech Hill.

"I don't like to be alone, and I will join the crowd," exclaimed Dory,
greatly amused at the situation. "We are just as badly off as we were in
the beginning, and the Topovers are pulling down the river all the time.
I will tell you how to settle the matter so that it shall be fair for
all."

"All right, Dory: propel!" exclaimed Dave Winslow.

"Matt Randolph is the coxswain of the Gildrock, and he must go anyhow.
For the other eight you must draw lots. Mr. Jepson will attend to the
matter, and Matt and I will get the Goldwing ready," said Dory,
beginning to be impatient at the delay.

All of them clapped their hands in token of their approval of the plan.
The master machinist took out his pencil and wrote the numbers from one
to sixteen on the back of a letter. Around eight of them, taken at
random, he drew a square. Calling Miss Millweed from the schoolroom, he
gave the paper to her.

"Now, Luke, select a number less than seventeen," continued Mr. Jepson.

"Forty-two," said Luke, laughing.

"I shall have to turn you over to Mr. Darlingby for further instruction
in arithmetic," replied Mr. Jepson.

"Twelve," shouted Luke.

"Is that number enclosed in a square, Miss Millweed?" asked the
machinist.

"It is not," replied the lady clerk.

"Then you are blackballed, Luke," added Mr. Jepson.

"Of course I am; I knew I should be."

"But with the eight who are elected not to go we will go down the river
in the two four-oar boats; and we may be able to assist in the capture
of the barges," said the machinist.

All hands applauded this announcement, and the lot proceeded. Oscar
Chester, the first to volunteer to remain behind, was one of the first
who selected a squared number. This result was heartily applauded. From
being the worst bully in the crowd he had come to be a very gentlemanly
and unselfish fellow. The discipline of Captain Gildrock had done
wonders for him.

By the time the last of Dory's crew had been drawn, the schooner was
under way, and standing in towards the wharf. The eight who had been
"blackballed," as the machinist called it, were directed to man the two
four-oar boats, and put the others on board of the yacht.

"Now we are all right, and under way at last," said Matt Randolph.

"But the Topovers have a start of all of an hour ahead of us, and if
they have been using their oars they must be well out in the lake by
this time," added Dory.

"I don't believe they will go a great way out into the lake," replied
Matt. "There must be a smart sea at the mouth of the river, for the wind
is a good deal heavier than it was yesterday."

"The rest of the fellows are coming down the river in the four-oar
boats," said Oscar. "I suppose they are going to help us, and we ought
to make short work of this affair."

"Are you going to lay them aboard, Dory?" asked Matt, who was rather
inclined to quiz his fellow coxswain.

"I haven't the least idea how we shall manage the business," replied
the skipper of the Goldwing.

"But you ought to have a plan," suggested the New York boatman.

"How can you make a plan before you know what the Topovers intend to do,
and before you ascertain the situation of the boats?" asked the skipper.
"It's no use to try to cross the river before you get to it."

"Of course not; but do you mean to board the barges and fight it out, or
to manoeuvre them out of the game as you did the Chesterfields?"
continued Matt, rather disappointed to find that Dory did not lean upon
him as much as he desired and expected.

"I am ready to do either or both, as the circumstances happen to favor,"
replied the skipper. "If you will take the tiller, Matt, I will go
forward and 'clear ship for action.'"

The schooner was going at great speed, with the wind on the beam, and
the outlet was very narrow. Dory went forward, and proceeded to arrange
certain rigging on the forward deck. He did not explain what he was
doing, but he worked as though he had some idea of his possible action
in the encounter with the Topovers.

While he was busy with the lines, the centreboard of the Goldwing
suddenly flew up, and a moment later the bottom of the yacht was
scraping on the sand. Dory suspended his work, and looked up.

"Here we are!" he exclaimed, as he looked around him, and then at the
helmsman.

"I thought there was water enough here for her," said Matt, greatly
chagrined to find that he had run the schooner aground when they were in
such a hurry.

"So there is if you only keep in it," replied Dory laughing, for he did
not wish to hurt the feelings of his fellow coxswain. "I have done that
same thing myself, Matt, and I did it as handsomely as you have done
it."

