
"My dear friend--dear me! Dear, dear, how very painful!"

"Indeed, you do not know what I have suffered. It is most dreadful, Mr.
Ambrose. You cannot imagine what a struggle it was. I am quite worn out."

She spoke with such evident pain that the vicar was moved. He felt that
she had more to tell, but he had hardly recovered from his surprise.

"But, you know," he said, "that was the whole object of warning you. We
did not really believe that he would come here. We were so much afraid
that he would startle you. Of course Mr. Juxon told you he consulted
me--"

"Of course," answered Mrs. Goddard. "It was too late. I had seen him the
night before."

"Why, that was the very night we were here!" exclaimed Mr. Ambrose, more
and more amazed. Mrs. Goddard nodded. She seemed hardly able to speak.

"He came and knocked at that window," she said, very faintly. "He came
again last night."

"Dear me--I will send for Gall at once; he will have no difficulty in
arresting him--"

"Oh please!" interrupted Mrs. Goddard in hysterical tones. "Please,
please, dear Mr. Ambrose, don't!"

The vicar was silent. He rose unceremoniously from his chair and walked
to the window, as he generally did when in any great doubt. He realised
at once and very vividly the awful position in which the poor lady was
placed.

"Pray do not think I am very bad," said she, almost sobbing with fear and
emotion. "Of course it must seem dreadful to you that I should wish him
to escape!"

The vicar came slowly back and stood beside her leaning against the
chimney-piece. It did not take him long to make up his mind. Kind-hearted
people are generally impulsive.

"I do not, my dear lady. I assure you I fully understand your position.
The fact is, I was too much surprised and I am too anxious for your
safety not to think immediately of securing that--ahem--that unfortunate
man."

"Oh, it is not my safety! It is not only my safety--"

"I understand--yes--of course you are anxious about him. But it is
doubtless not our business to aid the law in its course, provided we do
not oppose it."

"It is something else," murmured Mrs. Goddard. "Oh! how shall I tell
you," she moaned turning her pale cheek to the back of the chair.

The vicar looked at her and began to think it was perhaps some strange
case of conscience with which he had to deal. He had very little
experience of such things save in the rude form they take among the
labouring classes. But he reflected that it was likely to be something of
the kind; in such a case Mrs. Goddard would naturally enough have sent
for him, more as her clergyman than as her friend. She looked like a
person suffering from some great mental strain. He sat down beside her
and took her passive hand. He was moved, and felt as though he might have
been her father.

"My dear," he said kindly, almost as though he were speaking to a child,
"have you anything upon your mind, anything which distresses you? Do you
wish to tell me? If so I will do my very best to help you."

Mrs. Goddard's fingers pressed his hand a little, but her face was still
turned away.

"It is Mr. Juxon," she almost whispered. If she had been watching the
vicar she would have noticed the strange air of perplexity which came
over his face when he heard the squire's name.

"Yes--Mr. Juxon," she moaned. Then the choked-down horror rose in her
throat. "Walter means to murder him!" she almost screamed. "Oh, my God,
my God, what shall I do!" she cried aloud clasping her hands suddenly
over her face and rocking herself to and fro.

The vicar was horror-struck; he could hardly believe his ears, and
believing them his senses swam. In his wildest dreams--and the good man's
dreams were rarely wild--he had never thought that such things could come
near him. Being a very good man and, moreover, a wise man when he had
plenty of time for reflection, he folded his hands quietly and bent his
head, praying fervently for the poor tortured woman who moaned and tossed
herself beside him. It was a terrible moment. Suddenly she controlled
herself and grasping one of the arms of the chair looked round at her
silent companion.

"You must save him," she said in agonised tones, "you must save them
both! Do not tell me you cannot--oh, do not tell me that!"

It was a passionate and heart-broken appeal, such a one as few men would
or could resist, coming as it did from a helpless and miserably unhappy
woman. Whether the vicar was wise in giving the answer he did, it would
be hard to say: but he was a man who honestly tried to do his best.

"I will try, my dear lady," he said, making a great resolution. Mrs.
Goddard took his hand and pressed it in both of hers, and the long
restrained tears flowed fast and softly over her worn cheeks. For some
moments neither spoke.

"If you cannot save both--you must save--Mr. Juxon," she said at last,
breathing the words rather than speaking them.

The vicar knew or guessed what it must cost her to hint that her husband
might be captured. He recognised that the only way in which he could
contribute towards the escape of the convict was by not revealing his
hiding-place, and he accordingly refrained from asking where he was
concealed. He shuddered as he thought that Goddard might be lying hidden
in the cottage itself, for all he could tell, but he was quite sure that
he ought not to know it. So long as he did not know where the forger was,
it was easy to hold his peace; but if once he knew, the vicar was not
capable of denying the knowledge. He had never told a lie in his life.

"I will try," he repeated; and growing calmer, he added, "You are
quite sure this was not an empty threat, my dear friend? Was there any
reason--a--I mean to say, had this unfortunate man ever known Mr. Juxon?"

"Oh no!" answered Mrs. Goddard, sinking back into her chair. "He never
knew him." Her tears were still flowing but she no longer sobbed aloud;
it had been a relief to her overwrought and sensitive temperament to give
way to the fit of weeping. She actually felt better, though ten minutes
earlier she would not have believed it possible.

"Then--why?" asked Mr. Ambrose, hesitating.

"My poor husband was a very jealous man," she answered. "I accidentally
told him that the cottage belonged to Mr. Juxon and yesterday--do you
remember? You walked on with Mr. Juxon beyond the turning, and then he
came back to see me--to tell me of my husband's escape. Walter saw that
and--and he thought, I suppose--that Mr. Juxon did not want you to see
him coming here."

"But Mr. Juxon had just promised me to go and see you," said the honest
vicar.

"Yes," said poor Mrs. Goddard, beginning to sob again, "but Walter--my
husband--thinks that I--I care for Mr. Juxon--he is so jealous," cried
she, again covering her face with her hands. The starting tears trickled
through her fingers and fell upon her black dress. She was ashamed, this
time, for she hated even to speak of such a possibility.

"I understand," answered Mr. Ambrose gravely. It certainly did not strike
him that it might be true, and his knowledge of such characters as Walter
Goddard was got chiefly from the newspapers. He had often noticed in
reports of trials and detailed descriptions of crimes that criminals seem
to become entirely irrational after a certain length of time, and it was
one of the arguments he best understood for demonstrating that bad men
either are originally, or ultimately become mad. To men like the vicar,
almost the only possible theory of crime is the theory of insanity. It is
positively impossible for a man who has passed thirty or forty years in a
quiet country parish to comprehend the motives or the actions of great
criminals. He naturally says they must be crazy or they would not do such
things. If Goddard were crazy enough to commit a forgery, he was crazy
enough for anything, even to the extent of suspecting that his wife loved
the squire.

"I think," said Mr. Ambrose, "that if you agree with me it will be best
to warn Mr. Juxon of his danger."

"Of course," murmured Mrs. Goddard. "You must warn him at once!"

"I will go to the Hall now," said the vicar bravely. "But--I am very
sorry to have to dwell on the subject, my dear lady, but, without wishing
in the least to know where the--your husband is, could you tell me
anything about his appearance? For instance, if you understand what I
mean, supposing that Mr. Juxon knew how he looked and should happen to
meet him, knowing that he wished to kill him--he might perhaps avoid him,
if you understand me?"

The vicar's English was a little disturbed by his extreme desire not to
hurt Mrs. Goddard's feelings. If the squire and his dog chanced to meet
Walter Goddard they would probably not avoid him as the vicar expressed
it; that was a point Mr. Ambrose was willing to leave to Mrs. Goddard's
imagination.

"Yes--must you know?" she asked anxiously.

"We must know that," returned the vicar.

"He is disguised as a poor tramp," she said sorrowfully. "He wears a
smock-frock and an old hat I think. He is pale--oh, poor, poor Walter!"
she cried again bursting into tears.

Mr. Ambrose could say nothing. There was nothing to be said. He rose and
took his hat--the old tall hat he wore to his parishioners' funerals.
They were very primitive people in Billingsfield.

"I will go at once," he said. "Believe me, you have all my sympathy--I
will do all I can."

Mary Goddard thanked him more by her looks than with any words she was
able to speak. But she was none the less truly grateful for his sympathy
and aid. She had a kind of blind reliance on him which made her feel that
since she had once confided her trouble and danger nothing more could
possibly be done. When he was gone, she sobbed with relief, as before she
