bereavement, visited with such experiences, is in a condition which
calls for the tenderest sympathy and most careful guidance. Yet how
little of this is there to be found! The attempt to unvail their history
draws upon them, perhaps, only cold ridicule and a scarcely suppressed
doubt of their veracity. They are repelled from making confidence where
they ought to find the wisest guidance, and are drawn by an invisible
sympathy into labyrinths of deception and error--and finally, perhaps,
relapse into a colder skepticism than before. That such experiences
are becoming common in our days, is a fact that ought to rouse true
Christians to consideration, and to searching the word of God to find
the real boundaries and the true and safe paths.

We have stated in the last article, and in this, what the belief and the
customs of the primitive Christians were in respect to the departed. We
are aware that it does not follow, of course, that a custom is to be
adopted in our times because the first Christians preached and taught
it. A man does not become like his ancestors by dressing up in their old
clothes--but by acting in their spirit. It is quite possible to wear
such robes and practice such ceremonies as the early Christians did
and not to be in the least like them. Therefore let us not be held as
advocating the practice of administering the eucharist at funerals, and
of praying for the dead in the eucharistic service, because it was done
in the first three centuries. But we do hold to a return to the spirit
which caused these customs. We hold to that belief in the unbroken
unity possible between those who have passed to the higher life than
this. We hold to that vivid faith in things unseen which was the
strength of primitive Christians. The first Christians believed what
they said they did--we do not. The unseen spiritual world, its angels
and archangels, its saints and martyrs, its purity and its joys, were
ever before them, and that is why they were such a mighty force in the
world. St. Augustine says that it was the vision of the saints gone
before that inspired them with courage and contempt of death--and it is
true.

In another paper we shall endeavor to show how far these beliefs of the
primitive Church correspond with the Holy Scripture.




DR. DODDRIDGE'S DREAM

  [In concluding these Psychological discussions, what is there more
  appropriate than the following? If it be called only a dream, or,
  even a delusion, what harm can come of it? Is it not in keeping with
  Scripture teachings, as now interpreted? For ourselves, we enjoy our
  own opinions on subjects not susceptible of proof to the external
  senses. Others may do the same. EDITOR.]


Dr. Doddridge was on terms of very intimate friendship with Dr.
Samuel Clarke, and in religious conversation they spent many happy
hours together. Among other matters, a very favorite topic was the
intermediate state of the soul, and the probability that at the instant
of dissolution it was introduced into the presence of all the heavenly
hosts, and the splendors around the throne of God. One evening, after a
conversation of this nature, Dr. Doddridge retired to rest, and "in the
visions of the night" his ideas were shaped into the following beautiful
form.

He dreamed that he was at the house of a friend, when he was taken
suddenly and dangerously ill. By degrees he seemed to grow worse, and at
last to expire. In an instant he was sensible that he had exchanged the
prison-house and sufferings of mortality for a state of liberty and
happiness. Embodied in a slender, aerial form, he seemed to float in a
region of pure light. Beneath him lay the earth, but not a glittering
city or a village, the forest or the sea were visible. There was naught
to be seen below save the melancholy group of his friends, weeping
around his lifeless remains. Himself thrilled with delight, he was
surprised at their tears, and attempted to inform them of his happy
change, but by some mysterious power, utterance was denied; and as he
anxiously leaned over the mourning circle, gazing fondly upon them and
struggling to speak, he rose silently upon the air, their forms became
more and more indistinct, and gradually melted away from his sight.
Reposing upon golden clouds, he found himself swiftly mounting the
skies, with a venerable figure at his side, guiding his mysterious
movements, and in whose countenance he discovered the lineaments of
youth and age blended together, with an intimate harmony and majestic
sweetness.

They traveled together through a vast region of empty space, until, at
length, the battlements of a glorious edifice shone in the distance, and
as its form rose brilliant and distinct among the far-off shadows that
flitted athwart their path, the guide informed him that the palace he
beheld was, for the present, to be his mansion of rest. Gazing upon its
splendor, he replied that while on earth he had often heard that eye
had not seen, nor ear heard, nor could the heart of man conceive,
the things which God hath prepared for those who love him; but
notwithstanding the building to which they were rapidly approaching was
superior to anything he had before beheld, yet its grandeur had not
exceeded the conceptions he had formed. The guide made no reply--they
were already at the door, and entered. The guide introduced him into a
spacious apartment, at the extremity of which stood a table, covered
with a snow-white cloth, a golden cup, and a cluster of grapes, and then
said that he must leave him, but that he must remain, for in a short
time he would receive a visit from the lord of the mansion, and that
during the interval before his arrival, the apartment would furnish him
sufficient entertainment and instruction. The guide vanished, and he
was left alone. He began to examine the decorations of the room, and
observed that the walls were adorned with a number of pictures. Upon
nearer inspection he perceived, to his astonishment, that they formed a
complete biography of his own life. Here he saw depicted, that angels,
though unseen, had ever been his familiar attendants; and sent by God
they had sometimes preserved him from imminent peril. He beheld himself
first represented as an infant just expiring, when his life was
prolonged by an angel gently breathing into his nostrils. Most of the
occurrences delineated were perfectly familiar to his recollection, and
unfolded many things which he had never before understood, and which had
perplexed him with many doubts and much uneasiness. Among others he was
particularly impressed with a picture in which he was represented as
falling from his horse, when death would have been inevitable had not
an angel received him in his arms and broken the force of his descent.
These merciful interpositions of God filled him with joy and gratitude,
and his heart overflowed with love as he surveyed in them all an
exhibition of goodness and mercy far beyond all that he had imagined.

Suddenly his attention was arrested by a knock at the door. The lord of
the mansion had arrived--the door opened and he entered. So powerful and
overwhelming, and withal of such singular beauty was his appearance,
that he sank down at his feet, completely overcome by his majestic
presence. His lord gently raised him from the ground, and taking his
hand led him forward to the table. He pressed with his fingers the juice
of the grapes into the golden cup, and after having himself drank,
he presented it to him, saying, "This is the new wine in my Father's
kingdom." No sooner had he partaken than all uneasy sensations vanished,
perfect love had now cast out fear, and he conversed with the Saviour as
an intimate friend. Like the silver rippling of a summer sea he heard
fall from his lips the grateful approbation: "Thy labors are finished,
thy work is approved; rich and glorious is the reward." Thrilled with
an unspeakable bliss, that pervaded the very depths of his soul, he
suddenly saw glories upon glories bursting upon his view. The Doctor
awoke. Tears of rapture from this joyful interview were rolling down his
cheeks. Long did the lively impression of this charming dream remain
upon his mind, and never could he speak of it without emotions of joy,
and with tender and grateful remembrance.




BRAIN AND MIND;

OR,

MENTAL SCIENCE CONSIDERED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PRINCIPLES OF
PHRENOLOGY,

AND

IN RELATION TO MODERN PHYSIOLOGY.

  By HENRY S. DRAYTON, A.M., M.D., and JAMES MCNEILL, A.B. Illustrated
  with over 100 Portraits and Diagrams. 12mo, extra cloth, $1.50.

  This contribution to the science of mind has been made in response
  to the demand of the time for a work embodying the grand principles
  of Phrenology, as they are understood and applied to-day by the
  advanced exponents of mental philosophy, who accept the doctrine
  caught by Gall, Spurzheim, and Combe.

The following, from the Table of Contents, shows the scope of the work:

  General Principles; Of the Temperaments; Structure of the Brain and
  Skull; Classification of the Faculties; The Selfish Organs; The
  Intellect; The Semi-Intellectual Faculties; The Organs of the
  Social Functions; The Selfish Sentiments; The Moral and Religious
  Sentiments; How to Examine Heads; How Character is Manifested; The
  Action of the Faculties; The Relation of Phrenology to Metaphysics
  and Education; Value of Phrenology as an Art; Phrenology and
  Physiology; Objections and Confirmations by the Physiologists;
  Phrenology in General Literature.

NOTICES OF THE PRESS.

  "Phrenology is no longer a thing laughed at. The scientific
  researches of the last twenty years have demonstrated the fearful
  and wonderful complication of matter, not only with mind, but with
  what we call moral qualities. Thereby, we believe, the divine origin
  of 'our frame' has been newly illustrated, and the Scriptural
  psychology confirmed; and in the Phrenological Chart we are disposed
  to find a species of 'urim and thummim,' revealing, if not the
  Creator's will concerning us, at least His revelation of essential
  character. The above work is, without doubt, the best popular
  presentation of the science which has yet been made. It confines
  itself strictly to facts, and is not written in the interest of any
  pet 'theory.' It is made very interesting by its copious
  illustrations, pictorial and narrative, and the whole is brought
  down to the latest information on this curious and suggestive
  department of knowledge."--Christian Intelligencer, N. Y.

  "Whether a reader be inclined to believe Phrenology or not, he must
  find the volume a mine of interest, gather many suggestions of the
  highest value, and rise from its perusal with clearer views of the
  nature of mind and the responsibilities of human life. The work
  constitutes a complete text-book on the subject."--Presbyterian
  Journal, Philadelphia.

  "In 'Brain and Mind' the reader will find the fundamental ideas on
  which Phrenology rests fully set forth and analyzed, and the science
  clearly and practically treated. It is not at all necessary for the
  reader to be a believer in the science to enjoy the study of the
