
“And naturally she would wish to have you a good deal to herself, or at
least not seeming to run after other people.”

“Yes, yes; I know that.”

“And no one ever likes to be taken at their word in a thing like that.”

“I ought to have thought of that, but I didn’t. I wish I had gone to you
first, Mrs. Pasmer. Somehow it seems to me as if I were very young and
inexperienced; I didn’t use to feel so. I wish you were always on hand
to advise me, Mrs. Pasmer.” Dan hung his head, and his face, usually so
gay, was blotted with gloom.

“Will you take my advice now?” asked Mrs. Pasmer.

“Indeed I will!” cried the young fellow, lifting his head. “What is it?”

“See Alice about this.”

Dan jumped to his feet, and the sunshine broke out over his face again.
“Mrs. Pasmer, I promised to take your advice, and I’ll do it. I will see
her. But how? Where? Let me have your advice on that point too.”

They began to laugh together, and Dan was at once inexpressibly happy.
Those two light natures thoroughly comprehended each other.

Mrs. Pasmer had proposed his seeing Alice with due seriousness, but
now she had a longing to let herself go; she felt all the pleasure that
other people felt in doing Dan Mavering a pleasure, and something more,
because he was so perfectly intelligible to her. She let herself go.

“You might stay to breakfast.”

“Mrs. Pasmer, I will--I will do that too. I’m awfully hungry, and I put
myself in your hands.”

“Let me see,” said Mrs. Pasmer thoughtfully, “how it can be contrived.”

“Yes;” said Mavering, ready for a panic. “How? She wouldn’t stand a
surprise?”

“No; I had thought of that.”

“No behind-a-screen or next-room business?”

“No,” said Mrs. Pasmer, with a light sigh. “Alice is peculiar. I’m
afraid she wouldn’t like it.”

“Isn’t there any little ruse she would like?”

“I can’t think of any. Perhaps I’d better go and tell her you’re here
and wish to see her.”

“Do you think you’d better?” asked Dan doubtfully. “Perhaps she won’t
come.”

“She will come,” said Mrs. Pasmer confidently.

She did not say that she thought Alice would be curious to know why he
had come, and that she was too just to condemn him unheard.

But she was right about the main point. Alice came, and Dan could see
with his own weary eyes that she had not slept either.

She stopped just inside the portiere, and waited for him to speak. But
he could not, though a smile from his sense of the absurdity of their
seriousness hovered about his lips. His first impulse was to rush upon
her and catch her in his arms, and perhaps this might have been well,
but the moment for it passed, and then it became impossible.

“Well?” she said at last, lifting her head, and looking at him with
impassioned solemnity. “You wished to see me? I hoped you wouldn’t.
It would have spared me something. But perhaps I had no right to your
forbearance.”

“Alice, how can you say such things to me?” asked the young fellow,
deeply hurt.

She responded to his tone. “I’m sorry if it wounds you. But I only mean
what I say.”

“You’ve a right to my forbearance, and not only that, but to my--my
life; to everything that I am,” cried Dan, in a quiver of tenderness at
the sight of her and the sound of her voice. “Alice, why did you write
me that letter?--why did you send me back my ring?”

“Because,” she said, looking him seriously in the face--“because I
wished you to be free, to be happy.”

“Well, you’ve gone the wrong way about it. I can never be free from you;
I never can be happy without you.”

“I did it for your good, then, which ought to be above your happiness.
Don’t think I acted hastily. I thought it over all night long. I didn’t
sleep--”

“Neither did I,” interposed Dan.

“And I saw that I had no claim to you; that you never could be truly
happy with me--”

“I’ll take the chances,” he interrupted. “Alice, you don’t suppose I
cared for those women any more than the ground under your feet, do you?
I don’t suppose I should ever have given them a second thought if you
hadn’t seemed to feel so badly about my neglecting them; and I thought
you’d be pleased to have me try to make it up to them if I could.”

“I know your motive was good--the noblest. Don’t think that I did you
injustice, or that I was vexed because you went away with them.”

“You sent me.”

“Yes; and now I give you up to them altogether. It was a mistake, a
crime, for me to think we could be anything to each other when our love
began with a wrong to some one else.”

“With a wrong to some one else?”

“You neglected them on Class Day after you saw me.”

“Why, of course I did. How could I help it?”

A flush of pleasure came into the girl’s pale face; but she banished it,
and continued gravely, “Then at Portland you were with them all day.”

“You’d given me up--you’d thrown me over, Alice,” he pleaded.

“I know that; I don’t blame you. But you made them believe that you were
very much interested in them.”

“I don’t know what I did. I was perfectly desperate.”

“Yes; it was my fault. And then, when they came to meet you at the
Museum, I had made you forget them; I’d made you wound them and insult
them again. No. I’ve thought it all out, and we never could be happy.
Don’t think that I do it from any resentful motive.”

“Alice? how could I think that?--Of you!”

“I have tried--prayed--to be purified from that, and I believe that I
have been.”

“You never had a selfish thought.”

“And I have come to see that you were perfectly right in what you did
last night. At first I was wounded.”

“Oh, did I wound you, Alice?” he grieved.

“But afterward I could see that you belonged to them, and not me,
and--and I give you up to them. Yes, freely, fully.”

Alice stood there, beautiful, pathetic, austere; and Dan had halted in
the spot to which he had advanced, when her eye forbade him to approach
nearer. He did not mean to joke, and it was in despair that he cried
out: “But which, Alice? There are two of them.”

“Two?” she repeated vaguely.

“Yes; Mrs. Frobisher and Miss Wrayne. You can’t give me up to both of
them.”

“Both?” she repeated again. She could not condescend to specify; it
would be ridiculous, and as it was, she felt her dignity hopelessly
shaken. The tears came into her eyes.

“Yes. And neither of them wants me--they haven’t got any use for me.
Mrs. Frobisher is married already, and Miss Wrayne took the trouble last
night to let me feel that, so far as she was concerned, I hadn’t made it
all right, and couldn’t. I thought I had rather a cold parting with you,
Alice, but it was quite tropical to what you left me to.” A faint smile,
mingled with a blush of relenting, stole into her face, and he hurried
on. “I don’t suppose I tried very hard to thaw her out. I wasn’t much
interested. If you must give me up, you must give me up to some one
else, for they don’t want me, and I don’t want them.” Alice’s head
dropped lover, and he could come nearer now without her seeming to know
it. “But why need you give me up? There’s really no occasion for it, I
assure you.”

“I wished,” she explained, “to show you that I loved you for something
above yourself and myself--far above either--”

She stopped and dropped the hand which she had raised to fend him off;
and he profited by the little pause she made to take her in his arms
without seeming to do so. “Well,” he said, “I don’t believe I was formed
to be loved on a very high plane. But I’m not too proud to be loved for
my own sake; and I don’t think there’s anything above you, Alice.”

“Oh yes, there is! I don’t deserve to be happy, and that’s the reason
why I’m not allowed to be happy in any noble way. I can’t bear to give
you up; you know I can’t; but you ought to give me up--indeed you ought.
I have ideals, but I can’t live up to them. You ought to go. You ought
to leave me.” She accented each little sentence by vividly pressing
herself to his heart, and he had the wisdom or the instinct to treat
their reconciliation as nothing settled, but merely provisional in its
nature.

“Well, we’ll see about that. I don’t want to go till after breakfast,
anyway; your mother says I may stay, and I’m awfully hungry. If I
