poems, a "heart journal," and dreaming dreams of a splendid future.

Browsing over Mr. Emerson’s library, I found "Goethe’s Correspondence
with a Child," and was at once fired with the desire to be a second
Bettine, making my father’s friend my Goethe. So I wrote letters to him,
but was wise enough never to send them, left wild flowers on the
doorsteps of my "Master," sung Mignon’s song in very bad German under
his window, and was fond of wandering by moonlight, or sitting in a
cherry-tree at midnight till the owls scared me to bed.

The girlish folly did not last long, and the letters were burned years
ago; but Goethe is still my favorite author, and Emerson remained my
beloved "Master" while he lived, doing more for me, as for many another
young soul, than he ever knew, by the simple beauty of his life, the
truth and wisdom of his books, the example of a good great man untempted
and unspoiled by the world which he made nobler while in it, and left
the richer when he went.

The trials of life began about this time, and my happy childhood ended.
Money is never plentiful in a philosopher’s house; and even the maternal
pelican could not supply all our wants on the small income which was
freely shared with every needy soul who asked for help.

Fugitive slaves were sheltered under our roof; and my first pupil was a
very black George Washington whom I taught to write on the hearth with
charcoal, his big fingers finding pen and pencil unmanageable.

Motherless girls seeking protection were guarded among us; hungry
travellers sent on to our door to be fed and warmed; and if the
philosopher happened to own two coats, the best went to a needy brother,
for these were practical Christians who had the most perfect faith in
Providence, and never found it betrayed.

In those days the prophets were not honored in their own land, and
Concord had not yet discovered her great men.  It was a sort of refuge
for reformers of all sorts, whom the good natives regarded as lunatics,
harmless but amusing.

My father went away to hold his classes and conversations, and we women
folk began to feel that we also might do something.  So one gloomy
November day we decided to move to Boston and try our fate again after
some years in the wilderness.

My father’s prospect was as promising as a philosopher’s ever is in a
money-making world; my mother’s friends offered her a good salary as
their missionary to the poor; and my sister and I hoped to teach.  It
was an anxious council; and always preferring action to discussion, I
took a brisk run over the hill and then settled down for "a good think"
in my favorite retreat.

It was an old cart-wheel, half hidden in grass under the locusts where I
used to sit to wrestle with my sums, and usually forget them scribbling
verses or fairy tales on my slate instead. Perched on the hub, I
surveyed the prospect and found it rather gloomy, with leafless trees,
sere grass, leaden sky, and frosty air; but the hopeful heart of fifteen
beat warmly under the old red shawl, visions of success gave the gray
clouds a silver lining, and I said defiantly, as I shook my fist at fate
embodied in a crow cawing dismally on a fence near by,--

"I will do something by-and-by.  Don’t care what, teach, sew, act,
write, anything to help the family; and I’ll be rich and famous and
happy before I die, see if I won’t!"

Startled by this audacious outburst, the crow flew away; but the old
wheel creaked as if it began to turn at that moment, stirred by the
intense desire of an ambitious girl to work for those she loved and find
some reward when the duty was done.

I did not mind the omen then, and returned to the house cold but
resolute.  I think I began to shoulder my burden then and there, for
when the free country life ended, the wild colt soon learned to tug in
harness, only breaking loose now and then for a taste of beloved
liberty.

My sisters and I had cherished fine dreams of a home in the city; but
when we found ourselves in a small house at the South End with not a
tree in sight, only a back yard to play in, and no money to buy any of
the splendors before us, we all rebelled and longed for the country
again.

Anna soon found little pupils, and trudged away each morning to her
daily task, pausing at the corner to wave her hand to me in answer to my
salute with the duster.  My father went to his classes at his room down
town, mother to her all-absorbing poor, the little girls to school, and
I was left to keep house, feeling like a caged sea-gull as I washed
dishes and cooked in the basement kitchen, where my prospect was limited
to a procession of muddy boots.

Good drill, but very hard; and my only consolation was the evening
reunion when all met with such varied reports of the day’s adventures,
we could not fail to find both amusement and instruction.

Father brought news from the upper world, and the wise, good people who
adorned it; mother, usually much dilapidated because she would give
away her clothes, with sad tales of suffering and sin from the darker
side of life; gentle Anna a modest account of her success as teacher,
for even at seventeen her sweet nature won all who knew her, and her
patience quelled the most rebellious pupil.

My reports were usually a mixture of the tragic and the comic; and the
children poured their small joys and woes into the family bosom, where
comfort and sympathy were always to be found.

Then we youngsters adjourned to the kitchen for our fun, which usually
consisted of writing, dressing, and acting a series of remarkable plays.
In one I remember I took five parts and Anna four, with lightning
changes of costume, and characters varying from a Greek prince in silver
armor to a murderer in chains.

It was good training for memory and fingers, for we recited pages
without a fault, and made every sort of property from a harp to a
fairy’s spangled wings.  Later we acted Shakespeare; and Hamlet was my
favorite hero, played with a gloomy glare and a tragic stalk which I
have never seen surpassed.

But we were now beginning to play our parts on a real stage, and to know
something of the pathetic side of life, with its hard facts, irksome
duties, many temptations, and the daily sacrifice of self.  Fortunately
we had the truest, tenderest of guides and guards, and so learned the
sweet uses of adversity, the value of honest work, the beautiful law of
compensation which gives more than it takes, and the real significance
of life.

At sixteen I began to teach twenty pupils, and for ten years learned to
know and love children.  The story-writing went on all the while with
the usual trials of beginners.  Fairy tales told the Emersons made the
first printed book, and "Hospital Sketches" the first successful one.

Every experience went into the caldron to come out as froth, or
evaporate in smoke, till time and suffering strengthened and clarified
the mixture of truth and fancy, and a wholesome draught for children
began to flow pleasantly and profitably.

So the omen proved a true one, and the wheel of fortune turned slowly,
till the girl of fifteen found herself a woman of fifty, with her
prophetic dream beautifully realized, her duty done, her reward far
greater than she deserved.








[Illustration: Kitty gives the bunch of holly to the little girl.--PAGE
36.]



                                  II.

                  A CHRISTMAS TURKEY, AND HOW IT CAME.


"I know we could n’t do it."

"I say we could, if we all helped."

"How can we?"

"I’ve planned lots of ways; only you mustn’t laugh at them, and you must
n’t say a word to mother.  I want it to be all a surprise."

"She ’ll find us out."

"No, she won’t, if we tell her we won’t get into mischief."

"Fire away, then, and let’s hear your fine plans."

"We must talk softly, or we shall wake father. He’s got a headache."

A curious change came over the faces of the two boys as their sister
lowered her voice, with a nod toward a half-opened door.  They looked
sad and ashamed, and Kitty sighed as she spoke, for all knew that
father’s headaches always began by his coming home stupid or cross, with
only a part of his wages; and mother always cried when she thought they
did not see her, and after the long sleep father looked as if he did n’t
like to meet their eyes, but went off early.

They knew what it meant, but never spoke of it,--only pondered over it,
and mourned with mother at the change which was slowly altering their
kind industrious father into a moody man, and mother into an anxious
over-worked woman.

Kitty was thirteen, and a very capable girl, who helped with the
housekeeping, took care of the two little ones, and went to school.
Tommy and Sammy looked up to her and thought her a remarkably good
sister.  Now, as they sat round the stove having "a go-to-bed warm," the
three heads were close together; and the boys listened eagerly to
Kitty’s plans, while the rattle of the sewing-machine in another room
went on as tirelessly as it had done all day, for mother’s work was more
and more needed every month.

"Well!" began Kitty, in an impressive tone, "we all know that there
won’t be a bit of Christmas in this family if we don’t make it.
Mother’s too busy, and father don’t care, so we must see what we can do;
for I should be mortified to death to go to school and say I had n’t had
any turkey or plum-pudding.  Don’t expect presents; but we must have
some kind of a decent dinner."
