
Hearing these words, his men were encouraged, and of the enemy many
turned their heads to see the new danger. But being on foot they were
hindered from seeing by the throng. Yet so much the more Khaled shouted
that the Sultan was coming, and many of the heads that turned to look
were not turned back again, but rolled down to the feet of those to
whom they had belonged. The brave men who were with Khaled took heart
and hewed with all their might, taking up the cry of their leader when
they saw that it disconcerted their foes, so that the last took fright,
and the panic ran through the whole multitude.

'We shall be slain like sheep, and taken like locusts under a mantle,
for we cannot move!' they cried, and they began to press away out of the
market-place, forcing their comrades before them into the narrow
streets.

But here many perished. For while every man in Riad had taken his sword
and had gone out of his house to fight, the women had dragged up
cauldrons of boiling water, and also hand-mill stones, to the roofs, and
they scalded and crushed their retreating foes. Then too, as the
market-place was cleared, the soldiers came on from the side of the
palace, having slain all that stood in their way and taken most of their
horses alive, which alone was a great booty, for there are not many
horses in Nejed besides those of the Sultan, though these are the very
best and fleetest in all Arabia. But the Shammars of the north are great
horse-breeders. So the soldiers mounted and joined Khaled in the
pursuit, and a great slaughter followed in the streets, though some of
the enemy were able to escape to the gates, and warn those of their
fellows who were outside to flee to the hills for safety, leaving much
booty behind.

At the time of the second call to prayer Khaled dismounted from his mare
in the market-place, and there was not one of the enemy left alive
within the walls. Those who remember that day say that there were five
thousand dead in the streets in Riad.

Khaled made such ablution as he could, and having prayed and given
thanks to Allah, he went back on foot to the palace, his bay mare
following him, and thrusting her nose into his hand as he walked. For
she was little hurt, and the blood that covered her shoulders and her
flanks was not her own. But Khaled had many wounds on him, so that his
companions wondered how he was able to walk.

In the court of the palace the Sultan came to meet him, and fell upon
his neck and embraced him, for many messengers had come, from time to
time, telling how the fight went, and of the great slaughter. And Khaled
smiled, for he thought that he should now win the love of Zehowah.

'Said I not truly that he is as brave as the lion, and as strong as the
camel?' cried the Sultan, addressing those who stood in the court. 'Has
he not scattered our enemies as the wind scatters the sand? Surely he is
well called by the name Khaled.'

'Forget not your own men,' Khaled answered, 'for they have shared in the
danger and have slain more than I, and deserve the spoil. There was a
score of stout fellows with me at the last in the market-place, whose
faces I should know again on a cloudy night. They fought as well as I,
and it was the will of Allah that their enemies should broil
everlastingly and drink boiling water. Let them be rewarded.'

'They shall every one have a rich garment and a sum of money, besides
their share of the spoil. But as for you, my beloved son, go in and
rest, and bind up your wounds, and afterwards there shall be feasting
and merriment until the night.'

'The enemy is not destroyed yet,' answered Khaled. 'Command rather that
the army make ready for the pursuit, and when I have washed I will arm
myself and we will ride out and pursue the dogs until not one of them is
left alive, and by the help of Allah we will take all Shammar and lay it
under tribute and bring back the women captive. After that we shall
feast more safely, and sleep without fear of being waked by a herd of
hy√¶nas in our streets.'

'Nay, but you must rest before going upon this expedition,' objected the
Sultan.

'The true believer will find rest in the grave, and feasting in
paradise,' answered Khaled.

'This is true. But even the camel must eat and drink on the journey, or
both he and his master will perish.'

'Let us then eat and drink quickly, that we may the sooner go.'

'As you will, let it be,' said the Sultan, with a sigh, for he loved
feasting and music, being now too old to go out and fight himself as he
had formerly done.

Thereupon Khaled went into the harem and returned to Zehowah's
apartment. As he went the women gathered round him with cries of
gladness and songs of triumph, staunching the blood that flowed from his
wounds with their veils and garments as he walked. And others ran before
to prepare the bath and to tell Zehowah of his coming.

When she saw him she ran forward and took him by the hands and led him
in, and herself she bathed his wounds and bound them up with precious
balsams of great healing power, not suffering any of the women to help
her nor to touch him, but sending them away so that she might be alone
with Khaled.

'I have slain certain of your enemies, Zehowah,' he said, at last, 'and
I have driven out the rest from the city.' As yet neither of them had
spoken.

'Do you think that I have not heard what you have done?' Zehowah asked.
'You have saved us all from death and captivity. You are our father and
our mother. And now I will bring you food and drink and afterwards you
shall sleep.'

'So you are well pleased with the doings of the husband you have
married,' he said.

He was displeased, for he had supposed that she would love him for his
deeds and for his wounds and that she would speak differently. But
though she tended him and bound his wounds, and bathed his brow with
perfumed waters, and laid pillows under his head and fanned him, as a
slave might have done, he saw that there was no warmth in her cheek, and
that the depths of her eyes were empty, and that her hands were neither
hot nor cold. By all these signs he knew that she felt no love for him,
so he spoke coldly to her.

'Is it for me to be pleased or displeased with the deeds of my lord and
master?' she asked. 'Nevertheless, thousands are even now blessing your
name and returning thanks to Allah for having sent them a preserver in
the hour of danger. I am but one of them.'

'I would rather see a faint light in your eyes, as of a star rising in
the desert than hear the blessings of all the men of Nejed. I would
rather that your hand were cold when it touches mine, and your cheek hot
when I kiss it, than that your father should bestow upon me all the
treasures of Riad.'

'Is that love?' asked Zehowah with a laugh. 'A cold hand, a hot cheek, a
bright eye?'

Khaled was silent, for he saw that she understood his words but not his
meaning. It was now noon and it was very hot, even in the inner shade of
the harem, and Khaled was glad to rest after the hard fighting, for his
many slight wounds smarted with the healing balsam, and his heart was
heavy and discontented.

Then Zehowah called a slave woman to fan him with a palm leaf, and
presently she brought him meat and rice and dates to eat, and cool drink
in a golden cup, and she sat at his feet while he refreshed himself.

'How many did you slay with your own hand?' she asked at last, taking up
the good sword which lay beside him on the carpet.




CHAPTER IV


Khaled pondered deeply, being uncertain what to do, and trying to find
out some action which could win for him what he wanted. Zehowah received
no answer to her question as to the number of enemies he had slain and
she did not ask again, for she thought that he was weary and wished to
rest in silence.

'What do you like best in the whole world?' he asked after a long time,
to see what she would say.

'I like you best,' she answered, smiling, while she still played with
his sword.

'That is very strange,' Khaled answered, musing. But the colour rose
darkly in his cheeks above his beard, for he was pleased now as he had
been displeased before.

'Why is it strange?' asked Zehowah. 'Are you not the palm tree in my
plain, and a tower of refuge for my people?'

'And will you dry up the well from which the tree draws life, and take
away the corner-stone of the tower's foundation?'

'You speak in fables,' said Zehowah, laughing.

'Yet you imagined the fable yourself, when you likened me to a palm and
to a tower. But I am no lover of allegories. The sword is my argument,
and my wit is in my arm. The wall by the tree is the wall of love, and
the chief foundation of the tower is the love of Zehowah. If you destroy
that, the tree will wither and the tower will fall.'

'Surely there was never such a man as you,' Zehowah answered, half
jesting but half in earnest. 'You are as one who has bought a white
mare; and though she is fleet, and good to look at, and obedient to his
voice and knee, yet he is discontented because she cannot speak to him,
and he would fain have her black instead of white, and if possible would
teach her to sing like a Persian nightingale.'

'Is it then not natural in a woman to love man? Have you heard no tales
of love from the story-tellers of the harem?'

'I have heard many such tales, but none of them were told of me,'
Zehowah replied. 'Will you drink again? Is the drink too sweet, or is it
not cool?'

She had risen from her seat and held the golden cup, bending down to
him, so that her face was near his. He laid his hand upon her shoulder.
