tells her so and receives a kind answer, prompted by the fear of losing
him altogether.

The prospect was not a pleasant one. If at the present juncture
Constance were to succeed in winning George back, Totty was capable of
being roused to great and revengeful wrath. Hitherto she had not even
thought of such a catastrophe as probable, but the discovery that the
two had been spending a quiet afternoon together under the trees
strangely altered the face of the situation. If, however, George still
felt anything for the girl, Totty had not failed to see that she also
had gained something by the accident. It was a great point that Mamie
should have saved George’s life, and the longer Mrs. Trimm thought of
it, the more sure she became that he had owed his salvation to the young
girl alone, and that the four gentlemen who had appeared so opportunely
had only been accessories to her action. George must be hard-hearted
indeed if he were not grateful, and the natural way of showing his
gratitude should be to fall in love without delay. But George was an
inscrutable being, as was sufficiently shown by his secretly meeting
Constance. Totty wondered whether she ought not to give him a hint, to
convey tactfully to him the information that Mamie was deeply in love,
to let him know that he was welcome to marry her. She hesitated to do
this, however, fearing lest George should take to flight. She knew
better than any one that he had been more attracted by the comfort, the
quiet and the luxury of her home than by Mamie, when he had consented to
spend the summer under the roof, and though Mamie herself had now grown
to be an attraction in his eyes, she did not believe that the girl had
inspired in him anything like the sincere passion he had felt for
Constance.

Meanwhile those who had been most nearly affected by the calamity were
passing through one of those periods of life upon which men and women
afterwards look back with amazement, wondering how they could have borne
so much without breaking under the strain. Grace was beside herself with
grief. After the first few days of passionate weeping she regained some
command over her actions, but the deep-seated, unrelenting pain, which
no longer found vent in tears was harder to bear, inasmuch as it was
more conscious of itself and of its own fearful proportions. For many
days, the miserable woman never left her room, sitting from morning till
evening in the same attitude, dry-eyed and motionless, gazing at the
place where her dead husband had lain; and in that same place she lay
all night, sleepless, waiting for the dawn, looking for the first grey
light at the window, listening for his breathing, in the mad hope that
it had all been but a dream which would vanish before the morning sun.
Her heart would not break, her strong, well-balanced intelligence would
not give way, though she longed for death or madness to end her
sufferings.

At first Constance was always with her, but before long she understood
that the strong woman preferred to be alone. All that could be done was
to insist upon her taking food at regular intervals and to pray that her
state might soon change. Once or twice Constance urged her to leave the
place and to allow herself to be taken to the city, to the seaside,
abroad, anywhere away from everything that reminded her of the past. But
Grace stared at her with coldly wondering eyes.

“It is all I have left—the memory,” she said, and relapsed into silence.

Constance consulted physicians without her sister’s knowledge, but they
said that there was nothing to be done, that such cases were rare but
not unknown, that Mrs. Bond’s great strength of constitution would
survive the strain since it had resisted the first shock. And so it
proved in the end. For on a certain morning in September, when Constance
was seated alone in a corner of the old-fashioned garden, she had been
startled by the sudden appearance of a tall figure in black, and of a
face which she hardly recognised as being her sister’s. She had been
accustomed to seeing her in the dimness of a darkened room, wrapped in
loose garments, her smooth brown hair hanging down in straight plaits.
She was dressed now with all the scrupulous care of appearance that was
natural to her, with perfect simplicity as became her deep mourning, but
also with perfect taste. But the correctness of her costume only served
to show the changes that had taken place during the past weeks. She was
thin almost to emaciation, her smooth young cheeks were hollow and
absolutely colourless, her brown eyes were sunken and their depth was
accentuated by the dark rings that surrounded them. But she was erect as
she walked, and she held her head as proudly as ever. Her strength was
not gone, for she moved easily and without effort. Any one would have
said, however, that, instead of being nearly two years younger than
Constance, as she actually was, she must be several years older.

When Constance saw her, she rose quickly with the first expression of
joy that had escaped her lips for many a day.

“Thank God!” she exclaimed. “At last!”

“At last,” Grace answered quietly. “One thing only, Constance,” she
continued after a pause. “I will be myself again. But do not talk of
going away, and never speak of what has happened.”

“I never will, dear,” answered the older girl.

There had been many inquiries made at the house by messengers from Mrs.
Trimm, but neither she, nor Mamie nor George had ventured to approach
the place upon which such awful sorrow had descended. They had been
surprised at not learning that the two sisters had left their
country-seat, and had made all sorts of conjectures concerning their
delay in going away, but they gradually became accustomed to the idea
that Grace might prefer to stay where she was.

“It would kill me!” Totty exclaimed with much emphasis.

“I could not do it,” said Mamie, looking at George and feeling suddenly
how hateful the sight of the river would have been to her if she had not
seen his eyes open on that terrible day when he lay like dead before
her.

“I would not, whether I could or not,” George said. And he on his part
wondered what he would have felt, had Constance or Mamie, or both,
perished instead of John Bond. A slight shiver ran through him, and told
him that he would have felt something he had never experienced before.

One morning when they were all at breakfast a note was brought to George
in a handwriting he did not recognise, but which was oddly familiar from
its resemblance to Constance’s.

“Do see what it is!” exclaimed Totty before he had time to ask
permission to read it.

His face expressed nothing as he glanced over the few lines the note
contained, folded it again and put it into his pocket.

“Mrs. Bond wants me to go and see her,” he said, in explanation. “I
wonder why!”

“It is very natural,” Totty answered. “She wants to thank you for what
you did.”

“Very unnecessary, considering the unfortunate result,” observed George
thoughtfully.

“Will you go to-day?” Mamie asked in the hope that he would suggest
taking her with him.

“Of course,” he answered shortly. As soon as breakfast was over he went
to his work, without spending what he called his quarter of an hour’s
grace in the garden with his cousin.

George Wood was a nervous and sensitive man in spite of his strong
organisation, and he felt a strong repugnance to revisiting the scene of
the fatal accident. He had indeed been on the river several times since
Bond had been drowned, and had taken Mamie with him, telling her that
one ought to get over the first impression at once, lest one should lose
the power of getting over them at all. But to row into the very water in
which John had died and he himself had nearly lost his life, was as yet
more than he cared to do when there was no definite object to be gained.
Though the little wooded point of land was nearer to the house than the
landing, he went to the latter without hesitation.

He was shocked at Grace’s appearance when he met her in the great old
drawing-room. Her face was very grave, almost solemn in its immobility,
and her eyes looked unnaturally large.

“I fear I have given you a great deal of trouble, Mr. Wood,” she said as
she laid her thin cold fingers in his hand. He remembered that her grasp
had formerly been warm and full of life.

“Nothing that you could ask of me would give me trouble,” George
answered earnestly. He had an idea that she wanted him to do her some
service, in some way connected with the accident, but he could not
imagine what it might be.

“Thank you,” she said. He noticed that she continued to stand, and that
she was apparently dressed for going out. “That is one reason why I
asked you to come. I have not been myself and have seen no one until
now. Let me thank you—as only I can—for your noble and gallant attempt
to save my husband.”

Her voice did not tremble nor did the glance of her deep eyes waver as
she spoke of the dead man, but George felt that he had never seen nor
dreamed of such grief as hers.

“I could not do less,” he said hoarsely, for he found it hard to speak
at all.

“No man ever did more. No man could do more,” Grace said gravely. “And
now, will you do me a great service? A great kindness?”

“Anything,” George answered readily.

“It will be hard for you. It will be harder for me. Will you come with
me to the place and tell me as well as you can, how it all happened?”

George looked at her in astonishment. Her eyes were fixed on his face
and her expression had not changed.

“It is the only kindness any one can do for me,” she said simply; and
then without waiting for any further answer she turned towards the door.

George walked by her side in silence. They left the house and took the
direction of the wooded point, never exchanging a word as they went.
From time to time George glanced at his companion’s face, wondering
inwardly what manner of woman she might be who was able to suffer as she
evidently had suffered, and yet could of her own accord face such an
explanation of events as she had asked him to give her. In less than ten
minutes they had reached the spot. Grace stood a few seconds without
speaking, her thin face fixed in its unchangeable look of pain, her arms
hanging down, her hands clasped loosely together.

“Now tell me. Tell me everything. Do not be afraid—I am very strong.”

George collected his thoughts. He wished to make the story as short as
