general rules," answered Ghisleri.

"As for your reputation, my dear fellow, it is not that of a saint. But
I once saw you saying your prayers."

"I dare say," replied Pietro, indifferently. "I sometimes do, but not
generally in the Corso, nor on the Pincio. How long ago was that? Do you
happen to remember?"

"Six or seven years, I fancy--oh, yes! It was in that little church in
Dieppe, just before you went off on that long cruise--you remember it,
too, I fancy."

"I suppose I thought I was going to be drowned, and was seized with a
passing ague of premature repentance," said Ghisleri, lighting a
cigarette.

"What a queer fellow you are!" observed Arden, striking a light in his
turn. "I was talking with Miss Carlyon about you some time ago, and I
told her you were a sinner, but a righteous one."

"A shade worse than others, perhaps, because I know a little better what
I am doing," answered Ghisleri, with a sneer, evidently intended for
himself.

He was looking at the tomb of Cecilia Metella, as it rose in sight above
the horses' heads at the turn of the road, and he thought of what had
happened to him there years ago, and of the consequences. Arden knew
nothing of the associations the ruin had for his friend, and laughed
again. He was in a very happy humour on that day, as he was for many
days afterwards.

"I can never quite make you out," he said. "Are you good, bad, or a
humbug? You cannot be both good and bad at once, you know."

"No. But one may be often bad, and sometimes do decently good deeds,"
observed Ghisleri, with a dry laugh. "Let us talk of your marriage
instead of speculating on my salvation, or more probable perdition, if
there really is such a thing. When is the wedding day?"

Arden was full of plans for the future, and they drove far out, talking
of all that was before the young couple.

On the following day the news was announced to the city and the world.
The world held up its hands in wonder, and its tongue wagged for a whole
week and a few days more. Laura Carlyon was to marry a penniless cripple
of the most dissipated habits. How shocking! Of course every one knew
that Lord Herbert had not fainted at all on that night at the Palazzo
Braccio, but had succumbed, in the natural course of events, to the
effects of the champagne he had taken at dinner. That was now quite
certain. And the whole world was well aware that his father had cut him
off with a pittance on account of his evil ways, and that his brother
had twice paid his gambling debts to save the family name from disgrace.
Englishmen as a race, and English cripples in particular, were given to
drink and high play. The man had actually been the worse for wine when
talking to Laura Carlyon in her mother's house, and Ghisleri had been
obliged to carry him out for decency's sake before anything worse
happened. Scandalous! It was a wonder that Ghisleri, who, after all, was
a gentleman, could associate with such a fellow. After all, nobody ever
liked Laura Carlyon since she had first appeared in society, soon after
dear Donna Adele's marriage. It was as well that she should go to
England and live with her tipsy cripple. She was good-looking, as some
people admitted. She might win the heart of her brother-in-law and
induce him to pay her husband's debts a third time. They were said to be
enormous.

The men were, on the whole, more charitable. Conscious of their own
shortcomings, they did not blame Lord Herbert very severely for taking a
little too much "extra dry." They did, however, abuse him somewhat
roundly at the club, for having gone to the Gerano party at all when he
should have known that he was not steady. Of the facts themselves they
had not the slightest doubt. Unfortunately for one of them who happened
to be declaiming on the subject, but who was really by no means a bad
fellow, he did not notice that Ghisleri had entered the room before he
had finished his speech. When he had quite done, Ghisleri came forward.

"Arden is my old friend," he said quietly. "He never drinks. He has a
disease of the heart and he fainted from the heat. The doctor and I took
him home together. I hope that none of you will take up this disgusting
story, which was started by the women. And I hope Pietrasanta, there,
will do me the honour to believe what I say, and to tell you that he was
mistaken."

Ghisleri was not a pleasant person to quarrel with, and moreover had the
reputation of being truthful. His story, too, was quite as probable as
the other, to say the least of it. Don Gianbattista Pietrasanta glanced
quickly from one to the other of the men who were seated around him as
though to ask their advice in the matter. Several of them nodded almost
imperceptibly, as though counselling him to do as Ghisleri requested.
There was nothing at all aggressive in the latter's manner, either, as
he quietly lit a cigarette while waiting for the other's answer.
Suddenly a deep voice was heard from another corner of the room. The
Marchese di San Giacinto, giant in body and fortune, had been reading
the paper with the utmost indifference during all the previous
conversation. All at once he spoke, deliberately and to the point.

"It is no business of mine," he said, "as I do not know Lord Herbert
Arden except by sight. But I was at the dance the other night, and half
an hour before the occurrence you are discussing, Lord Herbert was
standing beside me, talking of the Egyptian difficulty with the French
ambassador. I have often seen men drunk. Lord Herbert Arden was, in my
opinion, perfectly sober."

Having delivered himself of this statement, San Giacinto put his very
black cigar between his teeth again and took up the evening paper he had
been reading.

In the face of such men as Ghisleri and the Marchese, it would have been
the merest folly to continue any opposition. Moreover, Pietrasanta was
neither stupid nor bad, and he was not a coward.

"I do not know Lord Herbert Arden myself," he said without affectation.
"What I said I got on hearsay, and the whole story is evidently a
fabrication which we ought to deny. For the rest, Ghisleri, if you are
not quite satisfied--" He stopped and looked at Pietro.

"My dear fellow," said the latter, "what more could I have to say about
the affair? You all seemed to be in the dark, and I wanted to clear the
matter up for the sake of my old friend. That is all. I am very much
obliged to you."

After this incident there was less talk at the clubs, and in a few days
the subject dropped. But the world said, as usual, that all the men were
afraid of Ghisleri, who was a duellist, and of San Giacinto, who was a
giant, and who had taken the trouble to learn to fence when he first
came to Rome, and that they had basely eaten their words. Men were such
cowards, said the world.

Lord Herbert and Laura lived in blissful ignorance of what was said
about them. The preparations for the wedding were already begun, and
Laura's modest trousseau was almost all ordered. She and Arden had
discussed their future, and having realised that they must live in a
very economical fashion for the present and so long as it pleased Heaven
to preserve Arden's maternal uncle among the living, they decided that
the wedding should be as quiet and unostentatious as possible. The old
Prince, however, though far too conscientious to have settled a penny of
his inherited fortune upon Laura, even if she had chosen to marry a
pauper, was not ungenerous in other ways, and considered himself at
liberty to offer the pair some very magnificent silver, which he was
able to pay for out of his private economies. As for Donna Adele, she
presented them with a couple of handsome wine-coolers--doubtless in
delicate allusion to the fictitious story about the champagne Lord
Herbert was supposed to have taken. The implied insult, if there was
any, was not at all noticed by those who had never heard the tale,
however, and Adele had to bide her time for the present.

Meanwhile the season tore along at a break-neck pace, and Lent was fast
approaching. Everybody saw and danced with almost everybody else every
night, and some of them supped afterwards and gambled till midday, and
were surprised to find that their nerves were shaky, and their livers
slightly eccentric, and their eyes anything but limpid. But they all
knew that the quiet time was coming, the Lent wherein no man can dance,
nor woman either, and they amused themselves with a contempt for human
life which would have amounted to heroism if displayed in a good cause.
"They" of course means the gay set of that particular year. As the
Princess of Gerano gave regular informal dances, and two balls at the
end of Carnival, she and her daughter were considered to belong more or
less to the company of the chief merry-makers. The Savelli couple were
in it, also, as a matter of course. Gouache was in it when he pleased, a
dozen or fifteen young members of the diplomatic corps, old Spicca, who
always went everywhere, the Contessa dell' Armi, whose husband was in
parliament and rarely went into society, Ghisleri and twenty or thirty
others, men and women who were young or thought themselves so.

About three weeks before Ash Wednesday, Anastase Gouache, the
perennially young, had a brilliant inspiration. His studio was in an
historical palace, and consisted of three halls which might have passed
for churches in any other country, so far as their size was concerned.
He determined to give a Shrove Tuesday supper to the gay set, with a
tableau, and a long final waltz afterwards, by way of interring the
mangled remains of the season, as he expressed it. The supper should be
at the usual dinner hour instead of at one o'clock, because the gay set
was not altogether as scarlet as it was painted, and did not, as a
whole, care to dance into the morning of Ash Wednesday. The tableau
should represent Carnival meeting Lent. The Contessa dell' Armi should
be in it, and Ghisleri, and Donna Adele, and possibly San Giacinto might
be induced to appear as a mask. His enormous stature would be very
imposing. The Contessa, with her classic features and violet eyes, would
make an admirable nun, and there would be no difficulty in getting
together a train of revellers. Ghisleri, lean, straight, and tall, would
do for a Satanic being of some kind, and could head the Carnival
procession. The whole thing would not last five minutes and the dancing
should begin at once.

"Could you not say something, my friend?" asked Gouache, as he talked
the matter over with Ghisleri.

"I could, if you could find something for me to say," answered the
latter. "But of what use would it be?"

"The density of the public," replied the great painter, "is, to use the
jargon of science, as cotton wool multiplied into cast iron. You either
sink into it and make no noise at all, or you knock your head against
and cannot get through it. You have never sent a picture to the Salon
without naming it, or you would understand exactly what I mean. They
took a picture I once painted, as an altar piece, for a scene from the
Decameron, I believe--but that was when I was young and had illusions.
On the whole, you had better find something to say, and say it--verse,
if possible. They say you have a knack at verses."

