had received his freedom two years before; Ruth dismounted, and walked
about under the trees, looking up into the foliage.

"He's booming; he's got what he likes," said Chase--"your Robert the
Squirrel; or Robert the Devil, as Dolly called him."

"Oh, I don't want him back," Ruth answered; "I am glad he is free. Every
one ought to be free," she went on, musingly, as though stating a new
truth which she had just discovered.

"I came out nearly every week, Mrs. Chase, during the first six months,
with nuts for him," said Malachi, comfortingly. "I used to bring at
least a quart, and I put them in a particular place. Well--they were
always gone."

As they came down a flank of the mountain overlooking the village, Chase
surveyed the valley with critical eyes. "If we really decide to take
this thing up at last--Nick and Richard Willoughby, and myself, and one
or two more--my own idea would be to have a grand combine of all the
advantages possible," he began. "In the United States we don't do this
thing up half so completely as they do abroad. Over there, if they have
mountains--as in Switzerland, for instance--they don't trust to that
alone, they don't leave people to sit and stare at 'em all day; they add
other attractions. They have boys with horns, where there happen to be
echoes; they illuminate the waterfalls; girls dressed up in costumes
milk cows in arbors; and men with flowers and other things stuck in
their hats, yodel and sing. All sorts of carved things, too, are
constantly offered for sale, such as salad-forks, paper-cutters, and
cuckoo clocks. Then, if it isn't mountains, but springs, they always
have the very best music they can get, to make the water go down. It
would be a smart thing to have the sulphur near here brought into town
in pipes to a sort of park, where we could have a casino with a hall for
dancing, and a restaurant where you could always get a first-class meal.
And, outside, a stand for the band. And then in the park there ought to
be, without fail, long rows of bright little stores for the ladies--like
those at Baden-Baden, Ruthie? No large articles sold, but a great
variety of small things. Ladies always like that; they can drink the
water, listen to the music, and yet go shopping too, and buy all sorts
of little knick-knacks to take home as presents; it would be extremely
popular. The North Carolina garnets and amethysts could be sold; and
specimens of the mica and gold and the native pink marble could be
exhibited. Then those Cherokee Indians out Qualla way might be
encouraged to come to the park with their baskets and bead-work to sell.
And there must be, of course, a museum of curiosities, stuffed animals,
and mummies, and such things. There's a museum opposite that lion cut in
the rock at Lucerne Hill--I guess you've heard of it? It attracts more
interest than the lion himself; I've watched, and I know; ten out of
twelve of the people who come there, look two minutes at the lion, and
give ten at least to the museum. Then it wouldn't be a half-bad idea to
get hold of an eminent doctor; we might make him a present of half a
mountain as an inducement. Larue, by the way, won't be of much use to
our boom, now that he isn't a senator any longer. Did they kick him out,
Hill, or freeze him out?"

"Well--he resigned," answered Malachi, diplomatically. "You see, they
wanted the present senator--a man who has far more magnetism."

"Larue never was 'in it'; I saw that from the first," Chase
commented. "Well, then, in addition, there must, of course, be a
hospital in the town, so that the ladies can get up fairs for it each
year at the height of the season; they find the greatest interest in
fairs; I've often noticed it. Then I should give my vote for a good
race-course. And, finally, all the churches ought to be put in tip-top
condition--painted and papered and made more attractive. But that, Hill,
we'll leave to you."

Malachi laughed. He admired Horace Chase greatly, but he had long ago
despaired of making him pay heed to certain distinctions. "I think I
won't meddle with the other churches if you will only help along ours,"
he answered; "our Church school here, and my mountain missions."

"All right; we'll boom them all," said Chase, liberally. "There might be
a statue of Daniel Boom in the park, near the casino," he went on in a
considering tone; "he lived near here for some time. Though, come to
think of it, his name was Boone, wasn't it?--just missed being
appropriate! Well, at any rate, we can have a statue of Colonel David
Vance, and of Dr. Mitchell, who is buried on Mitchell's Peak. And of
David L. Swain."

"Have you any especial sculptor in view?" inquired Malachi, who was not
without a slight knowledge of art.

"No. But we could get a good marble-cutter to take a contract for the
lot; that would be the easiest way, I reckon."

Malachi could not help being glad, revengefully glad, that at least
there was no mention of Maud Muriel. Only the day before the sculptress
had greeted him with her low-breathed "Manikin!" as he came upon her in
a narrow winding lane which he had incautiously entered. A man may be as
dauntless as possible (so he told himself), but that does not help him
when his assailant is a person whom he cannot knock down--"a striding,
scornful, sculping spinster!" "She had better look out!" he had thought,
angrily, as he passed on.

His morning ride over, Chase took a fresh horse after lunch, and went
down to Crumb's. Nicholas Willoughby, struck by the wildness and beauty
of these North Carolina mountains, had built a cottage on the high
plateau above Crumb's, the plateau which Chase had named "Ruth's
Terrace" several years before. During the preceding summer, Nicholas had
occupied this house (which he called The Lodge) for a month or more.
This year, having lent it to some friends for August and September, he
had asked Chase to see that all was in order before their arrival.

While Chase was off upon this errand, Ruth and Dolly were to go for a
drive along the Swannanoa. But first Dolly stopped at Miss Mackintosh's
barn; her latest work was on exhibition there. This was nothing less
than a colossal study in clay of the sculptress's own back from the nape
of the neck to the waist; Dolly, who had already had a view of this
masterpiece, was now bringing Ruth to see it, with the hope that it
would make her laugh. It did. Her old mirth came back for several
minutes as she gazed at the rigidly faithful copy of Maud Muriel's
shoulder-blades, her broad, gaunt shoulders, and the endless line of
conscientiously done vertebr√¶ adorning her spine.

Mrs. Kip was there, also looking. "Maud Muriel, how could you see your
back?" she inquired.

"Hand-glass," replied the sculptress, briefly.

"Well, to me it looks hardly proper," commented Mrs. Kip; "it's
so--exposed. And then, without any head or arms, it seems so
mutilated; like some awful thing from a battle-field! I don't think it's
necessary for lady artists to study anatomy, Maud Muriel; it isn't
expected of them; it doesn't seem quite feminine. Why don't you carve
angels? They have no anatomy, and, of course, they need none. Angels,
little children, and flowers--I think those are the most appropriate
subjects for lady artists, both in sculpture and in painting." Then,
seeing Maud Muriel begin to snort (as Dolly called the dilation of the
sculptress's nostrils when she was angry), Mrs. Kip hurried on, changing
the subject as she went. "But sculpture certainly agrees with you,
Maudie dear. I really think your splendid hair grows thicker and
thicker! You could always earn your living (if you had occasion) by just
having yourself photographed, back-view, with your hair down, and a
placard--'Results of Barry's Tricopherus.' Barry would give anything
to get you."

Maud Muriel was not without humor, after her curt fashion. "Well,
Lilian," she answered, "you might be 'Results of Packer's Granulated
Food,' I'm sure. You look exactly like one of the prize health-babies."

"Oh no!" cried Mrs. Kip, in terror, "I'm not at all well, Maud Muriel.
Don't tell me so, or I shall be ill directly! Neither Evangeline Taylor
nor I are in the least robust; we are both pulmonic."

At this moment Evangeline herself appeared at the door, accompanied by
her inseparable Miss Green, a personage who was the pride of Mrs. Kip's
existence. This was not for what she was, but for her title: "Evangeline
Taylor and her governess"--this to Mrs. Kip seemed almost royal. She now
hurried forward to meet her child, and, taking her arm, led her away
from the torso to the far end of the barn, where two new busts were
standing on a table, one of them the likeness of a short-nosed,
belligerent boy, and the other of a dreary, sickly woman. "Come and look
at these sweet things, darling."

And then Ruth broke into a second laugh.

"Mrs. Chase," said Maud Muriel, suddenly, "I wish you would sit to
me."

"No. Ask her husband to sit," suggested Dolly. "You know you like to do
men best, Maud Muriel."

"Well, generally speaking, the outlines of a man's face are more
distinct," the sculptress admitted. "And yet, Dolly, it doesn't always
follow. For, generally speaking, women--"

"Maud Muriel, I am never generally speaking, but always particularly,"
Dolly declared. "Do Mr. Chase. He will come like a shot if you will
smoke your pipe; he has been dying to see you do it for three years."

"I have given up the pipe; I have cigars now," explained Maud, gravely.
"But I do not smoke here; I take a walk with a cigar on dark nights--"

"Sh! Don't talk about it now," interrupted Mrs. Kip, warningly. For
Evangeline Taylor, having extracted all she could from the "sweet
things," was coming towards them. There was a good deal to come. Her
height was now six feet and an inch. Her long, rigid face wore an
expression which she intended to be one of deep interest in the works of
art displayed before her; but as she was more shy than ever, her eyes,
as she approached the group, had a suppressed nervous gleam which, with
her strange facial tension, made her look half-mad.

"Dear child!" said the mother, fondly, as Ruth, to whom the poor young
giant was passionately devoted, made her happy by taking her off and
talking to her kindly, apart. "She has the true Taylor eyes. So
profound! And yet so dove-like!" Here the head of Achilles Larue
appeared at the open door, and Lilian abandoned the Taylor eyes to
whisper quickly, "Oh, Maud Muriel, do cover that dreadful thing up!"

"Cover it up? Why--it is what he has come to see," answered the intrepid
Maud.

The ex-senator inspected the torso. "Most praise-worthy, Miss
Mackintosh. And, in execution, quite--quite fairish. Though you have
perhaps exaggerated the anatomical effect--the salient appearance of the
bones?"

"Not at all. They are an exact reproduction from life," answered Maud,
with dignity.

