"It's his plantation we are talking about," said Eva. "Once it was a
military post, he says. Perhaps like Ehrenbreitstein."

"Exactly," said Dallas, from behind; "the same massive frowning stone
walls."

"There were four one-story wooden barracks once," said Rod;
"whitewashed; flag-pole in the centre. There's nothing now but a
chimney; we've taken the boards for our mill."

"See the cyclamen, good folk," called out Gordon-Gray.

On a small plateau near by a thousand cyclamen, white and pink, had
lifted their wings as if to fly away. Off went Pierre to get them for
Eva.



"Have you ever seen the bears in the canes yourself?" pursued Eva.

"I've seen them in many places besides canes," answered Rod, grimly.

"I too have seen bears," Eva went on. "At Berne, you know."

"The Punta Palmas bears are quite the same," commented Dallas. "When
they see Mr. Rod coming they sit up on their hind legs politely. And he
throws them apples."

"No apples; they won't grow there," said Rod, regretfully. "Only
oranges."

"Do you make the saw-mill go yourself--with your own hands?" pursued
Eva.

"Not now. I did once."

"Wasn't it very hard work?"

"That? Nothing at all. You should have seen us grubbing up the
stumps--Tipp and I!"

"Mr. Tipp is perhaps your partner?" said Dallas.

"Yes; Jim Tipp. Tipp and Rod is the name of the firm."

"Tipp--and Rod," repeated Dallas, slowly. Then with quick utterance, as
if trying it, "Tippandrod."

Pierre was now returning with his flowers. As he joined them, round the
corner of their zigzag, from a pasture above came a troop of ponies that
had escaped from their driver, and were galloping down to Sorrento; two
and two they came rushing on, too rapidly to stop, and everybody pressed
to one side to give them room to pass on the narrow causeway.

Pierre jumped up on the low stone wall and extended his hand to Eva.
"Come!" he said, hastily.

Rod put out his arm and pushed each outside pony, as he passed Eva,
forcibly against his mate who had the inside place; a broad space was
thus left beside her, and she had no need to leave the causeway. She had
given one hand to Pierre as a beginning; he held it tightly.
Mademoiselle meanwhile had climbed the wall like a cat. There were
twenty of the galloping little nags; they took a minute or two to pass.
Rod's out-stretched hands, as he warded them off, were seen to be large
and brown.

Eva imagined them "grubbing up" the stumps. "What is grubbing?" she
said.

"It is writing for the newspapers in a street in London," said Pierre,
jumping down. "And you must wear a torn coat, I believe." Pierre was
proud of his English.

He presented his flowers.

Mademoiselle admired them volubly. "They are like souls just ready to
wing their way to another world," she said, sentimentally, with her head
on one side. She put her well-gloved hand in Eva's arm, summoned Pierre
with an amiable gesture to the vacant place at Eva's left hand, and the
three walked on together.

The Deserto, though disestablished and dismantled, like many another
monastery, by the rising young kingdom, held still a few monks; their
brown-robed brethren had aided Pierre's servant in arranging the table
in the high room which commands the wonderful view of the sea both to
the north and the south of the Sorrento peninsula, with Capri lying at
its point too fair to be real--like an island in a dream.

    "O la douce folie--
     Aimable Capri!"

said Mark Ferguson. No one knew what he meant; he did not know himself.
It was a poetical inspiration--so he said.



The lunch was delicate, exquisite; everything save the coffee (which the
monks wished to provide: coffee, black-bread, and grapes which were half
raisins was the monks' idea of a lunch) had been sent up from Sorrento.
Dallas, who was seated beside Fanny, gave her a congratulatory nod.

"Yes, all Pierre does is well done," she answered, in a low tone, unable
to deny herself this expression of maternal content.

Pierre was certainly a charming host. He gave them a toast; he gave them
two; he gave them a song: he had a tenor voice which had been admirably
cultivated, and his song was gay and sweet. He looked very handsome; he
wore one of the cyclamen in his button-hole; Eva wore the rest, arranged
by the deft fingers of Mademoiselle in a knot at her belt. But at the
little feast Fanny was much more prominent than her daughter: this was
Pierre's idea of what was proper; he asked her opinion, he referred
everything to her with a smile which was homage in itself. Dallas, after
a while, was seized with a malicious desire to take down for a moment
this too prosperous companion of his boyhood. It was after Pierre had
finished his little song. "Do you ever sing now, Fanny?" he asked,
during a silence. "I remember how you used to sing Trancadillo."

"I am sure I don't know what you refer to," answered Fanny, coldly.

Another week passed. They sailed to Capri; they sailed to Ischia; they
visited Pompeii. Bartholomew suggested these excursions. Eva too showed
an almost passionate desire for constant movement, constant action.
"Where shall we go to-day, mamma?" she asked every morning.

One afternoon they were strolling through an orange grove on the
outskirts of Sorrento. Under the trees the ground was ploughed and
rough; low stone copings, from whose interstices innumerable violets
swung, ran hither and thither, and the paths followed the copings. The
fruit hung thickly on the trees. Above the high wall which surrounded
the place loomed the campanile of an old church. While they were
strolling the bells rang the Angelus, swinging far out against the blue.

Rod, who was of the party, was absent-minded; he looked a little at the
trees, but said nothing, and after a while he became absent-bodied as
well, for he fell behind the others, and pursued his meditations,
whatever they were, in solitude.

"He is bothered about his Italians," said Bartholomew; "he has only
secured twenty so far."

Pierre joined Fanny; he had not talked with her that afternoon, and he
now came to fulfil the pleasant duty. Eva, who had been left with
Mademoiselle, turned round, and walking rapidly across the ploughed
ground, joined Rod, who was sitting on one of the low stone walls at
some distance from the party. Mademoiselle followed her, putting on her
glasses as she went, in order to see her way over the heaped ridges. She
held up her skirts, and gave ineffectual little leaps, always landing in
the wrong spot, and tumbling up hill, as Dallas called it. "Blue," he
remarked, meditatively. Every one glanced in that direction, and it was
perceived that the adjective described the hue of Mademoiselle's
birdlike ankles.

"For shame!" said Fanny.

But Dallas continued his observations. "Do look across," he said, after
a while; "it's too funny. The French woman evidently thinks that Rod
should rise, or else that Eva should be seated also. But her pantomime
passes unheeded; neither Eva nor the backwoodsman is conscious of her
existence."

"Eva is so fond of standing," explained Fanny. "I often say to her, 'Do
sit down, child; it tires me to see you.' But Eva is never tired."

Pierre, who had a spray of orange buds in his hand, pressed it to his
lips, and waved it imperceptibly towards his betrothed. "In everything
she is perfect--perfect," he murmured to the pretty mother.

"Rod doesn't in the least mean to be rude," began Bartholomew.

"Oh, don't explain that importation of yours at this late day,"
interposed Dallas; "it isn't necessary. He is accustomed to sitting on
fences probably; he belongs to the era of the singing-school."

This made Fanny angry. For as to singing-schools, there had been a
time--a remote time long ago--and Dallas knew it. She had smiled in
answer to Pierre's murmured rapture; she now took his arm. To punish
Dallas she turned her steps--on her plump little feet in their delicate
kid boots--towards the still seated Rod, with the intention of asking
him (for the fifth time) to dinner. This would not only exasperate
Dallas, but it would please Bartholomew at the same stroke. Two birds,
etc.

When they came up to the distant three, Mademoiselle glanced at Mrs.
Churchill anxiously. But in the presence of the mistress of the villa,
Rod did at last lift his long length from the wall.

This seemed, however, to be because he supposed they were about to leave
the grove. "Is the walk over?" he said.

Pierre looked at Eva adoringly. He gave her the spray of orange buds.


IV

A week later Fanny's daughter entered the bedroom which she shared with
her mother.

From the girl's babyhood the mother had had her small white-curtained
couch placed close beside her own. She could not have slept unless able
at any moment to stretch out her hand and touch her sleeping child.
