
"Do you want to go in and hear her?" Hanny asked, with quick insight as
she caught his divided attention.

"Oh, if I could!" eagerly.

"Yes." Hanny rose and held out her hand, saying: "We are going in to
Margaret."

The elder sister greeted them cordially. After playing a little she
asked them if they would not like to sing.

They chose "Mary to the Saviour's Tomb" first. It was a great favorite
in those days. The little girl liked it because she could play and sing
it for her father. She was taking music lessons of Margaret's teacher
now, and practised her scales and exercises with such assiduity that she
had been allowed to play this piece. She did sometimes pick out tunes,
but it was after the real work was done.

"Your boy has a fine voice," said John to Mr. Reed.

The father was not quite sure singing was manly. He had roused to the
fact that Charles was rather "girly," and he wanted him like other boys.

"He is a good scholar," his father returned in half protest. "Stands
highest in his class."

"Going to send him to college?"

"I don't just know," hesitatingly.

"Has he any fancy for a profession? He'd make an attractive minister."

"I don't know as I have much of a fancy for that."

Mr. Reed knew it was his wife's hope and ambition, but it had never
appealed to him.

"The boys want Ben to go to college," said John, the "boys" standing for
the two older brothers.

"I don't want to be a lawyer nor a doctor," subjoined Ben decisively.
"And I shouldn't be good enough for a minister. There ought to be some
other professions."

"Why, there are. Professorships, civil engineering, and so on."

While the men discussed future chances, the children were singing, and
their sweet young voices moved both fathers curiously. Mr. Reed decided
that he would cultivate his neighbor, even if Charles had not made much
headway with Ben and Jim.




CHAPTER XVI

DAISY JASPER


What to do with Ben was the next question of importance. He was fond of
books, an omnivorous reader, in fact, a very fair scholar, and, with a
certain amount of push, could have graduated the year before. He really
was not longing for college.

There was only one line of horse-cars, and that conveyed the passengers
of the Harlem Railroad from the station on Broome Street to the
steam-cars up-town. Only a few trains beside the baggage and freight cars
were allowed through the city. Consequently a boy's ambition had not
been roused to the height of being a "car conductor" at that period. A
good number counted on "running wid de machine" when they reached the
proper age, but boys were not allowed to hang around the engine-houses.
Running with the machine was something in those days. There were no
steam-engines. Everything was drawn by a long rope, the men ranged on
either side. The force of the stream of water was also propelled by main
strength, and the "high throwing" was something to be proud of. There
was a good deal of rivalry among the companies to see who could get to a
fire the first. Sometimes, indeed, it led to quite serious affrays if
two parties met at a crossing. "Big Six" never gave up for any one.
"Forty-one" was another famous engine on the East side. Indeed they had
a rather menacing song they sometimes shouted out to their rivals, which
contained these two blood-curdling lines:

    "From his heart the blood shall run
    By the balls of Forty-one."

Later on the fights and disturbances became so bitter that the police
had to interfere, and as the city grew larger some new method of
expediting matters had to be considered. But the "fire laddies" were a
brave, generous set of men, who turned out any time of day or night and
dragged their heavy engines over the rough cobble-stones with a spirit
and enthusiasm hard to match. They received no pay, but were exempt from
jury duty, and after a number of years of service had certain privileges
granted them. Jim counted strongly on being a fireman. John had
sometimes gone to fires but was not a "regular."

But all differences were forgotten in the "great fire," as it was called
for a long time. There had been one about ten years before that had
devastated a large part of the city. And in February of this year there
had been quite a tragic one in the Tribune Building. There was a fierce
drifting snowstorm, so deep it was impossible to drag the engines
through it, and some of the hydrants were frozen. Men had jumped from
the windows to save their lives, and there had been quite a panic.

Early in the gray dawn of July nineteenth, a watchman discovered flames
issuing from an oil store on New Street. A carpenter shop next door was
soon in flames. A large building in which quantities of saltpetre was
stored caught next. A dense smoke filled the air, and a sudden explosive
sound shot out a long tongue of flame that crossed the street. At
intervals of a few moments others followed, causing everybody to fly for
their lives. And at last one grand deafening burst like a tremendous
clap of thunder, and the whole vicinity was in a blaze. Bricks and
pieces of timber flew through the air, injuring many people. Then the
fire spread far and wide, one vast, roaring, crackling sheet of flame.
One brave fireman and several other people were killed, and Engine 22
was wrecked in the explosion.

It was said at first that powder had been stored in the building, but it
was proved on investigation that the saltpetre alone was the dangerous
agent. Three hundred and forty-five buildings were destroyed, at a loss,
it was estimated, of ten millions of dollars. For days there was an
immense throng about the place. The ruins extended from Bowling Green to
Exchange Place.

A relic of Revolutionary times perished in this fire. The bell of the
famous Provost prison, that had been used by the British during their
occupancy of the city, had been removed when the building was remodelled
and placed on the Bridewell at the west of the City Hall, and used for a
fire-alarm bell. When the Bridewell had been destroyed it was
transferred to the cupola of the Naiad Hose Company in Beaver Street. It
rang out its last alarm that morning, for engine house and bell perished
in the flames.

Stephen had been very fortunate in that he was out of the fire district.
He took Margaret and Hanny down to view the great space heaped with
blackened d√©bris, and when a fire alarm was given the little girl used
to shiver with fright for months afterward.

And now schools were considering their closing exercises, and parents of
big boys were puzzled to know just where to start them in life. Ben
declared his preference at last--he wanted to be some sort of a
newspaper man.

They called Mr. Whitney in to council. He was not quite sure he would
recommend beginning there. It would be better to learn the trade
thoroughly at such a place as the Harpers'. Then there would always be
something to fall back upon. Steve did not cordially approve, and Dr.
Joe was quite disappointed. He was ready to help Ben through college.

Newspaper people did not rank as high then as now. There was a good deal
of what came to be called Bohemianism among them, and it was not of the
artistic type. For the one really good position there were a dozen
precarious ones.

Aunt Nancy Archer rather amused them with another objection. She wasn't
at all sure the publishing of so many novels was conducive to the
advancement of morals and religion. She never could quite understand how
so good a man as Brother Harper could lend it countenance. When she was
young the girls of her time were reading Hannah More. And there was Mrs.
Chapone's letters, and now Charlotte Elizabeth and Mrs. Sigourney.

"Did you know Hannah More wrote a novel?" inquired John, with a half
smile of his father's humor. "And Mrs. Barbauld and Mrs. Edgeworth and
Charlotte Elizabeth's stories are in the novel form."

"But they have a high moral. And there are so many histories for young
people to read. They ought to have the real truth instead of silly
make-believes and trashy love stories."

"There are some histories that would be rather terrible reading for
young minds," said John. "I think I'll bring you two or three, Aunt
Nancy."

"But histories are true."

"There are a great many sad and bitter truths in the world. And the
stories must have a certain amount of truth in them or they would never
gain a hearing. Do we not find some of the most beautiful stories in the
Bible itself?"

"Well, I can't help thinking all this novel reading is going to do harm
to our young people. Their minds will get flighty, and they will lose
all taste and desire for solid things. They are beginning to despise
work already."

"Aunt Nancy," said Ben, with a deprecating smile, "the smartest girl I
know lives just below here. She does most all the housekeeping, she can
wash and iron and sweep and sew, and she reads novels by the score. She
just races through them. I do believe she knows as much about Europe as
any of our teachers. And I never dreamed there had been such tremendous
conquests in Asia, and such wonderful things in Egypt until I heard her
talk about them; and she knows about the great men and generals and
rulers who lived before the Christian era, and at the time Christ was
born----"

Aunt Nancy gasped.

"Of course there were Old Testament times," she returned hesitatingly.

"And I am not sure but Mayor Harper is doing a good work in
