"Some eggs and a little bacon. Shall I make you some tea?"

"No; bring out the whisky."

"There's none left, Dick."

The man uttered an oath expressive of disappointment.

"Well, give me some slops, then," he said. "I must have something to
drink."

"Didn't you shoot anything?" she ventured to ask.

"I haven't been hunting."

"I thought you took out your gun."

"What if I did? I don't always hunt when I take my gun. I expected to
hear from the friends of that brat this morning, but I didn't. They must
hurry up with their money if they don't want me to strangle him."

"Perhaps they didn't get your letter, Dick."

"Yes, they did. I took care of that. I s'pose they're hatching up some
plot to have me arrested. If they do, it'll be a bad day for the brat."

He looked fierce and brutal enough to execute the dark threat at which
he indirectly hinted. There was a cruel look in his eye which showed
that he would have had small scruples about injuring an innocent child,
if provoked by the desire for revenge.

While his wife was cooking the eggs he filled his pipe and began to
smoke. She made all the haste she could, knowing that her husband was
far from patient. Soon the frugal repast was ready. She set it on the
table, and said:

"It's all ready, Dick. Better eat it while it's hot."

"I'll eat it when I choose," he growled, in his usual spirit of
contradiction.

However, he was hungry, and laying aside his pipe, did as she requested.
Soon he had dispatched all the food set before him.

"There isn't enough to keep a kitten from starving," he said.

"I'm sorry, Dick."

"Much you are sorry," he growled. "A pretty wife you are."

"I wish there were more. If you'll give me some money I'll go out and
buy something."

"Money!" he snarled. "You're always wanting money. Do you think I am
made of money?"

"No, Dick; but you know I have none. I wish I knew of any way to earn
it."

"You do?"

"Yes, Dick."

"Then I suppose you'd be leaving me," he said, suspiciously.

"No, I wouldn't. You know I wouldn't, Dick."

"So you say," he answered, brutally, "How's the brat? Has it been
crying?"

"No; it is a very good child."

"I'll go up and take a look at it."

He arose from his seat, and advanced toward the door.

His wife followed him.

"Where are you going?" he asked, turning upon her.

"I'm going up, too," she answered, meekly.

"What for? Can't you trust me with the brat?"

"Yes, Dick, but it isn't much used to you. You might frighten it, and
make it cry."

"That's all right," he answered, smiling grimly. "I like to hear
children cry."

"How can you enjoy the sufferings of a child?"

"Halloo! What's that?" he said, looking sharply at her. "You dare to
find fault with me, do you?"

"I didn't mean that, Dick," she said, submissively.

"It's lucky you didn't," he said, warningly. "I don't allow none of
that, wife or no wife."

"May I go up?"

"If you want to."

So the two went up stairs together.

The wife was nervous lest the child in some way might excite the
suspicions of her husband and betray the presence of Jasper. She felt,
therefore, very ill at ease.

The child was sitting up in bed.

"Halloo, young 'un, how yer gettin' along?" asked the man, roughly.

The child did not answer, but looked frightened.

"Why don't you answer?" demanded the man, frowning.

The child looked toward the woman, and seemed on the point of crying.

"Can't you say something to the gentleman?" said the woman, soothingly.

Thus adjured, the little boy said:

"Won't you take me to my mamma?"

"Oh, yes, I'll take you as soon as your mamma sends me some money," said
the man named Dick, "and she'd better do it pretty soon, too," he
muttered.

He threw himself into a chair, and ceased to notice the child.

"Do you know, old woman," he said in a different tone, "I've heard news
that'll rather take you by suprise?"

"I hope it is good news," said his wife, anxiously.

"Well, that's as may be," he answered. "It ought to be good news for us,
but there's no saying. You know my sister?"

"Mrs. Thorne?"

"Yes. Well, she's had a stroke of luck."

"How was that?"

"Well, you see she went as governess into a family. The man was rich and
an invalid--a widower, too. What does she do but get him to marry her?"

"She has been fortunate."

"That isn't all of it. She hadn't been married but two or three months
when her husband died, leaving her a third of his property and guardian
to his son, who inherits the rest. So she's a rich woman. I say she
ought to do something for her brother Dick. Don't you say so?"

"I think she would be willing," said the wife.

"She ought to be, but she's selfish. She always was. If only I had the
money I'd go East, and see what I could get out of her."

"You'd take me with you, Dick?"

"No, I wouldn't. It'll be all I can do to raise money enough to pay my
own expenses, let alone yours. If I get anything I'll come back, and
you'll get your share. That's why I want the parents of that brat to
fork over the cash pretty quick."

"How did you learn the news about your sister, Dick?"

"An old pal of mine has just come from that way and told me all about
it."

Every word of this dialogue was beard by Jasper in his place of
concealment. He was astonished beyond measure to learn that this ruffian
was the brother of his step-mother.

"No wonder I don't like her," he thought, "if they have any traits in
common. What a fate, for my kind and gentle father to marry the sister
of such a man!"

"I'm glad of it," said his wife.

"Well, so am I, if she'll do the right thing by me; but if she don't,
then I'm sorry."

"What shall I do when you're away, Dick?"

"Get along as well as you can. Folks'll give you victuals, if you get
hard up."

"I don't like to beg."

"Wish me good luck, then, and money enough to take care of you. What are
you starin' at, young 'un?"

This he said to the child, whose eyes, as if by a species of
fascination, were fixed upon him.

"Take me home to mamma!" pleaded the child, beginning to cry.
