histories, that were full of romance. And for story-writers, Miss
Leslie, who was entertaining magazine-readers, and Miss Sedgwick and
Lydia Maria Child. Then there was Hanny's favourite Mrs. Osgood, Alice
Carey, and Mrs. Welby coming into notice, and Longfellow, Hawthorne and
Emerson. The Doctor brought them up the new magazines, and said
everybody kept well. Ben came up and stayed a week, and added to their
stock of books.

They went down to Sleepy Hollow, though it had not become so famous for
pilgrimages. Mr. Irving had come home from Madrid, and friends dropped
in upon him. He always had a delightful welcome for them. They used to
sit out on the old porch and talk; or, when there were no guests, his
two nieces and some of his brothers' kept him company.

Ben summoned up courage and went down to see the charming man, beloved
of so many friends, taking his little sister with him. What a
delightful hour it was! Hanny was too shy to talk much, although she had
been so brave on the poet's old stoop at Fordham. Perhaps, really, there
was no opportunity, Ben kept the floor so entirely. They went in and
looked at the drawings from Rip Van Winkle and Ichabod Crane and
Katrina. But she still loved the old history that had charmed her so at
first, and she would have given him her child's adoration freely, if he
had written nothing else.

Ben had already seen a number of notable people. They often came in at
the Harpers'. He used to talk them over with Delia; and he thought now
what a fascinating story he should have to tell her.

The next day they went over to see grandmother and Uncle David. Jim was
up making a visit. His mother preferred to have him out of danger. He
and Ben were to go down to Yonkers; and though they were loth to spare
the little girl, she went back to Tarrytown.

It was October before the Doctor would let Margaret return to the city.
Daisy had grown so much, and was talking in a cunning, broken fashion.
Mrs. Underhill had made two brief visits; and though she seemed rather
nervous for her, she declared, "She had been very well all summer, and
that they had a great deal to be thankful for. She couldn't have left
father and the boys."

She had never been so demonstrative to Hanny, much as she had loved her.
She kept one arm around her, and could hardly bear her out of her
sight.

"Had she been content, and not made any trouble, and waited upon Cousin
Famie, and helped all she could? She was such a large girl now, and
ought to be useful."

Hanny smiled, and kissed her mother, and said: "She had tried to do her
best. And she had been very, very happy."

"Cousin Margaret, I do wonder if you appreciate that child," said
Roseann, when Hanny had gone out on the porch to have a romp with little
Daisy. "She's such a smart little thing, and not a bit set up about it.
I've been clear beat to see how she understands books, and people, too.
And she's so industrious and pleasant-tempered. She makes me think of
Grandmother Underhill and Aunt Eunice. I do hope you'll be able to keep
her. It's a providential mercy she hasn't been in the city all summer.
The cholera has been just awful! I don't see how you had the courage to
stay."

"My sons were there." The tears came to Mrs. Underhill's eyes. "And
though they were spared, they often needed me. No one really can know
what it was, unless they have been through it. Joe came home one night
so worn out that he stayed in bed all the next day. I just prayed every
moment; I felt as if I'd never prayed before. And there was all of
John's trouble. Yes; many a one has been called upon to part with their
nearest and dearest."

John Underhill's wife had lost both father and mother, within
twenty-four hours of each other. Then Cleanthe's little baby had been
born dead; and they had to move her to Mother Underhill's, more dead
than alive; but good care had at last restored her. The old Archer
cousins in Henry Street had gone; and many another among friends and
relatives.

They did not tell Hanny until she came home who had gone out of the
neighbourhood. Mrs. Reed had been among the first. She was getting ready
to go away with Charles, when the summons came. But the greatest sorrow
of all to her was the loss of Tudie Dean. She had been rather drooping
for several days; and one night Doctor Joe had been summoned, but in
vain. Two of the prettiest of the little Jewish children who had come to
the Whitney house were buried on the same day.

Cleanthe was still at home, as she called her mother-in-law's house. She
was very pale and wan, and just hugged Hanny to her heart, and cried
over her.

Charlie Reed sorrowed deeply for his mother.

"I don't just know how it came about," he said tremulously; "but we were
getting to be such friends; she took such a real interest in my studies;
and she seemed to want father to be happy in the things he liked. He's
most broken-hearted over it; and the house seems dreadful! Cousin Jane
advises father to break up and board; I think she's kind of nervous, and
wants a change. Oh, what a terrible time it has been; I am glad you
were away. And poor little Tudie Dean!"

They both cried over her. And when she went in to see Josie, she was
almost heart-broken; for Josie looked so strange and grown-up, and was
so grave.

Mrs. Dean pressed her to her heart.

"Thank God, my little dear," she exclaimed, "that your mother hasn't to
sorrow over any loss. Your brother has been heroic; and there was one
time when we were all afraid. He was so dead-tired that I know he
couldn't have lived if it had been cholera. The doctors were all heroes;
and many of them have given their lives."

Yet the world went on, over the thousands who had dropped out of it.
Business resumed its sway; even amusements started up. But there were
many sad households.

And though the Underhills had not taken Cleanthe to their hearts with
quite the fervor Dolly had awakened, they loved her very tenderly now;
and she seemed to slip in among them with a new and closer bond.

There would be a good deal of business to settle. John thought it better
to look about for a new partner. Mr. Bradley had left quite a fortune
for the times. He had been investing in up-town property, and John
thought it would be wise to build, and sell or rent as his wife desired.
The old home was dismantled, the best of the furniture stored for
further use.

He tried to persuade his father to go farther up-town. Joe was also a
factor in this matter.

For though the cholera had spared Dr. Fitch, the infirmities of age and
hard work had overtaken him. A nephew who had recently graduated, and
had the prestige of the same name, was anxious to take the practice. Joe
felt as if circumstances were shaping a change for him; and he was ready
now to take up a life of his own.

Then the Deans sold, and were to go up a little farther. Sometime, and
before many years, there would be street-cars, instead of the slow,
awkward stages, and people could get to and fro more rapidly. The trend
was unmistakably up-town.

Mr. Reed hired out his house furnished, and went over to the Deans to
board.

It seemed to Hanny that no one was quite the same. Nora Whitney was
almost a head taller than Hanny, and was getting to be a very stylish
girl. Her voice was considered promising, and was being cultivated. But
poor old Pussy Gray had rounded out his life, and slept under a great
white rosebush at the end of the yard. Mrs. Whitney's hair was nearly
all white, and she was a very pretty woman. Mr. Theodore was showing
silver in both hair and beard; but Delia changed very little. Aunt Clem
went on living in her serene and cheerful fashion.

And then the bells rang out for the mid-century, 1850! How wonderful it
seemed.

"I wonder if any one of us will live to nineteen hundred," questioned
Hanny, with a strange thrill of awe in her voice.

"I don't suppose I will," replied her father; "but some of you may.
Why, even Stephen wouldn't be much above eighty; and you'll be a little
past sixty!" He laughed with a mellow, amused sound. "And all you young
people of to-day will be telling your grandchildren how New York looked
at the half-century mark. Well, it has made rapid strides since eighteen
hundred. I sometimes wonder what there is to happen next. We have steam
on land and water. We have discovered Eldorado, and invented the
telegraph; and there are people figuring on laying one across the ocean.
That may come in your day."

"And a sewing-machine," added the little girl, smilingly.

The sewing-machine was attracting a good deal of attention now, and
making itself a useful factor.

But to live to see nineteen hundred! That would be like discovering the
fountain of perpetual youth.




CHAPTER XII

UP-TOWN


There had been so many delightful things in First Street, the little
girl thought at first it would almost break her heart to go away. Her
father, with the inertia of coming years, hated to be disturbed.

"I hoped, when we did make any change, we would build on the old place,"
he said. "I'd like country life again. But I am getting too old to farm;
and none of the boys care about it. If George had stayed at home," and
Father Underhill sighed.

George had not yet found his bonanza. There was gold in plenty in that
wonderful country. There were hardships, too. He kept those to tell of
in after years. It was a wild, rough, marvellous life; and every man of
them was waiting for a run of luck, that he might go East with his pile.
Meanwhile cities were begun.

Mrs. Underhill sighed a little also, in an undecided fashion. All the
children were here, and surely they could not go away and leave them
