
  “BRADLEY WENTWORTH.”

Gerald read this letter in ill-suppressed excitement. He could not
misunderstand these words, referring to the secret of which this man
had knowledge. “The man to whom you want to reveal it is dead, and his
son is dead also.” He, the son, was not dead, but it suited Bradley
Wentworth to represent that he was. What could this secret be? It
must, he felt, relate to the “debt of honor,” and to the forgery which
Wentworth had succeeded in laying upon the shoulders of his friend and
associate.

Hastings must possess some information of great value, or Bradley
Wentworth would not have sent the sums of money referred to in the
letter. Clearly it was for Gerald’s interest to see Thomas Hastings,
and learn what he could. He was quite in the dark as to the nature of
his information, but it was unquestionably of importance. It seemed as
if Providence had directed his steps to this out-of-the-way town in
Minnesota, and he resolved to take advantage of his visit.

He sauntered up to the desk and in a voice of affected unconcern
inquired, “Can you tell me where the man Hastings lives?”

“Are you interested in him?” asked the clerk, smilingly.

“Yes, somewhat. He looked so sad and woebegone. I might perhaps help
him to a position if I could have a conversation with him and judge of
his abilities.”

“Oh, his abilities are good, but his intemperate habits are so fixed
that I would not advise you to recommend him.”

“At any rate I can give him a dollar, and I suppose that will be
acceptable to him.”

“It will be a godsend. You will find that he won’t refuse it. As
to where he lives I can’t readily direct you, but here is a little
fellow,” pointing to a colored boy who had just entered, “who will be
glad to show you. Here, Johnny, do you want to earn a dime?”

“Don’t I just?” returned the boy, showing the whites of his eyes.

“Then show this young man the way to Tom Hastings’s house.”

“All right, boss, I’ll show him.”

Gerald followed the boy along the street for about twenty rods;
then down a side street, till he reached a shabby, two-story house,
dismantled and with the paint worn off in spots.

“That’s where he lives, boss,” said the boy.

“Does he occupy the whole house?”

“No, he occupies the right side.”

Gerald hesitated a moment at the gate and then walked in. He was
considering how he should introduce himself.

Thomas Hastings himself answered the knock on the door. He was in his
shirt-sleeves. There was a beard of nearly a week’s growth on his
cheeks, and he looked as neglected as the tenement which he occupied.
He eyed Gerald in some surprise, and waited for him to mention his
business.

“Are you Mr. Thomas Hastings?” asked the young visitor.

“Yes.”

“Are you acquainted with Bradley Wentworth of Seneca, Illinois?”

“Yes, do you come from him?” asked Hastings, eagerly.

“No, but I would like to talk with you about him. May I come in?”

Hastings looked backward, and the disordered rooms struck him with a
sudden sense of shame.

“No,” he said, “we can talk better outside. Wait a minute and I’ll be
with you.”




CHAPTER XXXVI.

OLD ACQUAINTANCES.


“NOW, what have you to say about Bradley Wentworth?” asked Hastings
abruptly, as they walked slowly up the road.

“First, let me ask you how long you have known him?”

“How long have I known him? Before you were born, youngster—a matter
of twenty years, I should say.”

“Did you know a man who was in the employ of Wentworth’s uncle at the
same time—Warren Lane?”

Hastings started.

“What do you know of Warren Lane?” he asked abruptly.

“He was my father,” answered Gerald.

“Your father! But I heard that he had died, leaving no son.”

“My poor father is dead, but I am as much alive as you are. Who told
you that I was dead?”

“Bradley Wentworth wrote me to that effect.”

“Bradley Wentworth would not be sorry to hear that I was dead, but he
knows better. He has seen and spoken with me more than once during the
last six months. He was at our cabin in Colorado when my poor father
died.”

“He is false and treacherous as he always was!” said Hastings bitterly.

“I can believe that. I consider him to be my bitter enemy, as he was my
father’s.”

“Then you know—the secret?”

“You refer to the forgery? Yes. How much do you know about it?”

“Everything,” answered Hastings emphatically.

“You know then his compact with my father?”

“I know of it. I was the only one that did know of it outside of your
father and Bradley Wentworth himself.”

“Then you probably know how basely he refused to pay my father the sum
agreed upon for his sacrifice of reputation.”

“I know that, too. The sum was twenty thousand dollars, was it not?”

“Yes, it was a debt of honor, or should have been considered such. I
don’t care so much for the money, but it was the price of my father’s
sacrifice, and in justice to his memory and his ruined life, I want
this man to pay it.”

“That’s sentiment, youngster. I should want the money for itself.”

“I can earn my own living. I am earning it now.”

“Where are you working?”

“In St. Louis. I am traveling for Gilbert Sandford, of that city. He is
a well-known merchant.”

“Never heard of him. You are young to travel for such a firm,”
continued Hastings, eying Gerald curiously.

“Yes, he engaged me as a favor, but I think that he has found my
services satisfactory, or he would not have taken me from the store and
sent me out on the road.”

“You must be smart, youngster. Did your father leave you anything?”

“A cabin and a few acres of land among the foothills of Colorado.”

“Have you any evidence of the agreement made by Bradley Wentworth?”

“I have two letters written by him on the subject, in which the matter
is plainly referred to.”

“Does he know that you have them?”

“Yes; he tried to buy them from me.”

“What did he offer?”

“A thousand dollars.”

“Then he considers your claim good. And you refused?”

“Of course!” answered Gerald indignantly. “Do you think I would
compromise such a thing?”

“I don’t know. A thousand dollars would be a mighty convenient sum to
handle.”

“I am not willing to pay so high a price for it. You must have been in
Mr. Wentworth’s confidence or you would not have known of the forgery.”

“Why shouldn’t I know it? I was the paying teller of the bank, and I
cashed the check in the ordinary course of business.”

“And the check—who presented it?” asked Gerald eagerly.

“Bradley Wentworth himself.”

“Then you knew all the while that it was he that was the forger and not
my father?”

“Yes.”

