
“Why not?” Elizabeth inquired anxiously.

“He did not ask for me, did he?” asked the girl, scarcely able to
utter the words.

“No,” said the woman, “but you know, everybody told me you were
engaged to a rich man--”

And Helen started forwrard with a cry. “Elizabeth!” she gasped,
“you--you didn’t---!”

“Yes,” said the other, “I told him.” And then seeing the girl’s look
of terror, she stopped short. Helen stared at her for fully half a
minute without uttering a word; and then the woman went on, slowly,
“It was very dreadful, Miss Helen; he went almost crazy, and I was
so frightened that I didn’t know what I should do. Please tell me
what is the matter.”

Helen was still gazing dumbly at the woman, seeming not to have
heard the last question. “I--I can’t tell you,” she said, when it
was repeated again; “you ought not to have told him, Elizabeth.”

“Miss Helen,” cried the woman, anxiously, “you must do something!
For I am sure that I know what is the matter; he loves you, and you
must know it, too. And it will certainly kill him; weak as he was,
he rushed out of the house, and I could not find him anywhere. Miss
Helen, you must go and see him!”

The girl sat with the same look of helpless fright upon her face,
and with her hands clenched tightly between her knees; the other
went on talking hurriedly, but Helen scarcely heard anything after
that; her mind was too full of its own thoughts. It was several
minutes more before she even noticed that the woman was still
insisting that she must go to see Artheur. “Please leave me now!”
 she cried wildly; “please leave me! I cannot explain anything,--I
want to be alone!” And when the door was shut she became once more
dumb and motionless, staring blankly ahead of her, a helpless victim
of her own wretched thoughts.

“That is the end of it,” she groaned to herself; “oh, that is the
end of it!”

Winkt dir nicht hold die hehre Burg?




CHAPTER VIII


  Thou would’st be happy,
  Endlessly happy,
  Or endlessly wretched.

Helen was quite powerless to do anything whatever after that last
piece of misfortune; it seemed as if she could have remained just
where she was for hours, shuddering at the sight of what was
happening, yet utterly helpless before it. The world was taking a
very serious aspect indeed to the bright and laughing girl, who had
thought of it as the home of birds and flowers; yet she knew not
what to make of the change, or how she was to blame for it, and she
could only sit still and tremble. She was in the same position and
the same state of mind when her aunt entered the room some minutes
later.

Mrs. Roberts stood watching her silently, and then as Helen turned
her gaze of pleading misery upon her, she came forward and sat down
in a chair by the bedside, and fixed her keen eyes upon the girl.

“Oh, Aunt Polly!” cried Helen; “what am I to do? I am so wretched!”

“I have just been talking to Elizabeth,” said Mrs. Roberts, with
some sternness, “and she’s been telling you about Arthur--is that
what is the matter with you, Helen?”

“Yes,” was the trembling response, “what can I do?”

“Tell me, Helen, in the first place,” demanded the other. “When you
saw Arthur that day in the woods, what did you do? Did you make him
any promises?”

“No, Auntie.”

“Did you hold out any hopes to him? Did you say anything to him at
all about love?”

“I--I told him it was impossible,” said Helen, eagerly, clutching at
that little crumb of comfort.

“Then in Heaven’s name, child,” cried the other in amazement, “what
is the matter with you? If Arthur chooses to carry on in this
fashion, why in the world should you punish yourself in this
horrible way? What is the matter with you, Helen? Are you
responsible to him for your marriage? I don’t know which is the most
absurd, the boy’s behavior, or your worrying about it.”

“But, Auntie,” stammered the girl, “he is so ill--he might die!”

“Die, bosh!” exclaimed Mrs. Roberts; “he frightened Elizabeth by his
ravings; it is the most absurd nonsense,--he a penniless
school-teacher, and the Lord only knows what besides! I only wish
I’d been there to talk to him, for I don’t think he’d have
frightened me! What in the world do you suppose he wants, anyway? Is
he mad enough to expect you to marry him?”

“I don’t know, Aunt Polly,” said Helen, weakly.

“I’d never have believed that Arthur could be capable of anything so
preposterous as this behavior,” vowed Mrs. Roberts; “and then to
come up here and find you wearing yourself to a skeleton about it!”

“It isn’t only that, Auntie,” protested Helen, “there is so much
else; I am miserable!”

“Yes,” said the other, grimly; “I see it as well as you, and there’s
just about as much reason in any of it as in the matter of Arthur.”
 Then Mrs. Roberts moved her chair nearer, and after gazing at Helen
for a moment, began again. “I’ve been meaning to say something to
you, and it might just as well be said now. For all this matter is
coming to a climax, Helen; it can’t go on this way very much longer,
for you’ll kill yourself. It’s got to be settled one way or the
other, once and for all.” And Mrs. Roberts stopped and took a deep
breath, preparing for one more struggle; Helen still gazed at her
helplessly.

“I’m not going to say anything more about Arthur,” declared the
woman; “if you choose to torment yourself about such absurdities, I
can’t help it. Arthur’s behavior is not the least your fault, and
you know it; but all the other trouble is your fault, and there’s
nobody else to blame. For the question is just as simple as the day,
Helen, and you must see it and decide it; you’ve got to choose
between one of two things, either to marry Mr. Harrison or to give
him up; and there’s no excuse for your hesitating and tormenting
yourself one day longer.”

Then the indomitable woman set to work at her old task of conjuring
up before the girl’s eyes all the allurements that had so often made
her heart throb; she, pictured Fairview and all its luxuries, and
the admiration and power that must be hers when she was mistress of
it; and she mentioned every other source of pleasure that she knew
would stir Helen’s eager thirst. After having hammered away at that
theme until she saw signs of the effect she desired, she turned to
the other side of the picture.

“Helen,” she demanded, “is it really possible for you to think of
giving up these things and going back to live in that miserable
little house at Oakdale? Can you not see that you would be simply
burying yourself alive? You might just as well be as ugly as those
horrible Nelson girls across the way. Helen, you know you belong
to a different station in life than those people! You know you have
a right to some of the beautiful things in the world, and you know
that after this vision of everything perfect that you have seen, you
can never possibly be happy in your ignorant girlish way again. You
have promised Mr. Harrison to marry him, and made him go to all the
expense that he has; and you’ve told everybody you know, and all the
world is talking about your triumph; and you’ve had Mr. Roberts go
to all the trouble he has about your trousseau,--surely, Helen, you
cannot dream of changing your mind and giving all this up. It is
ridiculous to talk about it.”

“I don’t want to give it up,” protested the girl, moaning, “but, oh,
I can’t--”

“I know!” exclaimed the other. “I’ve heard all that a thousand
times. Don’t you see, Helen, that you’ve simply got to marry him!
There is no other possibility to think of, and all of your weakness
is that you don’t perceive that fact, and make up your mind to it.
Just see how absurd you are, to make yourself ill in this way.”

“But I can’t help it, Auntie, indeed I can’t!”

“You could help it if you wanted to,” vowed the other. “I am quite
disgusted with you. I have told you a thousand times that this is
all an imaginary terror that you are conjuring up for yourself, to
ruin your health and happiness. When you have married him you will
see that it’s just as I tell you, and you’ll laugh at yourself for
feeling as you did.”

“But it’s in the meantime, Aunt Polly--it’s having to think about
it that frightens me.”

“Well, let me tell you one thing,” said Mrs. Roberts; “if I found
that I couldn’t cure myself of such weakness as this, sooner than
let it ruin my life and make everyone about me wretched, I’d settle
the matter right now and forever; I’d marry him within a week,
Helen!” And the resolute little woman clenched her hands grimly.
“Yes, I would,” she exclaimed, “and if I found I hadn’t strength
enough to hold my resolution, I’d marry him to-morrow, and there’d
be an end to it!”

“You don’t realize, Helen, how you treat Mr. Harrison,” she went on,
as the girl shuddered; “and how patient he is. You’d not find many
men like him in that respect, my dear. For he’s madly in love with
you, and you treat him as coldly as if he were a stranger. I can see
that, for I watch you, and I can see how it offends him. You have
promised to be his wife, Helen, and yet you behave in this
ridiculous way. You are making yourself ill, and you look years
older every day, yet you make not the least attempt to conquer
yourself.”
