it. He turned and started to walk out of the woods by my side. We came
presently to some open fields. Beyond them was the road, and after we
had climbed the first wall, and found ourselves in a somewhat lighter
place, he began to speak again.

"I thought," he said, "that if you had forgiven me, I could take it as a
sign that I had suffered enough to satisfy everybody."

"We needn't dwell upon my share in the matter, Tedham," I answered, as
kindly as I could. "That was entirely my own affair."

"You can't think," he pursued, "how much your letter was to me. It came
when I was in perfect despair--in those awful first days when it seemed
as if I could not bear it, and yet death itself would be no relief.
Oh, they don't know how much we suffer! If they did, they would
forgive us anything, everything! Your letter was the first gleam of hope
I had. I don't know how you came to write it!"

"Why, of course, Tedham, I felt sorry for you--"

"Oh, did you, did you?" He began to cry, and as we hurried along over
the fields, he sobbed with the wrenching, rending sobs of a man. "I
knew you did, and I believe it was God himself that put it into your
heart to write me that letter and take off that much of the blame from
me. I said to myself that if I ever lived through it, I would try to
tell you how much you had done for me. I don't blame you for refusing to
do what I've asked you now. I can see how you may think it isn't best,
and I thank you all the same for that letter. I've got it here." He took
a letter out of his breast-pocket, and showed it to me. "It isn't the
first time I've cried over it."

I did not say anything, for my heart was in my throat, and we stumbled
along in silence till we climbed the last wall, and stood on the
sidewalk that skirted the suburban highway. There, under the
street-lamp, we stopped a moment, and it was he who now offered me his
hand for parting. I took it, and we said, together, "Well, good-by," and
moved in different directions. I knew very well that I should turn back,
and I had not gone a hundred feet away when I faced about. He was
shambling off into the dusk, a most hapless figure. "Tedham!" I called
after him.

"Well?" he answered, and he halted instantly; he had evidently known
what I would do as well as I had.

We reapproached each other, and when we were again under the lamp I
asked, a little awkwardly, "Are you in need of money, Tedham?"

"I've got my ten years' wages with me," he said, with a lightness that
must have come from his reviving hope in me. He drew his hand out of his
pocket, and showed me the few dollars with which the State inhumanly
turns society's outcasts back into the world again.

"Oh, that won't do." I said. "You must let me lend you something."

"Thank you," he said, with perfect simplicity. "But you know I can't
tell when I shall be able to pay you."

"Oh, that's all right." I gave him a ten-dollar note which I had loose
in my pocket; it was one that my wife had told me to get changed at the
grocery near the station, and I had walked off to the old temple, or the
old cockpit, and forgotten about it.

Tedham took the note, but he said, holding it in his hand, "I would a
million times rather you would let me go home with you and see Mrs.
March a moment."

"I can't do that, Tedham," I answered, not unkindly, I hope. "I know
what you mean, and I assure you that it wouldn't be the least use. It's
because I feel so sure that my wife wouldn't like my going to see Mrs.
Hasketh, that I--"

"Yes, I know that," said Tedham. "That is the reason why I should like
to see Mrs. March. I believe that if I could see her, I could convince
her."

"She wouldn't see you, my dear fellow," said I, strangely finding myself
on these caressing terms with him. "She entirely approved of what I did,
the letter I wrote you, but I don't believe she will ever feel just as I
do about it. Women are different, you know."

"Yes," he said, drawing a long, quivering breath.

We stood there, helpless to part. He did not offer to leave me, and I
could not find it in my heart to abandon him. After a most painful time,
he drew another long breath, and asked, "Would you be willing to let me
take the chances?"

"Why, Tedham," I began, weakly; and upon that he began walking with me
again.


III.

I went to my wife's room, after I reached the house, and faced her with
considerable trepidation. I had to begin rather far off, but I certainly
began in a way to lead up to the fact. "Isabel," I said, "Tedham is out
at last." I had it on my tongue to say poor Tedham, but I suppressed the
qualification in actual speech as likely to prove unavailing, or worse.

"Is that what kept you!" she demanded, instantly. "Have you seen him?"

"Yes," I admitted. I added, "Though I am afraid I was rather late,
anyway."

"I knew it was he, the moment you spoke," she said, rising on the lounge
where she had been lying, and sitting up on it; with the book she had
been reading shut on her thumb, she faced me across the table where her
lamp stood. "I had a presentiment when the children said there was some
strange-looking man here, asking for you, and that they had told him
where to find you. I couldn't help feeling a little uneasy about it.
What did he want with you, Basil?"

"Well, he wanted to know where his daughter was."

"You didn't tell him!"

"I didn't know. Then he wanted me to go to Mrs. Hasketh and find out."

"You didn't say you would?"

"I said most decidedly I wouldn't," I returned, and I recalled my
severity to Tedham in refusing his prayer with more satisfaction than it
had given me at the time. "I told him that I had no business to
interfere, and that I was not sure it would be right even for me to
meddle with the course things had taken." I was aware of weakening my
case as I went on; I had better left her with a dramatic conception of a
downright and relentless refusal.

"I don't see why you felt called upon to make excuses to him, Basil. His
impudence in coming to you, of all men, is perfectly intolerable. I
suppose it was that sentimental letter you wrote him."

"You didn't think it sentimental at the time, my dear. You approved of
it."

"I didn't approve of it, Basil; but if you felt so strongly that you
ought to do it, I felt that I ought to let you. I have never interfered
with your sense of duty, and I never will. But I am glad that you didn't
feel it your duty to that wretch to go and make more trouble on his
account. He has made quite enough already; and it wasn't his fault that
you were not tried and convicted in his place."

"There wasn't the slightest danger of that--"

"He tried to put the suspicion on you, and to bring the disgrace on your
wife and children."

"Well, my dear, we agreed to forget all that long ago. And I don't
think--I never thought--that Tedham would have let the suspicion rest on
me. He merely wanted to give it that turn, when the investigation began,
so as to gain time to get out to Canada."

My wife looked at me with a glance in which I saw tender affection
dangerously near contempt. "You are a very forgiving man, Basil," she
said, and I looked down sheepishly. "Well, at any rate, you have had the
sense not to mix yourself up in his business. Did he pretend that he
came straight to you, as soon as he got out? I suppose he wanted you to
believe that he appealed to you before he tried anybody else."

"Yes, he stopped at the Reciprocity office to ask for my address, and
after he had visited the cemetery he came on out here. And, if you must
know, I think Tedham is still the old Tedham. Put him behind a good
horse, with a pocketful of some one else's money, in a handsome suit of
clothes, and a game-and-fish dinner at Tafft's in immediate prospect,
and you couldn't see any difference between the Tedham of to-day and the
Tedham of ten years ago, except that the actual Tedham is clean-shaved
and wears his hair cut rather close."

"Basil!"

"Why do you object to the fact? Did you imagine he had changed
inwardly?"

"He must have suffered."

"But does suffering change people? I doubt it. Certain material
accessories of Tedham's have changed. But why should that change Tedham?
Of course, he has suffered, and he suffers still. He threw out some
hints of what he had been through that would have broken my heart if I
hadn't hardened it against him. And he loves his daughter still, and he
wants to see her, poor wretch."

"I suppose he does!" sighed my wife.

"He would hardly take no for an answer from me, when I said I wouldn't
go to the Haskeths for him; and when I fairly shook him off, he wanted
me to ask you to go."

"And what did you say?" she asked, not at all with the resentment I had
counted upon equally with the possible pathos; you never can tell in the
least how any woman will take anything, which is perhaps the reason why
men do not trust women more.

"I told him that it would not be the smallest use to ask you; that you
had forgiven that old affair as well as I had, but that women were
different, and that I knew you wouldn't even see him."

"Well, Basil, I don't know what right you had to put me in that odious
light," said my wife.

