if this be solitude, then imprison me here, and not in the cities,
where solitude is in men's hearts!

Five miles still lay before us over the moist, springy forest road, an
excellent and carefully constructed thoroughfare which had been begun
by Sir William and designed for a short and direct route to those
healing springs of Saratoga which he loved, twenty-eight miles
northeast of us. But this route had never been continued east of
Fonda's Bush, partly because the winding Kennyetto interfered too
often, demanding to be bridged a dozen times in a mile, partly because
an easier though longer route had been surveyed by the engineer
officers from Albany, and was already roughly marked as far as the
Diamond Hill, from which, in clear weather, the Saratoga lake may be
seen.

The road we travelled, therefore, came to an abrupt end on the banks
of the Kennyetto; and here, in a sunny clearing which was a sugar-bush
lately in use, the wagon and its passengers halted, and I dismounted,
flinging my bridle to one of the soldiers.

"Souse the stone jugs in the stream!" called out Sir William to young
Bareshanks, who came bumping up with his bottles a-knocking and his
hat crammed on his ears.

Peter and Esk wriggled out of the straw, fighting over a red and blue
bob-float, and fell with a thump upon the moss, locked in conflict.
Whereupon Sir William fetched them a clip with his ivory cane across
their buttocks, which brought them up snivelling, but reconciled.

Meanwhile Mr. Duncan had gone to the bank of the stream with six sharp
pegs, all numbered; and presently Sir William joined him, where they
consulted seriously concerning the proper ground, and took snuff and
hummed and hawed with much wagging of heads and many eye-squints at
the sky and water.

At last, the question being settled, Mr. Duncan set the six pegs ten
yards apart and pushed them noiselessly down into the bank, while Sir
William removed his hat and placed in the crown six bits of birch-bark
with numbers written on each.

"Now, then, young wild-cats," he said, frowning at Esk and Peter,
"and you, Felicity, you, too, Mr. Duncan, and Michael, also, come and
draw lots for pegs. Zounds! Peter! Ladies first, sir! Now, Felicity!"

Silver Heels placed one hand over her eyes and groped in the hat until
her fingers clutched a square of bark. Then she drew it out.

"Number six!" she said, shyly.

"Last peg to the left," announced Sir William. "Who next? Draw, Mr.
Duncan!"

"Me! Me!" shouted Peter and Esk, charging at the hat and tearing their
numbers from it.

Then Mr. Duncan drew, and then I drew number five.

"Get ready!" commanded Sir William, fumbling with his fish-rod.
"Michael, take care of Felicity!"

Now the rules for a peg-down fishing match are few and simple. Each
contestant must fish from the position which his peg indicates, and he
must not leave his peg to fish elsewhere until the match is ended.
Furthermore, he must fish courteously and with due regard for his
neighbour's rights, employing no unfair means to attract fish to his
own bait or to drive them from his neighbour's. The contestant
securing the largest number of fish is the winner; he who bags the
largest single fish is adjudged worthy of a second prize; he who
secures the choicest individual fish receives a crown of young oak
leaves.

At the words, "Take your stations!" we trooped to our pegs. Silver
Heels was on the extreme left, I next, then Sir William, then Mr.
Duncan, then Peter, and, last of all, Esk.

"Fish!" cried Sir William, and swung his rod from the wrist, sending a
green and gray and scarlet feather-fly out into the water.

Silver Heels held her hook out to me and I garnished it with a bit of
eel's skin and red flannel. My own line I baited with angle-worm, and
together we cast out into the slow, deep current.

Farther along I heard Esk and Peter cast out with some heedless
splashing, which was the occasion of mutual recrimination until Sir
William silenced them.

Yet almost immediately fat Peter caught a fish, which is like all
Indians. However, it was but a spiny sun-fish with blue and scarlet
and yellow gills. Still it made Peter's score one.

"Does that count?" asked Silver Heels, turning up her nose. "See!
Peter hath another one--a sun-fish, too! Pooh! Anybody can catch
sun-fish."

"Better catch 'em then," said Sir William, laughing, and drawing his
fly over the water to recover it for another cast.

Splash!--and Peter had a third sun-fish; and in another moment Esk
jerked a fourth from the water, secured his prize with a scowl at
Peter, and hurriedly rebaited, muttering and breathing thickly.

Then Mr. Duncan's yellow float bobbed under, once, twice, then bobbed
so fast that the water dimpled all around and the little rings,
spreading, succeeded each other so quickly that the wavelets covered
the yellow float.

"A barbel-pout," quoth Mr. Duncan, coolly, and sure enough up came the
bluish-black fish and flapped and squeaked, now on its white belly,
now on its back, grinning with its gummy, whiskered maw agape and its
three dagger fins ready to stab and poison him who rashly grasped it.

"Silver Heels," said I, politely; "you are having a nibble."

"Oh, so I am!" she cried, and drew a lovely blue and silver frost-fish
to the surface, only to lose it by over-haste, and cry out in her
vexation.

I explained to her how to strike the hook before pulling in, and she
thanked me very modestly. There was a new and humble tone in her
voice, delicate and grateful flattery to me, due, as I knew perfectly
well, to my uniform. Nor did the tribute savour of any after-sting of
jealousy or resentment for my new honours.

She recognized that I had climbed high in a single day, leaving the
rounds of childhood behind forever; and she knew, too, which I did
not, that she also was climbing the ladder very swiftly, a little
behind me now, yet confident, and meaning to rejoin and pass me ere I
dreamed of such a thing.

About this time Sir William hooked and landed a great pink and white
Mohawk chub, which had risen silently from a black pool and had sucked
in his feather-fly.

"Tush!" said Sir William. "I'll not count that!" And with a slack and
a snip! he unhooked the fish, which at once slowly sank back into the
black channel. Whereupon Sir William smoothed out his fly, and took
snuff, singing merrily:

     "A-Maying!
     A-Maying!"

"You bade us make no noise, sir," spoke up Esk, reproachfully.

"So I did, lad! So I did! But not with thy mouth. Shout all day, and
never a trout budges. Stamp thy feet--ay, brush but a stone in
passing, and it's farewell, master troutling! Ho! What was that?"

A spattering and splashing arose from Peter's peg, and all turned to
see the fat little Mohawk dragging a trout from the water and up the
bank, where he fell upon the bouncing fish, whooping like the savage
he was.

"Clearly," mused Sir William, "my eye has lost its cunning, and my arm
its strength. So passes the generation that was born with me!
Heigh-ho! Well done, Peter boy!"

Silver Heels was doomed to ill-fortune. She lost a second frost-fish,
and was ready to weep. So I laid my rod on the bank, leaving the
baited hook in the water, and went over to her, for she seemed
discouraged, having broken her hook and quill.

"Fen dubs!" shouted Peter, from the other end of the line. "You can't
do that, Michael! I'm ahead of you all, and it is not fair!"

"Mind your business," said I, sitting down beside Silver Heels; and
truly enough he did, for, before I was seated, Peter jumped up,
struggling with a fat white perch, which he landed, yelling and
dancing in his vanity.

"Never you mind, Silver Heels," said I, tying a plated hook on her
line, and covering it with a long silvery strip of skin and
pin-feathers from a pullet's neck. "Now do as I say; toss the bait
down stream, so! Now draw it slowly till it spins like a top."

Ere I could end my instructions I saw the nose of a great gold-green
pike close after her bait.

"Slack!" I whispered. "He has it!"

She held the rod still. There came a twitch, more twitches, but so
gentle you would have vowed 'twas a tender-mouthed minnow lipping the
line.

"He gorged it," I muttered; "strike hard!"

"A log!" wailed Silver Heels, as she felt the rod stagger when the
hook, deeply struck, embedded barb and shank.

But it was no log, for instantly the great fish shot into the air, and
lay a-wallowing and thrashing in mid-stream.

"A chain-pike!" cried Sir William, briskly. "Do you net him, Michael,
else Felicity will take a swim she has not bargained for!"

I ran to Sir William, who thrust the net at me, and back again as fast
as my legs could move to Silver Heels, who had dropped the rod and
now, sprawling on the moss, lay a-pulling at the line which was
cutting her tender fingers.

"No fair!" bellowed fat Peter, jealously. "Let her bag her own game as
