
"I am not arguing with you.  I should only be wasting my time.  I am
simply warning you that you are about to commit a folly."

"I have made up my mind."

"Ah!  In that case I have hopes," he returned.  "When a woman makes up
her mind to do one thing, she generally does another.  Why can't you
put aside this fool idea and go to the opera with me?"

"I have seen Carmen in Paris, Rome, London and New York," she replied.

(Evidently a traveled young person.)

"Carmen is your favorite opera, besides."

"Not to-night,"--whimsically.

"Go, then; but please recollect that if anything serious comes of your
folly, I did my best to prevent it.  It's a scatter-brained idea, and
no good will come of it, mark me."

"I can take care of myself,"--truculently.

"So I have often been forced to observe,"--dryly.

(I wondered what it was all about.)

"But, uncle dear, I am becoming so dreadfully bored!"

"That sounds final," sighed the old man, helping himself to the
haricots verts.  (The girl ate positively nothing.)  "But it seems
odd that you can't go about your affairs after my own reasonable
manner."

"I am only twenty."

The old man's shoulders rose and fell resignedly.

"No man has an answer for that."

"I promise to tell you everything that happens; by telegraph."

"That's small comfort.  Imagine receiving a telegram early in the
morning, when a man's brain is without invention or coherency of
thought!  I would that you were back home with your father.  I might
sleep o' nights, then."

"I have so little amusement!"

"You work three hours a day and earn more in a week than your father
and I do in a month.  Yours is a very unhappy lot."

"I hate the smell of paints; I hate the studio."

"And I suppose you hate your fame?" acridly.

"Bah! that is my card to a living.  The people I meet bore me."

"Not satisfied with common folks, eh?  Must have kings and queens to
talk to?"

"I only want to live abroad, and you and father will not let
me,"--petulantly.

The music started up, and I heard no more.  Occasionally the girl
glanced at me and smiled in a friendly fashion.  She was evidently an
artist's model; and when they have hair and color like this girl's, the
pay is good.  I found myself wondering why she was bored and why Carmen
had so suddenly lost its charms.

It was seven o'clock when I pushed aside my plate and paid my check.  I
calculated that by hustling I could reach Blankshire either at ten or
ten-thirty.  That would be early enough for my needs.  And now to route
out a costumer.  All I needed was a grey mask.  I had in my apartments
a Capuchin's robe and cowl.  I rose, lighting a cigarette.

The girl looked up from her coffee.

"Back to the dime-museum?"--banteringly.

"I have a few minutes to spare," said I.

"By the way, I forgot to ask you what card you drew."

"It was the ten of hearts."

"The ten of hearts?"  Her amazement was not understandable.

"Yes, the ten of hearts; Cupid and all that."

She recovered her composure quickly.

"Then you will not blow up the post-office to-night?"

"No," I replied, "not to-night."

"You have really and truly aroused my curiosity.  Tell me, what does
the ten of hearts mean to you?"

I gazed thoughtfully down at her.  Had I truly mystified her?  There
was some doubt in my mind.

"Frankly, I wish I might tell you.  All I am at liberty to say is that
I am about to set forth upon a desperate adventure, and I shall be very
fortunate if I do not spend the night in the lock-up."

"You do not look desperate."

"Oh, I am not desperate; it is only the adventure that is desperate."

"Some princess in durance vile?  Some villain to smite?  Citadels to
storm?"  Her smile was enchantment itself.

I hesitated a moment.  "What would you say if I told you that this
adventure was merely to prove to myself what a consummate ass the
average man can be upon occasions?"

"Why go to the trouble of proving it?"--drolly.

"I am conceited enough to have some doubts as to the degree."

"Consider it positive."

I laughed.  "I am in hopes that I am neither a positive ass nor a
superlative one, only comparative."

"But the adventure; that is the thing that mainly interests me."

"Oh, that is a secret which I should hesitate to tell even to the
Sphinx."

"I see you are determined not to illuminate the darkness,"--and she
turned carelessly toward her uncle, who was serenely contemplating the
glowing end of a fat perfecto.

I bowed and passed out in Sixth Avenue, rather regretting that I had
not the pleasure of the charming young person's acquaintance.

The ten-spot of hearts seemed to have startled her for some reason.  I
wondered why.

The snow blew about me, whirled, and swirled, and stung.  Oddly enough
I recalled the paragraph relative to Mrs. Hyphen-Bonds.  By this time
she was being very well tossed about in mid-ocean.  As the old order of
yarn-spinners used to say, little did I dream what was in store for me,
or the influence the magic name of Hyphen-Bonds was to have upon my
destiny.

Bismillah!  (Whatever that means!)




II

After half an hour's wandering about I stumbled across a curio-shop, a
weird, dim and dusty, musty old curio-shop, with stuffed peacocks
hanging from the ceiling, and skulls, and bronzes and marbles,
paintings, tarnished jewelry and ancient armor, rare books in vellum,
small arms, tapestry, pastimes, plaster masks, and musical instruments.
I recalled to mind the shop of the dealer in antiquities in Balzac's
La Peau de Chagrin, and glanced about (not without a shiver) for the
fatal ass's skin.  (I forgot that I was wearing it myself that night!)
I was something of a collector of antiquities, of the inanimate kind,
and for a time I became lost in speculation,--speculation rather
agreeable of its kind, I liked to conjure up in fancy the various
scenes through which these curiosities had drifted in their descent to
this demi-pawnshop; the brave men and beautiful women, the clangor of
tocsins, the haze of battles, the glitter of ball-rooms, epochs and
ages.  What romance lay behind yon satin slipper?  What grande dame
had smiled behind that ivory fan?  What meant that tarnished silver
mask?

The old French proprietor was evidently all things from a pawnbroker to
an art collector; for most of the jewelry was in excellent order and
the pictures possessed value far beyond the intrinsic.  He was waiting
upon a customer, and the dingy light that shone down on his bald bumpy
head made it look for all the world like an ill-used billiard-ball.  He
was exhibiting revolvers.

From the shining metal of the small arms, my glance traveled to the
face of the prospective buyer.  It was an interesting face, clean-cut,
beardless, energetic, but the mouth impressed me as being rather hard.
Doubtless he felt the magnetism of my scrutiny, for he suddenly looked
around.  The expression on his face was not one to induce me to throw
my arms around his neck and declare I should be glad to make his
acquaintance.  It was a scowl.  He was in evening dress, and I could
see that he knew very well how to wear it.  All this was but momentary.
He took up a revolver and balanced it on his palm.

By and by the proprietor came sidling along behind the cases, the
slip-slip fashion of his approach informing me that he wore slippers.

"Do you keep costumes?" I asked.

"Anything you like, sir, from a crusader to a modern gentleman,"--with
grim and appropriate irony.  "What is it you are in search of--a
masquerade costume?'"

