"Mr. Balberry!" The call came from the housekeeper. "Are you up?"

"Yes, I am."

"Oh, all right."

"But it ain't all right! Nat's up too."

"Is he down there with you?"

"No, I don't know at all where he is. I'm a-lookin' fer him."

By this time Mrs. Felton's curiosity was aroused and she lost no time in
slipping on her wrapper. When she came down she brought with her a lamp.

"Where do you suppose he went?" she asked.

"How do I know?" snarled Abner Balberry.

The housekeeper happened to glance into the pantry. She was about to
utter an exclamation, but checked herself.

"What did you say, Mrs. Felton?"

"I--I didn't say anything."

"He ain't in there, is he?"

"No."

"Has he been at the victuals?"

"Not--not very much," stammered the housekeeper.

"Humph! I guess he ate as much as he wanted. Jest wait till I catch
him--I'll tan him harder than he was ever tanned before!"

"Maybe he went to bed again."

"No, I jest looked into his room."

Abner Balberry unlocked the kitchen door and stepped out into the
dooryard. As he did this he caught sight of somebody running swiftly
down the road.

"Hi! Stop!" he yelled. "Stop, Nat, do you hear?"

To this there was no answer, and the fleeing individual merely ran the
faster.

"Was it Nat?" asked the housekeeper.

"To be sure it was. Oh, wait till I lay my hands on him!" And the farmer
shook his fist at the figure that was fast disappearing in the gloom.

"What's that light in the barn?" demanded Mrs. Felton, an instant later.

"Light? Where?"

"Up in the haymow."

Abner Balberry gave a glance toward the structure.

"The barn's afire!" he screamed. "Thet good-fer-nuthin' boy has set the
place on fire!"

"Oh! oh!" screamed the housekeeper, and began to tremble from head to
feet, for to her mind a fire was the most dreadful thing that could
happen.

"I've got to git thet fire out," said the farmer, and ran toward the
barn with all speed.

"Be careful, or you'll be burnt up!" screamed Mrs. Felton.

"Go on an' git the water pails!" said the farmer. "Fill everything with
water. An' bring a rag carpet, an' I'll soak thet too!"

He already had an old patch of carpet used at the doorstep in his hand,
and this he soused in the watering trough as he passed. Then he ran into
the open barn and mounted to the loft.

The fire was in a patch of hay at one end of the loft, close to an open
window. Regardless of his personal safety, Abner Balberry leaped in and
threw part of the hay out of the window. Then he began to beat out the
fire with the water-soaked carpet.

"Here's some water," came timidly from below, and Mrs. Felton appeared
with two pails full to the brim. He took these upstairs and dashed them
on the flames.

"You look out or you'll be burnt up!" cried the housekeeper. She was
trembling to such a degree that she could scarcely stand.

"Git some more water," was Abner Balberry's only reply. The thought that
his barn might be totally destroyed filled him with dread, for there was
no insurance on the structure--he being too miserly to pay the premium
demanded by the insurance company.

More water was procured by Mrs. Felton, and at last it was apparent that
the farmer was getting the best of the fire. He worked hard and did not
seem to mind the fact that his eyebrows were singed and his hands
slightly blistered.

"There! now I've got it!" he sighed at last.

"Are you sure?" asked the housekeeper in a faint voice.

"Yes, but I'm a-goin' to hunt around fer sparks. Git some more water."

Additional water was soon at hand, and Abner Balberry began a minute
search of the whole loft, on the lookout for stray sparks. A few were
found and extinguished, and then the excitement came to an end.

"How thankful I am that the barn didn't burn down," said the
housekeeper, as the farmer came below and began to bathe his face and
hands.

"It was hot work."

"Are you burnt much?"

"More'n I want to be. Jest wait till I catch Nat!"

"Do you think----" began the housekeeper.

"O' course I do!" snorted Abner Balberry. "Didn't I see him a-runnin'
away from the barn?"

"I never thought Nat would be wicked enough to set a barn on fire."

"He was mad because I wouldn't give him no supper. He's a young rascal,
he is!"

"But to burn a barn!"

"Thet boy has got to be taken in hand, Mrs. Felton. I've let him have
his own way too much. I'm goin' to lay down the law good an' hard after
this."

"Maybe he won't come back," suggested the housekeeper.

This thought startled the farmer and he lost no time in finishing his
washing.

"I'm goin' after him," he announced. "If he thinks to run away I'll put
a spoke in his wheel putty quick."

Taking another look around, to make certain that the fire was really
out, Abner Balberry brought out one of his horses and hitched the animal
to a buckboard, in the meantime sending the housekeeper back to the
house to get his hat and coat.

"Where do you suppose you'll find him?" asked Mrs. Felton.

"Somewhere along the road most likely."

"Maybe he'll hide on you."

"He had better not. If he does that, I'll call on the squire about him."

"Can you do that?"

"O' course I can. Didn't he try to burn down the barn? The squire can
make out a warrant for his arrest."

"It would be awful to have him arrested."

"Well, he brought it on himself," answered Abner Balberry, doggedly. "He
had no right to try to set the barn afire. Next thing you know, Mrs.
Felton, he'll be a-trying to burn us up in our beds."

"Oh, I don't think Nat would be as bad as that."

"You don't know thet boy as well as I do. He's sly an' stubborn, and
he'll do 'most anything when he's crossed. But I'll fix him! Jest you
wait an' see!"

"How far will you follow him?"

"As far as it's necessary. If he thinks he can git away from me he'll
find out, sooner or later, he is mistaken."

"You don't know when you'll be back?"

"No. It may be I'll have to wait in town till the squire opens his
office--that is, if I can't find Nat."

"But you are going to look for him yourself first?"

"Yes."

With this answer Abner Balberry drove off in the darkness. Mrs. Felton
watched him and heaved a long and deep sigh.

"Too bad!" she murmured. "If he catches Nat it will surely go hard with
that boy. Well, I didn't think he was bad enough to set fire to a
barn!"


