
The visiting physician, who was a man of learning and reputation, came
three hours later and examined Marcello with interest. The boy had not
suffered much by sleeping on the tail of the cart in the warm summer's
night, and was now greatly refreshed by the cleanliness and comparative
luxury of his new surroundings. He had no fever now and had slept
quietly for two hours, but when he tried to remember what had happened
to him, where he had been, and how he had come to the place where he
was, it all grew vague and intricate by turns, and his memories faded
away like the dreams we try to recall when we can only just recollect
that we have had a dream of some sort. He knew that he was called
Marcello, but the rest was gone; he knew that a beautiful creature had
taken care of him, and that her name was Regina. How long? How many days
and nights had he lain in the attic, hot by day and cold at night? He
could not guess, and it tired him to try.

The doctor asked two or three questions while he examined him, and then
stood quite still for a few seconds, watching him intently. The two
young house surgeons who accompanied the great man kept a respectful
silence, waiting for his opinion. When he found an interesting case he
sometimes delivered a little lecture on it, in a quiet monotonous tone
that did not disturb the other patients. But to-day he did not seem
inclined to talk.

"Convalescent," he said, "at least of the fever. He needs good food
more than anything else. In two days he will be walking about."

He passed on, but in his own mind he was wondering what was the matter
with the young man, why he had lost his memory, and what accident had
brought him alone and friendless to one of the city hospitals. For the
present it would be better to let him alone rather than tire him by a
thorough examination of his head. There was probably a small fracture
somewhere at the back of the skull, the doctor thought, and it would be
easy enough to find it when the patient was strong enough to sit up.

The doctor had not been long gone when an elderly man with a grizzled
moustache and thoughtful eyes was led to Marcello's bedside by the
Superintendent himself. The appearance of the latter at an unusual hour
was always an event in the ward, and the nurses watched him with
curiosity. They would have been still more curious had they known that
the elderly gentleman was the Chief of the Police himself. The
Superintendent raised his hand to motion them away.

"What is your name, sir?" asked the Chief, bending down and speaking in
a low voice.

"Marcello."

"Yes," replied the other, almost in a whisper, "you are Marcello. But
what else? What is your family name? It is very important. Will you tell
me?"

The vague look came into Marcello's eyes, and then the look of pain, and
he shook his head rather feebly.

"I cannot remember," he answered at last. "It hurts me to remember."

"Is it Consalvi?" asked the officer, smiling encouragement.

"Consalvi?" Marcello's eyes wandered, as he tried to think. "I cannot
remember," he said again after an interval.

The Chief of Police was not discouraged yet.

"You were knocked down and robbed by thieves, just after you had been
talking with Aurora," he said, inventing what he believed to have
happened.

A faint light came into Marcello's eyes.

"Aurora?" He repeated the name almost eagerly.

"Yes. You had been talking to Signorina Aurora dell' Armi. You remember
that?"

The light faded suddenly.

"I thought I remembered something," answered Marcello. "Aurora? Aurora?
No, it is gone. I was dreaming again. I want to sleep now."

The Chief stood upright and looked at the Superintendent, who looked at
him, and both shook their heads. Then they asked what the visiting
doctor had said, and what directions he had given about Marcello's
treatment.

"I am sure it is he," said the Chief of Police when they were closeted
in the Superintendent's office, five minutes later. "I have studied his
photograph every day for nearly three months. Look at it."

He produced a good-sized photograph of Marcello which had been taken
about a year earlier, but was the most recent. The Superintendent
looked at it critically, and said it was not much like the patient. The
official objected that a man who was half dead of fever and had lain
starving for weeks, heaven only knew where, could hardly be quite
himself in appearance. The Superintendent pointed out that this was
precisely the difficulty; the photograph was not like the sick man. But
the Chief politely insisted that it was. They differed altogether on
this point, but quarrelled over it in the most urbane manner possible.

The Superintendent suggested that it would be easy to identify Marcello
Consalvi, by bringing people who knew him to his bedside, servants and
others. The official answered that he should prefer to be sure of
everything before calling in any one else. The patient had evidently
lost his memory by some accident, and if he could not recall his own
name it was not likely that he could recognise a face. Servants would
swear that it was he, or not he, just as their interest suggested. Most
of the people of his own class who knew him were out of town at the
present season; and besides, the upper classes were not, in the Chief's
opinion, a whit more intelligent or trustworthy than those that served
them. The world, said the Chief, was an exceedingly bad place. That this
was true, the Superintendent could not doubt, and he admitted the fact;
but he was not sure how the Chief was applying the statement of it in
his own reasoning. Perhaps he thought that some persons might have an
interest in recognising Marcello.

"In the meantime," said the Chief, rising to go away, "we will put him
in a private room, where we shall not be watched by everybody when we
come to see him. I have funds from Corbario to pay any possible expenses
in the case."

"Who is that man?" asked the Superintendent. "There has been a great
deal of talk about him in the papers since his stepson was lost. What
was he before he married the rich widow?"

The Chief of Police did not reply at once, but lit a cigarette
preparatory to going away, smoothed his hat on his arm, and flicked a
tiny speck of dust from the lapel of his well-made coat. Then he smiled
pleasantly and gave his answer.

"I suppose that before he married Consalvi's widow he was a gentleman of
small means, like many others. Why should you think that he was ever
anything else?"

To this direct question the Superintendent had no answer ready, nor, in
fact, had the man who asked it, though he had looked so very wise. Then
they glanced at each other and both laughed a little, and they parted.

Half an hour later, Marcello was carried to an airy room with green
blinds, and was made even more comfortable than he had been before. He
slept, and awoke, and ate and slept again. Twice during the afternoon
people were brought to see him. They were servants from the villa on the
Janiculum, but he looked at them dully and said that he could not
remember them.

"We do not think it is he," they said, when questioned. "Why does he
not know us, if it is he? We are old servants in the house. We carried
the young gentleman in our arms when he was small. But this youth does
not know us, nor our names. It is not he."

They were dismissed, and afterwards they met and talked up at the villa.

"The master has been sent for by telegraph," they said one to another.
"We shall do what he says. If he tells us that it is the young gentleman
we will also say that it is; but if he says it is not he, we will also
deny it. This is the only way."

Having decided upon this diplomatic course as the one most likely to
prove advantageous to them, they went back to their several occupations
and amusements. But at the very first they said what they really
thought; none of them really believed the sick youth at the hospital to
be Marcello. An illness of nearly seven weeks and a long course of
privation can make a terrible difference in the looks of a very young
person, and when the memory is gone, too, the chances of his being
recognised are slight.

But the Chief of Police was not disturbed in his belief, and after he
had smoked several cigarettes very thoughtfully in his private office,
he wrote a telegram to Corbario, advising him to come back to Rome at
once. He was surprised to receive an answer from Folco late that night,
inquiring why he was wanted. To this he replied in a second telegram of
more length, which explained matters clearly. The next morning Corbario
telegraphed that he was starting.

The visiting physician came early and examined Marcello's head with the
greatest minuteness. After much trouble he found what he was looking
for--a very slight depression in the skull. There was no sign of a wound
that had healed, and it was clear that the injury must have been either
the result of a fall, in which case the scalp had been protected by a
stiff hat, or else of a blow dealt with something like a sandbag, which
had fractured the bone without leaving any mark beyond a bruise, now no
longer visible.

"It is my opinion," said the doctor, "that as soon as the pressure is
removed the man's memory will come back exactly as it was before. We
will operate next week, when he has gained a little more strength. Feed
him and give him plenty of air, for he is very weak."

So he went away for the day. But presently Regina came and demanded
admittance according to the promise she had received, and she was
immediately brought to the Superintendent's office, for he had given
very clear instructions to this effect in case the girl came again. He
had not told the Chief of Police about her, for he thought it would be
amusing to do a little detective work on his own account, and he
anticipated the triumph of finding out Marcello's story alone, and of
then laying the facts before the authorities, just to show what ordinary
common sense could do without the intervention of the law.

Regina was ushered into the high cool room where the Superintendent sat
alone, and the heavy door closed behind her. He was a large man with
close-cropped hair and a short brown beard, and he had kind brown eyes.
