
Zoë untied the thongs and opened the book in the middle. An
exclamation of anger and disgust escaped her lips. The secretary, who
did not believe she could really read, though she spoke Latin
fluently, had sent an old volume of accounts in answer to her request.
There were pages and pages of entries and columns of figures, all
neatly written in his small, clear hand, on stout cotton paper. Here
and there some one else had made a note, as if checking his work.

Zoë pushed the book away from her on the divan, and it fell over the
edge and lay face downwards and open on the floor. Then the little
tune began again in her head.

'He shall pay me for this!'

She wished he would open the door noiselessly and be all at once
beside her, as on that first evening. That had been Friday, and to-day
was Wednesday; five days had gone by. Counting Friday there were six,
and six days were practically a week! She had been under his roof a
whole week and he had only cared to see her face once.

'He shall pay me for this!'

The tune went on, and she quite forgot how she had longed for death,
and how his first anticipated coming had been dreadful beyond anything
she had ever suffered, beyond cold, starvation, and misery. Or if she
remembered it at all, she told herself that the man she had seen was
not the kind of man she had expected, and that she had nothing to fear
from him. She was quite sure of that.

She turned on one side, as she half lay on the divan, till she could
reach the account-book to pick it up. One of the maids jumped up from
the carpet to help her.

'Go away!' she exclaimed crossly, for she had got hold of the cover
and had drawn the volume over the edge of the divan. 'I will call if I
want anything.'

The girls slipped away in silence and left her alone. She turned over
the pages with a sort of angry curiosity, half expecting to find an
entry concerning slaves bought and sold like herself. Just then she
could have believed Zeno capable of anything.

But though she found a great many strange words which she did not
understand, and which referred to tonnage, insurance, profit and
loss, and all the complicated matters of an Eastern merchant's
business, there was nothing which could possibly be interpreted to
mean that Zeno had dealt in humanity, as most of the Venetians who
lived in Constantinople certainly did. Sebastian Polo's name occurred
very often. Large sums had been paid to him, and other large sums had
been received from him. It was clear that the two men were in close
relations of business, and constantly made ventures together, dividing
the profits and sharing the losses.

That might account for Zeno's constant visits to his fellow-merchant,
though Zoë was not inclined to admit such a view. On the contrary, she
made herself believe that Zeno dealt with Polo solely in order to make
an excuse for seeing more of the latter's daughter. He should pay for
that, too! The little tune hammered away in her head at a great rate.

She clapped her hands.

'Take this back to the secretary,' she said, giving the book to Yulia.
'Tell him I am not a merchant's clerk, and that I want something to
read.'

Again little Yulia tripped downstairs to the ground floor. But the
counting-house was locked, and the men-servants told her that Omobono
had gone out. She would not leave the book with them, for she had a
superstitiously exaggerated idea of the value of all written things;
therefore, after a moment's hesitation, she turned and carried it
upstairs again, though she did not like the idea of facing her
mistress.

At the first landing she almost ran against the master of the house,
who asked her what she was carrying and where she was going. He spoke
rather sharply, and Yulia was frightened and told him the whole story,
explaining that Zoë seemed to be in a bad temper, and would be angry
with her for bringing back the account-book, but that it was Omobono's
fault. How could he dare to suppose that the Kokóna could not read?
And why was he out? And if he was not out why had the men-servants
told her that he was?

The little slave did as all slaves and servants naturally do when they
wish to gain favour with the master; she hinted that all the other
servants in the house were in league to do evil, and that she only was
righteous. Zeno carelessly looked through the pages of the
account-book as he stood listening to her tale.

'You talk too much,' he observed, when she paused. 'Go upstairs.'

Thereupon he turned his back on her and went in under the heavy
curtain to his own room, taking the book with him and leaving Yulia
considerably disconcerted. She looked at the curtain disconsolately
for a few seconds, and then slowly ascended the second flight of steps
to the women's apartments.

A few minutes later Zeno himself followed her, with another book in
his hand. He knocked discreetly at the outer door, and Lucilla opened,
for Yulia was still explaining to Zoë what had happened. The maid
stood aside to let the master pass through the vestibule which
separated the inner rooms from the staircase. Zeno raised the curtain
and went in.

'I am no great reader,' he said, as he came forward towards the divan,
'but I have brought you this old book. It may amuse you. The man died
more than fifty years ago, and I fancy he was mad; but there must be
something in his poem, for it has been copied again and again. This
was given me by the Emperor Charles when I was with him in Venice.'

Zoë had time to recover from her surprise and to study his face and
manner while he spoke, and again she was convinced that he was a
little shy in her presence. If she changed colour at all he did not
see it, for though he glanced at her two or three times, he looked
more often at the book he held. As he finished speaking he placed it
in her hands and his eyes met hers.

Possibly Zoë had guessed that if she could make a stir in the house by
sending messages to Omobono, the master would at last come in person;
at all events she felt a little thrill of triumph when he was before
her bringing his book and speaking pleasantly, as a sort of
peace-offering for having neglected her so long.

'Thank you,' said she, very sweetly. 'Will it please your lordship to
be seated?'

Yulia had pushed forward a large fold-stool, and Zoë motioned to her
and her companion to sit down in a corner. Zeno thought she had sent
them out of the room, and he looked round and saw them squatting on
their carpet, side by side.

'Shall I send them away?' asked Zoë, with a sweet smile.

'They are not in the way,' Zeno answered coldly; for he felt that
they might be if they understood, but nothing would have induced him
to dismiss them just then.

A little pause followed, during which Zoë opened the manuscript and
read the illuminated title-page.

'It is dull for you, here,' said Carlo awkwardly.

Zoë did not even look up, and affected to answer absently, while she
turned over the pages.

'Oh no!' she said. 'Not in the least, I assure you!' She went back to
the title and read it aloud. '"The Divine Comedy of Dante
Alighieri"--I have heard his name. A Sicilian, was he not? Or a
Lombard? I cannot remember. Have you read the poetry? The paintings
are very pretty, I see. There is much more life in Italian painting
than in our stiff pictures with their gilt backgrounds. Of course,
there is a certain childlike simplicity about them, an absence of
school, of the traditions of good masters, of reverence for the old
art! But they mean something that is, whereas our Greek pictures mean
something that never was. Do you agree with me?'

She had talked on in a careless tone, toying with the book, and only
looking up as she asked a question without waiting for a reply. By the
time she paused she had asked so many that Zeno only noticed the last.

'You would like Venice,' he said, 'but you would like Florence better.
There are good pictures there, I believe.'

'You have not seen them yourself?'

'Oh yes! But I do not understand such things. This man Alighieri
describes some of them in his book. He was a Florentine.'

As Zeno showed himself more willing to talk, Zoë seemed to grow more
indifferent. She laid the book down beside her, leaned back, and
looked out of the window, turning her face half away from him. It was
the first time he had seen her by daylight since she had come, and the
strong afternoon light glowed in her white skin, her eyes, and her
brown hair. He could have seen on her cheek the very smallest
imperfection, had it been as tiny as the point of a pin, but there was
none. He looked at her tender mouth; and in the strong glare he could
have detected the least roughness on her lips, if they had not been as
smooth as fresh fruit. Moreover, the line from her ear to her neck was
really as perfect as it had seemed at first sight. Her nervous,
high-bred young hand lay on the folds of her over-garment, within his
reach, and he felt much inclined to take it and hold it. He did not
remember that any woman's near presence had disturbed him in the same
way, nor had he ever hesitated on the few occasions in his life when
he had been inclined to take a woman's hand. He had the fullest rights
which the laws of the Empire could give him, for Arethusa, as he
called her, was his property out-and-out, and if he died suddenly she
would be sold at auction with the furniture. Yet, for some wholly
inexplicable reason he did not quite dare to touch the tips of her
fingers.

'I have heard that you are a hero,' Zoë observed, without looking at
him. 'Is it true?'

Then she turned her eyes to him and smiled a little maliciously, he
fancied, as if she had guessed his timidity from his silence.

'Who told you such nonsense?' Zeno asked, with a laugh, for her
question had broken the ice--or perhaps had quenched the fire for a
while. 'I am a man like any other!'

