to change the subject.

"Very well."

"It must be a dirty job," and Bob Bangs tilted his nose in the air.

"It might be worse."

"When I leave school I am going to be a lawyer."

"I hope you make a success of it."

"I shall--I am going to be one of the greatest lawyers in this
country," added the rich boy, boastfully.

"Are your folks here?"

"My mother is. Dad is at the iron works."

"They tell me he isn't doing very well there," said Randy.

"He is doing fine. He discharged some of the good-for-nothing hands,
that's all. Bartlett used to hire a lot of sticks."

"I don't believe it. Mr. Bartlett knows his business."

"Humph!"

The rain was letting up and Randy prepared to walk to Catskill. As wet
as he was, he resolved not to ask any favor at the hands of Bob Banks.

"Going, eh?" said the rich youth.

"Yes."

"Humph!" murmured Bob Bangs, and that was all he said.

Despite the steady rain, Randy walked rapidly to the town--doing this
that he might not take cold. Once at the town he hurried to the
steamboat landing.

"Hullo, where did you come from?" exclaimed the dock master, who knew
him well.

"From a bath," answered Randy with a laugh, and then said he had fallen
overboard from the Helen Shalley just before the landing at Catskill
was made.

"Nobody said anything about it," said the dock master.

"I guess they didn't know it," answered our hero.

"What are you going to do now?"

"Telegraph to Captain Hadley and then stay in town until the boat comes
back to-morrow."

"Better get dried off first. You can come to my house if you wish. It
is not far off."

"Thank you, Mr. Ball."

Randy's telegram was a short one. It ran as follows:

    "Fell overboard. Am safe at Catskill. Join boat to-morrow."

The telegram sent, our hero went with Mr. Ball to the latter's house.
Here he was loaned some dry clothing and Mrs. Ball treated him to a
late but satisfying supper. After the meal was over, and as it was now
clear, he decided to take a walk around the town before retiring. Had
he known of what that walk was to reveal he would have been very much
surprised.




CHAPTER XXXI

NEWS OF IMPORTANCE


As was natural, our hero drifted down to the long steamboat landing.
While he was standing around, he saw a ferryboat coming across the
river, filled with passengers from the railroad station on the opposite
shore.

As the passengers alighted he recognized Amos Bangs in the crowd. The
rich manufacturer looked around anxiously, and presently caught sight
of Mrs. Bangs, who had come to meet him in a carriage. Randy slipped
out of sight.

"Well?" demanded Amos Bangs, as soon as he and his wife were together.

"Oh, Amos!" the woman cried, and could not go on.

"Is that all you can say, Viola?" demanded the husband, harshly.

"I can do nothing with the girl."

"And she knows where the papers are?"

"She does."

"How did it happen?"

"When Mr. Tuller called upon me she played the eavesdropper. She saw us
open the safe and take out the papers, and when I went and hid the
papers she followed me."

"But you said you were sure nobody knew where the papers were."

"I thought so at the time, but I was mistaken."

"How did it come out?"

"The girl did not sweep and dust the parlor to suit me, and I took her
to task about it. She threw down her broom and said she would take no
words from me. Then I told her to pack her trunk and leave the house.
She grew more impertinent than ever, and said she would go, but I would
have to pay her her wages regularly anyway. I asked what she meant.
Then she told me to go and look for the papers I had hidden."

"And they were gone?"

"Yes. I was so overcome I nearly fainted," and Mrs. Bangs's face showed
her deep concern.

"What next?"

"I went back to the girl and told her she must give the papers up or I
would have her arrested. She laughed in my face. Oh, Amos, think of
that horrid creature doing that!"

"She knew she had you," growled the rich manufacturer. "What did you do
then?"

"Why--I--broke down, I couldn't help it. I asked her what she wanted
for the papers. She wouldn't tell, and I said I would give her five
dollars. Then she laughed in my face again. I wanted to drive her from
the house, but I didn't dare."

"Did she say what she was going to do?"

"At last she said she would make a bargain--think of it--a bargain with
a servant girl! She wants me to pay her wages regularly and also twelve
dollars a month for her board."

"Will she work for you?"

"No, indeed, she says she will go and live with her married sister."

"Humph! Let me see, her name is Jackson, isn't it?"

"Yes, Mamie Jackson. Her sister lives over in Oakdale."

"Did she go to Oakdale?"

"I suppose she did."

"She must have the papers with her."

"No, I think she hid them, for she said we wouldn't find the papers
even if we searched her and her trunk."

"I will have to go to Oakdale and see her," said Amos Bangs, after a
pause in which he rubbed his chin reflectively.

The rich manufacturer and his wife had withdrawn to a corner of the
dock while talking. Randy had kept nearby, behind some boxes and
barrels, and had heard every word that was spoken. That he was
immensely interested goes without saying.

"On the track of Mr. Bartlett's papers at last," he told himself. "Now,
what had I best do about it?"

His one thought was to outwit Amos Bangs, and with this in mind he left
the dock and walked rapidly toward the telegraph office.

"I wish to send another telegram," said he as he drew the pad of forms
toward him.

"Must be your night for sending messages," answered the clerk, by way
of a joke.

"I want this rushed through--it is highly important."

"All right, hand it over."

Randy hardly knew what to say, but soon wrote down the following,
addressed to Mr. Bartlett:

    "Papers taken from Mrs. Bangs by Mamie Jackson, a servant, now at
    sister's in Oakdale. Hurry if you want to get them. Address me at
    Catskill."

Having sent the message, there seemed nothing for Randy to do but to
retire. This he did, and was awakened two hours later by a message from
Mr. Bartlett, which was in these words:

    "Coming down first morning train. Meet me at Catskill Station,
