choked with the slime of a morbid eroticism which her husband was the
last man to exorcise. The earlier fever in her blood had gradually
dropped to the greensickness of middle-age, so that she was vaguely
repellent to men, particularly the young. This she had the wit to
detect, as well as the incontrovertible fact that her youth and her
chances were gone. As a natural consequence her repressed but still
rebellious passions diffused their poison throughout her nature. There
were times when she was seized with a frantic desire to inflict injury
upon some other woman, and at all times she found relief in sharp
criticism, in flinging mud at mantles spotless to the casual eye. She
passed for being very piquante and clever in a town where so little
happened except the turning over of money, and where the conversation
alternated between chickens and cards. She was sure that she scented a
scandal here, and her very nostrils quivered with anticipation; the
while she hated Isabel more bitterly for taking a lover instead of an
eternal husband.

"Looks as if she didn't mean to introduce him to us," she remarked, with
an attempt at frigid criticism. "He don't dance so well but what the
girls could get on without him. Isabel might give him a chance to
exhibit his conversational powers--My! if he ain't going to dance again
with Dolly Boutts! I'd like to know how Isabel fancies that!"

Gwynne, who liked any sort of exercise, and had been reading the United
States Statutes the greater part of the day, danced with the girls to
whom Isabel introduced him, returning no less than three times to the
exuberant Miss Boutts, whose step suited his, and whom he thought one of
the prettiest girls he had seen in America. Mr. Boutts's mother had been
the daughter of an Italian restaurant keeper in San Francisco, and his
heiress inherited a fine flashing pair of black eyes, a mass of black
hair, and a voluptuous but buoyant figure. She had inherited nothing of
the languor and fire of the Italian race, but chattered as incessantly
as any American girl, and had the mind and character of sixteen, in
spite of her almost full-blown beauty. Having an instinct for dress in
addition to a liberal allowance from her father, she was always a
notable figure in Main Street; and when in San Francisco was pleasantly
aware that she was by no means unnoticed in the fashionable throngs of
the hotels and Kearny Street. To-night she wore a gown of black net
revealing her superb shoulders and arms, and bunches of red carnations
that emphasized the red of her full pouting lips. She danced with a
graceful energy and looked unutterable things out of her great black
eyes while talking of the weather. Gwynne thought her a creature of
infinite possibilities, beside whom Isabel was a statue in ivory.

Just before supper he was introduced to the older women, and offered his
arm to Mrs. Wheaton when two waiters, unmistakably from a San Francisco
caterer, threw open the doors upon a hall that separated the ballroom
from the old hotel dining-room. The startled guests filed hastily across
to find a dainty but sumptuous repast served at little tables. Even the
ice-cream was frozen in graceful shapes instead of being ladled out of a
freezer in full view of the company, and there was such an abundance of
all things, served with despatch by the professional waiters, that Mrs.
Haight was permitted to consume three plates of oysters Ã  la poulette.

"This must have cost a pretty penny!" she muttered to Mrs.
Wheaton--Gwynne was dancing attendance on Miss Boutts once more. "Much
money she'll save! One would think this was San Francisco, and some
swell house on Nob Hill. I don't believe a thing was cooked in her own
kitchen."

"I should think not! This supper is from the St. Francis, or The Palace,
or The Poodle Dog--" Mrs. Wheaton ran off the names of all the famous
San Francisco restaurants, to the ill-concealed spite of Mrs. Haight who
did not dine in San Francisco once a year. "But as you suggest, I cannot
imagine how she expects to make a fortune in chickens if she throws
about money like this. No wonder Mr. Gwynne isn't good enough for
her--but perhaps that's the reason he's selling off so much of his
ranch. Mr. Wheaton says he thinks of putting up an office building on
some land he has south of Market Street."

"To my way of thinking, Isabel Otis and matrimony don't gee. She's
altogether too advanced. Just you wait."

The young people, meanwhile, were very gay, and there was little doubt
in Isabel's mind that if she lived in Rosewater and chose to revive and
lead the old social life she could drive cards to the wall in the first
engagement. She had been much elated with her success, but, of a sudden,
as her eyes roved benignantly over her chattering delighted guests,
ennui descended upon her: those ancestral mutterings in the soul that
stir dim memories of great moments of a greater time, inviting a vague
contempt and distaste for the petty incidents and achievements that make
up the sum of life. Isabel had experienced this faint sensation of
futility and disgust many times before, and although she was wise enough
not to let it paralyze her will, and to turn it to account in holding
her to her higher ideals, still she often envied the Dolly Bouttses,
with good red plebeian blood in their veins, and no voices in the
subconscious brain but those that bade them eat and drink and feed the
race. No, she decided, Rosewater could work out of its present inertia
by itself, and she began to wish her guests would go home; she was tired
of their inanities. Her disappointment in Hyliard Wheaton, whom she had
admired from a distance ever since her return, but who had never
succumbed to her charm until to-night, had much to do with her sense of
futility. He had read nothing, seen nothing, experienced nothing. He had
no ambition beyond living in San Francisco and enjoying life there. His
fine well-bred face with its high brow and smiling, slightly superior,
gaze, had suggested--the more particularly, perhaps, as his figure was
superb--possibilities both intellectual and romantic. Isabel told him
politely never to ride out without using the telephone first, and had
her excuses already coined. At least ten men be sides Gwynne were
hovering about Dolly Boutts, like humming-birds about the nectar of a
full-blown rose. They were blind to the fact that her voluptuous
suggestion was but a caprice of nature. Although, no doubt, she would
make the best of wives and mothers, she was as incapable of any depth of
passion as the frail fluffy creatures about her, and quite indifferent
to anything in man beyond his admiration. Up to the present she had
found cards far more interesting, particularly as she had known all the
Rosewater men since childhood; more particularly, perhaps, as this was
her first large party. She chattered, partly by instinct, partly in
deference to the traditional animation of the American girl; and it was
quite likely that the ultimate man would lead her to the altar under the
delusion that she was a brilliant woman with a genuine temperament.
Isabel wondered somewhat contemptuously at Gwynne's evident enthusiasm;
she would have given him credit for more experience and perspicacity;
but concluded that at a party a man could only judge a girl by her
exterior charms; and certainly Dolly had all her goods in the front
window.

After supper they danced the old Virginia reel with great zest, and even
a few stray waltzes, then all left together at two o'clock; the older
women assuring Isabel formally that they had had a very pleasant
evening; but the girls and young men exclaimed that they had had a keen
time, a dandy time, and that their new hostess was too fine and dandy
for words.




XVI


Judge Leslie returned on the following day, and, sending for Gwynne at
once, announced that he was ready to settle down for the winter. A
partner attended to the business of the office, and the judge shut
himself up with Gwynne in the large light room containing his fine law
library, and examined his promising pupil. Gwynne was well read in the
English Common Law, and in Comparative Jurisprudence, particularly in
the history of treaties and the comity of nations. So much he had
regarded as necessary to the education of a future cabinet minister.

Judge Leslie sketched out a course of study which embraced Cooley and
Kent on Constitutional Law, compilations of Leading Cases, Story on
Contracts, the California Codes, Civil, Penal, and Political, and
Corporation Law. "The money is in the last," he remarked, dryly, "but
even if you never succumb to these monstrous corporations, more aptly
named cormorants, the more you know about their methods and needs the
better, should you ever be called upon to fight them; and I have an idea
that that is just where you will show your strength. All the great
statesmen of this country have been great lawyers, and the great
statesman of the future is going to be the lawyer that checks the power
of unscrupulous capital, without at the same time delivering the country
over to the mercies of that equally unscrupulous tyranny the
labor-union. There is a solution somewhere and some man is going to find
it. I don't see why you should not be the man. I have followed your
career very carefully--you have always interested me. You come here with
a magnificent political training, a mind uncorrupted by a lifetime of
contact with the contemptible methods of machine politics, and a really
great ambition. Your eyes are wide open. I don't see why you should make
any mistakes, particularly as you have four good years in which to
ponder the great question before committing yourself. Four years are a
long span. No man can tell what may happen in that time, what new party
may evolve. All you can do is to watch events and be ready for the
forelock when time shakes it at you. If it so happens that you can
insidiously mould a new party meanwhile, so much the better. The wisest
and most suggestive writer on our national life is a Briton. I see no
reason why England should not send us a statesman--in the old sense. God
knows, all that we have now are a bitter disappointment to those of us
with any of the old ideals left. Should the Presidency be your ambition,
the fact of your having actually been born on American soil may be the
cause of a legal battle in the Supreme Court of the United States that
will pass into history. Meanwhile, as all apprenticeships must be
humble, you will be a sort of unofficial junior of this firm, sharing
the office business for the first year with Cresswell, and the second
year helping me with court practice in St. Peter. You can read in the
intervals and at home, and once or twice a week I should advise you to
attend lectures at the State University. I can see that your memory and
powers of assimilation are very vigorous, and the more quickly you
imbibe, and the more varied the quality, the better. All the odd types
of human nature you meet in this office won't do you any harm, either.
Study the American character above all things. Get in sympathy with it.
It is as opposite from the English as pole from pole, but you won't find
it a bad sort--the country's politics are the worst part of it, because
circumstances have forced them into the hands of a class of men that
make their living out of them, and whose natural destiny was
pocket-picking and the Rogues' Gallery--and if the best of us combine
one day to do you honor, we can carry you to places as distinguished as
any in your own country. Great and disinterested men have succeeded
against tremendous odds in times as parlous as these, and others have
the same opportunity here and now."

The judge wound up his homily with a little peroration on Abraham
Lincoln and then left Gwynne to the California codes. The large new
stone office building of which Judge Leslie was the chief tenant stood
at the corner of a street a block above Main; Gwynne glancing over the
top of his tome could see a procession of teams, men lounging in the
doorway of a grocery store, and the spars of fishing-boats waiting for
the tide. His mind played him a curious trick. Piccadilly was before him
with its great hotels, its splendid old stone houses upon which the fogs
and the grime of London had demonstrated their poetical mission, the
classic entrance to the Park, the crowds of smart men and women;
Piccadilly at eight on a summer's evening choked with broughams and
