nothing. You are strong by instinct, but you have not the least idea
why or how you are strong. It is all a mysterious arrangement of
particles."

"But that is no reason one should not strive to overcome weakness."

"Certainly not. But I have so much at stake that I think it wisest to
kill the temptation outright, and not tempt providence by dallying
with it. And this regarding the arbitrary exercise of the imagination:
It is the small people of whom you spoke just now who are the slaves
of what little imagination they have, who can make themselves ill
or sometimes well under its influence. But when a man uses his
imagination professionally as long as I have done it takes a place in
his life apart. It has no influence whatever on his daily life, on his
physical or even his mental being. He knows it too well. It would
seem as if the imagination itself were cognisant of this fact and was
too wise to court defeat."

"I can understand that, but I also know that genius is too abnormal to
accept any such reasoning, no matter what the highly developed brain
may be capable of. Unknown to yourself you have become the victim
first of an idea, then of a habit. You will struggle and exhaust
yourself and end by hating yourself and me. You have no doubt that
this would be a greater work than your greatest?"

"Oh, no! no!"

"Then do me the justice to make one attempt at least to write it. Come
to the library!"

His face had been turned from her for some moments, but at the last
words, so full of concrete suggestion, he moved irresistibly and she
saw that his eyes were blazing with eagerness, with a desire she had
never seen.

"Come," she said.

He stared at her, through her, miles beyond her, then turned
mechanically toward his library. "Perhaps," he muttered. "Who
knows? Why not?"




CHAPTER XXIII


When Anne rose the next morning and tapped on Warner's door there was
no answer. She entered softly, but found that his bed had not been
occupied. For this she was not unprepared, and although she had no
intention of galling her poet with the routine of daily life, still
must he be fed, and she went at once to the library to invite him to
breakfast. He was not there. She glanced hastily over the loose
sheets of paper on his writing table. There were a few scratches,
unintelligible phrases, nothing more. In the gallery she met the
major-domo, who informed her that the master had gone out in his boat
about five o'clock. The day was clear and the waters calmer. There was
no reason for either surprise or uneasiness, and Anne, who expected
vagaries of every sort until the poem was finished, endeavoured to
while away the long day with a new novel sent her by Medora Ogilvy.
But she had instinctively taken a chair by a window facing the sea,
and as the day wore on and she saw no sign of boat of any sort, she
finally renounced the attempt to keep her mind in tune with fiction.
She snatched a brief luncheon and omitted siesta, returning to her
seat by the window. The fate of Shelley haunted her in spite of her
powerful will, and she sat rigid, her hands clasped about her knees,
her face white. When Warner's boat shot suddenly round the corner of
the island the relief was so great that without waiting to find a
sunshade she ran out of the house and down to the sands, reaching his
side before the boat was beached.

"You should not come out at this hour--and without a sunshade," he
said, but keeping his face from her.

"If you could stand it for hours out on those hot waters it will not
hurt me for a moment or two here. Have you had any luncheon?"

"I got a bite in Basseterre. Let us go in."

As he raised himself she saw that his face was haggard, his eyes
faded. He looked as if he had not slept for weeks. When they reached
the living-room he flung himself, with a word of muttered apology, on
a sofa and slept until late. The dressing-bell roused him and he went
to his room, reappearing at the dinner table. There he talked of his
morning excursion, declaring that it had done him good, as he had long
felt in need of a change of exercise, and had missed the water.

It was not until they were in the living-room again that he said
abruptly: "I can't do it. Let us not talk about it. The air is
delightfully cool. Shall we order the carriage and call on the
Ogilvys?"

The roads were deep in mud, but the moon was bright, the air fresh and
stirred by the trade wind that always found its way to Nevis even in
summer during one hour of the twenty-four. Warner played billiards
with Mr. Ogilvy and Anne listened to the hopes and fears of her
hostess respecting Lord Hunsdon, while Felicia, the second daughter,
poured out her envy of Medora's good fortune in enjoying a London
season, and its sequel of visits to country houses.

They returned late. Warner was almost gay and very much the lover. The
next few days were magnificent and Anne saw for the first time a West
Indian island in all its glory of young and infinite greens. Less like
a jewel than in her golden prime Nevis seemed to throb with awakening
life like some great Bird of Paradise that had slept until spring.
Warner and Anne remained out of doors in all but the hotter hours,
and the poet was once more the normal young husband, rich in the
possession of a beautiful and sympathetic wife. Anne was wise enough
to make no allusion to the unborn poem. When curiosity piqued or
impatience beset, she invoked the ugly shade of Lady Byron, and
resolved anew that while alert to play her part in Warner's life, she
would be guided wholly by events.

The rains began again, those terrible rains of a tropic summer, when
the heavens are in flood and open their gates, beating palm tops to
earth, tearing the long leaves of the banana tree to ribbons, turning
the roads into roaring torrents, and day into night. Boats were used
in the streets of Charlestown. The heat was stifling. The Caribbean
Sea roared as if boiling tides were forcing their way from Mount
Misery on St. Kitts to the crater of Nevis. Warner pretended to read
during the day, but it was not long before Anne discovered that he
stole from his room every night, and she knew his goal. He appeared
at the nine o'clock breakfast, however, and neither made allusion to
the vigils written in his face. At first it was merely haggard, but
before long misery grew and deepened, misery and utter hopelessness;
until Anne could not bear to look at him.

The storms continued. Ten days passed. Anne was not sure that he even
slept in the daytime. He ceased to speak at all, although he managed
to convey to Anne his gratitude that she was good enough to let him
alone. Once she suggested a trip to England as soon as they could get
a packet for Barbadoes, but he merely shook his head, and Anne knew
that he would not stir from Nevis.

There came a night when Anne too gave up all attempt to sleep. Even
after her illness she had found no difficulty in resuming the long
unbroken rest of youth, but youth had taken itself off in a fright.



On this night she wandered about and faced the truth. It was a night
to assist the least imaginative to face an unhappy crisis. A small
hurricane raged, seeming to burst in wild roars from Nevis itself.
The streams on the mountain were cataracts. The sea threatened the
island. At another time, Anne, like other West Indians, would have
paid incessant visits to the barometer, but to-night she cared nothing
for the threat of the elements. A storm raged within her, and she had
a perfect comprehension of the madness and despair in the library.

She was out of her fool's paradise at last. She knew that he would
never write his drama without the aid that marvellous but rotten spot
in his brain demanded. And its delivery was in her hands. He was the
soul of honour, unselfish, high-minded. He had taken the woman he
loved better than himself into his life and he would keep the promise
he had voluntarily made her unless she released him. He would conquer
and kill the best part of him.

Anne had no apprehension of his physical death. No doubt his mere
bodily well-being would go on increasing after the struggle was over;
but what of his maimed and thwarted intellect, the mind-emptiness of a
man who had known the greatest of mortal joys, mental creation? What
of the haunting knowledge throughout a possibly long life, of having
deliberately done a divine gift to death?

Anne felt like a murderer herself. She went suddenly out into the
gallery, and stood for a moment with her arms rigidly upraised to the
black rolling sky. There was no response in the fury of the rain that
drowned her face, and compelled her to bend her head.

The great banana tree was whipping about like an alive creature in
agony. She could hardly keep her breath, and the salt spray flew over
the roof and touched her lips. The elements roared and shrieked and
whistled in a colossal orchestra, and above them she could hear that
most uncanny of all sounds in a West Indian storm, the rattling of the
hard seeds of the giant tree in their brittle pods.

But the noise inflamed rather than benumbed the tumult in her soul.
Little as her husband suspected it, the gossip of Bath House and her
own imagination had enabled her to realise the being he was and the
life he led when transformed by drink. She had long since put those
images from her, but they peopled the gallery to-night. And they were
hideous, loathsome. She felt old and dry and wrecked and polluted in
the mere contemplation of them. Could even her love survive such
an ordeal? Or life? She had experienced mortal happiness to an
extraordinary degree. Were she firm now, she might know it again--not
to the same degree--doubtless not--but all that a mere mortal had any
right to expect after that one foretaste of immortality. She had her
rights. Her life could be made monstrous for a time; then she would
go back and live on through countless years by the North Sea. For
did Warner return to the habits of the years that had preceded their
marriage his extinction would be a mere question of time. He might
survive this work, and another; for he would never return to this
battle between his love for her and for a love older still and far
more deeply ingrained. A year or two and he would be under the island.

And in any case he must suffer. As far as he was concerned it was a
question which was the less of the evils. If he returned from a long
disgrace in Charlestown to face her again, not even the great work he
had accomplished would make him hate himself the less, atone for the
final ruin of his self-respect. If he conquered he would be a maimed
