
'A friend of mine and I are travelling southwards on important
business,' he said. 'Before we left Venice the town was ringing with
your exploit, as it has echoed with your praises these three months
past. My friend Count Gambardella and I are amongst your most ardent
admirers, Signor Maestro, and I may say in confidence that we have a
private grudge against the Senator Pignaver. You may imagine our delight
on hearing that you had carried off his niece! Quite naturally we have
asked after you at each posting station on the road. You understand the
rest. My friend and I venture to hope that you and your bride will
honour us with your company at supper.'

'I cannot find words for my thanks, sir,' answered Stradella, wondering
whether he were not in a dream, still sleeping on the stone seat in his
cell. 'I can only hope to show you some day how grateful I am. You have
saved my life!'

Trombin smiled pleasantly, but said nothing.




CHAPTER XI


Gambardella knocked at the door of San Domenico twice in quick
succession, and then again once after a short interval. For reasons
known to himself he had not hesitated to begin his inquiries for
Ortensia at the old Dominican convent then occupied by the nuns of Saint
Ursula, and it was at once apparent that his knock inspired confidence.
Instead of drawing back the small sliding panel in the weather-beaten
door to see who was outside and to ask his errand, the portress opened
the postern on one side almost immediately, without showing herself, and
Gambardella slipped in unchallenged and shut it after him.

He found himself in a high and vaulted vestibule which received light
from the cloistered garden round which the convent was built, and he was
at once confronted by the portress, who seemed much surprised when she
saw that she had admitted a fine gentleman.

Gambardella bowed respectfully before he spoke.

'Reverend sister,' said he, 'I have the honour to be a friend of your
Order, and if I am not mistaken I am known to your Mother Superior, of
whom I come to ask audience, if she will receive me.'

The lay sister hesitated. She was an elderly woman with flaccid yellow
cheeks, watery eyes, and a more than incipient grey beard.

'I think the Mother Superior is resting,' she said, after a moment.

'So late in the afternoon, sister? I trust that her Reverence is not
indisposed?'

'Besides,' continued the portress, without heeding him, 'you only said
that you thought you were known to her. Pray can you tell me her
Reverence's name?'

Gambardella smiled gently. Probably it was not the first time he had
been obliged to argue with a convent door-keeper, that is, with the most
incredulous and obstinate kind of human being in the world.

'Unless I am mistaken,' Gambardella answered, 'her Reverence's name, in
religion, is Mother Agatha, and she was formerly Sub-Prioress of your
house in Ravenna.'

'I see that you are well-informed,' the portress answered, somewhat
reluctantly. 'I will find out whether she is resting.'

She turned from him to go into her dark little lodge, through which she
had communication with the interior of the convent; but Gambardella
called her back.

'One moment, sister! You need make but one errand of it. Pray let her
Reverence know that a Venetian gentleman of the name of Lorenzo Marcello
sends her this token and begs the honour of a few words with her.'

Therewith Gambardella drew from his finger the brass ring he always wore
and placed it in the portress's hand. After repeating the name he had
given, she nodded and went within. While he waited, Gambardella looked
through the iron gate that separated the vestibule from the pleasant
cloistered garden, and his melancholy face was even more sad than usual,
and his singular eyes more shadowy.

'The Mother Superior will receive you in the parlour, sir,' said the
portress, coming back, and her tone showed that she now accorded the
visitor high consideration.

He followed her through the lodge, which only received light from its
doors when they were open. Across one corner a dark brown curtain was
hung, which presumably hid the portress's pallet-bed. She led him
through a whitewashed corridor, lighted from above, into a wide hall
from which a broad staircase led upwards, and which had several doors,
besides two open entrances. The portress opened one of the doors and
shut it as soon as Gambardella had entered.

He walked up and down the long gloomy room while he waited; the two
grated windows were far above reach and opened upon a blank wall
opposite. The bare stone pavement was damp, and the furniture consisted
of a dark walnut table, once polished, a long straight-backed settle
placed at one end, and twelve rush-bottomed chairs arranged round the
sides of the room with great regularity. Above the settle hung a
painfully realistic crucifix; on the wall at the opposite end a large
barocco picture represented Saint Ursula in glory with the Eleven
Thousand Virgins of Cologne. Opposite the windows there was a bad copy
of a portrait of Paul III., the Pope who first established the order.
Judging from the parlour, it could not be said that the Ursulines of
Ferrara were living in reprehensible luxury.

In three or four minutes the door opened again and the Mother Superior
entered. She was taller than most women, and very lean; her black gown
and the black veil that almost reached the ground hung in straight
folds, and her wimple and gorget framed a dark face, thin and
expressive, with noticeably symmetrical features and ardent black eyes.
It was impossible to guess at her age, but she might have been thirty.

She bent her head slightly, in acknowledgment of Gambardella's
respectful bow, and looked at him during several seconds, as if she were
recalling his appearance to her memory. Then she slowly walked away to
the settle, seated herself in the middle of it, and pointed to a chair
at a little distance. He sat down and waited for her to speak.

'Why have you come?' she asked, in a low tone that sounded resentful.

'Is it a crime to see you after ten years?' asked Gambardella with a
good deal of sadness, and watching her face intently.

'Unless you have changed greatly, it is at least a sin,' she answered
deliberately, and she met his eyes with eyes suddenly fierce.

'I have changed greatly, and not for the better,' he said simply, but he
could not face her look. 'It is neither to confess to you nor to ask
your forgiveness again that I am here, for you have no more right to a
confession than I have to your pardon.'

'That may be,' answered the nun, her tone relenting, 'but such as my
forgiveness can be, while I can still remember, you have it.'

Gambardella was visibly moved at this unexpected concession. He was
seated too far from her to touch her hand, but he put out his own humbly
towards the hem of her black skirt, then brought it back to his lips and
kissed it with reverence, as the very poor and wretched sometimes do in
Italy to express deep gratitude. She watched him, and there was the
faintest suggestion of a smile on her tightly closed lips. After a
little pause, during which their eyes met once, he spoke.

'I have come to inquire about a young Venetian lady and her
serving-woman, who took refuge with you last Saturday,' he said, with
perfect assurance, though he had no proof that the two were in the
convent.

The Mother Superior's face darkened.

'What are they to you?' she asked sternly.

This was a question which Gambardella was not prepared to answer
truthfully, and he had not foreseen it. He vaguely wondered what the
woman who had once loved him so well would say and do if she knew that
he had sunk to the condition of a paid Bravo, and had taken money from
one person to cut Ortensia's throat and from another to deliver her up a
prisoner, and was just now wondering how he could satisfy both his
patrons.

Until now he had seen a humorous element in his two abominable bargains;
but in the grim presence of his own past things looked differently. The
terrible eyes of the high-born woman he had loved and betrayed long ago,
when he was still called an honourable gentleman, were upon him now, and
he feared her as he had assuredly never feared any man in all his wild
life. She understood her power, and waited for him to speak.

But his fear only roused his faculties, and if he felt remorse when he
thought of what she had once been and of the life she was leading now,
by his fault, he knew well enough that as soon as she was out of his
sight he would feel nothing but a dim regret that would hardly hurt.

'I take a vicarious interest in the Lady Ortensia,' he said after a
little reflection. 'A friend of mine, who is travelling with me, is also
a friend of the man with whom she has run away, and who has been locked
up by mistake, as I dare say you have heard from her.'

'She has told me something,' the Mother Superior said coldly.

'I will tell you the whole story,' he answered.

He narrated the circumstances of Ortensia's flight substantially as they
were known to the Senator, and in as few words as possible, and she
listened without interrupting him.

'I know this Pignaver,' he said in conclusion, 'and I know positively
that he has engaged two Bravi to follow the pair and murder them. At the
best, he might be satisfied if Stradella were murdered and the girl
brought back to him. Those fellows may be even now in Ferrara, waiting
for a chance to do the deed. Our object is to unite the lovers and
protect them on their journey till they are beyond the reach of danger.
Do you see any great harm in that?'

'They are not married,' objected the nun.

'I am sure they mean to be, as soon as possible,' Gambardella answered.
'You know what the girl's life will be if you send her home, as I
