
Mrs. Cardross looked silently at Cecile, then at the girl on the bed who
had called her mother. After a moment she bent with difficulty and
kissed the brier-torn wrist, wondering perhaps whether by chance a
deeper wound lay hidden beneath the lace-veiled, childish breast.

"Little daughter--little daughter!" she murmured close to the small
unheeding ear. Cecile waited, a smile half tender, half amused curving
her parted lips; then she glanced curiously at Mrs. Carrick. But that
young matron, ignoring the enfant terrible, calmly tucked her arm under
her mother's; Cecile, immersed in speculative thought, followed them
from the room; a maid extinguished the lights.

In an hour the Villa Cardross was silent and dark, save that, in the
moonlight which struck through the panes of Malcourt's room, an unquiet
shadow moved from window to window, looking out into the mystery of
night.

       *       *       *       *       *

The late morning sun flung a golden net across Malcourt's bed; he lay
asleep, dark hair in handsome disorder, dark eyes sealed--too young to
wear that bruised, loose mask so soon with the swollen shadows under lid
and lip. Yet, in his unconscious features there was now a certain
simplicity almost engaging, which awake, he seemed to lack; as though
latent somewhere within him were qualities which chance might germinate
into nobler growth. But chance, alone, is a poor gardener.

Hamil passing the corridor as the valet, carrying a tray, opened
Malcourt's door, glanced in at him; and Malcourt awoke at the same
moment, and sat bolt upright.

"Hello, Hamil!" he nodded sleepily, "come in, old fellow!" And, to the
valet: "No breakfast for me, thank you--except grape-fruit!--unless
you've brought me a cuckootail? Yes? No? Stung! Never mind; just hand me
a cigarette and take away the tray. It's a case of being a very naughty
boy, Hamil. How are you anyway, and what did you shoot?"

Hamil greeted him briefly, but did not seem inclined to enter or
converse.

Malcourt yawned, glanced at the grape-fruit, then affably at Hamil.

"I say," he began, "hope you'll overlook my rotten behaviour last time
we met. I'd been dining at random, and I'm usually a brute when I do
that."

"Oh, it's all right," said Hamil, looking at the row of tiny Chinese
idols on the mantel.

"No rancour?"

"No. Only--why do you do it, Malcourt?"

"Why do I do which? The wheel or the lady?"

"Oh, the whole bally business? It isn't as if you were lonely and put to
it. There are plenty of attractive girls about, and anybody will take
you on at Bridge. Of course it's none of my affair--but we came
unpleasantly close to a quarrel--which is my only excuse."

Malcourt looked at him thoughtfully. "Hamil, do you know, I've always
liked you a damn sight better than you've liked me."

Hamil said, laughing outright: "I never saw very much of you to like or
dislike."

Malcourt smiled, stretched his limbs lazily, and lighted a cigarette.

"As a matter of fact," he said, "you think I'm worse than I am, but I
know you are worse than you think, because I couldn't even secretly
feel friendly toward a prig. You've had a less battered career than I;
you are, in consequence, less selfish, less ruthless, less cynical
concerning traditions and illusions. You've something left to stick to;
I haven't. You are a little less intelligent than I, and therefore
possess more natural courage and credulity. Outside of these things we
are more or less alike, Hamil. Hope you don't mind my essay on man."

"No," said Hamil, vastly amused.

"The trouble with me," continued Malcourt, "is that I possess a streak
of scientific curiosity that you lack; which is my eternal undoing and
keeps me poor and ignobly busy. I ought to have leisure; the world
should see to it that I have sufficient leisure and means to pursue my
studies in the interest of social economy. Take one of my favourite
experiments, for example. I see a little ball rattling around in a
wheel. Where will that ball stop? You, being less intellectual than I,
don't care where it stops. I do. Instantly my scientific curiosity is
aroused; I reason logically; I evolve an opinion; I back that opinion;
and I remain busy and poor. I see a pretty woman. Is she responsive or
unresponsive to intelligently expressed sentiment? I don't know. You
don't care. I do. My curiosity is piqued. She becomes to me an
abstract question which scientific experiment alone can elucidate--"

Hamil, leaning on the footboard of the bed, laughed and straightened up.

"All right, Malcourt, if you think it worth while--"

"What pursuit, if you please, is worthier than logical and scientific
investigations?"

"Make a lot of honest money and marry some nice girl and have horses and
dogs and a bully home and kids. Look here, as Wayward says, you're not
the devilish sort you pretend to be. You're too young for one thing. I
never knew you to do a deliberately ungenerous act--"

"Like most rascals I'm liable to sentimental generosity in streaks?
Thanks. But, somehow, I'm so damned intelligent that I can never give
myself any credit for relapsing into traditional virtues. Impulse is
often my executive officer; and if I were only stupid I'd take great
comfort out of it."

Hamil walked toward the door, stopping on the threshold to say: "Well,
I'll tell you one thing, Malcourt; I've often disliked you at times; but
I don't now. And I don't exactly know why."

"I do."

"Why?"

"Oh, because you've forgiven me. Also--you think I've a better side."

"Haven't you?"

"My son," said Malcourt, "if somebody'll prove it to me I might sleep
better. Just at present I'm ready for anything truly criminal. There was
a killing at the Club all right. I assumed the r√¥le of the defunct. Now
I haven't any money; I've overdrawn my balance and my salary; Portlaw is
bilious, peevish, unapproachable. If I asked you for a loan I'd only
fall a victim again to my insatiable scientific curiosity. So I'll just
lie here and browse on cigarettes and grape-fruit until something
happens--"

"If you need any money--"

"I told you that we are more or less alike," nodded Malcourt. "Your
offer is partly traditional, partly impulsive, altogether
ill-considered, and does your intelligence no credit!"

Hamil laughed.

"All the same it's an offer," he said, "and it stands. I'm glad I know
you better, Malcourt. I'll be sorry instead of complacently disgusted if
you never pan out; but I'll bet you do, some time."

Malcourt looked up.

"I'm ass enough to be much obliged," he said. "And now, before you go,
what the devil did you shoot in the woods?"

"Miss Cardross got a gobbler--about the biggest bird I ever saw. Eudo
Stent skinned it and Mr. Cardross is going to have it set up in New
York. It's a wonderful--"

"Didn't you shoot anything?"

"Oh, I assassinated a few harmless birds," said Hamil absently; and
walked out into the corridor. "I've got to go over a lot of accumulated
letters and things," he called back. "See you later, Malcourt."

There was a mass of mail, bills, plans, and office reports for him lying
on the hall table. He gathered these up and hastened down the stairway.

On the terrace below he found Mrs. Cardross, and stopped to tell her
what a splendid trip they had, and how beautifully Shiela had shot.

"You did rather well yourself," drawled Mrs. Cardross, with a bland
smile. "Shiela says so."

"Oh, yes, but my shooting doesn't compare with Shiela's. I never knew
such a girl; I never believed they existed--"

"They are rare," nodded the matron. "I am glad everybody finds my little
daughter so admirable in the field."

"Beyond comparison in the field and everywhere," said Hamil, with a
cordiality so laboriously frank that Mrs. Cardross raised her eyes--an
instant only--then continued sorting the skeins of silk in her
voluminous lap.

Shiela appeared in sight among the roses across the lawn; and, as Mr.
Cardross came out on the terrace to light his after-breakfast cigar,
Hamil disappeared in the direction of the garden where Shiela now stood
under the bougainvillia, leisurely biting into a sapodilla.

Mrs. Cardross nodded to her white-linen-clad husband, who looked very
handsome with the silvered hair at his temples accentuating the clear,
deep tan of his face.

"You are burnt, Neville. Did you and the children have a good time?"

"A good time! Well, just about the best in my life--except when I'm with
you. Too bad you couldn't have been there. Shiela shoots like a demon.
You ought to have seen her among the quail, and later, in the saw-grass,
pulling down mallard and duskies from the sky-high overhead range! I
tell you, Amy, she's the cleverest, sweetest, cleanest sportsman I ever
saw afield. Gray, of course, stopped his birds very well. He has a lot
of butterflies to show you, and--'longicorns,' I believe he calls those
beetles with enormous feelers. Little Tiger is a treasure; Eudo and the
others did well--"
