worship him blindly, no.  He knew him to have been a brutal,
domineering man, unscrupulous in politics, to whom woman was either a
temporary toy or a stepping-stone, not over-particular whether she was
a dairy-maid or an Austrian princess; in fact, a rascal, but a great,
incentive, splendid, courageous one, the kind which nature calls forth
every score of years to purge her breast of the petty rascals, to the
benefit of mankind in general.  Notwithstanding that he was a rascal,
there was an inextinguishable glamour about the man against which the
bolts of truth, history, letters, biographers broke ineffectually.  Oh,
but he had shaken up all Europe; he had made precious kings rattle in
their shoes; he had redrawn a hundred maps; and men had laughed as they
died for him.  It is something for a rascal to have evolved the Code
Napoleon.  What a queer satisfaction it must be, even at this late day,
nearly a hundred years removed, to any Englishman, standing above this
crypt, to recollect that upon English soil the Great Shadow had never
set his iron heel!

Near to Fitzgerald stood an elderly man and a girl.  The old fellow was
a fine type of manhood; perhaps in the sixties, white-haired, and the
ruddy enamel on his cheeks spoke eloquently of sea changes and many
angles of the sun.  There was a button in the lapel of his coat, and
from this Fitzgerald assumed that he was a naval officer, probably
retired.

The girl rested upon the railing, her hands folded, and dreamily her
gaze wandered from trophy to trophy; from the sarcophagus to the
encircling faces, from one window to another, and again to the porphyry
beneath.  And Fitzgerald's gaze wandered, too.  For the girl's face was
of that mold which invariably draws first the eye of a man, then his
intellect, then his heart, and sometimes all three at once.  The face
was as lovely as a rose of Taormina.  Dark brown were her eyes, dark
brown was her hair.  She was tall and lithe, too, with the subtle hint
of the woman.  There were good taste and sense in her garments.  A
bunch of Parma violets was pinned against her breast.

"A well-bred girl," was the grateful spectator's silent comment.  "No
new money there.  I wish they'd send more of them over here.  But it
appears that, with few exceptions, only freaks can afford to travel."

Between Fitzgerald and the girl was a veteran.  He had turned eighty if
a day.  His face was powder-blown, an empty sleeve, was folded across
his breast, and the medal of the Legion of Honor fell over the Sleeve.
As the girl and her elderly escort, presumably her father, turned about
to leave, she unpinned the flowers and offered them impulsively to the
aged hero.

"Take these, mon brave," she said lightly; "you have fought for
France."

The old man was confused and his faded eyes filled.  "For me,
mademoiselle?"

"Surely!"

"Thanks, mademoiselle, thanks!  I saw him when they brought him back
from St. Helena, and the Old Guard waded out into the Seine.  Those
were days.  Thanks, mademoiselle; an old soldier salutes you!"  And the
time-bent, withered form grew tall.

Fitzgerald cleared his throat, for just then something hard had formed
there.  Why, God bless her!  She was the kind of girl who became the
mother of soldiers.

With her departure his present interest here began to wane.  He
wondered who she might be and what part of his native land she adorned
when not gracing European capitals.  Well, this was no time for
mooning.  He had arrived from London the day proceeding, and was
leaving for Corfu on the morrow, and perforce he must crowd many things
into this short grace of time.  He was only moderately fond of Paris as
a city; the cafes and restaurants and theaters amused him, to be sure;
but he was always hunting for romance here and never finding it.  The
Paris of his Dumas and Leloir no longer existed.  In one way or
another, the Louvre did not carry him back to the beloved days; he
could not rouse his fancy to such height that he could see D'Artagnan
ruffling it on the staircase, or Porthos sporting a gold baldric, which
was only leather, under his cloak.  So then, the tomb of Napoleon and
the articles of clothing and warfare which had belonged to him and the
toys of the poor little king of Rome were far more to him than all the
rest of Paris put together.  These things of the first great empire
were tangible, visible, close to the touch of his hand.  Therefore,
never he came to Paris that he failed to visit the tomb and the two
museums.

To-day his sight-seeing ended in the hall of Turenne, before the
souvenirs of the Duc de Reichstadt, so-called the king of Rome.  Poor,
little lead soldiers, tarnished and broken; what a pathetic history!
Abused, ignored, his childish aspirations trampled on, the name and
glory of his father made sport of; worried as cruel children worry a
puppy; tantalized; hoping against hope that this night or the next his
father would dash in at the head of the Old Guard and take him back to
Paris.  A plaything for Metternich!  Who can gaze upon these little
toys without a thrill of pity?

"Poor little codger!" Fitzgerald murmured aloud.

"Yes, yes!" agreed a voice in good English, over his shoulder; "who
will ever realize the misery of that boy?"

Fitzgerald at once recognized his jousting opponent of the previous
hour.  Further, this second appearance refreshed his memory.  He knew
now where he had met the man; he even recalled his name.

"Are you not Karl Breitmann?" he asked with directness.

"Yes.  And you are--let me think.  Yes; I have it.  You are the
American correspondent, Fitzgerald."

"And we met in Macedonia during the Greek war."

"Right.  And you and I, with a handful of other scribblers, slept that
night under the same tent."

"By George!"

"I did not recall you when we bumped a while ago; but once I had gone
by you, your face became singularly familiar."

"Funny, isn't it?"  And Fitzgerald took hold of the extended hand.
"The sight of these toys always gets into my heart."

"Into mine also.  Who can say what might have been had they not crushed
out the great spirit lying dormant in his little soul?  I saw Bernhardt
and Coquelin recently in L'Aiglon.  Ah, but they play it!  It drove
me here to-day.  But this three-cornered hat holds me longest," with a
quick gesture toward the opposite wall.  "Can't you see the lean face
under it, the dark eyes, the dark hair falling upon his collar?  What
thoughts have run riot under this piece of felt?  The brain, the brain!
A lieutenant at this time; a short, wiry, cold-blooded youngster, but
dreaming the greatest dream in the world!"

Fitzgerald smiled.  "You are an enthusiast like myself."

"Who wouldn't be who has, visited every battlefield, who has spent days
wandering about Corsica, Elba, St. Helena?  But you?"

"My word, I have done the same things."

They exchanged smiles.

"What written tale can compare with this living one?" continued
Breitmann, his eyes brilliant, his voice eager and the tone rich.  "Ah!
How many times have I berated the day I was born!  To have lived in
that day, to have been a part of that bewildering war panorama; from
Toulon to Waterloo!  Pardon; perhaps I bore you?"

"By George, no!  I'm as bad, if not worse.  I shall never forgive one
of my forebears for serving under Wellington."

"Nor I one of mine for serving under Bl√ºcher!"

They laughed aloud this time.  It is always pleasant to meet a person
who waxes enthusiastic over the same things as oneself.  And Fitzgerald
was drawn toward this comparative stranger, who was not ashamed to
speak from his heart.  They drifted into a long conversation, and
fought a dozen battles, compared this general and that, and built idle
fancies upon what the outcome would have been had Napoleon won at
Waterloo.  This might have gone on indefinitely had not the patient
attendant finally dandled his keys and yawned over his watch.  It was
four o'clock, and they had been talking for a full hour.  They
exchanged cards, and Fitzgerald, with his usual disregard of
convention, invited Breitmann to dine with him that evening at the
Meurice.

He selected a table by the window, dining at seven-thirty.  Breitmann
was prompt.  In evening clothes there was something distinctive about
the man.  Fitzgerald, who was himself a wide traveler and a man of the
world, instantly saw and was agreeably surprised that he had asked a
gentleman to dine.  Fitzgerald was no cad; he would have been just as
much interested in Breitmann had he arrived in a cutaway sack.  But
chance acquaintances, as a rule, are rudimental experiments.

They sat down.  Breitmann was full of surprises; and as the evening
wore on, Fitzgerald remembered having seen Breitmann's name at the foot
of big newspaper stories.  The man had traveled everywhere, spoke five
languages, had been a war correspondent, a sailor in the South Seas,
and Heaven knew what else.  He had ridden camels and polo ponies in the
Soudan; he had been shot in the Greece-Turkish war, shortly after his
having met Fitzgerald; he had played a part in the recent
Spanish-American, and had fought against the English in the Transvaal.

"And now I am resting," he concluded, turning his chambertin round and
round, giving the effect of a cluster of rubies on the table linen.
"And all my adventures have been as profitable as these," indebted for
the moment to the phantom rubies.  "But it's all a great stage, whether
you play behind the wings or before the lights.  I am thirty-eight;
into twenty of those years I have crowded a century."

"You don't look it."

"Ah, one does not need to dissipate to live quickly.  The life I have
led has kept me in health and vigor.  But you?  You are not a man who
travels without gaining material."

"I have had a few adventures, something like yours, only not so widely
diversified.  I wrote some successful short stories about China once.
I have had some good sport, too, here and there."

"You live well for a newspaper correspondent," suggested Breitmann,
nodding at the bottle of twenty-eight-year-old Burgundy.

