world," he said.

"You did ask father?" she inquired, still charmingly flushed; "didn’t
you?"

"I certainly did.  He said: ’Is young Inwood such a particular friend of
yours?’  I said: ’He is!’  He said: ’All right; ask my wife.’  So I
asked your mother, and she said: ’Oh, please, Mr. Edgerton, invite
anybody you wish to.’  So I wrote Billy Inwood, and your bully little
mother inclosed my letter in the sweetest note of her own; and now he
has telegraphed——"

"Telegraphed?"

"I’ve just received the message."

He fished it out of his coat pocket, and handed it to her, and she read:


"On my way!

"BILL."


"Is that all?" she asked, half laughing, half excited.

"He telegraphed your mother the substance of a moderate-sized letter.
She’s probably in her room now, reading it.  She showed it to me in
amazement, but I didn’t have time to follow all his polite and grateful
meanderings."

"I wish to see it!" said the girl excitedly.

"Go ahead; your mother has it.  I was anxious to let you know how
matters had turned out, first."

"You’re a dear!" she repeated, and her voice was not any too steady.  "I
am happy; I am happier than I’ve been for—"  She checked herself, and
bent her head for a moment; he pretended to reread the telegram.

"It will be all right now," he observed.

"I wish I knew," she said under her breath.

"Don’t you?"

She lifted her honest eyes to his. "How can I know, Jim?  I don’t know
how men are.  It all happened over a year ago.... I was no wiser than a
schoolgirl.  What experience had I—with such episodes—such conditions—or
with anything?"

"You did act like a schoolgirl—to send him about his business," said
Edgerton with a shrug.

"I wouldn’t have if I hadn’t—hadn’t——"

"Cared for him?"

"Loved him," she said steadily.

"You’re a corker, Christine!" he said in genuine admiration.

"Am I?  Thank you, Jim."

"Yes, you are; and so is Billy Inwood—the real Billy.  Young men like to
chase about with married women.  They love to delude themselves into the
pleasing belief that they are sad dogs——"

"There was more to it than that," said the girl; "he went to Keno to see
her.  That is what confounded me."

"While she was getting her divorce?"

"Yes."

"Then you can bet that there was nothing in it, you little goose....
Who was she, anyway?"

"A Mrs. Atherstane.  Do you know her?"

"No," said Edgerton; "and you certainly did act like a schoolgirl."

"I know I did, and I was twenty....  I asked him to come, to Hot
Springs; she requested him to go to Keno.  He took his choice; he had a
perfect right to....  And then I wrote him that letter, dismissing him."

"Ought never to have done it, sweetness," said Edgerton gravely.  "There
are no fetters to hold a man like absolute freedom.  He was probably
bound to her in various ways, innocently enough, of course; but she was
probably lonely and in trouble—and—noblesse oblige.  I tell you a young
man has to pay for sympathizing with an unhappily married woman! And she
usually sees that he does."

Christine sat back, nursing her knees, eyes downcast.

"He was right," she said.  "She was his friend."

"Perhaps he was more right than you realize, Christine.  When a man’s
man friend is battered and used up, the man still clings to him—anyway,
until he borrows money; but when his woman friend becomes slightly the
worse for wear, he is inclined to discard her as naïvely as he would a
worn-out coat.  That is the rule—romance to the contrary.... Inwood
proved the exception, that’s all."

"Yes," said the girl in a low voice.

"He proved the exception to me, too," said Edgerton, smiling.

"To you, Jim?"

"Certainly; wanted to lend me money when I arrived in town on my
uppers."

The girl smiled.

"Oh, he’s all right," said Edgerton; "I’ve known him since he was six
and I twelve."

"He—is—all—right," repeated Christine slowly; "but—am I, Jim?"

"You know you are—kleine Fischerin!"

"But I wrote him that wretched letter.  If it hurt him as it hurt me—"
She ceased abruptly, and turned her face toward the window.

"You were years younger, then."

"One year," tremulously.

"Years, sweetness....  Do you think your father will ever stand for
him?"

"He scarcely knows him.  He did not understand why Mr. Inwood never came
to Hot Springs, or why I never again saw him. Probably he supposes I
lost interest."

"So your father believes that you are all over that affair, doesn’t he?"

"Yes; but he probably remembers that Mr. Inwood was to have come to Hot
Springs, and didn’t.  Fathers usually remember such things, and
sometimes ask why."

"Well, Christine," he said, smiling, "you’ll have to fix it with your
father; and I think you can."

"Why do you think so?"

"Because there is much of your father in you—steel under the velvet skin
of that pretty figure, or I miss my guess."

The girl said thoughtfully: "I am, perhaps, more like father than Jack
is....  That is not really what concerns me....  Has Mr. Inwood
changed—in appearance?"

"Within a year?  No!  Nor otherwise, I’ll wager."

"Do you—think——"

"I don’t know; I don’t know, little girl. Men are protean creatures; God
knows what incarnation they’ll assume next! ... But if a woman really
cares for a man, and if he isn’t in love with anybody else, it ought
to be a cinch—even if he had as many incarnations as Albert Chevallier!"

"Jim!"

"Well, I know my sex," he said; "the cleverest of them are boobs in the
hands of yours——"

"Jim!  You are becoming horrid!"

"That means I’m becoming truthful.  Hooray! I see Bill’s happy finish."
He picked up her soft little hand and kissed it.  "Velvet and steel," he
said—"the hand that rocks the world!  Yes?  No?  Good-by, you little
wretch!  I’m going canoeing with my cousin Diana."

"Did you say that mother has that telegram?" she asked naïvely, sliding
from the window-sill to the floor.

"Yes; and it’s a mile long—a bally serial, Christine—to be continued
this evening, I expect."

They clasped hands at the threshold; then she ran upstairs, and he
sauntered out to the tennis court, where Diana still sat on her high
perch knitting the silken tie, although below her the game had ended and
the players had gone to the terrace for iced tea.

"Well, of all pretty monuments!" he exclaimed.  "You have the other one
on the Madison Square tower beaten to a froth!"

"Beware of my arrows," she said, smiling, as the wind blew her scarf
into a silvery arc from her shoulders.

"Arrows?  No, I’m wrong; you look like the Angel of the Central Park
Fountain."

"I feel like the dickens," she said, folding her knitting and descending
the steps.

"Headache?"

