
“Ah, he doesn’t even know that--he takes it so much for granted.” And
she sought, though as rather sadly and despairingly, to explain. “He
lives all in his own world.”

“He lives all in his own, yes; but he does business all in ours--quite
as much as the people who come up to the city in the Tube.” With which
Hugh had a still sharper recall of the stiff actual. “And he must be
here to do business to-day.”

“You know,” Lady Grace asked, “that he’s to meet Mr. Bender?”

“Lady Sandgate kindly warned me, and,” her companion saw as he glanced
at the clock on the chimney, “I’ve only ten minutes, at best. The
‘Journal’ won’t have been good for him,” he added--“you doubtless have
seen the ‘Journal’?”

“No”--she was vague. “We live by the ‘Morning Post.’”

“That’s why our friend here didn’t speak then,” Hugh said with a better
light--“which, out of a dim consideration for her, I didn’t do, either.
But they’ve a leader this morning about Lady Lappington and her Longhi,
and on Bender and his hauls, and on the certainty--if we don’t do
something energetic--of more and more Benders to come: such a conquering
horde as invaded the old civilisation, only armed now with huge
cheque-books instead of with spears and battle-axes. They refer to the
rumour current--as too horrific to believe--of Lord Theign’s putting up
his Moretto; with the question of how properly to qualify any such
sad purpose in him should the further report prove true of a new and
momentous opinion about the picture entertained by several eminent
authorities.”

“Of whom,” said the girl, intensely attached to this recital, “you’re of
course seen as not the least.”

“Of whom, of course, Lady Grace, I’m as yet--however I’m ‘seen’--the
whole collection. But we’ve time”--he rested on that “The fat, if you’ll
allow me the expression, is on the fire--which, as I see the matter, is
where this particular fat should be.”

“Is the article, then,” his companion appealed, “very severe?”

“I prefer to call it very enlightened and very intelligent--and the
great thing is that it immensely ‘marks,’ as they say. It will have made
a big public difference--from this day; though it’s of course aimed not
so much at persons as at conditions; which it calls upon us all somehow
to tackle.”

“Exactly”--she was full of the saving vision; “but as the conditions are
directly embodied in persons----”

“Oh, of course it here and there bells the cat; which means that it
bells three or four.”

“Yes,” she richly brooded--“Lady Lappington is a cat!”

“She will have been ‘belled,’ at any rate, with your father,” Hugh
amusedly went on, “to the certainty of a row; and a row can only be good
for us--I mean for us in particular.” Yet he had to bethink himself.
“The case depends a good deal of course on how your father takes such
a resounding rap.”

“Oh, I know how he’ll take it!”--her perception went all the way.

“In the very highest and properest spirit?”

“Well, you’ll see.” She was as brave as she was clear. “Or at least I
shall!”

Struck with all this in her he renewed his homage. “You are, yes,
splendid!”

“I even,” she laughed, “surprise myself.”

But he was already back at his calculations. “How early do the papers
get to you?”

“At Dedborough? Oh, quite for breakfast--which isn’t, however, very
early.”

“Then that’s what has caused his wire to Bender.”

“But how will such talk strike him?” the girl asked.

Hugh meanwhile, visibly, had not only followed his train of thought,
he had let it lead him to certainty. “It will have moved Mr. Bender to
absolute rapture.”

“Rather,” Lady Grace wondered, “than have put him off?”

“It will have put him prodigiously on! Mr. Bender--as he said to me
at Dedborough of his noble host there,” Hugh pursued--“is ‘a very nice
man’; but he’s a product of the world of advertisment, and advertisement
is all he sees and aims at. He lives in it as a saint in glory or a fish
in water.”

She took it from him as half doubting. “But mayn’t advertisement, in so
special a case, turn, on the whole, against him?”

Hugh shook a negative forefinger with an expression he might have caught
from foreign comrades. “He rides the biggest whirlwind--he has got it
saddled and bitted.”

She faced the image, but cast about “Then where does our success come
in?”

“In our making the beast, all the same, bolt with him and throw him.”
 And Hugh further pointed the moral. “If in such proceedings all he
knows is publicity the thing is to give him publicity, and it’s only a
question of giving him enough. By the time he has enough for himself,
you see, he’ll have too much for every one else--so that we shall ‘up’
in a body and slay him.”

The girl’s eyebrows, in her wondering face, rose to a question. “But if
he has meanwhile got the picture?”

“We’ll slay him before he gets it!” He revelled in the breadth of his
view. “Our own policy must be to organise to that end the inevitable
outcry. Organise Bender himself--organise him to scandal.” Hugh had
already even pity to spare for their victim. “He won’t know it from a
boom.”

Though carried along, however, Lady Grace could still measure. “But that
will be only if he wants and decides for the picture.”

“We must make him then want and decide for it--decide, that is, for
‘ours.’ To save it we must work him up--he’ll in that case want it so
indecently much. Then we shall have to want it more!”

“Well,” she anxiously felt it her duty to remind him, “you can take a
horse to water----!”

“Oh, trust me to make him drink!”

There appeared a note in this that convinced her. “It’s you, Mr.
Crimble, who are ‘splendid’!”

“Well, I shall be--with my jolly wire!” And all on that scent again,
“May I come back to you from the club with Pappendick’s news?” he asked.

“Why, rather, of course, come back!”

“Only not,” he debated, “till your father has left.”

Lady Grace considered too, but sharply decided. “Come when you have
it. But tell me first,” she added, “one thing.” She hung fire a little
while he waited, but she brought it out. “Was it you who got the
‘Journal’ to speak?”

“Ah, one scarcely ‘gets’ the ‘Journal’!”

“Who then gave them their ‘tip’?”

“About the Mantovano and its peril?” Well, he took a moment--but only
not to say; in addition to which the butler had reappeared, entering
from the lobby. “I’ll tell you,” he laughed, “when I come back!”

Gotch had his manner of announcement while the visitor was mounting the
stairs. “Mr. Breckenridge Bender!”

“Ah then I go,” said Lady Grace at once.

“I’ll stay three minutes.” Hugh turned with her, alertly, to the easier
issue, signalling hope and cheer from that threshold as he watched her
disappear; after which he faced about with as brave a smile and as ready
for immediate action as if she had there within kissed her hand to him.
Mr. Bender emerged at the same instant, Gotch withdrawing and closing
the door behind him; and the former personage, recognising his young
friend, threw up his hands for friendly pleasure.




III

“Ah, Mr. Crimble,” he cordially inquired, “you’ve come with your great
news?”

Hugh caught the allusion, it would have seemed, but after a moment.
“News of the Moretto? No, Mr. Bender, I haven’t news yet.” But he
added as with high candour for the visitor’s motion of disappointment:
“I think I warned you, you know, that it would take three or four
weeks.”

“Well, in my country,” Mr. Bender returned with disgust, “it would
take three or four minutes! Can’t you make ‘em step more lively?”

“I’m expecting, sir,” said Hugh good-humouredly, “a report from hour to
hour.”

“Then will you let me have it right off?”

Hugh indulged in a pause; after which very frankly: “Ah, it’s scarcely
for you, Mr. Bender, that I’m acting!”

The great collector was but briefly checked. “Well, can’t you just act
for Art?”

“Oh, you’re doing that yourself so powerfully,” Hugh laughed, “that I
think I had best leave it to you!”
