
The car steps were sheathed in ice; she had already ventured down a
little way when he reached her and offered aid; and she permitted him to
swing her to the cinder-strewn ground.

"Are you really here!" he exclaimed, oblivious of interested glances
from trainmen and passengers.

They exchanged an impulsive hand-clasp. Both were unusually animated.

"Are you well?" she asked, as though she had been away for months.

"Yes. Are you? It's perfectly fine of you to come"--still retaining her
hand--"I wonder if you know how glad I am to see you! I wonder if you
really do!"

She started to say something, hesitated, blushed, then their hands
parted, and she answered lightly:

"What a very cordial welcome for a business girl on a horrid day! You
mustn't spoil me, Mr. Desboro."

"I was afraid you might not come," he said; and indiscreet impulse
prompted her to answer, as she had first answered him there on the
platform two weeks ago:

"Do you suppose that mere weather could have kept me away from the
famous Desboro collection?"

The charming malice in her voice, the delightful impertinence of her
reply, so obviously at variance with fact, enchanted him. She was
conscious of its effect on him, and, already slightly excited, ventured
to laugh at her own thrust as though challenging his self-conceit to
believe that she had even grazed herself with the two-edged weapon.

"Do I count for absolutely nothing?" he said.

"Do you flatter yourself that I returned to see you?"

"Let me believe it for just one second."

"I don't doubt that you will secretly and triumphantly believe it all
the time."

"If I dared----"

"Is that sort of courage lacking in you, Mr. Desboro? I have heard
otherwise. And how long are we going to remain here on this foggy
platform?"

Here was an entirely new footing; but in the delightful glow of youthful
indiscretion she still maintained her balance lightly, mockingly.

"Please tell me," she said, as they entered the car, and he drew the big
fur robe around her, "just how easily you believe in your own
overpowering attractions. Do women encourage you in such modest faith in
yourself? Or are you merely created that way?"

"The house has been a howling wilderness without you," he said. "I admit
my loneliness, anyway."

"I admit nothing. Besides, I wasn't."

"Is that true?"

She laughed tormentingly, eyes and cheeks brilliant, now undisguisedly
on guard--her first acknowledgment that in this man she condescended to
divine the hereditary adversary.

"I mean to punish," said her eyes.

"What an attack from a clear sky on a harmless young man," he said, at
last.

"No, an attack from the fog on an insufferable egoist--an ambush, Mr.
Desboro. And I thought a little sword-play might do your complacent wits
a service. Has it?"

"But you begin by a dozen thrusts, then beat down my guard, and cuff me
about with blade and pommel----"

"I had to. Now, does your vanity believe that my return to Silverwood
was influenced by your piteous appeal over the wire--and your bad
temper, too?"

"No," he said solemnly.

"Well, then! I came here partly to put my notes in better shape for Mr.
Sissly, partly to clear up odds and ends and leave him a clear field to
plow--in your persistent company," she added, with such engaging malice
that even the name of Sissly, which he hated, made him laugh.

"You won't do that," he said confidently.

"Do what, Mr. Desboro?"

"Turn me over to anything named Sissly."

"Indeed, I will--you and your celebrated collection! Of course you
could go South, but, judging from your devotion to the study of
ancient armour----"

"You don't mean it, do you?"

"What? About your devotion?"

"No, about Sissly."

"Yes, I do. Listen to me, Mr. Desboro. I made up my mind that sleighing,
and skating, and luncheon and tea, and--you, are not good for a busy
girl's business career. I'm going to be very practical and very frank
with you. I don't belong here except on business, and you make it so
pleasant and unbusinesslike for me that my conscience protests. You see,
if the time I now take to lunch with you, tea with you, skate, sleigh,
talk, listen, in your very engaging company is properly employed, I can
attend to yards and yards of business in town. And I'm going to. I mean
it, please," as he began to smile.

His smile died out. He said, quietly:

"Doesn't our friendship count for anything?"

She looked at him; shrugged her shoulders:

"Oh, Mr. Desboro," she said pleasantly, "does it, really?"

The blue eyes were clear and beautiful, and a little grave; only the
upcurled corners of her mouth promised anything.

The car drew up at the house; she sprang out and ran upstairs to her
room. He heard her in animated confab with Mrs. Quant for a few minutes,
then she came down in her black business gown, with narrow edges of lawn
at collar and cuffs, and the bright lock already astray on her cheek. A
white carnation was tucked into her waist; the severe black of her
dress, as always, made her cheeks and lips and golden hair more
brilliant by contrast.

"Now," she said, "for my notes. And what are you going to do while I'm
busy?"

"Watch you, if I may. You've heard about the proverbial cat?"

"Care killed it, didn't it?"

"Yes; but it had a good look at the Queen first."

A smile touched her eyes and lips--a little wistfully.

"You know, Mr. Desboro, that I like to waste time with you. Flatter your
vanity with that confession. And even if things were--different--but
they couldn't ever be--and I must work very hard if I'm ever going to
have any leisure in my old age. But come to the library for this last
day, and smoke as usual. And you may talk to amuse me, if you wish.
Don't mind if I'm too busy to answer your folly in kind."

They went together to the library; she placed the mass of notes in front
of her and began to sort them--turned for a second and looked around at
him with adorable malice, then bent again to the task before her.

"Miss Nevers!"

"Yes?"

"You will come to Silverwood again, won't you?"

She wrote busily with a pencil.

"Won't you?"

She made some marginal notes and he looked at the charming profile in
troubled silence.

[Illustration: "She turned leisurely.... 'Did you say anything recently,
Mr. Desboro?'"]

About ten minutes later she turned leisurely, tucking up the errant
strand of hair with her pencil:

"Did you say anything recently, Mr. Desboro?"

"Out of the depths, yes. The voice in the wilderness as usual went
unheeded. I wished to explain to you how we might give up our skating
and sleighing and everything except the bare necessities--and you could
still come to Silverwood on business----"

"What are the 'bare necessities'?"

"Your being here is one----"

"Answer me seriously, please."

"Food, then. We must eat."

She conceded that much.

"We've got to motor to and from the station!"

She admitted that, too.

"Those," he pointed out, "are the bare necessities. We can give up
