master of patience, and so a master of himself; and so he had usually
won.

And now--now in this crisis--a crisis involving the loss of what he
cared for enough to marry--if he must marry to have his way with
her--what was to be done?

He tried to think coolly, but the cinders of rage and passion seemed to
stir and move with every breath he drew awaking the wild fire within.

He would try to reason and think clearly--try to retrace matters to the
beginning and find out why he had blundered when everything was in his
own hands.

It was his aunt's sudden policy that betrayed him into a premature
move--Mary Ledwith's return, and his aunt's visit. Mary Ledwith was
there to marry him; his aunt to make mischief unless he did what was
expected of him.

Leisurely but thoroughly he cursed them both as he walked back across
his lawn. But he was already thinking of Strelsa again when, as he
entered the wide hall, his aunt waddled across the rugs of the
drawing-room, pronouncing his name with unmistakable decision. And,
before the servants, he swallowed the greeting he had hoped to give her,
and led her into the library.

"Mercy on us, Langly!" she exclaimed, eyeing his reeking boots and
riding-breeches; "do you live like a pig up here?"

"I've been out," he said briefly. "What do you want?"

Her little green eyes lighted up, and her smile, which was fading, she
forced into a kind of fixed grin.

"Your polished and thoughtful inquiry is characteristic of you," she
said. "Mary is here, and I want you to come over to dinner."

"I'm not up to it," he said.

"I want you to come."

"I tell you I'm not up to it," he said bluntly.

"And I tell you that you'd better come."

"Better come?" he repeated.

"Yes, better come. More than that, Langly, you'd better behave
yourself, or I'll make New York too hot to hold you."

His prominent eyes were expressionless.

"Ah?" he remarked.

"Exactly, my friend. Your race is run. You've done one thing too
publicly to squirm out of the consequences. The town has stood for a
good deal from you. When that girl at the Frivolity Theatre shot
herself, leaving a letter directed to you, the limit of public patience
was nearly reached. You had to go abroad, didn't you? Well, you can't go
abroad this time. Neither London nor Paris nor Vienna nor Budapest--no,
nor St. Petersburg nor even Constantinople would stand you! Your course
is finished. If you've an ounce of brains remaining you know that you're
done for this time. So go and dress and come over to dinner.... And
don't worry; I'll keep away from you after you're married."

"You'll keep your distance before that," he said slowly.

"You're mistaken. Many people are afraid of you, but I never was and
never could be. You're no good; you never were. If you didn't lug my
name about with you I'd let you go to hell. You'll go there anyway, but
you'll go married first."

"I expect to."

"Married to Mary Ledwith," she said looking at him.

He picked up a cigar, examined it, yawned, then glanced at her:

"As I had--recently--occasion to tell Chester Ledwith, I'll marry whom I
please. Now suppose you clear out."

"Are you dining with us?"

"No."

"What time may we expect you to-morrow?"

"At no time."

"Do you intend to marry Mary Ledwith?"

"No."

"Is that final?"

"Yes!"

"Do you expect to marry anybody else?"

"Yes!" he shouted, partly rising from his chair, his narrow face
distorted. "Yes, I do! Now you know, don't you! Is the matter settled at
last? Do you understand clearly?--you fat-headed, meddlesome old fool!"

He sprang to his feet in an access of fury and began loping up and down
the room, gesticulating, almost mouthing out his hatred and
abuse--rendered more furious still by the knowledge of his own weakness
and disintegration--his downfall from that silent citadel of
self-control which had served him so many years as a stronghold for
defiance or refuge.

"You impertinent old woman!" he shouted, "if you don't keep your fat
nose out of my affairs I'll set a thousand men tampering with the
foundations of your investments! Keep your distance and mind your
business--I warn you now and for the last time, or else--" He swung
around on her, and the jaw muscles began to work--"or else I'll supply
the Yellows with a few facts concerning that Englishman's late father
and yourself!"

Mrs. Sprowl's face went pasty-white; in the fat, colourless expanse only
the deathless fury of her eyes seemed alive.

"So that fetched you," he observed, coolly. "I don't want to give you
apoplexy; I don't want you messing up my house. I merely want you to
understand that it's dangerous to come sniffing and nosing around my
threshold. You do understand, I guess."

He continued his promenade but presently came back to her:

"You know well enough who I want to marry. If you say or do one thing to
interfere I'll see that you figure in the Yellows."

He thought a moment; the colour slowly returned to her face. After a fit
of coughing she struggled to rise from her chair. He let her pant and
scuffle and kick for a while, then opened the door and summoned her
footman.

"I'm sorry I cannot drive with you this evening," he said quietly, as
the footman supported Mrs. Sprowl to her feet, "but I've promised the
Wycherlys. Pray offer my compliments and friendly wishes to Mrs.
Ledwith."

When she had gone he walked back into the library, picked up the
telephone and finally got Molly Wycherly on the wire.

"Won't you ask me to dinner?" he said. "I've an explanation to make to
Mrs. Leeds and I'd be awfully obliged to you."

There was a silence, then Molly said, deliberately:

"You must be a very absent-minded young man. I saw your aunt for a
moment this afternoon and she said that you are dining with her at Mrs.
Ledwith's."

"She was mistaken--" began Sprowl quietly, but Molly cut him short with
a laughing "good-bye," and hung up the receiver.

"That was Langly," she remarked, turning to Strelsa who was already
dressed for dinner and who had come into Molly's boudoir to observe the
hair-dressing and comprehensive embellishment of that young matron's
person by a new maid on probation.

Strelsa's upper lip curled faintly, then the happy expression returned,
and she watched the decorating of Molly until the maid turned her out in
the perfection of grooming from crown to toe.

There was nobody in the music-room. Molly turned again to Strelsa as
they entered:

"What a brute he is!--asking me to invite him here for dinner when Mary
Ledwith has just arrived."

"Did he do that?"

"Yes. And his excuse was that he had an explanation to make you. What a
sneaking way of doing it!"

Strelsa looked out of the dark window in silence.

Molly said: "I wish he'd go away, I never can look at him without
thinking of Chester Ledwith--and all that wretched affair.... Not that I
am sniffy about Mary--the poor little fool.... Anyway," she added
na√Øvely, "old lady Sprowl has fixed her status and now we all know how
to behave toward her."

Strelsa, arms clasped behind her back, came slowly forward from the
window:

"What a sorry civilisation," she said thoughtfully, "and what sorry
codes we frame to govern it."

"What?" sharply.

Strelsa looked at her, absently.

"Nobody seems to be ashamed of anything any more," she said, half to
herself. "The only thing that embarrasses us is what the outside world
may think of us. We don't seem to care what we think of each other."

Molly, a trifle red, asked her warmly what she meant.

