take care of the cat."

So Bruce and Kathlyn went the rounds of the cages.  She was a veritable
enigma to Bruce.  Tigers lost their tenseness and looked straight into
her eyes.  A cheetah with cubs permitted her to touch the wabbly
infants, whereas the keeper of this cage dared not go within a foot of
it.  By the time she reached the elephants a dozen keepers were
following her, their eyes wide with awe.  They had heard often of the
Mem-sahib who calmed the wild ones, but they had not believed.  With
the elephants she did about as she pleased.

"Miss Kathlyn, I am growing a bit afraid of you," said Bruce.

"And why?"

"I've never seen animals act like that before.  What is it you do to
them?"

"Let them know that I am not afraid of them and that I am fond of them."

"I am not afraid of them and am also fond of them.  Yet they spit at me
whenever I approach."

"Perhaps it is black art."  The shadow of a smile crossed her lips.
Then the smile stiffened and she breathed deeply.  For the moment she
had forgot her father, who stood chained to a pillar in a vile cell.
She put her hand over her eyes and swayed.

"What is it?" he cried in alarm.

"Nothing.  I had almost forgot where I am."

"I, too.  I am beginning to let Ahmed think for me.  Let us get back to
the bungalow."

He loved her.  And he feared her, too.  She was so unlike any young
woman he had ever met that she confused his established ideas of the
sex.  The cool blood of her disturbed him as much as anything.  Not a
sign of that natural hysteria of woman, though she had been through
enough to drive insane a dozen ordinary women.  He loved the fearless
eye of her, the flat back, the deep chest, the spring with which she
measured her strides.  Here at last was the true normal woman.  She was
of the breed which produced heroes.

He loved her, and yet was afraid of her.  A wall seemed to surround
her, and nowhere could he discover any breach.  Vaguely he wondered how
the Viking made love to the Viking's daughter.  By storm, or by guile?
Yes, he was afraid of her; afraid of her because she could walk alone.
He locked up his thoughts in his heart; for instinct advised him to say
nothing now; this was no time for the declaration of love.

"It is best," said Ahmed, "that we all remain inside the bungalow.
Ramabai, have you any plan in case Pundita does not return?"

Ramabai's breast swelled.  "Yes, Ahmed.  I have a thousand friends in
yonder city, ready at my call.  Only, this is not the time.  Still, I
can call to them, and by to-morrow there will not be a stone of the
palace upon another.  Be not alarmed.  Pundita will return, but mayhap
alone."

So they waited.

Now, Pundita, being a woman, was wise in the matter of lure.  She
entered the city unquestioned.  She came to the palace steps just as
Umballa was issuing forth.  She shivered a little--she could not help
it; the man looked so gloomy and foreboding.  The scowl warned her to
walk with extreme care.

He stopped when he saw her and was surprised into according her the
salute one gave to a woman of quality.

"Ah!"

"Durga Ram," she began, "I am seeking you."  Her voice trembled ever so
little.

"Indeed!  And why do you seek me, who am your enemy, and who always
will be?"

"A woman loves where she must, not where she wills."

Umballa seemed to ponder over this truth.

"And why have you sought me?"

"A woman's reasons.  My husband and the Mem-sahib----"

"You know, then, where she is?" quickly.

"Aye, Durga Ram; I alone know where she is hiding."

He sent a shrewd glance into her eyes.  Had she wavered, ill would have
befallen her.

"Tell me."

"Follow."

He laughed.  Near by stood two of the palace guards.  "All women are
liars.  Why should I trust you?"

"That is true.  Why indeed should you trust me?"  She turned and with
bowed head started to walk away.

"Wait!" he called to her, at the same time motioning to the guards to
follow at a distance.

"If I lead you to the Mem-sahib, it must be alone."

"You say that you alone know where she is?"

"I meant that I alone will lead you to her.  And you must decide
quickly, Durga Ram, for even now they are preparing for night, and this
time they will go far."

"Lead on."

"Send the guards back to the palace."

Umballa made a sign with his hand, but another with his eyes.  The
guards fell back to the palace steps, understanding perfectly that they
and others were to follow unseen.  Umballa knew instinctively that this
was a trap.  He would apparently walk into it unsuspectingly; but those
who sprung the trap would find no rat, but a tiger.  And after the
manner of hungry tigers, he licked his chops.  A trap; a child could
have discerned it.  But having faith in his star he followed Pundita.
Only once during the journey did he speak.

"Pundita, remember, if you have lied you will be punished."

"Durga Ram, I have not lied.  I have promised to lead you to her, and
lead you to her I shall."

"Durga Ram," he mused.  She did not give him his title of prince;
indeed, she never had.  She was really the rightful heir to this crown;
but her forbears had legally foresworn.  Ah! the Colonel Sahib's camp.
Good!  He knew now that in Kathlyn's escape he had the man Ahmed to
reckon with.  Presently.

"She is there, Durga Ram."

"And what more?" ironically.

His coolness caused her some uneasiness.  Had he, by means unknown to
her, signed to the guards to follow?

Umballa entered the living-room of the bungalow.  It was apparently
deserted.  He cast a quick glance about.  The curtains trembled
suspiciously, and even as he noted it, Bruce, Ramabai and Ahmed sprang
forth, carrying ropes.  Umballa made a dash for the door, but they were
too quick for him.  Struggling, he was seized and bound; but all the
while he was laughing inwardly.  Did they dream of trapping him in this
childish fashion?  By now twenty or thirty of his paid men were drawing
a cordon about the camp.  All of them should pay the full penalty for
this act.  What mattered a few ropes?  He was rather puzzled as to the
reason of their leaving his right arm free.

Next, the curtains were thrown back, and Kathlyn stood revealed.  Near
her a leopard strained impatiently on the leash.  Umballa eyed her
wonderingly.  She was like the woman who had arrived weeks ago.  And
yet to him she seemed less beautiful than when he paid five thousand
rupees for her in the slave mart.  He waited.

"Umballa, write an order for my father's release."

"And if I refuse?" Umballa wanted to gain time.

"You shall be liberated at the same time as this leopard.  You have had
experience with leopards.  Do you not recall the one my father killed,
saving the life of your benefactor?"

"I will free him in exchange for yourself."

"Write."

She offered the pen to him.

He shrugged and made no effort to take it.

"Very well," said Kathlyn.  "Leave us."  Once alone she said: "Can you
run as fast as this cat?"  She approached and began at the knots of the
ropes.

He saw by the thin determined line of her lips that she meant to do
exactly as she threatened.  He concluded then to sign the paper.  His
men would arrive before a messenger could reach the city.

"I will sign," he said.  "For the present you have the best of me.  But
what of the afterwards?"

"We are going to hold you as hostage, Umballa.  When my father arrives
we intend to escort you to the frontier and there leave you."

"Give me the pen."  His men were drawing nearer and nearer.  He signed
the order of release.  He knew that even if it reached the council it
would not serve, lacking an essential.

Kathlyn joyfully caught up the order and called to her friends.
Ramabai smiled and shook his head.  It was not enough, he said.  He
took the jeweled triangle from Umballa's turban.
