nervous misery. There would be no running away from her. They would have
her absurdly tied about their necks forever.

"Madame Beattie!" said he. This was Alston's great day, he reflected,
with a grimace all to himself. He had never put so much impetuosity, so
much daring to the square inch, into any day before. He lounged back a
little in his chair, put his hands in his pockets and tried to feel
swaggering and at ease. Madame Beattie, he knew, wouldn't object to
swagger. And if it would help him dramatically, so much the better.
"Madame Beattie," he repeated, "I've a proposition to make to you. I
thought of it within the last minute."

Her eyes gleamed out at him expectantly, avariciously, with some
suspicion, too. She hoped it concerned money, but it seemed unlikely, so
chill a habit of life had men of Addington.

"It is absolutely my own idea," said Alston. "Nobody has suggested it,
nobody has anything whatever to do with it. If I give myself time to
think it over I sha'n't make it at all. What would you take to leave
Addington, lock, stock and barrel, cut stick to Europe and sign a paper
never to come back? There'd be other things in the paper. I should make
it as tight as I knew how."

Madame Beattie set her lips and looked him over, from his well-bred face
and his exceedingly correct clothes to his feet. She would never have
suspected an Addington man of such impetus, no one except perhaps Jeff
in the old days. What was the utmost an Addington man would do? She had
been used to consider them a meagre set.

"Well?" said Alston.

Madame Beattie blinked a little, and her mind came back.

"Ten thousand," she tossed him at a venture, in a violence of haste.

Alston shook his head.

"Too much," said he.

Madame Beattie, who had not known a tear for twenty years at least,
could have cried then, the money had seemed so unreasonably, so
incredibly near.

"You've got oceans of money," said she, in a passion of eagerness, "all
you Addington bigwigs. You put it away and let it keep ticking on while
you eat noon dinners and walk down town. What is two thousand pounds to
you? In another year you wouldn't know it."

"I sha'n't haggle," said Alston. "I'll tell you precisely what I'll put
into your hand--with conditions--if you agree to make this your farewell
appearance. I'll give you five thousand dollars. And as a thrifty
Addingtonian--you know what we are--I advise you to take it. I might
repent."

She leaned toward him and put a shaking hand on his knee.

"I'll take it," she said. "I'll sign whatever you say. Give me the money
now. You wouldn't ask me to wait, Alston Choate. You wouldn't play a
trick on me."

Alston drew himself up from his lounging ease, and as he lifted the
trembling old hand from his knee, gave it a friendly pressure before he
let it fall.

"I can't give it to you now," he said. "Not this minute. Would you mind
coming to my office to-morrow, say at ten? We shall be less open to
interruption."

"Of course I'll come," she said, almost passionately.

He had never seen her so shaken or indeed actually moved from her
cynical calm. She was making her way out of the room without waiting for
his good-bye. At the door she turned upon him, her blurred old face a
sad sight below the disordered wig. Esther, coming downstairs, met her
in the hall and stopped an instant to stare at her, she looked so
terrible. Then Esther came on to Alston Choate.

"What is it?" she began.

"I was going to ask for you," said Alston. "I want to tell you what I
have just been telling Madame Beattie. Then I must see Jeff and his
sisters." This sounded like an afterthought and yet he was conscious
that Anne was in his mind like a radiance, a glow, a warm sweet wind.
"Everybody connected with Madame Beattie ought to understand clearly
what she can do and what she can't. She seems to have such an
extraordinary facility for getting people into mischief."

He placed a chair for her and when she sank into it, her eyes
inquiringly on his face, he began, still standing, to tell her briefly
the history of the necklace. Esther's face, as he went on, froze into
dismay. He was telling her that the thing which alone had brought out
passionate emotion in her had never existed at all. Not until then had
he realised how she loved the necklace, the glitter of it, the reputed
value, the extraordinary story connected with it. Esther's life had been
built on it. And when Alston had finished and found she could not speak,
he was sorry for her and told her so.

"I'm sorry," he said simply.

Esther looked at him a moment dumbly. Then her face convulsed. She was
crying.

"Don't," said Choate helplessly. "Don't do that. The thing isn't worth
it. It isn't worth anything to speak of. And it's made you a lot of
trouble, all of you, and now she's going back to Europe and she'll take
it with her."

"Going back?" Esther echoed, through her tears. "Who says she's going
back?"

"She says so," Alston rejoined weakly. He thought his hush money might
fairly be considered his own secret. It was like a candle burned in
gratitude for having found out he had dared to say, "darling Anne".

"If she would go back!" said Esther. "But she won't. She'll stay here
and talk to mill hands and drag dirty people up those stairs. And I
shall live here forever with her and grandmother, and nobody will help
me. Nobody will ever help me, Alston Choate. Do you realise that?
Nobody."

Her melting eyes were on his and she herself was out of her chair and
tremulously near. But Esther made no mistake of a too prodigal largess a
man like Reardon was bewitched by, even if he ran from it. She stood
there in sorrowful dignity and let her eyes plead for her. And Alston,
though he had accomplished something for her as well as for Anne, felt
only a sense of shame and the misery of falling short. He had thought he
loved her (he had got so far now as to say to himself he thought so) and
he loved her no more. He wished only to escape, and his wish took every
shred of the hero out of him.

"We'll all help you," he said with the cheerfulness exasperatingly ready
to be pumped up when things are bad and there is no adequate remedy.
"I'd like to. And so will Jeff."

With that he put out his hand to her, and when she unseeingly accorded
him hers gave it what he thought an awkward, cowardly pressure and left
her. There are no graceful ways for leaving Circe's isle, Alston
thought, as he hurried away, unless you have at least worn the hog's
skin briefly and given her a showing of legitimate triumph. And that
night, because he had a distaste for talking about it further, he wrote
the story to Jeff, still omitting mention of his candle-burning
honorarium. To Anne, he sent a little note, the first of a long series,
wondering at himself as he wrote it, but sticking madly to his audacity,
for that queerly seemed the way to win her.

  "Darling Anne," the note said. "It's all right. I'll tell you
  sometime. Meanwhile you're not to worry.

                                                  "Your lover,

                                                      "ALSTON CHOATE."




XXXVIII


While the motor cars were whirling about Addington and observers were in
an ecstasy over Madame Beattie's electioneering, Reardon was the more
explicitly settling his affairs and changing his sailing from week to
week as it intermittently seemed possible to stay. He was in an
irritation of unrest when Esther did not summon him, and a panic of fear
at the prospect of her doing it. He was beginning dimly to understand
that Esther, even if the bills were to be paid, proposed to do nothing
herself about getting decently free. Reardon thought he could interpret
that, in a way that enhanced her divinity. She was too womanly, he
determined. How could a creature like her give even the necessary
evidence? If any one at that time believed sincerely in Esther's clarity
of soul, it was Reardon who had not thought much about souls until he
met her. Esther had been a wonderful influence in his life, transmuting
everyday motives until he actually stopped now to think a little over
the high emotions he was not by nature accustomed even to imagine. There
was something pathetic in his desire to better himself even in spiritual
ways. No man in Addington had attained a higher proficiency in the
practical arts of correct and comfortable living, and it was owing to
the power of Esther's fastidious reserves that he had begun to think all
women were not alike, after all. There must be something in class,
something real and uncomprehended, or such a creature as she could not
be born with a difference. When she came nearer him, when she of her own
act surrendered and he had drawn the exquisite sum of her into his
arms, he still believed in her moral perfection to an extent that made
her act most terribly moving to him. The act grew colossal, for it meant
so matchless a creature must love him unquestioningly or she could not
step outside her fine decorum. Every thought of her drew him toward her.
Every manly and also every ambitious impulse of his entire life--the
ambition that bade him tread as near as possible to Addington's upper
class--forbade his seeking her until he had a right to. And if she would
not free herself, the right would never be his.

One day, standing by his window at dusk moodily looking out while the
invisible filaments that drew him to her tightened unbearably, he saw
Jeff go past. At once Reardon knew Jeff was going to her, and he found
it monstrous that the husband whose existence meant everything to him
should be seeking her unhindered. He got his hat and coat and hurried
out into the street in time to see Jeff turn in at her gate. He strode
along that way, and then halted and walked back again. It seemed to him
he must know at least when Jeff came out.

Jeff had been summoned, and Esther met him with no pretence at an
