
"All right; behave yourself," concluded Barres. "And, Soane, I shall
have three or four people to dinner and a little dancing afterward. I
want Dulcie to enjoy her graduating dance."

"Sure, Misther Barres, you're that kind to the child----"

"Somebody ought to be. Do you know that there was nobody she knew to
see her graduate to-day, excepting myself?"

"Oh, the poor darling! Sure, I was that busy----"

"Busy sleeping off a souse," said Barres drily. "And by the way, who
is that stolid, German-looking girl who alternates with you here at
the desk?"

"Miss Kurtz, sorr."

"Oh. She seems stupid. Where did you dig her up?"

"A fri'nd o' mine riccominds her highly, sorr."

"Is that so? Who is he? One of your German pedlar friends at Grogan's?
Be careful, Soane. You Sinn Feiners are headed for trouble."

He turned and mounted the stairs. Soane looked after him with an
uneasy expression, partly humorous.

"Ah, then, Mr. Barres," he said, "don't be botherin' afther the likes
of us poor Irish. Is there anny harrm in a sup o' beer av a Dootchman
pays?"

Barres looked back at him:

"A one-eyed Dutchman?"

"Ah, g'wan, sorr, wid yer hokin' an' jokin'! Is it graft ye say? An'
how can ye say it, sorr, knowin' me as ye do, Misther Barres?"

The impudent grin on the Irishman's face was too much for the young
man. He continued to mount the stairs, laughing.




X

HER EVENING


As he entered the studio he heard the telephone ringing. Presently
Selinda marched in:

"A lady, sir, who will not giff her name, desires to spik to Mr.
Barres."

"I don't talk to anonymous people," he said curtly.

"I shall tell her, sir?"

"Certainly. Did you make Miss Dulcie comfortable?"

"Yess, sir."

"That's right. Now, take that dress of Miss Dulcie's, go out to some
shop on Fifth Avenue, buy a pretty party gown of similar dimensions,
and bring it back with you. Take a taxi both ways. Wait--take her
stockings and slippers, too, and buy her some fine ones. And some
underwear suitable." He went to a desk, unlocked it, and handed the
maid a flat packet of bank-notes. "Be sure the things are nice," he
insisted.

Selinda, starched, immaculate, frosty-eyed, marched out. She returned
a few moments later, wearing jacket and hat.

"Sir, the lady on the telephone hass called again. The lady would
inquire of Mr. Barres if perhaps he has recollection of the Fountain
of Marie de Médicis."

Barres reddened with surprise and pleasure:

"Oh! Yes, indeed, I'll speak to that lady. Hang up the service
receiver, Selinda." And he stepped to the studio telephone.

"Nihla?" he exclaimed in a low, eager voice.

"C'est moi, Thessa! Have you a letter from me?"

"No, you little wretch! Oh, Thessa, you're certainly a piker! Fancy my
not hearing one word from you since April!--not a whisper, not a sign
to tell me that you are alive----"

"Garry, hush! It was not because I did not wish to see you----"

"Yes, it was! You knew bally well that I hadn't your address and that
you had mine! Is that what you call friendship?"

"You don't understand what you are saying. I wanted to see you. It has
been impossible----"

"You are not singing and dancing anywhere in New York. I watched the
papers. I even went to the Palace of Mirrors to enquire if you had
signed with them there."

"Wait! Be careful, please!----"

"Why?"

"Be careful what you say over the telephone. For my sake, Garry. Don't
use my former name or say anything to identify me with any place or
profession. I've been in trouble. I'm in trouble still. Had you no
letter from me this morning?"

"No."

"That is disquieting news. I posted a letter to you last night. You
should have had it in your morning mail."

"No letter has come from you. I had no letters at all in the morning
mail, and only one or two important business letters since."

"Then I'm deeply worried. I shall have to see you unless that letter
is delivered to you by evening."

"Splendid! But you'll have to come to me, Thessa. I've invited a few
people to dine here and dance afterwards. If you'll dine with us, I'll
get another man to balance the table. Will you?"

After a moment she said:

"Yes. What time?"

"Eight! This is wonderful of you, Thessa!" he said excitedly. "If
you're in trouble we'll clear it up between us. I'm so happy that you
will give me this proof of friendship."

"You dear boy," she said in a troubled voice. "I should be more of a
friend if I kept away from you."

"Nonsense! You promise, don't you?"

"Yes ... Do you realise that to-night another summer moon is to
witness our reunion?... I shall come to you once more under a full
June moon.... And then, perhaps, no more.... Never.... Unless after
the world ends I come to you through shadowy outer space--a ghost
drifting--a shred of mist across the moon, seeking you once
more!----"

"My poor child," he said laughing, "you must be in no end of low
spirits to talk that way."

"It does sound morbid. But I have plenty of courage, Garry. I shall
not snivel on the starched bosom of your evening shirt when we meet.
Donc, à bientôt, monsieur. Soyez tranquille! You shall not be ashamed
of me among your guests."

"Fancy!" he laughed happily. "Don't worry, Thessa. We'll fix up
whatever bothers you. Eight o'clock! Don't forget!"

"I am not likely to," she said.

       

Until Selinda returned from her foray along Fifth Avenue, Barres
remained in the studio, lying in his armchair, still possessed by the
delightful spell, still excited by the prospect of seeing Thessalie
Dunois again, here, under his own roof.

But when the slant-eyed and spotlessly blond Finn arrived, he came
back out of his retrospective trance.

"Did you get some pretty things for Miss Soane?" he enquired.

"Yess, sir, be-ootiful." Selinda deposited on the table a sheaf of
paid bills and the balance of the bank-notes. "Would Mr. Barres be
kind enough to inspect the clothes for Miss Soane?"

"No, thanks. You say they're all right?"

"Yess, sir. They are heavenly be-ootiful."

"Very well. Tell Aristocrates to lay out my clothes after you have
dressed Miss Dulcie. There will be two extra people to dinner. Tell
Aristocrates. Is Miss Dulcie still asleep?"

"Yess, sir."

"All right. Wake her in time to dress her so she can come out here and
give me a chance----" He glanced at the clock "Better wake her now,
Selinda. It's time for her to dress and evacuate my quarters. I'll
take forty winks here until she's ready."

       

Barres lay dozing on the sofa when Dulcie came in.

Selinda, enraptured by her own efficiency in grooming and attiring the
girl, marched behind her, unable to detach herself from her own
handiwork.

