“My God!” cried Peter. “I wanted to get away!”

The policemen seemed to find it suspicious that he had stayed hidden
so long. They were in a state of excitement themselves, it appeared;
a terrible crime had been committed, and they were hunting for any
trace of the criminal. Another man came up, not dressed in uniform,
but evidently having authority, and he fell onto Peter, demanding to
know who he was, and where he had come from, and what he had been
doing in that crowd. And of course Peter had no very satisfactory
answers to give to any of these questions. His occupations had been
unusual, and not entirely credible, and his purposes were hard to
explain to a suspicious questioner. The man was big and burly, at
least a foot taller than Peter, and as he talked he stooped down and
stared into Peter’s eyes as if he were looking for dark secrets
hidden back in the depths of Peter’s skull. Peter remembered that he
was supposed to be sick, and his eyelids drooped and he reeled
slightly, so that the policemen had to hold him up.

“I want to talk to that fellow,” said the questioner. “Take him
inside.” One of the officers took Peter under one arm, and the other
under the other arm, and they half walked and half carried him
across the street and into a building.




Section 4


It was a big store which the police had opened up. Inside there were
wounded people lying on the floor, with doctors and others attending
them. Peter was marched down the corridor, and into a room where sat
or stood several other men, more or less in a state of collapse like
himself; people who had failed to satisfy the police, and were being
held under guard.

Peter’s two policemen backed him against the wall and proceeded to
go thru his pockets, producing the shameful contents--a soiled rag,
and two cigarette butts picked up on the street, and a broken pipe,
and a watch which had once cost a dollar, but was now out of order,
and too badly damaged to be pawned. That was all they had any right
to find, so far as Peter knew. But there came forth one thing
more--the printed circular which Peter had thrust into his pocket.
The policeman who pulled it out took a glance at it, and then cried,
“Good God!” He stared at Peter, then he stared at the other
policeman and handed him the paper.

At that moment the man not in uniform entered the room. “Mr.
Guffey!” cried the policeman. “See this!” The man took the paper,
and glanced at it, and Peter, watching with bewildered and
fascinated eyes, saw a most terrifying sight. It was as if the man
went suddenly out of his mind. He glared at Peter, and under his
black eyebrows the big staring eyes seemed ready to jump out of his
head.

“Aha!” he exclaimed; and then, “So I’ve got you!” The hand that held
the paper was trembling, and the other hand reached out like a great
claw, and fastened itself in the neck of Peter’s coat, and drew it
together until Peter was squeezed tight. “You threw that bomb!”
 hissed the man.

“Wh-what?” gasped Peter, his voice almost fainting. “B-b-bomb?”

“Out with it!” cried the man, and his face came close to Peter’s,
his teeth gleaming as if he were going to bite off Peter’s nose.
“Out with it! Quick! Who helped you?”

“My G-God!” said Peter. “I d-dunno what you mean.”

“You dare lie to me?” roared the man; and he shook Peter as if he
meant to jar his teeth out. “No nonsense now! Who helped you make
that bomb?”

Peter’s voice rose to a scream of terror: “I never saw no bomb! I
dunno what you’re talkin’ about!”

“You, come this way,” said the man, and started suddenly toward the
door. It might have been more convenient if he had turned Peter
around, and got him by the back of his coat-collar; but he
evidently held Peter’s physical being as a thing too slight for
consideration--he just kept his grip in the bosom of Peter’s jacket,
and half lifted him and half shoved him back out of the room, and
down a long passage to the back part of the building. And all the
time he was hissing into Peter’s face: “I’ll have it out of you!
Don’t think you can lie to me! Make up your mind to it, you’re going
to come thru!”

The man opened a door. It was some kind of storeroom, and he walked
Peter inside and slammed the door behind him. “Now, out with it!” he
said. The man thrust into his pocket the printed circular, or
whatever it was--Peter never saw it again, and never found out what
was printed on it. With his free hand the man grabbed one of Peter’s
hands, or rather one finger of Peter’s hand, and bent it suddenly
backward with terrible violence. “Oh!” screamed Peter. “Stop!” And
then, with a wild shriek, “You’ll break it.”

“I mean to break it! mean to break every bone in your body! I’ll
tear your finger-nails out; I’ll tear the eyes out of your head, if
I have to! You tell me who helped you make that bomb!”

Peter broke out in a storm of agonized protest; he had never heard
of any bomb, he didn’t know what the man was talking about; he
writhed and twisted and doubled himself over backward, trying to
evade the frightful pain of that pressure on his finger.

“You’re lying!” insisted Guffey. “I know you’re lying. You’re one of
that crowd.”

“What crowd? Ouch! I dunno what you mean!”

“You’re one of them Reds, aint you?”

“Reds? What are Reds?”

“You want to tell me you don’t know what a Red is? Aint you been
giving out them circulars on the street?”

“I never seen the circular!” repeated Peter. “I never seen a word in
it; I dunno what it is.”

“You try to stuff me with that?”

“Some woman gimme that circular on the street! Ouch! Stop! Jesus! I
tell you I never looked at the circular!”

“You dare go on lying?” shouted the man, with fresh access of rage.
“And when I seen you with them Reds? I know about your plots, I’m
going to get it out of you.” He grabbed Peter’s wrist and began to
twist it, and Peter half turned over in the effort to save himself,
and shrieked again, in more piercing tones, “I dunno! I dunno!”

“What’s them fellows done for you that you protect them?” demanded
the other. “What good’ll it do you if we hang you and let them
escape?”

But Peter only screamed and wept the louder.

“They’ll have time to get out of town,” persisted the other. “If you
speak quick we can nab them all, and then I’ll let you go. You
understand, we won’t do a thing to you, if you’ll come thru and tell
us who put you up to this. We know it wasn’t you that planned it;
it’s the big fellows we want.”

He began to wheedle and coax Peter; but then, when Peter answered
again with his provoking “I dunno,” he would give another twist to
Peter’s wrist, and Peter would yell, almost incoherent with terror
and pain--but still declaring that he could tell nothing, he knew
nothing about any bomb.

So at last Guffey wearied of this futile inquisition; or perhaps it
occurred to him that this was too public a place for the prosecution
of a “third degree”--there might be some one listening outside the
door. He stopped twisting Peter’s wrist, and tilted back Peter’s
head so that Peter’s frightened eyes were staring into his.

“Now, young fellow,” he said, “look here. I got no time for you just
now, but you’re going to jail, you’re my prisoner, and make up your
mind to it, sooner or later I’m going to get it out of you. It may
take a day, or it may take a month, but you’re going to tell me
about this bomb plot, and who printed this here circular opposed to
Preparedness, and all about these Reds you work with. I’m telling
you now--so you think it over; and meantime, you hold your mouth,
don’t say a word to a living soul, or if you do I’ll tear your
tongue out of your throat.”

Then, paying no attention to Peter’s wailings, he took him by the
back of the collar and marched him down the hall again, and turned
him over to one of the policemen. “Take this man to the city jail,”
 he said, “and put him in the hole, and keep him there until I come,
and don’t let him speak a word to anybody. If he tries it, mash his
mouth for him.” So the policeman took poor sobbing Peter by the arm
and marched him out of the building.




Section 5


The police had got the crowds driven back by now, and had ropes
across the street to hold them, and inside the roped space were
several ambulances and a couple of patrol-wagons. Peter was shoved
into one of these latter, and a policeman sat by his side, and the
bell clanged, and the patrol-wagon forced its way slowly thru the
struggling crowd. Half an hour later they arrived at the huge stone
jail, and Peter was marched inside. There were no formalities, they
did not enter Peter on the books, or take his name or his finger
prints; some higher power had spoken, and Peter’s fate was already
determined. He was taken into an elevator, and down into a basement,
and then down a flight of stone steps into a deeper basement, and
there was an iron door with a tiny slit an inch wide and six inches
long near the top. This was the “hole,” and the door was opened and
Peter shoved inside into utter darkness. The door banged, and the
bolts rattled; and then silence. Peter sank upon a cold stone floor,
a bundle of abject and hideous misery.

These events had happened with such terrifying rapidity that Peter
Gudge had hardly time to keep track of them. But now he had plenty
of time, he had nothing but time. He could think the whole thing
out, and realize the ghastly trick which fate had played upon him.
