she had ever heard, he could be brutally direct when it suited his
purpose.  For a moment she hated him as ardently as she had for a time
after he left her.

They descended into lower and lower altitudes until the air grew
intensely hot, physically depressing after the cold wine of the
mountains; finally, ten minutes ahead of time, they drove into the
doubly depressing village of Huntersville.  It was no uglier than
thousands of other villages and small towns that look as if built to
demonstrate the American contempt for beauty, but the fact mitigated
nothing to eyes accustomed to the picturesqueness of mountain villages
in Europe, where the very roofs are artistic and the peasants have the
grace to wear the dress of their ancestors.

There were a few farms in the valley, but if Huntersville had not been
a junction of sorts, it is doubtful if it would have consisted of
anything but a "general store," now that the saloons were closed.
There was one long crooked street, with the hotel at one end, the Store
at the other (containing the post office), and a church, shops for
automobile supplies, two garages, a drug store, and a candy store;
eight or ten cottages filled the interstices.  Men were working in the
fields, but those in Huntersville proper seemed to be exhausted with
loafing.  Campers going in and out of the woods needing shelter for a
night, and people demanding meals between trains, kept the dismal
looking hotel open and reasonably clean.

The situation was very beautiful, for the mountains rose behind and
there was a brawling stream.

Mr. Dinwiddie having ascertained that "Mr." Hohenhauer had received his
message and gone for a walk, leaving word he would return at ten
o'clock, Mary went into the hotel parlor to wait for him.  The room was
seldom used, patrons, local and otherwise, preferring the Bar of happy
memories, and it smelled musty.  She opened the windows and glanced
about distastefully.  The walls were covered with a faded yellow paper,
torn in places, and the ceiling was smoked and fly-specked.  The worn
thin carpet seemed to have been chosen for its resemblance to turtle
soup squirming with vermicelli.  Over the pine mantel, painted yellow,
were the inevitable antlers, and on a marble-topped table were badly
executed water lilies under a glass dome.  The furniture was horsehair,
and she wondered how she and the Austrian statesman were to preserve
their dignity on the slippery surface.  Then she heard his voice in the
hall as he stopped to speak to Mr. Dinwiddie, and she glanced out
curiously.

She had not seen him since a year before the war, but he was little
changed; improved if anything, for there was more color in his formerly
pale face.  He was as straight and as thin as ever, his fine head
erect, without haughtiness; his dark eyes under their heavy lids had
the same eagle glance.  He was still, she concluded dispassionately,
the handsomest man she had ever seen, even for an Austrian, the
handsomest race on earth; he combined high intelligence with a classic
regularity of feature, grace, dignity; and when the firm lips relaxed
he had a delightful smile.  If it had not been for his hair, very thick
white hair, he would have passed for little over forty.  He wore loose
gray travelling clothes, and every detail was as quietly faultless as
ever.

She went hastily to the speckled mirror beneath the antlers and
surveyed herself anxiously.  Her own travelling suit of dark green
tweed, with its white silk shirt, was as carelessly perfect as his own,
and the little green turban, with its shaded, drooping feather,
extremely becoming.  No color set off her fairness like green, but she
turned away with a sigh.  It was not the eyes of the past three days
that looked back at her.

And then she remembered that he had not seen her since the renaissance.
The moment was not without its excitements.

Their meeting was excessively formal.

"Frau Gräfin."

"Excellenz."

She lifted her hand.  He raised it to his lips.

And then he drew back and looked at her with penetrating but smiling
eyes.

"I had heard, of course," he said gallantly, "but I hardly was
prepared.  May I say, Frau Gräfin, that you look younger than when I
had the pleasure of meeting you first?"

"I assure you that I feel many years younger," she replied lightly.
"May I add that I am delighted to see that you are in the best of
health?  Your rest in Switzerland has done you good, although it would
have been better for Austria had it been shorter.  Shall we sit down?"

Two tall dignified bodies adjusted themselves to chairs both slippery
and bumpy.  He had closed the door behind him.

"Now that the amenities are over, Excellenz," she said with the
briskness she had picked up from her American friends, "let us come to
the point.  I infer you did not take a day's journey and put up with
this abominable hotel to tell me that you are forming a Federation of
Austria and the South German States.  You were sometimes kind enough to
ask my help in the past, but I have no influence in Washington."

"No, dear Gräfin.  I do not need your assistance in Washington.  But I
do need it in Austria, and that is why I am here."

"But it is--was--my intention to return to Austria almost immediately.
Surely Judge Trent must have told you."

"Yes, dear Gräfin, he told me, but he also told me other things.  I
shall not waste the little time at our disposal in diplomacy.  He told
me that you have the intention to marry a young American."  There was
the faintest accent on the young.

Mary was annoyed to feel herself flushing, but she answered coldly, "It
is quite true that I intend to marry Mr. Clavering."

"And I have come here to ask you to renounce that intention and to
marry me instead."

"You!"  Mary almost rose from her chair.  "What on earth do you mean?"

"My dear Marie."  He renounced formalities abruptly.  "I think you will
be able to recall that whether I wrapped my meaning in diplomatic
phrases or conveyed it by the blunter method, it was always
sufficiently clear to the trained understanding.  I have never known a
more trained or acute understanding than yours.  I wish you to marry
me, and I beg you to listen to my reasons."

She gave the little foreign shrug she had almost forgotten.  "I will
listen, of course.  Need I add that I am highly honored?  If I were not
so astonished, no doubt I should be more properly appreciative of that
honor.  Pray let me hear the reasons."  Her tone was satirical, but she
was beginning to feel vaguely uneasy.

Neither her words nor her inflections ruffled the calm of that long
immobile face with its half-veiled powerful eyes.

"Let us avert all possible misunderstandings at the beginning," he said
suavely.  "I shall not pretend that I have fallen in love with you
again, for although my gallantry prompts me to such a natural
statement, I have not the faintest hope of deceiving you.  What I felt
for you once can never be revived, for I loved you more than I have
ever loved any woman; and when such love burns itself out, its ashes
are no more to be rekindled than the dust of the corpse.  You thought I
fell in love with my pretty young wife, but I was merely fond and
appreciative of her.  I knew that the end had come for us, and that if
I did not recognize that sad fact, you would.  My marriage, which, as
you know, was imperative, afforded a graceful climax to a unique
episode in the lives of both of us.  There was no demoralizing interval
of subterfuge and politely repressed ennui.  On the other hand, it did
not degenerate into one of those dreary and loosely knit liaisons,
lasting on into old age.  We left each other on the heights, although
the cliff was beginning to crumble."

"Really, Moritz!  I hope you have not come up here to indulge in
sentimental reminiscence.  Why rake up that old--episode?  I assure you
I have practically forgotten it."

"And I can assure you that I never felt less sentimental.  I wish
merely to emphasize the fact that it was complete in itself, and
therefore as impossible of resuscitation as the dead.  Otherwise, you
might naturally leap to the conclusion that I was an elderly romantic
gentleman----"

"Oh, never!  It is obvious that you are inclined to be brutally frank.
But, as you said, time is short."

"If what I said sounded brutal, it was merely to remind you that
love--the intense passionate love I have no doubt you feel for this
young man who helps you to realize your renewed youth--never lasts.
And when this new love of yours burns itself out--you never had the
reputation of being very constant, dear Marie--you will have an alien
young man on your hands, while that remarkable brain of yours will be
demanding its field of action.  You are European, not American--why,
even your accent is stronger than mine!  That may be due to an
uncommonly susceptible ear, but as a matter of fact your mind has a
stronger accent still.  You became thoroughly Europeanized, one of us,
and--I say this quite impartially--the most statesman-like woman in
Europe.  Your mind was still plastic when you came to us--and your
plastic years are long over, ma chère.  If your mind had become as
young as your body, you would have bitterly resented it.  You were
always very proud of that intellect of yours--and with the best of
reasons."

Mary was staring out of the window.  She recalled that she had faced
the fact of the old mind in the young brain when she first discovered
that she loved Clavering.  How could she have forgotten . . . for a few
short weeks--and up there? . . .  She raised her eyes to the mountain.
From where she sat she could not see the top.  It looked like an
impenetrable rampart, rising to the skies.

"Can you tell me with honesty and candor," he continued in those same
gentle tones that had always reminded her of limpid water running over
iron, "--and for all your subtlety your mind is too arrogant and
fearless to be otherwise than honest au fond--that you believe you
could remain satisfied with love alone?  For more, let us say, than a
year?"

She moved restlessly.  "Perhaps not.  But I had planned to live in
Vienna.  He would spend only a part of the year there with me.  His own
interests are here, of course.  It would be a perfectly workable
arrangement."

