
"Fact. Cara's a dear, good soul, as you know; but she's a self-willed
little jade, and if I don't do just as she wants me to--if I don't walk
her chalk line--presto! she goes off like a rocket. To-night, d'ye
see, I came home with the first volume of Prescott's new work on
Mexico--a perfect romance of a book, and wanted to read it aloud to
Cara. But no, she had something else in her head, and told me, up and
down, that she didn't want to hear any of my dull old histories. I got
mad, of course; I always get mad when she comes athwart my hawes in
this way.

"'Dull old histories!' said I, indignantly. 'There's more true life and
real interest in this book than in all the Wandering Jews or Laura
Matilda novels that ever were written; and I wish you'd throw such
miserable trash into the fire, and read books from which to get some
intelligence and strength of mind.' Whew! The way she combed my hair
for me at this was curious. I am a philosopher, and on these occasions
generally repeat to myself the wise saw--

  'He that fights and runs away,
  May live to fight another day.'

So, deeming discretion the better part of valour, I retreated in
disorder."

"That's bad," remarked Wilkinson, who knew something of the character
of his friend's wife.

"I know it's bad; but, then, I can't help myself. Cara has such a queer
temper, I never know how to take her."

"You ought to understand her peculiarities by this time, and bear with
them."

"Bear with them! I'd like to see you have the trial for a while; your
wife is an angel. Ah, John! you're a lucky dog. If I had such a
sweet-tempered woman in my house, I would think it a very paradise."

"Hush! hush! Harry; don't speak in that way. Few women possess so many
good qualities as Mrs. Ellis; and it is your duty to cherish and love
the good, and to bear with the rest."

"Well preached; but, as I am to apply the discourse, and not you, I
must beg to be excused."

"Good-night. Go home, kiss Cara, and forgive her," said Wilkinson; and
he made a motion to pass on, adding, as he did so, "I'm out much later
than usual, and am in a hurry to get back. Mary will be uneasy about
me."

But Ellis caught hold of one of his arms with both hands, and held on
to him.

"Can't let you go, Wilkinson" said he, firmly. "You're the man of all
others I want to see--been thinking about you all the evening; want to
have a long talk with you."

"Any other time, but not now," replied Wilkinson.

"Now, and no other time," persisted the other, clinging fast to his arm.
