"Some other mode of living must be sought, my son," replied Mrs.
Darlington. "Added to all the evils attendant on the present mode, is
that of a positive loss instead of a profit. Several hundred dollars
have been wasted already, and daily am I going in debt."

"Then, mother, let us change at once," replied the young man. "It would
be better to shrink together in a single room than to continue as we
are. I will seek a clerkship in a store and earn what I can to help
support the family."

"I can think of nothing now but Miriam!" said Mrs. Darlington. "Oh, if
she were back again, safe from the toils that have been thrown around
her, I think I would be the most thankful of mortals! Oh, my child! my
child!"

What could Henry say to comfort his mother? Nothing. And he remained
silent.

Long after this, Mrs. Darlington, with Henry and Edith, were sitting
together in painful suspense. No word had been spoken by either for the
space of nearly an hour. The clock struck ten.

"I would give worlds to see my dear, dear child!" murmured Mrs.
Darlington.

Just then a carriage drove up to the door and stopped. Henry sprang
down stairs; but neither Edith nor her mother could move from where
they sat. As the former opened the street door, Miriam stood with her
uncle on the threshold. Henry looked at her earnestly and tenderly for
an instant, and then, staggering back, leaned against the wall for
support.

"Where is your mother?" asked Mr. Ellis.

"In her own room," said Henry, in a voice scarcely audible.

Miriam sprang up the stairs with the fleetness of an antelope, and, in
a few moments, was sobbing on her mother's bosom.

"Miriam! Miriam!" said Mrs. Darlington, in a thrilling voice, "do you
return the same as when you left?"

"Yes, thank God!" came from the maiden's lips.

"Thank God! thank God!" responded the mother, wildly. "Oh, my child,
what a fearful misery you have escaped!"

In a few minutes, the mother and sisters were joined by Henry.

"Where is your uncle?" asked Mrs. Darlington.

"He has gone away; but says that he will see you to-morrow."

Over the remainder of that evening we will here draw a veil.



CHAPTER XI.

ON the next morning, only Mrs. Darlington met her boarders at the
