often from a tender of their affection, for fear their motives may
be thought interested; while the mercenary push forward, and by
well-directed flattery, that does not seem like flattery, win the
prize they cannot appreciate.

There are such base wretches in society. Let those who most need to
fear them be on their guard.

It is now but a few weeks since Thomas Fielding, who was despised
and rejected by Margaretta, married a sweet girl in every way worthy
of him. She is not rich in worldly goods, but she is rich in
virtuous principles. The former Fielding does not need; but the
latter he can cherish "as a holy prize."




IS MARRIAGE A LOTTERY?


"I AM afraid to marry," said a young lady, half jesting and half in
earnest, replying to something a friend had said.

"Why so, Ella?" asked one of the company, who had thus far chosen
rather to listen than join in the conversation of half a dozen gay
young girls. She was a quiet, matronly-looking individual, some few
years past the prime of life.

"For fear of being unhappy, Mrs. Harding," replied the first
speaker.

"What an idea!" exclaimed a gay damsel, laughing aloud at the
singular fear expressed by Ella. "For my part, I never expect to be
happy until I am married."

"If marriage should make you any happier than you are now, Caroline,
the result will be very fortunate. Your case will form an exception
to the rule."

"Oh, no, Ella, don't say that," spoke up the one who had replied to
her first remark. "Happiness is the rule, and unhappiness the
exception."

"Then it happens strangely enough," returned Ella, smiling, "that we
are more familiar with the exceptions than the rule."

"No, my dear, that cannot for a moment be admitted. Far more of
happiness than misery results from marriage."

"Look at Ellen Mallory," was answered promptly, "and Mrs. Cummings,
and half a dozen others I could name."

"The two you have mentioned are painful instances, I must admit, and
form the exceptions of which I spoke; but the result is by no means
one that should excite our surprise, for it is a natural consequence
flowing from an adequate cause. If you marry as unwisely as did the
persons you mention, I have no doubt but you will be quite as
wretched as they are--it may be more so."

"I am sure Mr. Mallory is an elegant-looking man," said one of the
