days. It did my heart good to see how cool and collected he was; how
skilfully he managed the boat, when it came down upon us like a race
horse. He gave off his orders like a hero, and they were obeyed with a
promptness and precision that would have been creditable to the crew of
a man-of-war, after a three years' cruise. And then, when he ordered six
of the boys to stay in the boat, and the rest to follow him into the
water, it was really heroic. Over he went, with his crew after him, as
though they had been so many ducks. And in the water, they worked with
as much coolness and courage as though it had been their native element.
I would give half my fortune to be the father of such a son."

"I would give all of mine," added Farmer Leeds. "You don't know half his
worth yet. But there is nothing for us to do here; the men shall haul
your chaise up to the house, and as we walk along I will tell you about
Tony."

"Master Sedley, I shall see you again to-day or to-morrow. Tell Tony
how highly I value his noble service, and tell him I shall call upon him
this evening," said Mr. Walker, as he went away with Farmer Leeds.

"My father would be very happy to have you stop at his house while you
remain in Rippleton," continued Frank, who was not sure that the
farmhouse would accommodate him.

"As to that," interposed Farmer Leeds, "I can't offer you so grand a
house as Captain Sedley's, but such as it is, you are welcome to it."

"Thank you, Master Sedley, for your hospitable invitation; but I think I
will remain with my good friend here." And he departed with the farmer.

"All aboard!" said Frank, and the boys tumbled into the boat, and
grasped their oars.

The Zephyr pushed off, and her cheerful crew pulled merrily down the
river. Frank was conscious that the organization of the boat clubs had
been the means of accomplishing the good work which the crew of the
Butterfly had just achieved. He was aware that some of the people in the
vicinity had cherished strong objections to the clubs, and that Tony had
had considerable difficulty in persuading the parents of his crew to
allow their sons to join. The adventure at the bridge, he thought, would
have a tendency to reconcile them, and to elevate and dignify boating.
At any rate a good deed had been done, and the parents of those who had
taken part in it could not but be proud of the laurels their sons had
earned.

The Zephyr, under Frank's skilful pilotage passed the rocks in safety,
though, as they darted through the narrow channel, he could see their
sharp edges only a little way below the surface of the clear water.

They had scarcely entered the open lake before they perceived the Sylph,
under full sail with a smashing breeze, close aboard of them.

"Frank!" shouted Captain Sedley, who was at the helm, while Uncle Ben
was gazing at them with a very sorrowful face from the half deck.

"Ay, ay, sir!" replied Frank, as he laid the Zephyr's course towards the
sailboat.

Though his father had only spoken his name, there was something in the
tone which could not be misapprehended; but it did not occur to him, he
