"I'm satisfied this girl is abused, and it would be mean in us to leave
her to her fate. It's nearly dark now, and there isn't any one in the
garden. I'm going up to take a look. Kate said her room was in the
attic."

"Yes; that's the one with the blinds closed."

I landed again, and Bob went with me up to the house. There was no one
in sight, and nothing to prevent our doing the work we had undertaken
immediately. After examining the premises, I concluded that we must
release the captive maiden by means of the window. It would not be
prudent to enter by the door, which was probably locked in the absence
of the lady.

I visited the stable on the grounds in search of a rope; but I found
there a ladder, which suited me better. With the assistance of Bob, I
carried this to the rear of the house, and raised it to the window. I
ascended to the window, and found that the blinds were nailed on the
outside, so that they could not be opened. This was some confirmation of
the truth of Kate's story. I descended again, and found a hammer in the
stable, with which I returned and removed the nails.

"Kate!" I called, as soon as I had opened the blinds.

"O, Ernest Thornton!" exclaimed she, opening the window. "I felt sure
that you had deserted me. I am so glad you have come!"

"We have no time to spare. Get your clothes as quick as possible; tie
them up in a bundle, and throw them out the window."

She did not occupy many minutes in this preparation for her departure.
The bundle was made up and thrown to the ground.

"How am I to get out?" asked she, glancing blankly at the ladder.

"Can you go down stairs and go out by the door?" I asked, willing to
spare her the descent by the ladder.



"I cannot; the door is locked," she replied, in trembling tones, for she
was violently agitated by the situation.

"Then you must go down by the ladder," I added, ascending a few rounds
higher. "Now give me your hands, and don't be afraid, for I can hold you
so that you cannot fall."

I braced myself upon the ladder, which I directed Bob to hold firmly in
its place, and took her by both hands. It was a perilous feat to step
from the window to the ladder, and she was so terrified that I held her
whole weight; but the passage was safely effected. I held her by the
hands till she reached the ground, for she was so timid I dared not
trust her to her own energies. I went up again, closed the blinds, and
restored the nails, hoping that the escape of the prisoner would not be
discovered before the next day. The ladder was conveyed to the stable,
and placed where we had found it.

"Now run down to the pier and get into the boat as fast as you can,"
said I to Kate. "Crawl into the cuddy, and keep out of sight."

