
"Everybody's money wasn't made, though," said the St. Clair,
with an inexpressible attitude, of her short upper lip.

"I guess it was,  if you go back far enough," said Miss Macy,
whom nothing disturbed. But I saw that while Miss Lansing and
Miss St. Clair were at ease in the foregoing conversation,
Miss Bentley was not.

"You can't go back far enough," said the St. Clair haughtily.

"How then?" said the other. "How do you account for it? Where
did their money come from?"

"It grew," said the St. Clair ineffably. "They were lords of
the soil."

"Oh!  But it had to be dug out, I suppose," said Miss Macy.

"There were others to do that."

"After all," said Miss Macy, "how is money that grew any
better than money that is made? It is all made by somebody,
too."

"If it is made by somebody else, it leaves your hands clean,"
the St. Clair answered, with an insolence worthy of maturer
years; for Miss Macy's family had grown rich by trade. She was
of a slow temper, however, and did not take fire."

"My grandfather's hands were clean," she said; "yet he made his
own money. Honest hands always are clean."

"Do you suppose Miss Cardigan's were when she was handling her
cabbages?" said St. Clair. "I have no doubt Miss Cardigan's
house smells of cabbages now."

"O St. Clair!"  Miss Lansing said, laughing.

"I always smell them when I go past," said the other,
elevating her scornful little nose; it was a handsome nose
too.

"I don't think it makes any difference," said Miss Bentley,
"provided people have money, how they came by it. Money buys
the same things for one that it does for another."

"Now, my good Bentley, that is just what it don't," said St.
Clair, drumming upon the window-pane with the tips of her
fingers.

"Why not?"

"Because!  people that have always had money know how to use
it; and people that have just come into their money, don't
know. You can tell the one from the other as far off as the
head of the avenue."

"But what is to hinder their going to the same milliner and
mantua-maker, for instance, or the same cabinet-maker,  and
