"Leave, sir!" ejaculated Mr. Hamblin.

"Go, McDougal;" and he went. "You said you knew who wrote the fictitious
letter, sir."

"I do."

"Who was it?"

"Mr. Lowington, if that boy you sent away had told the whole truth, he
would have confessed that Mr. Kendall was at the bottom of all these
infamous proceedings."

"Captain Kendall!"

"Yes, sir; especially the plan to throw me into the water. When I
demanded a boat, I mentioned the gig. It was refused. Why? Because the
crew of the first cutter had been instructed to tip me overboard! It is
very strange that no one but myself has been able to understand the
vicious intentions of the boys."

"The gig is the captain's boat. The regulations require the captain to
give the professors the first cutter," explained Mr. Lowington.

"I was not aware of it at the time; but I am satisfied that the crew of
the first cutter had been instructed to pitch me into the river."

"If they were, you were very obliging to assist them as you did," added
the principal. "But go on. Do you suppose Captain Kendall instructed
McDougal to drench you with water?"

"Very likely."

"And then inflicted the severest punishment upon him for doing it? It is
absurd! That was the third and last offence. The captain put an end to
these tricks by his well-timed energy, and I am sure he had no part or
lot in them. Do you think he got some one to write the letter to you?"

"No, sir; I think he did it himself," replied the professor, more
calmly, as he came to what he considered his stronghold.

"I am not willing to believe it."

"I am prepared to prove it, sir."

"If Kendall has been guilty of such conduct,--if it can be shown that he
wrote the letter, or that he knew of its being written,--I will not only
suspend him, but I will reduce him to a common sailor, and confine him
in the brig," said the principal, with no little agitation.

This strong speech looked like the dawn of reason to Mr. Hamblin, and he
hastened to produce his evidence. The letter and several exercises
written by Paul were first placed on the cabin table, to enable Mr.
Lowington to compare the penmanship.

"There is a strong similarity in them, I grant; but they are all written
in the common school-boy hand of the United States," added the
principal.

"There is a stronger resemblance than that. The capital A's are the
