This speaker was standing on a little platform haranguing to three
men, holding in his hand meanwhile a pair of pants very loose in
the legs, and presenting a cheap Bowery look.

Frank and Dick paused before the shop door, and finally saw them
knocked down to rather a verdant-looking individual at three
dollars.

"Clothes seem to be pretty cheap here," said Frank.

"Yes, but Baxter Street is the cheapest place."

"Is it?"

"Yes. Johnny Nolan got a whole rig-out there last week, for a
dollar,--coat, cap, vest, pants, and shoes. They was very good
measure, too, like my best clothes that I took off to oblige you."

"I shall know where to come for clothes next time," said Frank,
laughing. "I had no idea the city was so much cheaper than the
country. I suppose the Baxter Street tailors are fashionable?"

"In course they are. Me and Horace Greeley always go there for
clothes. When Horace gets a new suit, I always have one made just
like it; but I can't go the white hat. It aint becomin' to my
style of beauty."

A little farther on a man was standing out on the sidewalk,
distributing small printed handbills. One was handed to Frank,
which he read as follows,--

"GRAND CLOSING-OUT SALE!--A variety of Beautiful and Costly
Articles for Sale, at a Dollar apiece. Unparalleled Inducements!
Walk in, Gentlemen!"

"Whereabouts is this sale?" asked Frank.

"In here, young gentlemen," said a black-whiskered individual,
who appeared suddenly on the scene. "Walk in."

"Shall we go in, Dick?"

"It's a swindlin' shop," said Dick, in a low voice. "I've been
there. That man's a regular cheat. He's seen me before, but he
don't know me coz of my clothes."

"Step in and see the articles," said the man, persuasively. "You
needn't buy, you know."

"Are all the articles worth more'n a dollar?" asked Dick.

"Yes," said the other, "and some worth a great deal more."

"Such as what?"

"Well, there's a silver pitcher worth twenty dollars."

"And you sell it for a dollar. That's very kind of you," said Dick,
innocently.

