For the boys to appropriate to their own use money which had been
received for their services was, in the eyes of the padrone, a crime of
the darkest shade. In fact, if the example were generally followed, it
would have made a large diminution of his income, though the boys might
have been benefited. He listened to Pietro with an ominous scowl, and
decided to inflict condign punishment upon the young offenders.

Meanwhile Phil and Giacomo resumed their wanderings. They no longer
hoped to make up the large difference between what they had and the sum
they were expected by the padrone to bring. As the evening advanced the
cold increased, and penetrated through their thin clothing, chilling
them through and through. Giacomo felt it the most. By and by he began
to sob with the cold and fatigue.

“What is the matter, Giacomo?” asked Phil, anxiously.

“I feel so cold, Filippo--so cold and tired. I wish I could rest.”

The boys were in Printing House Square, near the spot where now stands
the Franklin statue.

“If you want to rest, Giacomo,” said Phil, pityingly, “we will go into
French’s Hotel a little while.”

“I should like to.”

They entered the hotel and sat down near the heater. The grateful warmth
diffused itself through their frames, and Giacomo sank back in his seat
with a sigh of relief.

“Do you feel better, Giacomo?” asked his comrade.

“Yes, Filippo; I wish I could stay here till it is time to go home.”

“We will, then. We shall get no more money outside.”

“The padrone----”

“Will beat us at any rate. It will be no worse for us. Besides they may
possibly ask us to play here.”

“I can play no more to-night, Filippo, I am so tired.”

Phil knew very little of sickness, or he might have seen that Giacomo
was going to be ill. Exposure, fatigue, and privation had been too much
for his strength. He had never been robust, and he had been subjected to
trials that would have proved hard for one much stronger to bear.

When he had once determined to remain in the comfortable hotel, Phil
leaned back in his chair also, and decided to enjoy all the comfort
attainable. What though there was a beating in prospect?

He had before him two or three hours of rest and relief from the outside
cold. He was something of a philosopher, and chose not to let future
evil interfere with present good.

Near the two boys sat two young men--merchants from the interior of New
York State, who were making a business visit to the metropolis.

“Well, Gardner,” said the first, “where shall we go to-night?”
