The calla-lilies blossom almost daily in shaded spots; and beds of
fragrant blue violets are never without flowers. Among the ornamental
shrubbery we noticed the chaparral,--a thorny tree, with clusters of
yellow blossoms, and long, drooping, peculiar leaves, resembling in
effect the willow-leafed acacia. The banana has a value simply as an
ornamental-leaf plant, quite apart from the consideration of its fruit,
which one can buy, perhaps, better than one can raise, in this part of
Florida; but it is glorious, when the thermometer is going up into the
hundreds, to see the great, fresh, broad, cool leaves of the banana-tree
leaping into life, and seeming to joy in existence. In groups of
different sizes, they form most beautiful and effective shrubbery. The
secret of gardening well here is to get things that love the sun. Plants
that come originally from hot regions, and that rejoice the hotter it
grows, are those to be sought for. The date-palm has many beautiful
specimens in the gardens of St. Augustine. A date-palm, at near view, is
as quaint and peculiar a specimen of Nature as one can imagine. Its
trunk seems built up of great scales, in which ferns and vines root
themselves, and twine and ramble, and hang in festoons. Above, the
leaves, thirty feet long, fall in a feathery arch, and in the centre,
like the waters of a fountain, shoot up bright, yellow, drooping
branches that look like coral. These are the flower-stalks. The fruit,
in this climate, does not ripen so as to be good for any thing.

One gentleman showed me a young palm, now six feet high, which he had
raised from a seed of the common shop date, planted four years ago. In
this same garden he showed me enormous rose-trees, which he had formed
by budding the finest of the Bourbon ever-blooming roses in the native
Florida rose. The growth in three years had been incredible; and these
trees are an ever-springing fountain of fresh roses. There is a
rose-tree in St. Augustine, in a little garden, which all the
sight-seers go to see. It is a tree with a trunk about the size of an
ordinary man's arm, and is said to have had a thousand roses on it at a
time. Half that number will answer our purpose; and we will set it down
at that. Rose-slugs and rose-bugs are pests unheard of here. The rose
grows as in its native home. One very pretty feature of the houses here
struck me agreeably. There is oftentimes a sort of shaded walk under
half the house, opening upon the garden. You go up a dusty street, and
stand at a door, which you expect will open into a hall. It opens, and a
garden full of flowers and trees meets your view. The surprise is
delightful. In one garden that we visited we saw a century-plant in
bud. The stalk was nineteen feet high; and the blossoms seemed to
promise to be similar to those of the yucca. The leaves are like the
aloe, only longer, and twisted and contorted in a strange, weird
fashion. On the whole, it looked as if it might have been one of the
strange plants in Rappicini's garden in Padua.

The society in St. Augustine, though not extensive, is very delightful.
We met and were introduced to some very cultivated, agreeable people.
There is a fair prospect that the city will soon be united by railroad
to Jacksonville, which will greatly add to the facility and convenience
of living there. We recrossed the railroad at Tekoi, on our way home, in
company with a party of gentlemen who are investigating that road with a
view of putting capital into it, and so getting it into active running
order. One of them informed me that he was also going to Indian River to
explore, in view of the projected plan to unite it with the St. John's
by means of a canal. Very sensibly he remarked, that, in order to really
make up one's mind about Florida, one should see it in summer; to which
we heartily assented.

By all these means this beautiful country is being laid open, and made
