
"Well, perhaps you are right.  I don't fancy being a magician myself;
but I am too old to change.  I like moving round, and I make a good
living for my family.  Besides I contribute to the innocent amusement
of the public, and earn my money fairly."

"I agree with you, sir," said Harry.  "I think yours is a useful
employment, but it would not suit everybody.  Ever since I read the
life of Benjamin Franklin, I have wanted to learn to be a printer."

"It is an excellent business, no doubt, and if you have made up your
mind I will not dissuade you.  When you have a paper of your own, you
can give your old friend, Professor Henderson, an occasional puff."

"I shall be glad to do that," said Harry, smiling, "but I shall have
to wait some time first."

"How old are you now?"

"Sixteen."

"Then you may qualify yourself for an editor in five or six years.  I
advise you to try it at any rate.  The editor in America is a man of
influence."

"I do look forward to it," said Harry, seriously.  "I should not be
satisfied to remain a journeyman all my life, nor even the half of
it."

"I sympathize with your ambition, Harry," said the Professor,
earnestly, "and I wish you the best success.  Let me hear from you
occasionally."

"I should be very glad to write you, sir."

"I see the stage is at the door, and I must bid you good-by.  When
you have a vacation, if you get a chance to come our way, Mrs.
Henderson and myself will be glad to receive a visit from you.
Good-by!" And with a hearty shake of the hand, Professor Henderson
bade farewell to his late assistant.

Those who have read "Bound to Rise," and are thus familiar with Harry
Walton's early history, will need no explanation of the preceding
conversation.  But for the benefit of new readers, I will
recapitulate briefly the leading events in the history of the boy of
sixteen who is to be our hero.

Harry Walton was the oldest son of a poor New Hampshire farmer, who
found great difficulty is wresting from his few sterile acres a
living for his family.  Nearly a year before, he had lost his only
cow by a prevalent disease, and being without money, was compelled to
buy another of Squire Green, a rich but mean neighbor, on a six
months' note, on very unfavorable terms.  As it required great
economy to make both ends meet, there seemed no possible chance of
his being able to meet the note at maturity.  Beside, Mr. Walton was
to forfeit ten dollars if he did not have the principal and interest
ready for Squire Green.   The hard-hearted creditor was mean enough
to take advantage of his poor neighbor's necessities, and there was
not the slightest chance of his receding from his unreasonable
demand.  Under these circumstances Harry, the oldest boy, asked his
