
Both were glad to get out of sight, and dropped upon the steps red,
rumpled, and breathless, after the late exciting scene. Gus generously
forebore to speak, though he felt that he was the least to blame;
and Frank, after eating a bit of snow to moisten his dry lips, said,
handsomely,--

“Now, don’t you worry, old man. I’ll pay the damages, for it was my
fault. Joe will dodge, but I won’t, so make your mind easy.

“We sha’n’t hear the last of this in a hurry,” responded Gus, relieved,
yet anxious, as he thought of the reprimand his father would give him.

“I hope mother won’t hear of it till I tell her quietly myself. She will
be so frightened, and think I’m surely smashed up, if she is told in a
hurry;” and Frank gave a shiver, as all the danger he had run came over
him suddenly.

“I thought we were done for when we saw that train. Guess we should have
been if you had not had your wits about you. I always said you were a
cool one;” and Gus patted Frank’s back with a look of great admiration,
for, now that it was all over, he considered it a very remarkable
performance.

“Which do you suppose it will be, fine or imprisonment?” asked Frank,
after sitting in a despondent attitude for a moment.

“Shouldn’t wonder if it was both. Running off with an engine is no joke,
you know.”

“What did possess me to be such a fool?” groaned Frank, repenting, all
too late, of yielding to the temptation which assailed him.

“Bear up, old fellow, I’ll stand by you; and if the worst comes, I’ll
call as often as the rules of the prison allow,” said Gus, consolingly,
as he gave his afflicted friend an arm, and they walked away, both
feeling that they were marked men from that day forth.

Meantime, Joe, as soon as he recovered from the shock of seeing the
boys actually go off, ran away, as fast as his legs could carry him, to
prepare Mrs. Minot for the loss of her son; for the idea of their
coming safely back never occurred to him, his knowledge of engines being
limited. A loud ring at the bell brought Mrs. Pecq, who was guarding the
house, while Mrs. Minot entertained a parlor full of company.

“Frank’s run off with No. 11, and he’ll be killed sure. Thought I’d come
up and tell you,” stammered Joe, all out of breath and looking wild.

He got no further, for Mrs. Pecq clapped one hand over his mouth, caught
him by the collar with the other, and hustled him into the ante-room
before any one else could hear the bad news.

“Tell me all about it, and don’t shout. What’s come to the boy?” she
demanded, in a tone that reduced Joe to a whisper at once.

“Go right back and see what has happened to him, then come and tell me
quietly. I’ll wait for you here. I wouldn’t have his mother startled for
the world,” said the good soul, when she knew all.

“Oh, I dar’sn’t! I opened the switch as they told me to, and Bill will
