
I invited the captain to visit the cabin, for I thought he would wish
to see his wife and daughter. Our passengers were all at breakfast, and
engaged in talking over the events of the night. Captain Mayfield was
invited to join them, and I advised him to do so, while I went back to
the deck to attend to the wants of the rest of the ship's company of
the Olive. The sailors were all on deck, and the mate was in the
pilot-house with Washburn. Gopher had made provision for feeding the
addition to our passengers. I invited the two mates of the Olive down
into the fore-cabin to breakfast, while the cook and steward were
supplying the sailors on the forecastle. I found that Gopher had been
liberal in his supplies, both as to quantity and quality, for the
wrecked people.

By eight o'clock breakfast had been served to all on board. I had not
slept above four hours in two nights, though my short nap had refreshed
me a little. Washburn and all the rest of the crew had been on duty
most of the night, and they were very much fatigued. Moses Brickland
had served a double watch, and Ben Bowman had worked like a trooper
most of the night. I decided, as it was pleasant and plain sailing, to
send all hands to their berths, and take the helm myself, with Ben at
the engine; for he declared that he could stand it with only two hours'
sleep a week. Captain Mayfield and his two mates soon joined me in the
pilot-house. I was so sleepy myself that I could not help gaping and
yawning.

"You've had a hard night of it, Captain Alick, while I have had a whole
night below," said Captain Mayfield. "Myself and my mates have all seen
service in a steamer, and we should be very glad to relieve you."

"Thank you, Captain. I acknowledge that I am rather worn out; but a
little steamer like the Sylvania has her ways, and is peculiar," I
replied.

"Let Beach take the wheel, and you shall see whether he can handle
her," persisted Captain Mayfield.

Beach was the second mate, and I assented. I gave him the course, and
he kept her steady to it. I lay down on the bench abaft the wheel, and
before I knew it I didn't know anything. But I slept only a few
minutes, and when I waked I found the first mate at the wheel. He was
simply trying his hand at it. A little while after the captain took his
turn. We could see the Keys, the spindles and buoys on the reefs, and
it was hardly possible for any mishap to occur on board.

I asked one of them to help me heave the log, as I had sent all my
ship's company below to make up their sleep, except the second
engineer. Captain Mayfield would not permit me to do anything about it.
He called a couple of his seamen, and went aft to do it. He soon
reported twelve knots, with the remark that he did not suppose the
steamer to be capable of such a high rate of speed. He then begged me
to turn in. He was perfectly familiar with the coast and the soundings.
He sent two of his men on the topgallant forecastle to serve as
lookouts, and declared that the mates should keep the wheel all the
time. I was too sleepy to resist, and I turned in. I was soon fast
asleep. The motion of the vessel was now quite steady, though she rose
and fell upon the long seas.

It was two o'clock in the afternoon when I woke, for the new captain
would not permit me to be called. Gopher had dined all on board but the
