in themselves, require only the briefest allusion. They will serve to
explain the general cast of my life, which in turn may define the
features of my story.
There are two kinds of solitary: he who is drawn by the inward, and he
who chooses the outward life. To this latter class I had belonged.
Circumstances, which it is not necessary to detail here, had thrust me
into the one as a means of self-preservation from the other, while I was
yet quite young.
I had been occupied more largely with the experiences of other people
than with my own. I had been in the habit of being depended upon. It had
been my great good fortune to be able to spend a part of my time among
the sick, the miserable, and the poor. It had been, perhaps, my better
chance to be obliged to balance the emotional perils of such occupations
by those of a different character. My business was that of a
school-teacher, but I had traveled somewhat; I had served as a nurse
during the latter years of the war; in the Sanitary Commission; upon the
Freedmen’s Bureau; as an officer in a Woman’s Prison, and had done a
little work for the State Bureau of Labor among the factory operatives
of our own town. I had therefore, it will be seen, been spared the
deterioration of a monotonous existence. At the time I was taken ill I
was managing a private school, rather large for the corps of assistants
which I could command, and had overworked. I had been at home, thus
employed, with my mother who needed me, for two years.
It may not be unsuitable, before proceeding with my narrative, to say
that I had been a believer in the truths of the Christian religion; not,
however, a devotee. I had not the ecstatic temperament, and was not
known among my friends for any higher order of piety than that which is
implied in trying to do one’s duty for Christ’s sake, and saying little
about it or Him,--less than I wish I had sometimes. It was natural to me
to speak in other ways than by words; that does not prove that it was
best. I had read a little, like all thinking people with any
intellectual margin to their lives, of the religious controversies of
the day, and had not been without my share of pressure from the
fashionable reluctance to believe. Possibly this had affected a
temperament not too much inclined towards the supernatural, but it had
never conquered my faith, which I think had grown to be dearer to me
because I had not kept it without a fight for it. It certainly had
become, for this reason, of greater practical value. It certainly had
become, for this and every reason, the most valuable thing I had, or
hoped to have. I believed in God and immortality, and in the history of
Jesus Christ. I respected and practiced prayer, but chiefly decided what
I ought to do next minute. I loved life and lived it. I neither feared
death nor thought much about it.
       
When I had been ill a fortnight, it occurred to me that I was very sick,
but not that I could possibly die. I suffered a good deal at first;
after that much less. There was great misery for lack of sleep, and
intolerable restlessness. The worst, however, was the continuity of
care. Those who have borne heavy responsibilities for any length of time
will understand me. The incessant burden pressed on: now a pupil had
fallen into some disgraceful escapade; now the investments of my
mother’s, of which I had the charge, had failed on the dividends; then
I had no remittance for the boy at college; then my sister, in a
heart-breaking emergency, confided to me a peril against which I could
not lift a finger; the Governor held me responsible for the typhoid
among the prisoners; I added eternal columns of statistics for the
Charity Boards, and found forever a mistake in each report; a dying
soldier called to me in piercing tones for a cup of water; the black
girl to whom I read the Gospel of John, drowned her baby; I ran six
looms in the mill for the mother of six children till her seventh should
