a castle, a robber's cave, a warrior's tomb, a wigwam, and the Bastile.

The neighbors were both amused and scandalized by the pranks of these
dramatic young persons; for they enacted with much spirit and skill all
the historical events which pleased their fancy, and speedily enlisted
other boys to join in the new plays. At one time, painted and
be-feathered Indians whooped about the garden, tomahawking the unhappy
settlers in the most dreadful manner. At another, Achilles, radiant in a
tin helmet and boiler-cover shield, dragged Hector at the tail of his
chariot (the wheel-barrow), drawn by two antic and antique steeds, who
upset both victor and vanquished before the fun was over. Tell shot
bushels of apples off the head of the stuffed suit of clothes that acted
his son, Coeur de Leon and Saladin hacked blocks and cut cushions Ã  la
Walter Scott, and tournaments of great splendor were held on the grass,
in which knights from all ages, climes, and races, tilted gallantly,
while fair dames of tender years sat upon the wood-pile to play Queens
of Beauty and award the prize of valor.

Nor were more modern heroes forgotten. Napoleon crossed the Alps (a muck
heap, high fence, and prickly hedge), with intrepid courage. Wellington
won many a Waterloo in the melon patch, and Washington glorified every
corner of the garden by his heroic exploits. Grant smoked sweet-fern
cigars at the fall of Richmond; Sherman marched victoriously to Georgia
through the corn and round the tomato bed, and Phil Sheridan electrified
the neighborhood by tearing down the road on a much-enduring donkey,
stung to unusual agility by matches tied to his tail.

It grew to be an almost daily question among the young people, "What are
the Morton boys at now?" for these interesting youths were much admired
by their mates, who eagerly manned the fences to behold the revels, when
scouts brought word of a new play going on. Mrs. Morton believed in
making boys happy at home, and so allowed them entire liberty in the
great garden, as it was safer than river, streets, or ball-ground, where
a very mixed crowd was to be found. Here they were under her own eye,
and the safe, sweet tie between them still held fast; for she was never
too busy to bind up their wounds after a fray, wave her handkerchief
when cheers told of victory, rummage her stores for costumes, or join in
their eager study of favorite heroes when rain put an end to their
out-of-door fun.

So the summer was a lively one, and though the vegetables suffered some
damage, a good crop of healthy, happy hours was harvested, and all were
satisfied. The little house looked much the worse for the raids made
upon it, but still stood firm with the stars and stripes waving over it,
and peace seemed to reign one October afternoon as the boys lay under
the trees eating apples and planning what to play next.

"Bobby wants to be a knight of the Round Table. We might take him in and
have fun with the rites, and make him keep a vigil and all that,"
proposed William Wallace, anxious to admit his chosen friend to the
inner circle of the brotherhood.

"He's such a little chap he'd be scared and howl. I don't vote for
that," said the Black Prince, rather scornfully, as he lay with his
kingly legs in the air, and his royal mouth full of apple.

"I do!" declared Henry of Navarre, always generous, and amiable. "Bob is
a plucky little chap, and will do anything we put him to. He's poor and
the other fellows look down on him, so that's another reason why we
ought to take him in and stand by him. Let's give him a good trial, and
