Mad brought his barge about again. Placing one of his oarless crew at
the tiller lines, he crawled forward himself, and took a position in the
bow. Arming himself with the boathook he directed his rowers to give
way.

This time Dory did not wait till the Racer was headed to the shore, but
darted upon her just as she came out of the trough of the sea. He called
to Thad Glovering to boat his oar, and look out for his head, for Mad
evidently intended to hit anyone who came within reach of his weapon.

"Oars!" shouted Dory with energy. "Stern all!"

But in spite of his care he struck the Racer harder than he intended,
and a lively snapping of cedar boards was heard. The sound created a
panic among the crew; they all stopped rowing, and looked behind them to
see what had happened. About three feet of the bow of the boat was stove
in, and the water was pouring in through the break.

"There! Do you see what you have done?" yelled Mad Twinker, appalled at
the disaster to the Dasher.

"Will you give up those clothes, or will you take another rap?" called
Dory sharply.

"Another rap! Do you mean to drown us all?" cried Mad.

"I mean to have our clothes!" answered Dory.

"Let them have the clothes!" yelled one of the terrified crew.

"Let them have them! We can't do anything more," added another.

Mad said nothing more, but he picked up such of the clothes as were
within his reach, and held them out in the direction of the Winooski.
His crew followed his example, and Dory ran the barge near enough to
receive them.

"That's all there are in this boat," said Mad Twinker.

"If you all move a little farther aft, the water won't run into your
boat," said Dory in a quiet tone. "Here are five oars that belong to
your boats. I have no further business with you to-day, unless we find
some of our clothes are missing; and we wish you good evening."

"We shall have further business with you, and you won't see the end of
this affair for one while," growled Mad Twinker, as he crawled to the
stern-sheets of his barge.

While this scene was transpiring, the Dasher had succeeded in getting
about, and her crew were pulling for the shore, though they lay upon
their oars when they saw the catastrophe to her consort. Dory followed
the other barge without any delay, and was soon in position to "ram" the
bow, as he had that of the Racer; but the Dashers decided not to be
wrecked, as their consort had been. Jeff Monroe shouted that they would
give up the clothes and they were delivered. The Winooski went to the
shore, and the crew clothed themselves. None of the clothes were
missing, and the coxswain was glad he had no further demand to make upon
the Chesterfields. Before the boys were half clothed the Gildrock joined
them.

