than one," said Fanny, listlessly taking up the screen she was to
finish.  "She used to tell me everything, and now she does n’t.  I ’m
sure she has some sort of a secret; and I do think I ought to know it.
I found her smiling over a letter one day; and she whisked it into her
pocket and never said a word about it.  I always stood by her, and I do
feel hurt."

"I should think you might!  It’s real naughty of her, and I shall tell
her so!  Perhaps she ’ll confide in you then, and you can just give me
a hint; I always liked Sophie, and never thought of not giving my
present," said Dora, persuasively, for both girls were now dying with
curiosity to know the secret.

"I ’ll have it out of her, without any dodging or bribing.  I ’m not
afraid of any one, and I shall ask her straight out, no matter how much
she scowls at me," said dauntless Di, with a threatening nod.

"There she is!  Let us see you do it now!" cried Fanny, as the bell
rang, and a clear voice was heard a moment later asking if Mademoiselle
was in.

"You shall!" and Di looked ready for any audacity.

"I ’ll wager a box of candy that you don’t find out a thing," whispered
Do.

"Done!" answered Di, and then turned to meet Sophie, who came in looking
as fresh as an Alpine rose with the wintry wind.

"You dear thing! we were just talking of you. Sit here and get warm, and
let us show you our gifts.  We are almost done, but it seems as if it
got to be a harder job each Christmas.  Don’t you find it so?"

"But no; I think it the most charming work of all the year," answered
Sophie, greeting her friend, and putting her well-worn boots toward the
fire to dry.

"Perhaps you don’t make as much of Christmas as we do, or give such
expensive presents. That would make a great difference, you know," said
Di, as she lifted a cloth from the table where her own generous store of
gifts was set forth.

"I had a piano last year, a set of jewels, and many pretty trifles from
all at home.  Here is one;" and pulling the fine gold chain hidden under
her frills, Sophie showed a locket set thick with pearls, containing a
picture of her mother.

"It must be so nice to be rich, and able to make such fine presents.  I
’ve got something for you; but I shall be ashamed of it after I see your
gift to me, I ’m afraid."

Fan and Dora were working as if their bread depended on it, while Di,
with a naughty twinkle in her eye, affected to be rearranging her pretty
table as she talked.

"Do not fear that; my gifts this year are very simple ones.  I did not
know your custom, and now it is too late.  My comfort is that you need
nothing, and having so much, you will not care for my--what you
call--coming short."

