the house of a military officer, with whom he was intimately acquainted,
and requested him to take the prisoner off his hands. After the meagre
details of the affair he gave, the officer offered to put a company on
board of the steamer for her protection; but the captain thought this
was unnecessary.

After the breakfast, the party took a carriage for the pier. On the way
the captain ordered a supply of cooked provisions to be sent down to the
boat for the use of the men on board of the Bellevite. With this supply
the party went on board. On the way Christy had told his story, and by
the time they went on board Captain Passford had learned all about the
affair.

He had received the order to deliver the steamer at the Navy Yard on the
following Monday, and he decided to return to Bonnydale in her. Enough
of the former members of the ship's company could be obtained in a few
hours to hold the vessel against any enemy that was likely to appear
in the river. As the owner was now on board, the engineer put on full
steam, and she reached her anchorage, as indicated by the buoy of the
cable which had been slipped. It was hauled in, and the Bellevite was
replaced in her former position.

The tremendous report of the great gun in the small hours of the morning
had startled all the people in the vicinity, though it was not till they
left their beds that the news was conveyed to them. A party in the town
just below the scene of the disaster to the Vampire had been collected,
and they had taken a steamer to explore the river in search of the bold
actors in the affair, as soon as the facts were known in the vicinity.
The steamer had been running up and down the river since six in the
morning.

When the Bellevite passed up the river, she was promptly recognized
by the investigating party on board of the Alert, which followed the
steamer up to her anchorage. She came alongside some time after the crew
had fished up the cable; but Captain Passford warned her to keep off as
soon as he discovered her intention to come alongside. She was a small
steamer, and had at least twenty men on her deck, so that the captain
thought it necessary to learn her object before she came any nearer.

A boat with two men was sent from the Alert, and one of them was
permitted to come on board. This one proved to be Captain Mainhill, with
whom the owner of the Bellevite was well acquainted. He was a wealthy
and patriotic man, though rather too old to be engaged in active service
for his country.

"I thought you might be representatives of the Southern Confederacy, and
I was rather shy of you," said Captain Passford, as he took the hand of
his neighbor. "I should not have been so cautious if I had met you last
evening."

"We have been looking for the gentlemen who were engaged in this attempt
to capture the Bellevite," added Captain Mainhill.

"I hope you have found them, or some of them," replied the owner.

"Only a single one of them; and he is badly wounded. We have scoured
the river for miles without finding any trace of the enemy. I think they
landed on the east shore, and went over to the railroad, where they
probably took the first train that came along," replied Captain
Mainhill.
