Christy mounted the steps to the bridge. This structure is hardly
a man-of-war appendage. It had been there, and it had been permitted
to remain. The first shot in action might carry it away, and this
contingency had been provided for, as she was provided with a duplicate
steam-steering apparatus, as well as a hand wheel at the stern. The
proper position of the officer of the watch, who is practically in
command for the time being, is on the quarter deck, though he is
required during his watch to visit all parts of the deck. On board of
the Bronx this officer was placed on the bridge, where he could overlook
all parts of the ship.

The first lieutenant, who had the forenoon watch, saluted him, but there
was nothing of interest to report. Christy asked the meaning of the
movement he had observed among the seamen and petty officers, and was
told that Baskirk was getting up an association on board, the first
requirement to which was for all who wished to become members to sign
the oath of allegiance to the United States government, "as represented
by and presided over by the President at Washington." It was to be a
secret society, and Flint added that it was really a branch of the Union
League. Christy did not think it wise to ask any more questions, but he
understood that this was really a movement to ascertain the sentiments
of the members of the ship's company as to the extent of their duty in
supporting the government.

"Mr. Flint, I am not a little dissatisfied with the manner in which we
are compelled to carry on our duty on board of the Bronx, though no
blame is to be attached to the naval department on account of it," said
Christy, after he had walked the bridge for a time.

"Is anything going wrong, Captain Passford?" asked the first lieutenant
anxiously.

"Oh, no: I have no fault to find with any one, and least of all with
you," added the captain promptly. "The trouble is that we are short of
officers, though all that could be spared for this vessel were sent on
board of her. As the matter now stands, Dr. Spokeley and I are the only
idlers on board in the cabin and ward room. The first lieutenant has to
keep a watch, which is not at all regular, and I foresee that this
arrangement will be a very great disadvantage to me. It could not be
helped, and the Bronx was evidently regarded as of no great importance,
for she is little more than a storeship just now, though the flag
officer in the Gulf will doubtless make something more of her."

"We have a big crew for this vessel, but we are short of officers,"
added Flint.

"From the best calculations I have been able to make, with my father to
help me, we ought to fall in with the Scotian and the Arran; and in view
of such an event, I propose to prepare for the emergency by appointing a
temporary third lieutenant."

"I think that would be a very wise step to take," added Flint very
cordially.

"Of the men you mentioned to me, who is the best one for this position?"
asked Christy.

"I have no hesitation in saying that Baskirk is the right man for the
position."

