
"I cannot do anything to help you, until we know what these gentlemen
have to say," he observed. "If you wish it, I will be present at the
interview, but it is as well that they should not find out who your
lawyer is, until something definite is to be done."

Ghisleri agreed, and Ubaldini went away, promising to hold himself at
his client's disposal at a moment's notice. Pietro sat down to think
over the situation. Danger of some sort was evidently imminent, but he
could only form a very vague idea of its nature, and Ubaldini had
certainly not helped him much, sharp-witted and keen as he was.
Ghisleri, who, of course, could not see the case as Adele had stated it
to her father-in-law, and as it was now to be stated to himself, could
not conceive it possible that he could be indicted for extortion on such
slender evidence as he supposed she had been able to fabricate. He
imagined that she desired his social ruin, and above all, to make him
for ever contemptible in the eyes of Laura Arden; and this he well knew,
or thought that he knew, she could never accomplish.

Laura had not yet returned, and he was glad, on the whole, that she was
away. Matters were evidently coming to a crisis, and he believed that
whatever was to happen would have long been over by the time she was in
Rome again. If she had already arrived he would have found it hard not
to tell her of what occurred from day to day, and, indeed, he would have
felt almost obliged to do so for the sake of her opinion of him, seeing
how frankly and loyally she had acted in the case of the letters she had
received from the supposititious "Maria B." On the other hand, he longed
to see her for her own sake. The summer months had been desperately long
and lonely. He did not remember that he had ever found the time weigh so
heavily on his hands as this year, both at Torre de' Ghisleri and in
Rome. He forgot his present danger and the interview before him in
thinking of Laura Arden, when Bonifazio threw open the door and
announced Prince Savelli, the Prince of Gerano, and the Advocato
Geronimo Grondona.




CHAPTER XXVII.


Ghisleri rose to meet his visitors, who greeted him gravely and sat down
opposite him so that they could all look at his face while speaking.
Prince Savelli naturally spoke first.

"We have come to you," he said, "upon a very difficult and unpleasant
affair. In the first place, I must beg you to listen to what I have to
say as calmly as you can, remembering that we have not come here to
quarrel with you, but to act on behalf of a lady. This being the case,
we claim to be treated as ambassadors, to be heard and to be answered."

"You speak as though you were about to make a very disagreeable
communication," answered Ghisleri. "The presence of Signor Grondona
either shows that you intend to make use of what I may say, or that your
business is of a legal nature. If the latter supposition is the true
one, it would be much better that we should leave the whole matter to
our respective lawyers rather than run the risk of useless discussion.
But if your lawyer is here to watch me and make notes, I would point out
that I have a right to resent such observation, and to request you to
find some other means of informing me of your meaning. As you tell me
