For that was his idea of it--a caprice. He saw only one side of Ruth's
nature; to him she seemed a thoughtless, spoiled young creature, highly
impressionable, but all on the surface; no feeling would last long with
her or be very deep, though for the moment it might carry her away.

What he did was so little, during this process of finding out, and what
he said was so even less, that if related it would not have made a
narrative, it would have been nothing to tell. But the woman he was
studying was now like a harp: the lightest touch of his hand on the
strings drew out the music. And when, therefore, upon that last night,
taking advantage of the few moments he had with her alone at her door,
after her friends from the Barracks had passed on--when he then said a
word or two, to her it was fatal. His phrase meant in reality nothing;
it was tentative only. But Ruth had no suspicion of this; her own love
was direct, uncomplicated, and overmastering; she supposed that his was
the same. She looked at him dumbly; then she turned, entering the house
with rapid step and hurrying up the stairs, leaving the sleepy servant
who came forward to meet her to close the door. Fatal had his words been
to her; fatally sweet!

The two sisters left St. Augustine the next morning; in the evening they
were far down the St. John's River on their way to Savannah. They sat
together near the bow of the steamer, watching in silence the windings
of the magnificent stream; the moonlight was so bright that they could
see the silvery long-moss draping the live-oaks on shore, and, in the
tops of signal cypresses, bare and gaunt, the huge nests of the
fish-hawks, like fortifications.

"Poor Chase! covering her with diamonds, and giving her everything;
while I can turn her round my finger!" Walter said to himself when he
heard they had gone.

On the day of his wife's departure--that sudden departure from St.
Augustine of which he as yet knew nothing, Horace Chase, in Chicago, was
bringing to a close his "little operation"; by six o'clock, four
long-headed men had discovered that they had been tremendously
out-generalled. Later in the evening, three of these men happened to be
standing together in a corridor of one of the Chicago hotels, when the
successful operator, who was staying in the house, came by chance
through the same brightly lighted passage-way.

"I guess you think, Chase, that you've got the laugh on us," said one of
the group. "But just wait a month or two; we'll make you walk!"

"Oh, the devil!" answered Chase, passing on.

"He's as hard as flint!" said the second of the discomfited trio, who,
depressed by his losses (which to him meant ruin), had a lump in his
throat. "There isn't such a thing as an ounce of feeling in Horace
Chase's whole composition, damn him!"




CHAPTER XX


His little campaign over, Horace Chase made his preparations for
returning to Florida. These consisted in hastily throwing into a valise
the few things which he had brought with him, and ringing the bell to
