
This last habit annoyed her. "I wish you would not do that," she said,
with some irritation. "It is like being forced to look at one's self in
a mirror."

"I do it to analyze them," he answered. "I am so dense, you know, it
takes me a long time to understand. When you say, for instance, that
Romola is not a natural character because her love for Tito ceases, I,
who think that the unnatural part is that she should ever have loved
him, naturally dwell upon the remark."

"She would have continued to love him in life. Beauty is all powerful."

"I did not know that women cared much for it," he answered. Then, after
a moment, "Do not be too severe upon me," he added; "I am doing my
best."

She made no reply.

"I thought certainly you would have answered, 'By contrast?'" he said,
smiling. "But you are not so satirical as you were. I cannot make you
angry with me."

"Have you tried?"

"Of course I have tried. It would be a step gained to move you--even in
that way."

"I thought your experiment was to be all on one side?" she said. They
were sitting in a shady corner of the cloisters of San Marco; she was
leaning back in her chair, following with the point of her parasol the
lines of the Latin inscription on the slab at her feet over an old
monk's last resting-place.

"I am not so consistent as I should be," he answered, rising and
sauntering off, with his hands in the pockets of his short morning-coat,
to look at St. Peter the Martyr.

At another time they were in the Michael Angelo chapel of San Lorenzo.
It was past the hour for closing, but Morgan had bribed the custode to
allow them to remain, and the old man had closed the door and gone away,
leaving them alone with the wondrous marbles.

"What do they mean?" he said. "Tell me."

"They mean fate, our sad human fate: the beautiful Dawn in all the pain
of waking; the stern determination of the Day; the recognition of
failure in Evening; and the lassitude of dreary, hopeless sleep in
Night. It is one way of looking at life."

"But not your way?"

"Oh, I have no way; I am too limited. But genius takes a broader view,
and genius, I suppose, must always be sad. People with that endowment, I
have noticed, are almost always very unhappy."

He was sitting beside her, and, as she spoke, he saw a little flush rise
in her cheeks; she was remembering when Mrs. Lovell had used the same
words, although in another connection.

