Kentucky regiment yourself."

"I may have been"--

"Probably you have been; but you have said enough. I have heard from
your company before to-day," added the major, as he rode over to
Lieutenant Lyon. "Did you surrender to Captain Staggers yonder?"

"I did not!" replied Deck with abundant emphasis.

"Did you hear what passed between him and me?"

"Every word of it."

"Was anything the captain said true?"

"Not a word of it! And you will excuse me, Major, but I intend to cut
my way out of this camp!" shouted the lieutenant, loud enough to be
heard by all his troopers, and they straightened themselves up for the
work.

"Platoon--charge!"

At full gallop the force started for the entrance, now not obstructed.




CHAPTER XXII

A LIEUTENANT AMONG THE "MISSING"


Major Walthal was very gentlemanly and very polite; but it appeared at
once that he was not willing to permit the escape of the platoon,
good-looking and well-dressed as were the officer and the men. He could
not help observing the contrast between the Riverlawns and the
Confederate company near them. Captain Gordon, who had been the
principal instructor of the squadron, was very neat and precise about
his person, and had always required the troopers to keep their uniforms
and arms and their horses, with their equipments, in good condition.

On the contrary, this particular company of the enemy presented a
slovenly appearance; quite in contrast, also, with some other regiments
of their army. The major was a soldier of the highest type, and he
could not fail to see the neatness of the Riverlawns. Very likely he
was sorry to prevent the young lieutenant from carrying out his
intention to leave the camp; but his ideal as a military officer was to
do his duty.

Deck's troopers had drawn their sabres; and, with Life Knox in front,
they made an impetuous rush towards the entrance. The sergeant was even
more in earnest than usual; his horse was well trained, and when his
rider pressed his knees against his flanks, he darted off with fury
enough to satisfy the determined horseman.

"Halt!" shouted the major; but he might as well have addressed the wind
or the rain. "Surround them, Captain Staggers, as you did on the field!
Cut off their retreat if there is any manhood left in you!"

