stern. "Now, one at a time, and each of you take one of the seats."

The boys were so impatient that they could not wait to get in as the
old sailor directed; and all huddled in together, to the imminent peril
of their lives and the boat.

"Avast! that won't do! Back, all of you!" roared Uncle Ben, provoked by
their awkwardness. "Now, Frank, call them by name, one at a time, and
let each take his place before you call another."

This plan worked better. Uncle Ben was a firm advocate of discipline,
and insisted on having everything done in "shipshape order," as he
styled it. He had been in the United States Navy, and was familiar with
its discipline. The boys were all seated; and finding that their hurry
and impatience only retarded their progress, they learned to keep
still, and wait till the old sailor told them what to do.

They had all seated themselves on one side of the boat, and the
consequence was it nearly tipped her over.

"Now, my lads, trim ship. You are all over on the starboard side," said
Uncle Ben, as he pushed the boat away from the rock.

The boys, in their eagerness to render prompt obedience, all passed
over to the opposite ends of the thwarts, and the boat instantly
careened upon the other side.

"Avast there! Now stop a bit," continued the old sailor. "I am going to
number you all. I don't know your names, all of you; so just mind the
figgers. Tony, you are number one; say it."

"One," shouted Tony, with a pleasant laugh.

"The boy on the next seat."

"Two."

"Stop a bit; we have got one too many. One of you must be coxswain.
Cap'n Sedley says you must choose him by vote. Who shall be your
coxswain, boys?"

"Frank Sedley," shouted all the boys together.

"Good! it is a unanimous vote," said Uncle Ben. "You desarve the honor,
Frank; take a seat in the starn-sheets. Next boy, number."

"Three."

"Next."

"Four."

"Five."

The boys all numbered, with the exception of Frank Sedley, who was not
to pull an oar.

"Now, my lads, remember your numbers--don't touch the oars yet. You
have got a good deal to larn fust," continued Uncle Ben.

