
I think there were a great many people in the city just as glad as
Hanny, if they did not put it in the same joyful words.

Margaret smiled. "Hurry, dear," she said, "Joe will have to go, and I
know he wants to see you."

Hanny put on her shoes and stockings, and Margaret helped her with the
rest, washed her and just tied up her hair with a second-best ribbon.
Joseph had eaten his breakfast and was impatiently waiting to say
good-by. John was off already.

Nothing had happened. The world was going on as usual. True there had
been the comet and falling stars and wars and rumors of wars, but the
old world had sailed triumphantly through them all. The dear, old,
splendid world, that was to grow more splendid with the years.

Perhaps it did rouse people to better and kindlier living and more
serious thought. Before Mr. Underhill went away his wife said:

"'Milyer, hadn't you better look after those old people up at Harlem. I
suppose they had some garden truck, but there's flour and meat and
little things that take off the money when you haven't much. And fuel.
I'll try to go up some day with you and see what they need to keep them
comfortable in cold weather."

The girls could hardly study at school, there was so much excitement.
Did people really have on their ascension robes? What would Hester
say?

Hester did not come to school all the week. Of course they had made a
mistake in computing the time, but a few weeks couldn't make much
difference. Still, the worst scare was over, and if one mistake could be
made, why not another? Were they so sure all the signs were fulfilled?




CHAPTER IX

A WONDERFUL SCHEME


The Whitneys and the Underhills became very neighborly. Mr. Theodore
Whitney often stopped for a little chat, and he was very fond of a good
game of checkers with Steve or John. He was on the other side in
politics and they had some warm discussions. Ophelia, the oldest girl,
was engaged and deeply absorbed with her lover. Frances went away early
in the morning and did not get back until after six. Mrs. Whitney, a
Southern woman by birth, was one of the easy-going kind and very fond of
novels. Mr. Whitney brought them home by the dozen. The house seemed
somehow to run itself, with the aid of Dele, as she was commonly called.

Dele proved a powerful rival to Miss Lily Ludlow. Lily was much prettier
and more delicate looking. Dele had brown-red hair, dry and curly. She
was a little freckled, even in the fall. Her mouth was wide, but she
was always laughing, and she had such splendid teeth. Then her eyes were
so full of fun, and her voice had a sort of rollicking sound. She knew
all kinds of boys' play, and was great at marbles. Then she had so many
odd, entertaining things, and their parlor wasn't too good for use when
