
“Good character goes a long way,” replied Lansing. “You have no idea of
its weight with a jury, particularly with a jury of this kind.”

Patience was put on the witness stand next. The supreme effort to
overcome nervousness gave her an icy and repellent demeanour. Never had
she held her back as erect, her head as high. She kept her eyelids half
lowered, and spoke with scarcely any change of inflection. She told the
story of the night as she had told it in rehearsal many times. There had
been a quarrel an hour before she heard the deceased get up and go to
the lavatory. She offered to drop his morphine, and he replied with an
oath that she should never do another thing for him as long as he lived,
that he hoped she would leave the house by the first train next morning.
His sudden silence upon his return to his bed excited her apprehension,
and she called the family.

When Bourke sat down and the district attorney arose and confronted her
she shivered suddenly. Bourke’s rich strong voice and kind magnetic gaze
had given her courage, but this man with his eyes like grey ice, his
mechanical smile, and cold smooth voice conjured up a sudden awful
picture of the execution room at Sing Sing. Her insight appreciated with
exactitude the pitiless ambition of the man, knew that he stood pledged
to his future to send her to her death. He made her admit all the
damning facts of the evidence against her, the facts which stood out
like phosphorescent letters on a black wall, and to acknowledge her
abhorrence of the man that had been her husband. But all this had been
anticipated: at least he could not confuse her.

Again two days and a part of a third were monopolised by experts. These
two illustrious chemists testified, through the same bewildering mass of
detail as that employed by their equally illustrious predecessors, that
there was not enough morphine in Beverly Peele’s stomach to kill a cat.

There was a short interval, after the second expert had been permitted
to leave the stand, during which Bourke and Simms and Lansing conferred
together, preparatory to the summing up of the former. As Bourke was
about to rise, the district attorney stood up, cleared his throat, and
said: “One moment, please. Will Miss Honora Mairs kindly take the
stand?”

Bourke was on the alert in an instant. “The case for the prosecution has
closed,” he said.

“This is by special permission of the Court,” replied the district
attorney, coldly.

As Honora ascended the stand there was a deep murmur of admiration. She
looked like an angel, nothing less. She wore a white lawn frock, girt
with a blue sash; a large white leghorn lined with azure velvet, against
which the baby gold of her hair shone softly. Her great blue eyes had
the clear calm serenity of a young child. Patience drew her breath in a
series of short gasps. Bourke sat with clenched hands.

“We understand,” said the district attorney, severely, “that you did not
tell all you knew the other day, and that you have signified your
willingness to now tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
truth. Is this true?”

Honora bowed her head with an expression of deep humility, as a child
might that had been justly rebuked.
