fresh and eager oarsmen. The latter closed in upon him with a leap and a
bound, and soon were within oar's length of him.

He recognized the uselessness of trying to escape from them, but was
determined not to surrender without a struggle even in the face of great
numbers.

He dropped his oars and sprang to his feet, facing his enemies. He drew
his revolver, but before he could use it one of the Spanish sailors, who
had risen in the boat, knocked it from his grasp with his oar.

The boats were now side by side, almost touching, and the dark hulk of
the steamer was not many feet away.

From the latter arose aloud cheer as they saw that Clif had been
disarmed, and above the noise Clif could hear a few words of command
from the Spanish army officer who sat in the stern of the boat at his
side. It was to the sailor who had sprung up to attack Clif.

"Don't shoot!" he said. "Take him alive!"

Clif had seized an oar when his revolver fell with a splash into the
water, and there was no doubt that he intended using it.

But two can play at that game, and the Spanish sailor, forbidden to
shoot, attacked Clif furiously with the oar, which he still held in his
hand.

Clif dodged, but as he did so another sailor aimed a blow at his head.
The aim was good.

A sharp pain shot through the young cadet's head, he reeled and all
became dark before him. With a faint moan he fell senseless into the
bottom of his boat.

The contest had been short, and well it was for the Spaniards that such
was the case. Already the flickering of the searchlight told that the
flagship was hurrying to the scene.

The Spaniards realized the importance of quick action. They had, on the
impulse of the moment, retaliated upon Clif because it could take but a
few minutes and because they felt that the chase would end not far from
their waiting vessel.

They congratulated themselves that it had, indeed, brought them almost
to the ship's side, and now they lost no time in getting themselves and
their prisoner aboard. Willing hands assisted from above.

A couple of strokes of the oars had brought them to the ship's side,
with Clif's boat in tow. In obedience to a command, Clif's boat with its
unconscious burden was raised bodily to the deck. The captain thought he
could use it in his business.

A moment later the Spaniards with the army officer reached the deck, and
the ship's captain signaled to go ahead.

All now was excitement on board the Spaniard. Beyond securely fastening
the arms and legs of their unconscious captive where he lay, they paid
but little attention to Clif. They were all too wrapped up in thoughts
of escape from the cruiser whose piercing searchlight was streaming upon
