CHAPTER XVIII.

OF MANY THINGS.


"Oh, where is mamma?" cried Annis, as she was clasped in Mr. Mason's
arms one morning.

"Can't you give me mamma's welcome also?" inquired the kindly voice.
"Why, Annis, what a large girl you are! It seems as if we must have
been away an age for you to change so."

"Am I changed?" She laughed cheerfully. "Isn't it time I grew? Varina
said in her last letter that she was five feet four inches. And I am
not five feet yet. And Rene has been to assemblies, in long gowns. I
went to two balls, and that of the flags was--magnificent."

"I shall have to look after my flock more sharply. You will all run
wild."

"But mamma?"

Then he told her that although the operations had been a success, and
there was now no danger of Charles growing crooked, he was still in a
very delicate state of health, and the doctor had ordered him a cool
climate for the summer. They were to go farther north and travel about
a bit. A sea voyage was supposed to be the best, but that was quite
impossible in the present state of affairs and the dangers of the
ocean.

"Oh, I thought you were sure to come home!" she exclaimed
disappointedly.

"We are sure of nothing, it seems. Are you very homesick?"

A quick rift of color flashed up in her face. "I'm not homesick at all.
I like Washington so much. There are so many beautiful places, and the
sails on the rivers and queer nooks where the Indians used to live, and
the Capitol and the Senate where the great men talk, and so many lovely
people in fine clothes, and the officers, and the French minister's
carriage that spins along like a great butterfly, and handsome Mrs.
Madison and the grand ladies----"

"You will hardly want to go back to the plantation."

"Jaqueline is going to live in Washington," she said, evading the
question.

"I am afraid you are getting off with the old love," half reproachfully.

"Not mamma, not--oh, I love you all just the same!" clasping his arm
vehemently.

Her cheeks were very bright. She experienced a curious feeling about
Charles. Perhaps it was because she had seen these grown lovers so
much, and she herself was growing out of childish things.

Mr. Mason was on his way to the plantation, and then to the Pineries.
His mother had missed his visits very much through the winter, and she
was becoming more feeble.
