
"Well, he's got to be told--I didn't mean to worry him," said Eyre,
stammering, ashamed of his thoughtlessness.

"Now see here, governor," said Speed, "let's all have a drink first.
HÃ© ma belle!"--to the big Breton girl knitting in the corner--"four
little swallows of eau-de-vie, if you please! Ah, thank you, I knew
you were from Bannalec, where all the girls are as clever as they are
pretty! Come, governor, touch glasses! There is no circus but the
circus, and Byram is it's prophet! Drink, gentlemen!"

But his forced gayety was ominous; we scarcely tasted the liqueur.
Byram wiped his brow and squared his bent shoulders. Speed, elbows on
the table, sat musing and twirling his half-empty glass.

"Well, sir?" said Byram, in a low voice.

"Well, governor? Oh--er--the telegram?" asked Speed, like a man
fighting for time.

"Yes, the telegram," said Byram, patiently.

"Well, you see they have just heard of the terrible smash-up in the
north, governor. Metz has surrendered with Bazaine's entire army. And
they're naturally frightened at Lorient.... And I rather fear that the
Germans are on their way toward the coast.... And ... well ... they
won't let us pass the Lorient fortifications."

"Won't let us in?" cried Byram, hoarsely.

"I'm afraid not, governor."

Byram stared at us. We had counted on Lorient to pull us through as
far as the frontier.

"Now don't take it so hard, governor," said Kelly Eyre; "I was
frightened myself, at first, but I'm ashamed of it now. We'll pull
through, anyhow."

"Certainly," said Speed, cheerily, "we'll just lay up here for a few
days and economize. Why can't we try one performance here, Scarlett?"

"We can," said I. "We'll drum up the whole district from Pontivy to
Auray and from Penmarch Point to Plouharnel! Why should the Breton
peasantry not come? Don't they walk miles to the Pardons?"

A gray pallor settled on Byram's sunken face; with it came a certain
dignity which sorrow sometimes brings even to men like him.

"Young gentlemen," he said, "I'm obliged to you. These here reverses
come to everybody, I guess. The Lord knows best; but if He'll just
lemme run my show a leetle longer, I'll pay my debts an' say, 'Thy
will be done, amen!'"

"We all must learn to say that, anyway," said Speed.

"Mebbe," muttered Byram, "but I must pay my debts."

After a painful silence he rose, steadying himself with his hand on
Eyre's broad shoulder, and shambled out across the square, muttering
