“We had counted on seeing him, but duty is duty, and one ought not to
run away from it for pleasure,” replied Denys, approvingly.

Renée was not going to give any one an opportunity to consider her a
lovelorn maiden this time. She was gay and bright, joining the pleasure
parties and dancing, ready for canoeing or rowing about on the old
mill-pond in the races. She never summoned the young men to her side and
bade them fetch and carry, as she used to André; she sent her admirers
to this girl and that one, but somehow they always found their way back
and gathered as bees about the sweetest flower. They would spend whole
evenings with Denys for the sake of watching her as she sat so demurely
beside the fire, now and then raising her soft brown eyes that the flame
seemed to burnish with gold, or smiling vaguely at some conceit of her
own instead of what the visitor said.

When they were alone on rare occasions she would bring Uncle Gaspard his
flute and often sing dainty little songs in the sweetest voice
imaginable. Then he would listen and dream of her mother, and it seemed
as if she came and sat beside them. He could see her shadowy form, he
believed he could touch her with his hand. There was no sin in loving
her now, since she was free from the Count de Longueville.

Then came winter again. Should they go to the king’s ball?

“I’m too old,” said Uncle Gaspard. “I found a white hair in my beard
this morning.”

“Oh, think of the fathers and grandfathers! And they dance, too. Old,
indeed!”

She shook her slim finger at him.

“I’ve grown lazy. M. Marchand is such an excellent partner that I have
very little to do.”

“Oh, and you were out skating a few days ago and distanced many of the
younger men! I shall not go unless you do,” resolutely.

“And you have never been a queen in your own right,” he remarked with a
gleam of amusement. “You ought to try your luck.”

“Before I get old and have to wear a coif,” shaking her head in mock
despair. “Oh, let us both go!”

She had to coax a good deal and insist stoutly that she would not stir a
step without him. And, of course, he had to yield.

She listened to the songs and the solicitations, and sent Mère Lunde out
with a generous contribution.

This time she did not care so much about her gown. It was pretty enough.
She had a beautiful necklace that Mattawissa had given her, made of blue
and white shells that came from the southerly Atlantic coast and were
held in high esteem among the Indians and considered of great value in
the way of trade, as they were used in wampums. They were ground in a
peculiar fashion, with a small hole drilled in them and strung on a
chain. In dancing, as they touched each other the jingle had a peculiar
musical sound.

Madame Gardepier and one of her nieces cut the cake when the midnight
