
“Oh, that fog won’t come in before afternoon,” he said. “We usually get
it about four o’clock. But even if it does,” he added dreamily, “Marion
can manage. I’d trust her anywhere in this cove in any kind of weather.”

He went back to his work, and painted away for five or six minutes. Then
he asked me, still at the window, “What’s that fog doing now?”

“Well, I don’t know,” I answered. “I should say it was making in.”

“Do you see Marion?”

“Yes, she seems to be taking her bath.”

Again he painted a while before he asked, “Has she had her dip?”

“She’s getting back into her boat.”

“All right,” said Alderling, in a tone of relief. “She’s good to beat
any fog in these parts ashore. I wish you would come and look at this
a minute.”

I went, and we lost ourselves for a time in our criticism of the picture.
He was harder on it than I was. He allowed, “C’est un bon portrait, as
the French used to say of a faithful landscape, though I believe now the
portrait can’t be too good for them. I can’t say about landscape. But in
a Madonna I feel that there can be too much Marion, not for me, of
course, but for the ideal, which I suppose we are bound to respect.
Marion is not spiritual, but I would not have her less of the earth
earthy, for all the angels that ever spread themselves ‘in strong level
flight.’”

I recognized the words from “The Blessed Damozel,” and I made bold to be
so personal as to say, “If her hair were a little redder than ‘the color
of ripe corn’ one might almost feel that the Blessed Damozel had been
painted from Mrs. Alderling. It’s the lingering earthiness in her that
makes the Damozel so divine.”

“Yes, that was a great conception. I wonder none of the fellows do that
kind of thing now.”

I laughed and said, “Well, so few of them have had the advantage of
seeing Mrs. Alderling. And besides, Rosettis don’t happen every day.”

“It was the period, too. I always tell her that she belongs among the
later eighteen sixties. But she insists that she wasn’t even born then.
Marion is tremendously single-minded.”

“She has her mind all on you.”

He looked askance at me. “You’ve noticed--”

“I’ve noticed that your mind is all on her.”

“Not half as much!” he protested, fervidly. “I don’t think it’s good for
her, though of course I like it. That is, in a way. Sometimes it’s
rather too--” He suddenly flung his brush from him, and started up, with
a loudly shouted, “Yes, yes! I’m coming,” and hurled himself out of the
garret which he used for his studio, and cleared the stairs with two
bounds.
