“Because I don’t think I could live on the pay of a shop boy.”

“Mr. Cunningham must be insane. Certain no man with his wits about him
could make such a foolish selection. Listen to me! I am poor as well as
you. I need a new suit of clothes, but I can’t buy it. I have been out
of work for three months. Now I am going to ask a favor of you.”

Bernard concluded that the favor was a pecuniary one, and he felt
disposed to assist his unfortunate fellow applicant; but he waited to
have him explain himself.

“This is the favor I ask,” the young man proceeded. “You will not long
retain your position. Mr. Cunningham will discover your incompetency.
When you are about to be discharged, will you mention my name as your
successor? I am sure to suit Mr. Cunningham. There is my card.”

Considerably astonished at the coolness of the request, Bernard glanced
at the card. It bore the name and address of Stephen Brayton.

“I will remember your request, Mr. Brayton,” he said; “but I hope I
shall not be discharged.”

“Of course you hope so, but you are certain to lose your place. You seem
to be good-natured. Since you have been successful, perhaps you will do
me another favor.”

“I will if I can.”

“It is a small one. I am very short of money. Could you lend me half a
crown?”

“I will do better than that. Here’s half a sovereign.”

The young man’s eyes sparkled with pleasure.

“You have a good heart,” he said. “As I did not get the place I am glad
you did.”

“Thank you. I wish you good luck.”

“He is right,” thought Bernard. “It was certainly a singular selection
for Mr. Cunningham to make. He did not think of my qualifications. He
evidently took a liking to me.”

The next morning as Bernard was sitting in Mr. Cunningham’s rooms at
Morley’s assorting his papers, the servant brought in a short note which
Bernard read.

It ran thus:

“My Dear Mr. Cunningham:

“Not yet having heard from you, and being uncertain as to your decision
in reference to a traveling companion, I have ventured to call to
inquire as to your intentions. It is desirable that I should know
speedily, as I have a proposal from another party which I shall
otherwise accept. I should, however, prefer to go with you, as in the
brief interview which you kindly accorded me I was very favorably
impressed by your engaging personal traits.

