around." 

"Do I come up here?" 

"Yes." I was off with a bound and began to turn 
the tired beasts up the roadway. Just at the stoop I 
paused. 

"I'm mighty obliged to you," he began, bowing 
to mother. " 'Tisn't everybody you find willing to 
take in a stranger. But I'm going to stay if I can 
squeeze out any sort of a living. Times are hard 
everywhere. Seems as though the bottom's fallen out 
of everything." 

"When the bottom falls out 'er Chicago we fill it in 
agen," returned mother with a heartsome laugh. 
"You've come to a queer place, stranger. First, we're 
way out top of the chimbly wavin' defiance to every 
body and braggin' like all possessed, then down we 
come kerflunk ! But we rub our bruises and knock off 
the soot an' go at it agen." 

"That's the way you have to do," was the almost 
cheerful response. Then he went to the side of the 
wagon and chirped, and lifted out the Little Girl and 
put her down. I looked intently at her and she was 
impressed upon my brain. 

A little girl of seven or eight in a faded blue cotton 



 

frock that came two or three inches from her ankles, 
and her dainty feet were encased in a pair of beaded 
moccasins. Her light hair, more flaxen than golden, 
hung about in short loose curls. Her skin was very 
fair, her mouth like an opening rosebud. But her eyes 
transfixed one even in the growing darkness. They 
seemed bathed in dewy sunshine and were of the depth 
of sapphire, or the blue of a winter night. The brows 
and lashes were much darker than the hair, the eyes 
large and clear, but after she had once glanced up 
fearlessly they drooped and seemed to shine through 
the lashes. 

"You are just a little dear," said mother, and she 
stooped to kiss her, though she was not at all given 
to caresses. "And now while they go out to look 
after the horses I'll fix some supper. I've just cleared 
it away. My, but it's dark as a pocket in here. I'll 
light a candle. Have you had a long journey?" 

"Oh, days and days ! Sometimes we stayed at houses 
and sometimes in the wagon. There were wolves one 
night and father shot two, and we stayed one night in 
an Indian wigwam. The squaws were kind, but the 
babies were so funny, tied to a board and standing 
