pute. But Alice recognized the voice, and 
held out her thin white hand. 

“I ’m so glad you have come!” and a little 
flush brightened her face. 

Grace did not feel much like talking, so she 
found her book and began to read, growing 
more tranquil with the effort. Presently her 
old interest in the story returned, and she went 
on until Mrs. Dean began to set the supper- 
table. 

“You must have a cup of tea with Alice,” 
Mrs. Dean said. “I don’t believe your mamma 
will be displeased.” 





“ ‘ It is best and right, ’ she said 




Alice was delighted to be propped up in her 
easy-chair by the table. The two girls had a 
nice, cosy time, as delightful as the supper in 



“Grace began to read” 


the woods, Grace thought. But Alice was very 
tired afterward. 

‘‘Perhaps I had better not finish,’' Grace 

said, glancing at the book. 

 


“Oh! do, please, I am so interested!” and 
Grace read on to the last word. 

“I don’t know how I can ever thank you. 
It has been such a pleasure to hear them all. 
And Gracie, if you would only sing 'Glory to 
Thee, my God.’ Is it too late?” 

Grace sat on the edge of the bed and sang in 
her sweet voice, which was calm ‘and musical 
enough now. Alice held her hand all the 
while. 

“Oh!” she said, “what a lovely afternoon it 
has been ! How good you are, Grace !” 
