
"That is just what I want you to explain to me," she said. "But first I
should like to know more about the poor man who was hurt. I meant to see
his wife yesterday, but Mr. Gaines told me she would be at work till
six, and it would have been difficult to go after that. I did go to
the hospital; but the man was sleeping--is Dillon his name?--and the
matron told us he was much better. Dr. Disbrow came in the evening and
said the same thing--told us it was all a false report about his having
been so badly hurt, and that Mr. Truscomb was very much annoyed when he
heard of your having said, before the operatives, that Dillon would lose
his arm."

Amherst smiled. "Ah--Mr. Truscomb heard that? Well, he's right to be
annoyed: I ought not to have said it when I did. But unfortunately I am
not the only one to be punished. The operative who tied on the black
cloth was dismissed this morning."

Mrs. Westmore flamed up. "Dismissed for that? Oh, how unjust--how
cruel!"

"You must look at both sides of the case," said Amherst, finding it much
easier to remain temperate in the glow he had kindled than if he had had
to force his own heat into frozen veins. "Of course any act of
insubordination must be reprimanded--but I think a reprimand would have
been enough."

It gave him an undeniable throb of pleasure to find that she was not to
be checked by such arguments. "But he shall be put back--I won't have
any one discharged for such a reason! You must find him for me at
once--you must tell him----"

Once more Amherst gently restrained her. "If you'll forgive my saying
so, I think it is better to let him go, and take his chance of getting
work elsewhere. If he were taken back he might be made to suffer. As
things are organized here, the hands are very much at the mercy of the
overseers, and the overseer in that room would be likely to make it
uncomfortable for a hand who had so openly defied him."

With a heavy sigh she bent her puzzled brows on him. "How complicated it
is! I wonder if I shall ever understand it all. You don't think
Dillon's accident was his own fault, then?"

"Certainly not; there are too many cards in that room. I pointed out the
fact to Mr. Truscomb when the new machines were set up three years ago.
An operative may be ever so expert with his fingers, and yet not learn
to measure his ordinary movements quite as accurately as if he were an
automaton; and that is what a man must do to be safe in the
carding-room."

She sighed again. "The more you tell me, the more difficult it all
seems. Why is the carding-room so over-crowded?"

"To make it pay better," Amherst returned bluntly; and the colour
flushed her sensitive skin.

He thought she was about to punish him for his plain-speaking; but she
went on after a pause: "What you say is dreadful. Each thing seems to
lead back to another--and I feel so ignorant of it all." She hesitated
again, and then said, turning her bluest glance on him: "I am going to
be quite frank with you, Mr. Amherst. Mr. Tredegar repeated to me what
