himself generally agreeable, offering to read aloud or hold wool, and
a third was flirting in a corner with the sparkling Miss Bargarny.

All acknowledged Mrs. Nunn's introductions with much propriety and
little cordiality, for Anne was far too alert and robust, and
uncompromising of eye, to suit their modish taste. Nevertheless they
asked her politely what she thought of Nevis, and seemed satisfied
with her purposely conventional replies. Then the conversation drifted
naturally to the light and dainty accomplishments for which all save
herself professed a fondness; from thence to literature, where
much languid admiration was expressed of Disraeli's "Venetia," a
"performance of real elegance," and the latest achievement of the
exciting Mr. G. P. R. James. Dickens wrote about people one really
never had heard of, but Bulwer, of course, was one of themselves and
the equal of Scott. In poetry the palm was tossed between Mrs. Hemans
and L. E. L. on the one hand and that delightful impossible American,
Mr. Willis, and Barry Cornwall on the other. Young Tennyson received a
few words of praise. When the talk naturally swung to Byam Warner Anne
eagerly attended. Had he made a deep personal impression upon any of
these essentially feminine hearts? But the criticism of his poems was
as languid, affected, and undiscriminating as that of other work they
had pretended to discuss. They admired him, oh vastly! He was amazing,
a genius of the first water, the legitimate successor of Byron and
Shelley, to say nothing of Keats; he might easily surpass them all in
a few years. In short they rehearsed all the stock phrases which the
critics had set in motion years ago and which had been drifting about
ever since for the use of those unequal to the exertion of making
their own opinions, or afraid of not thinking with the elect. Had
Warner been falsely appraised by the higher powers their phrases would
have been nourished as faithfully; and Anne, with a movement of
irrepressible impatience, rose, murmured an excuse, and joined her
aunt.

Lady Hunsdon was a short, thin, trimly made woman, with small, hard,
aquiline features, piercing eyes, and a mien of so much graciousness
that had she been a shade less well-bred she would have been
patronising. She looked younger than her years in spite of her little
cap and the sedateness of attire then common to women past their
youth. Lady Constance Mortlake had the high bust and stomach of
advanced years; her flabby cheeks were streaked with good living. Her
expression was shrewd and humorous, however, and her eyes were kinder
than her tongue. Mrs. Nunn rose with vast ceremony and presented her
niece to these two august dames, and as Anne courtesied, Lady Hunsdon
said, smiling, but with a penetrating glance at the newcomer:

"My son tells me that he has acquainted you with our little plan to
reform the poet----"

"Our?" interrupted Lady Constance. "None of mine. I sit and look
on--as at any other doubtful experiment. I have no faith in the powers
of a parcel of old women to rival the seductions of brandy and Canary,
Madeira and rum."

"Parcel of old women! I shall ask the prettiest of the girls to hear
him read his poems in my sitting-room."

"Even if their mammas dare not refuse you, I doubt if the girls brave
the wrath of their gallants, who would never countenance their meeting
such a reprobate as Byam Warner----"

