of the favour put up nothing and took no risks; but the other person
was supposed to buy some stock for him, and then, when the stock went
up, he would send a cheque for the "profits." Many a man who would have
resented a direct offer of money, would assent pleasantly when a
powerful friend offered to "carry a hundred shares for him." This was
the way one offered a tip in the big world; it was useful in the case
of newspaper men, whose good opinion of a stock was desired, or of
politicians and legislators, whose votes might help its fortunes. When
one expected to get into Society, one must be prepared to strew such
tips about him.

"Of course," added Oliver, "what the family would really like me to do
is to get the Robbie Wallings to take them up. I suppose I could get
round half a million of them if I could manage that."

To all of which Montague replied, "I see."

A great light had dawned upon him. So that was the way it was managed!
That was why one paid thirty thousand a year for one's apartments, and
thirty thousand more for a girl's clothes! No wonder it was better to
spend Christmas week at the Eldridge Devons than to labour at one's law
books!

"One more question," Montague went on. "Why are you introducing me to
them?"

"Well," his brother answered, "it won't hurt you; you'll find it
amusing. You see, they'd heard I had a brother; and they asked me to
bring you. I couldn't keep you hidden for ever, could I?"

All this was while they were driving up town. The Evanses' place was on
Riverside Drive; and when Montague got out of the cab and saw it
looming up in the semi-darkness, he emitted an exclamation of wonder.
It was as big as a jail!

"Oh, yes, they've got room enough," said Oliver, with a laugh. "I put
this deal through for them--it's the old Lamson palace, you know."

They had the room; and likewise they had all the trappings of
snobbery--Montague took that fact in at a glance. There were
knee-breeches and scarlet facings and gold braid--marble balconies and
fireplaces and fountains--French masters and real Flemish tapestry. The
staircase of their palace was a winding one, and there was a white
velvet carpet which had been specially woven for it, and had to be
changed frequently; at the top of it was a white cashmere rug which had
a pedigree of six centuries--and so on.

And then came the family: this tall, raw-boned, gigantic man, with
weather-tanned face and straggling grey moustache--this was Jack Evans;
and Mrs. Evans, short and pudgy, but with a kindly face, and not too
many diamonds; and the Misses Evans,--stately and slender and perfectly
arrayed. "Why, they're all right!" was the thought that came to
Montague.

They were all right until they opened their mouths. When they spoke,
you discovered that Evans was a miner, and that his wife had been cook
on a ranch; also that Anne and Mary had harsh voices, and that they
never by any chance said or did anything natural.

They were escorted into the stately dining-room--Henri II., with a
