"You're a washed-out lot," he said--"you're satiated as schoolgirls. If
you have any emotions left they're twisted ones by the time you are
introduced. Most d√©butantes of your sort make their bow equipped for
business, and with the experience of what, practically, has amounted to
several seasons.

"If any old-fashioned young girls remain in your orbit I don't know
where to find them. Why, do you suppose any young girl, not yet out,
would bother to go to a party of any sort where there was not champagne
and a theatre-box and a supper in prospect? That's a fine comment on
your children, Molly, but you know it's true and so does everybody who
pretends to know anything about it."

"You talk like Karl Westguard," she said, laughing. "Anyway, what has
all this to do with you and Strelsa Leeds?"

"Nothing." He shrugged. "She is part of your last word in social
civilisation----"

"She is a very normal, sensitive, proud girl, who has known little
except unhappiness all her life, Rix--including two years of marital
misery--two years of horror.--And you forget that those two years were
the result of a demand purely and brutally emotional--to which, a
novice, utterly ignorant, she yielded--pushed on by her mother....
Please be fair to her; remember that her childhood was pinched with
poverty, that her girlhood in school was a lonely one, embarrassed by
lack of everything which her fashionable schoolmates had as matters of
course.

"She could not go to the homes of her schoolmates in vacation times,
because she could not ask them, in turn, to her own. She was still in
school when Reggie Leeds saw her--and misbehaved--and the poor little
thing was sent home, guiltless but already half-damned. No wonder her
mother chased Reggie Leeds half around the world dragging her daughter
by the wrist!"

"Did it make matters any better to force that drunken cad into a
marriage?" asked Quarren coldly.

"It makes another marriage possible for Strelsa."

Quarren gazed out across the country where a fine misty rain was still
falling. Acres of clover stretched away silvered with powdery moisture;
robins and bluebirds covered the soaked lawns, and their excited
call-notes prophesied blue skies.

"It doesn't make any difference one way or the other," said Quarren,
half to himself. "She will go on in the predestined orbit----"

"Not if a stronger body pulls her out of it."

"There is nothing to which she responds--except what I have not."

"Make what you do possess more powerful, then."

"What do I possess?"

"Kindness. And also manhood, Ricky. Don't you?"

"Perhaps so--now--after a fashion.... But I am not the man who could
