All eyes were instantly turned on the pagan; the Oneidas seemed
troubled; the Sagamore serious. Only the Christian Indian remained
placid and indifferent, his Testament suspended in his hand. But he
also was listening.

As for me, I knew as well as did the others what the pagan and burly
Wyandotte meant.

To every Indian--even to many who had been supposedly converted--air,
earth, and water still remained thronged with demons. The vast and
sunless wilderness was peopled with goblins and fairies. No natural
phenomenon occurred except by their agency. Where the sun went after it
had set, where the moon hid, the stars, the four great winds, the eight
thunders--all remained mysteries to these red children of the forest.
And to these mysteries demons held the keys. For no star fell,
showering the night with incandescence, no comet blazed aloft, its
streaming hair sweeping from zenith to horizon, no eclipse devoured sun
or moon, no sunrise painted the Long House golden, no sunset stained
its lodge-poles crimson, no waters ran, no winds blew, no clouds piled
up quivering with lightning, no thunder rumbled, except that it was
done by demons.

Fur, feather, and silver-scale also had souls, and slyly took council
together when alone; the great trees talked to one another in forest
depths; moonlit rocks conversed in secret; and peak whispered to peak
above the flowing currents of the mist.

It was useless to dispute such matters with them, while every
phenomenon of nature remained to them a mystery. For they had brains
and a matchless imagination, and they were obliged to solve these
things for themselves as best they knew how, each people according to
its personal characteristics.

So, among the Onondagas, Oneidas, and Mohawks, evil demons were few,
and good fairies many; among the Cayugas good and bad seemed fairly
balanced; but among the sullen, brutal, and bestial Senecas, devils,
witches, demons, and goblins were in the vast majority. And their
perverted Erie priesthood, which had debauched some of their own
Sachems, was a stench in the nostrils of any orthodox Sachem, and, to
an ordained Sagamore, an offense and sacrilege unspeakable.


I sat looking hard at the Wyandotte, inclined to speak, yet unwilling
to meddle where intervention must be useless.

His small, unwinking eyes met mine.

"There are demons," he said in a low voice.

"Demons in human form," I nodded. "Some were at Cherry Valley a year
ago."

"There are witches," he said.

I shook my head: "None."

"And Giants of Stone, and Flying Heads, and the Dead Hunter, and the
Lake Serpent," he persisted sullenly.

"There never were either giants or witches," I replied.
