smears from her hands. Her fingers were 





 



still unsteady as she smoothed out each tiny 
sheet of tissue paper and laid it on her night 
table. Then, seated on the bed's edge beside 
the lighted candle, she began to read the mes 
sages written in ink on these frail, translucent 
tissue missives. 

Every bit of tissue bore a message ; the writ 
ing was microscopic, the script German, the 
language Flemish. Slowly, with infinite pains, 
the little bell-mistress of Sainte Lesse trans 
lated to herself each message as she deci 
phered it. 

She was trembling more than ever when she 
finished. Every trace of colour had fled from 
her cheeks. 

Then, as she sat there, struggling to keep 
her mind clear of the horror of the thing, 
striving to understand what was to be done, 
there came upon her window pane a sudden 
muffled drumming sound, and her frightened 
gaze fell upon a Death's Head moth outside, 
its eyes like coals, its misty wings beating 
furiously for admittance. And around its body 
was tied a cylinder of white tissue. 

But the girl needed no more evidence. The 









wretched youth in the room overhead had al 
ready sealed his own doom with any one of 
these tissue cylinders. Better for him if the 
hemorrhage had slain him. Now a firing squad 
must do that much for him. 

Yet, even still, the girl hesitated, almost 
incredulous, trying to comprehend the mon 
strous grotesquerie of the abominable plot. 

Intuition pointed to the truth; logic proved 
it; somewhere in the German trenches a com 
