"God knows how it happened, Monsieur Guild--but there was bad blood
tonight and hot heads full of it. Then, very far in the forest, a shot
was fired."

"I heard it. What happened?"

"Listen, Monsieur! The Moresnet man and the boy, Jean Pascal, put their
heads together. I don't know how it was, but even after what you said to
us, and after Michaud told us to remain prudent and calm, somehow after
we heard that shot we all, one by one, took down our guns; and after a
little while we found ourselves together in the carrefour.

"And from there we went, without saying a word, to the Calvary on the
hill pasture road. It was as though each of us understood without
telling each other--without even hinting at a plan.

"And by and by we went down by the rivulet at the foot of the hill
pastures, and there, as we expected, were two of the Yslemont refugees.
They had their guns. And one of them had a spiked helmet."

"Go on," said Guild, compressing his lips.

"He had taken it near Trois Fontaines, not below the hill. We all
examined it. We saw red, Monsieur. Then a calf which had escaped the
Grey Wolves moved in the bushes near us. The Moresnet man caught it, and
he and the shepherd, little Jean Pascal, took the dumb beast and tied it
to a sapling near the road. On our side of the boundary! But we all
knew what might happen."

There was a silence; then Schultz said in a low, hoarse voice: "It was
fated to be. We took both sides of the road in the long grasses of the
ditches. And the calf bawled for company.

"The company came after a while--two Grey Wolves. First we heard the
clink-clink of their horses' feet; then we saw their lances against the
sky.

"They came on, picking their way. And of a sudden the electric
breast-torch on one of them breaks out like a blinding star, plays over
the road, then lights up the calf which is terrified and backs into the
hedge.

"He drives his lance-butt into the sod and gets out of his saddle. His
comrade sits the other horse, pistol lifted, elbow on thigh. And there
comes then another Uhlan, walking and leading his horse--three of the
dirty brigands, Monsieur, across the border and on our side!"

"Go on."

"Eh bien--we bled them!"

"You killed them?"

"Yes, Monsieur--two there by the hedge in the grassy ditch; the other
hung to his horse for a while--but came off sideways. One spur caught
and his horse took him back that way--across the border."

"Go on."

"We took their schapskas. Jean Pascal wished to go across the border
