
"I've found it out," she announced. "All of it. She made him do it."

Then, while Anne stared at her, she sat down and told her story,
vehemently, with breaks of breathless inquiry as to what Anne might
think of a thing like this, finally with dragging utterance, for her
vitality was gone; and at the end, challenging Anne with a glance, she
turned cold: for it came over her that Anne did not believe her.

Anne began braiding her hair again. During Lydia's incredible story she
had let it slip from her hand. And Lydia could see the fingers that
braided were trembling, as Anne's voice did, too.

"What a dreadful old woman!" said Anne.

"Madame Beattie?" Lydia asked quickly. "Oh, no, she's not, Anne. I like
her."

"Like her? A woman like that? She doesn't even look clean."

Lydia answered quite eagerly.

"Oh, yes, Anne, I really like her. I thought I didn't when I heard her
talk. Sometimes I hated her. But I understand her somehow. And she's
clean. Really she is. It's the kind of clothes she wears." Lydia, to her
own surprise at this tragic moment, giggled a little here. Madame
Beattie, when in full fig, as she had first seen her, looked to her like
pictures of ancient hearses with plumes. "She's all right," said Lydia.
"She's just going to have what belongs to her, that's all. And if I were
in her place and felt as she does, I would, too."

Anne, with an air of now being ready for bed, threw the finished braid
over her back. She was looking at Lydia with her kind look, but, Lydia
could also see, compassionately.

"But, Lyd," she said, "the reason I call her a dreadful old woman is
that she's told you all this rigmarole. It makes me quite hot. She
sha'n't amuse herself by taking you in like that. I won't have it."

"Anne," said Lydia, "it's true. Don't you see it's true?"

"It's a silly story," said Anne. She could imagine certain things,
chiefly what men and women would like, in order to make them
comfortable, but she had no appetite for the incredible. "Do you suppose
Esther would have stolen her aunt's diamonds? Or was it pearls?"

"Yes, I do," said Lydia stoutly. "It's just like her."

"She might do other things, different kinds of things that are just as
bad. But stealing, Lyd! Why, think! Esther's a lady."

"Ladies are just like anybody else," said Lydia sulkily. She thought she
might have to consider that when she was alone, but at this moment the
world was against her and she had to catch up the first generality she
could find.

"And for a necklace to be so valuable," said Anne, "valuable enough for
Jeff to risk everything he had to try to pay for it--"

Lydia felt firmer ground. She read the newspapers and Anne did not.
