
"Oh, I have the most touching confidence in your honour, and the most
profound admiration for your candour, and the deepest sympathy for
ambitions so natural to one afflicted with genius. I am only wondering
whether if I gave you the information you seem to need you would permit
Mrs. Balfame to remain in jail and stand trial for her life."

"You are not to laugh at me! Yes, I should. Because I know that she has
ninety-nine chances out of a hundred to get off, and that if she were
condemned you would come forward at once and tell the truth."

"And you really believe I did it?" His hands were in his pockets, and he
was balancing himself on his heels. There was certainly nothing tense
about his tall loose figure, but the light of the street lamp, filtered
through a low branch, threw shadows on his face that made it look pallid
and as darkly hollowed as the face of an elderly actress in a moving
picture. To Miss Sarah Austin he looked like a guilty man engaged in the
honourable art of bluffing, but her mounting irritation precluded pity.

"Yes, Mr. Rush, I do. It is to my mind the one logical explanation--"

"You mean the logical fictional--"

"I'm no writer of detective stories--"

"Just like a novel then?"

"Ah! That I admit. The great novel is a logical transcript of life. The
incidents rise out of the characters, react upon them, are as inevitable
as the personal endowments, peculiarities, and contradictions.
Understand your characters, and you can't go wrong."

"You are the cleverest young woman I ever met. For that reason I feel
convinced you need no such adventitious aid as confession from a
murderer. You will work it out--your premises being dead right--far
better by yourself. It's the contradictions you mentioned I am thinking
of, both in life and character."

"You are laughing at me. It's no laughing matter!"

"By God, it isn't. But you couldn't expect me to plump out a confession
like that without taking a night to think it over."

"If you don't tell me, I warn you I'll find out for myself. And then
I'll give it to my newspaper. To begin with, I'll find out if you really
did see any one in Brooklyn that Saturday night. I'll discover the name
of everybody you know in Brooklyn."

"That's a large order. I fear the case will be over."

"I'll set the whole swarm on the case. But if you will tell me the
truth, you will be quite safe."

"The cause of literature might influence me were it not that I fear to
be thought a coward--by my fair blackmailer."

"Oh! How dare you? Why, I don't want your secret to use against you. I
thought I explained--how dare you!"

"I humbly beg pardon. Perhaps as it is such a new and flattering
