Indifferently he nodded and, assimilating Hugo with superb unconcern,
threw out: "It is only the shudder that counts."

That was long before the crash. After it, Mrs. Wilde said that he was
mad and had been for three years, "quite mad" as the poor woman
expressed it.

It may be that she was right. St. George, I believe, fought a dragon
with a spear. Whether or not he killed the brute I have forgotten.
But Wilde fought poverty, which is perhaps more brutal, with a pen.
The fight, if indolent, was protracted. Then, abruptly, his inkstand
became a Vesuvius of gold. London that had laughed at him, laughed
with him and laughed colossally. A penny-a-liner was famous. The
international hurdle-race of the stage had been won in a canter and
won by a hack. A sub-editor was top of the heap.

The ascent was perhaps too rapid. The spiderous Fates that sit and
spin are jealous of sudden success. It may be that Mrs. Wilde was
right. In any event, for some time before the crash he saw few of his
former friends. After his release few of his former friends saw him.
But personally, if I may refer to myself, I am not near sighted. I saw
him in Paris, saw too, and to my regret, that he looked like a drunken
coachman, and told him how greatly I admired the "Ballad,"--that poem
which tells of his life, or rather of his death, in jail. Half
covering his mouth with his hand, he laughed and said: "It does not
seem to me sufficiently v√©cu."

Before the enormity of that I fell back. But at once he became more
human. He complained that even the opiate of work was denied him,
since no one would handle his wares.

The Athenians, who lived surrounded by statues, learned from them the
value of silence, the mystery that it lends to beauty, in particular
the dignity that it gives to grief. In their tragedies any victim of
destiny is as though stricken dumb. Wilde knew that, he knew
everything, in addition to being a thorough Hellenist. None the less
he told of his fate. It was human, therefore terrible, but it was not
the tragic muse. It was merely a tragedy of letters.

Letters, yes, but lower case. Wilde was a third rate poet who
occasionally rose to the second class but not once to the first. Prose
is more difficult than verse and in it he is rather sloppy. In spite
of which, or perhaps precisely on that account, he called himself
lord of language. Well, why not, if he wanted to? Besides, in his talk
he was lord and more--sultan, pontifex maximus. Hook, Jerrold, Smith,
Sheridan, rolled into one, could not have been as brilliant. In talk
he blinded and it is the subsiding wonder of it that his plays
contain.

In the old maps, on the vague places, early geographers used to put:
Hic sunt leones--Here are lions. On any catalogue of Wilde's plays
there should be written: Here lions might have been. For assuming his
madness, one must also admit his genius and the uninterrupted
conjunction of the two might have produced brilliancies such as few
bookshelves display.

Therein is the tragedy of letters. Renan said that morality is the
supreme illusion. The diagnosis may or may not be exact. Yet it is on
illusions that we all subsist. We live on lies by day and dreams at
night. From the standpoint of the higher mathematics, morality may be
