the weight of her ignorance settled down on her again like a pall.

“I mean, I can’t see that you have any books on the old houses about
here. I suppose, for that matter, this part of the country hasn’t been
much explored. They all go on doing Plymouth and Salem. So stupid. My
cousin’s house, now, is remarkable. This place must have had a past--it
must have been more of a place once.” He stopped short, with the blush
of a shy man who overhears himself, and fears he has been voluble. “I’m
an architect, you see, and I’m hunting up old houses in these parts.”

She stared. “Old houses? Everything’s old in North Dormer, isn’t it? The
folks are, anyhow.”

He laughed, and wandered away again.

“Haven’t you any kind of a history of the place? I think there was one
written about 1840: a book or pamphlet about its first settlement,” he
presently said from the farther end of the room.

She pressed her crochet hook against her lip and pondered. There was
such a work, she knew: “North Dormer and the Early Townships of Eagle
County.” She had a special grudge against it because it was a limp
weakly book that was always either falling off the shelf or slipping
back and disappearing if one squeezed it in between sustaining volumes.
She remembered, the last time she had picked it up, wondering how anyone
could have taken the trouble to write a book about North Dormer and its
neighbours: Dormer, Hamblin, Creston and Creston River. She knew them
all, mere lost clusters of houses in the folds of the desolate ridges:
Dormer, where North Dormer went for its apples; Creston River, where
there used to be a paper-mill, and its grey walls stood decaying by the
stream; and Hamblin, where the first snow always fell. Such were their
titles to fame.

She got up and began to move about vaguely before the shelves. But she
had no idea where she had last put the book, and something told her that
it was going to play her its usual trick and remain invisible. It was
not one of her lucky days.

“I guess it’s somewhere,” she said, to prove her zeal; but she spoke
without conviction, and felt that her words conveyed none.

“Oh, well----” he said again. She knew he was going, and wished more
than ever to find the book.

“It will be for next time,” he added; and picking up the volume he had
laid on the desk he handed it to her. “By the way, a little air and sun
would do this good; it’s rather valuable.”

He gave her a nod and smile, and passed out.




II


The hours of the Hatchard Memorial librarian were from three to five;
and Charity Royall’s sense of duty usually kept her at her desk until
nearly half-past four.

