front!

The refugees and the worn-out blue soldiers fell back before the
triumphant advance, and a weak shout went up. The rosy soldiers shouted
back, but their faces were grave and set. It was clear that they knew
where they were going, and to what work they had been so hurriedly
summoned.

"It's hell back there!" a wounded territorial called out, pointing
backward over his bandaged shoulder, and another cried: "Vive
l'Am√©rique!"

"Vive la France!" shouted the truckful abreast of Troy, and the same cry
burst from his own lungs. A few miles off the battle of the Marne was
being fought again, and here were his own brothers rushing forward to
help! He felt that his greatest hour had struck.

One of the trucks had halted for a minute just in front of him, marking
time, and the lads leaning over its side had seen him, and were calling
out friendly college calls.

"Come along and help!" cried one, as the truck got under way again.

Troy glanced at his broken-down motor; then his eye lit on a rifle lying
close by in the dust of the roadside. He supposed it belonged to the
wounded territorial who had crawled into the ambulance.

He caught up the rifle, scrambled up over the side with the soldier's
help, and was engulfed among his brothers. Furtively he had pulled the
ambulance badge from his collar ... but a moment later he understood the
uselessness of the precaution. All that mattered to any one just then
was that he was one more rifle for the front.




XI


On the way he tried to call up half-remembered snatches of military
lore.

If only he did not disgrace them by a blunder!

He had talked enough to soldiers, French and American, in the last year:
he recalled odd bits of professional wisdom, but he was too excited to
piece them together. He was not in the least afraid of being afraid, but
his heart sank at the dread of doing something stupid, inopportune,
idiotic. His envy of the youths beside him turned to veneration. They
had all been in the front line, and knew its vocabulary, its dangers and
its dodges.

All he could do was to watch and imitate....

Presently they were all tumbled out of the motors and drawn up by the
roadside. An officer bawled unintelligible orders, and the men executed
mysterious movements in obedience.

Troy crept close to the nearest soldier, and copied his gestures
awkwardly--but no one noticed. Night had fallen, and he was thankful for
