shaft stuck upright in the ground.

"You see," she said sadly, "we temple girls, being already damned, cared
little what we said, even to such a terrible man as Djamouk Khan. And
even had the ghost of old Tchinguiz Khagan himself come to the temple
and looked at us out of his tawny eyes, I think we might have done
something saucy."

Tressa's pretty face was spiritless, now; she leaned back in her
armchair and they heard an unconscious sigh escape her.

"Ai-ya! Ai-ya!" she murmured to herself, "what crazy things we did on
the rose-marble steps, Yulun and I, so long--so long ago."

Cleves got up and went over to stand beside his wife's chair.

"What happened is this," he said heavily. "During my wife's
convalescence after that Yarghouz affair, she found herself, at a
certain moment, clairvoyant. And she thought she saw--she did
see--Sanang, and an Asiatic she recognised as being one of the chiefs of
the Assassins sect, whose name is Djamouk.

"But, except that it was somewhere near the sea--some summer colony
probably on the Atlantic coast--she does not know where this pair of
jailbirds roost. And this is what we have come here to report."

Benton, politely appalled, tried not to look incredulous. But it was
evident that Selden and Recklow had no doubts.

"Of course," said Recklow calmly, "the thing to do is for you and your
wife to try to find this place she saw."

"Make a tour of all such ocean-side resorts until Mrs. Cleves recognises
the place she saw," added Selden. And to Recklow he added: "I believe
there are several perfectly genuine cases on record where clairvoyants
have aided the police."

"Several authentic cases," said Recklow quietly. But Benton's face was a
study.

Tressa looked up at her husband. He dropped his hand reassuringly on her
shoulder and nodded with a slight smile.

"There--there was something else," she said with considerable
hesitation--"something not quite in line of duty--perhaps----"

"It seems to concern Benton," added Cleves, smiling.

"What is it?" inquired Selden, smiling also as Benton's features froze
to a mask.

"Let me tell you, first," interrupted Cleves, "that my wife's psychic
ability and skill can make me visualise and actually see scenes and
people which, God knows, I never before laid eyes upon, but which she
has both seen and known.

"And one morning, in Florida, I asked her to do something
strange--something of that sort to amuse me--and we were sitting on the
steps of our cottage--you know, the old club-house at Orchid!--and the
first I knew I saw, in the mist on the St. Johns, a Chinese bridge
