
He did not trust one among them. Of international crookdom they were
the cream. Not one of them but would have murdered his fellow if the
loot were worth it and the chances of escape sufficient.

There was no loyalty to him, none to one another, no "honour among
thieves"--and it was José Quintana who knew that only in romance such a
thing existed.

No, he could not trust a single man. Only hope of plunder attached these
marauders to him, and merely because he had education and imagination
enough to provide what they wanted.

Anyone among them would murder and rob him if opportunity presented.

Now, how to keep his loot; how to get back to Europe with it, was the
problem that confronted Quintana after robbing Darragh. And he
determined to settle part of that question at once.

About five miles from Harrod Place, within a hundred rods of which he
had held up Hal Smith, Quintana halted, seated himself on a rotting log,
and waited until his men came up and gathered around him.

For a little while, in utter silence, his keen eyes travelled from one
visage to the next, from Henri Picquet to Victor Georgiades, to Sanchez,
to Sard. His intent scrutiny focussed on Sard; lingered.

If there were anybody he might trust, a little way, it would be Sard.

Then a polite, untroubled smile smoothed the pale, dark features of José
Quintana:

"Bien, messieurs, the coup has been success. Yes? Ver' well; in turn,
then, en accord with our custom, I shall dispose myse'f to listen to
your good advice."

He looked at Henri Picquet, smiled and nodded invitation to speak.

Picquet shrugged: "For me, mon capitaine, eet ees ver' simple. We are
five. Therefore, divide into five ze gems. After zat, each one for
himself to make his way out----"

"Nick Salzar and Harry Beck are in the Drowned Valley," interrupted
Quintana.

Picquet shrugged again; Sanchez laughed, saying: "If they are there it
is their misfortune. Also, we others are in a hurry."

Picquet added: "Also five shares are sufficient division."

"It is propose, then, that we abandon our comrades Beck and Salzar to
the rifle of Mike Clinch?"

"Why not?" demanded Georgiades sullenly;--"we shall have worse to face
before we see the Place de l'Opéra."

"There remains, also, Eddie Abrams," remarked Quintana.

Crooks never betray their attorney. Everybody expressed a willingness to
have the five shares of plunder properly assessed to satisfy the fee due
