the flakes still falling gracefully through the air with a feeling of
exhilaration. But they had food and fuel in store--they had warm
clothing--they had comfortable homes. There was no fear of cold and
hunger with them--no dread of being sent forth, shelterless, in the
chilling winter. It was different with Mrs. Foster when she looked from
her window at daylight.

George had been restless, and moaned a good deal through the night; but
now he slept soundly, and there was a bright flush upon his cheeks.
With what a feeling of tenderness and yearning pity did his mother bend
over him, and gaze into his fair face, fairer now than it had ever
looked to her. But she could not linger long over her sleeping boy.

With the daylight, unrefreshed as she was, came her "never ending,
still beginning" toil; and now she felt that she must toil harder and
longer, and without hope.

Though little Emma's offer to go and work in the mill in her brother's
place had passed from the thought of Mrs. Foster, yet the child had
been too much in earnest to forget it herself. Young as she was, the
very pressure of circumstances by which she was surrounded had made her
comprehend clearly the necessity that existed for George to go and work
daily in the mill. She knew that he earned a dollar and a half weekly;
and she understood very well, that without this income her mother would
be greatly distressed.

After she had eaten her breakfast of bread and milk, the child went up
stairs and got an old pair of stockings, which she drew on over her
shoes, that had long been so worn as to afford but little protection to
her feet; and then taking from a closet an old shawl, drew it over her
head. Thus attired, she waited at the head of the stairs until her
mother was out of the way, and then went quickly down. She managed to
leave the house without being seen by any one, and took her way,
through the deep and untracked snow, towards the mill, which was about
a quarter of a mile off. The air was bitter cold, and the storm still
continued; but the child plodded on, chilled to the very heart, as she
soon was, and, at length, almost frozen, reached the mill. The owner
had observed her approach from the window, and wondering who she was,
or what brought so small a child to the mill through the cold and
storm, went down to meet her.

"Bless me! little one!" he said, lifting her from the ground and
placing her within the door. "Who are you, and what do you want?"

"I'm George's sister, and I've come to work in his place till he gets
well," replied the child, as she stood, with shivering body and
chattering teeth, looking up earnestly into the man's face.

"George Foster's sister?"

"Yes, sir. His hand's hurt so he can't work, and I've come to work in
his place."

"You have! Who sent you, pray?"

"Nobody sent me."

"Does your mother know about your coming?"

"No, sir."

"Why do you want to work in George's place?"

"If I do, then you'll send mother a dollar and a half every week, won't
you?"

The owner of the mill was a kind-hearted man, and this little incident
touched his feelings.

"You are not big enough to work in the mill, my child," said he, kindly.

"I'm nine years old," replied Emma, quickly.

"Oh yes! I can work as well as anybody. Do let me come in George's
place! Won't you?"

Emma had not been gone very long before she was missed. Her mother had
become quite alarmed about her, when she heard sleigh-bells at the
door, and, looking out, saw the owner of the mill and her child.
Wondering what this could mean, she went out to meet them.

"This little runaway of yours," said the man, in a pleasant voice,
"came trudging over to the mill this morning, through the snow, and
wanted to take the place of George, who was so badly hurt yesterday, in
order that you might get, as she said, a dollar and a half every week."

"Why, Emma!" exclaimed her mother, as she lifted her from the sleigh.
"How could you do so? You are not old enough to work in your brother's
place."

"Besides," said the man, "there is no need of your doing so; for George
shall have his dollar and a half, the same as ever, until he is able to
go to work again. So then, my little one, set your heart at rest."

Emma understood this very well, and bounded away into the house to take
the good news to her brother, who was as much rejoiced as herself.
After inquiring about George, and repeating to Mrs. Foster what he had
said to Emma, he told her that he would pay the doctor for attending
the lad, so that the accident needn't prove a burden to her.

The heart of Mrs. Foster lifted itself, thankfully, as she went back
into the house.

"Don't scold her, mother," said George. "She thought she was doing
right."

This appeal, so earnestly made, quite broke down the feelings of Mrs.
Foster, and she went quickly into another room, and closing the door
after her, sat down by the bedside, and, burying her face in a pillow,
suffered her tears to flow freely. Scold the child! She felt more like
taking her in her arms, and hugging her passionately to her bosom.

To know that the small income her boy's labour had produced was not to
be cut off, proved a great relief to the mind of Mrs. Foster; but, in a
little while, her thoughts went back to the landlord's threat and the
real distress and hopelessness of their situation. To the period of her
husband's return she looked with no feeling of hope; but, rather, with
a painful certainty, that his appearance would be the signal for the
landlord to put his threat into execution.

Sadly the days went by, each one bringing nearer the time towards which
the unhappy woman now looked forward with a feeling of dread. That the
landlord would keep his promise, she did not, for an instant, doubt.
Without their cow, how could she, with all her exertions, feed her
children? No wonder that her heart was troubled.

At last the day before the opening year came.

"Papa will be home to-morrow," said Emma. "I wonder what he will bring
me for a New Year's gift."

"I wish he would bring me a book," said George.

"I'd like a pair of new shoes," remarked the little girl, more soberly,
looking down at her feet, upon which were tied, with coarse strings,
what were called shoes, but hardly retained their semblance. "And mamma
wants shoes, too," added the child. "Oh! I wish papa would bring her,
for a New Year's gift, a nice new pair of shoes."

The mother heard her children talking, and sighed to think how vain
were all their expectations.

"I wish we had a turkey for father's New Year's dinner," said Emma.

"And some mince pies!" spoke up little Hetty, the youngest, clapping
her hands. "Why don't we have mince pies, mamma?" she said, taking hold
of her mother's apron and looking up at her.

"Papa likes mince pies, I know; and so do I. Don't you like mince pies,
George?"

George, who was old enough to understand better than the rest of them
the true cause of the privations they suffered, saw that Hetty's
questions had brought tears to his mother's eyes, and, with a
thoughtfulness beyond his years, sought to turn the conversation into
another channel.

But the words of the children had brought to the mind of Mrs. Foster a
memory of other times,--of the many happy New Years she had enjoyed
with her husband, their board crowned with the blessings of the year.
Her dim eyes turned from her neglected little ones, and fell upon a
small ornament that stood upon the mantle. It was the New Year's gift
of her husband in better days. It reminded her too strongly of the
contrast between that time and the gloomy present. She went quickly
from the room, to weep unheard and alone.

New Year's morning at length broke clear and cold. Mrs. Foster was up
betimes. It was no holiday to her. Early in the day her husband was to
come home, and though she could not help looking and wishing for him to
come, yet the thought of him produced a pressure in her bosom. She felt
that his presence would only bring for her heart a deeper shadow.

The children had grown eager for him to come. The younger ones talked
of the presents he would bring them, while George thought of a book,
yet dared hardly hope to receive one. At last, Emma descried her father
far down the road, and announced, in a loud voice, his coming. The
heart of the mother throbbed quicker at the word. She went to the
window, where the children crowded, feeling troubled, and yet with
something of the old gladness about her heart. She strained her eyes to
see him, and yet dreaded to fix them upon him too intently, lest more
should be seen than she wished to see. He came nearer and nearer, and
she was yet at the window, her heart beating audibly. Could her eyes
deceive her, or was it indeed so? His form was erect and his step firm,
and, though his clothes were the same, they did not look so untidy.

"Thank God!" she ejaculated silently, yet fervently, as he came nearer
still--"he is sober."

Yes, he was sober.

"Henry!" she could not say another word, as she took his hand when he
came in. Her eyes were full of tears. He pressed her thin, small,
labour-worn hand tightly, and then turned and sat down. He, too, was
moved as well as she. But the children gathered around him, and seemed
gladder to see him than when he was last home. There was a reason for
this. Seeing the hand of George in a sling, he inquired the cause, and
when told of the accident, appeared deeply grieved, and said he should
not go back to the mill any more. The heart of his wife fluttered. Was
there a meaning deeper than a momentary impulse? At last little Hetty,
who had climbed upon his knee, said, "Where's my New Year's gift, papa?"

The father put his hand in his pocket and pulled out a small
picture-book, and gave it to the child who was wild with joy in a
moment. He had a larger book for Emma, and Robinson Crusoe for George.

"And what for mother?" asked Emma, looking earnestly at her father.
"Haven't you brought dear mother a New Year's gift, too?"

"Oh, yes," replied the father, "I've got something for her also." His
voice was a little unsteady as he said this. Then he put his hand into
his pocket again, and, after keeping it there for a moment or two, drew
out a large folded piece of paper that looked like a title-deed, and
handed it to his wife, who took it with a trembling hand. She opened
it, read a few words, and, bursting into tears, turned and went quickly
from the room. Hers were tears of joy--unutterable joy.

Was it then a title-deed of property that her husband had given her,
filling her heart with gladness at the thought of relief from toil, and
privation, and suffering? No, it was better than that, and brought a
fuller and more perfect joy. It was a New Year's gift such as she had
never dared hope to receive--the dearest gift in the power of her
husband to bestow. Already blotted with tears, it was tightly pressed
to her heaving bosom.

What was it? What could it be but the blessed temperance pledge,
signed, in a firm hand, with her husband's name.

That was indeed a happy New Year's day to the wife and mother, who,
when the morning dawned, felt that she was entering upon the darkest
days of her troubled existence. But a brighter day unknown was
breaking. It broke, and no gloomy clouds have since arisen to obscure
its smiling skies.




AUNT MARY'S PRESERVING KETTLE.


"I DECLARE, if these preserves haven't been working!" exclaimed Aunt
Mary, as she opened a jar of choice quinces, and perceived that, since
they were sealed up and carefully stored for the winter, fermentation
had taken place.

"And the peaches, too, as I live!" she added on examining another jar.
"Run, Hannah, and bring me my preserving kettle. I shall have to do
them all over."

"Mrs. Tompkins borrowed it, you know, yesterday," Hannah replied.

"So she did, I declare! Well, you must run over to Mrs. Tompkins,
Hannah, and tell her that I want my preserving kettle."

Hannah departed, and Aunt Mary proceeded to examine jar after jar of
her rich store of preserves, and, much to her disappointment, found
that all of her quinces and peaches, comprising some eight or ten jars,
had commenced working. These she took from their dark corners in the
closet, and, placing them on the large table in the kitchen, awaited
patiently Hannah's return. In about fifteen minutes her help entered.

"But where is the kettle?" inquired Aunt Mary, eagerly.

"Why, ma'am, Mrs. Tompkins says as how she ain't quite done with it
yet; she's finished her pears; but then she has her mamlet to do."

Aunt Mary Pierce was a good woman, and her heart was full of kind
feelings towards others. But she had her foibles as well as her
neighbours, and among these was an almost passionate admiration of her
beautiful bell-metal preserving kettle, which was always kept as bright
as a gold eagle. Nothing tried Aunt Mary more than to have to lend her
preserving kettle. But as in reading her Bible she found it
written--Of him that would borrow of thee turn thou not away--she
dared not refuse any of the applications that were made for it, and in
preserving time these were enough to try the patience of even a better
woman than Aunt Mary. The fact was, that Aunt Mary's preserving kettle
was the best in the village, and there were at least a dozen or two of
her neighbours, who did not think their sweetmeats good for any thing
if not prepared in this favourite kettle.

"Ain't it too bad!" ejaculated Aunt Mary, lifting her hands and then
letting them fall quickly. "Ain't it too bad! But it is always so! Just
when I want my own things, somebody's got them. Go right back, Hannah,
and tell Mrs. Tompkins that my preserves are all a working, and that I
must have my kettle at once, or they will be ruined."

Hannah started off again, and Aunt Mary stood, far less patiently than
before, beside the table on which she had placed her jars, and awaited
her return.

"Well," she asked eagerly, as Hannah entered after the lapse of some
ten minutes, "where is the kettle?"

"Mrs. Tompkins says, ma'am, that she is very sorry that your preserves
have commenced working, but that it won't hurt them if they are not
done over for three or four days. She says that her mamlet is all ready
to put on, and as soon as that is done you shall have the kettle in
welcome."

Poor Aunt Mary was, for a few minutes, mute with astonishment. On
recovering herself, she did not storm and fret. Indeed, she was never
guilty of these little housewife effervescences, usually taking every
trouble with a degree of Christian meekness that it would have been
well for many in the village, even the minister's wife, to have
imitated.

"Well, Hannah," she said, heaving a sigh, "we shall have to wait, I
suppose, until Mrs. Tompkins has finished her marmalade. But I am
afraid all these preserves will be spoiled. Unless done over
immediately on their beginning to work, they get a flavour that is not
pleasant. But we must wait patiently."

"It's a downright shame, ma'am, so it is!" said Hannah, "and I wonder
you take it so quietly. If it was my kettle, and I wanted it, I reckon
I'd have it too quick. Only just say the word, ma'am, and I will get it
for you if I have to take it off of the fire."

"Oh no, no, no, not for the world, Hannah!" replied Aunt Mary, to her
indignant help. "We will try and wait for her, though it is a little
hard to have one's things always a-going, and never to be able to put
your hands on them when you want them."

All the next day Aunt Mary suffered the jars of fermenting preserves to
remain on the kitchen table. Every time her eye rested upon them,
unkind thoughts would arise in her mind against her neighbour, Mrs.
Tompkins, but she used her best efforts to suppress them. About the
middle of the next day, as the preserving kettle did not make its
appearance, Hannah was again despatched, with directions to urge upon
Mrs. Tompkins the pressing necessity there was for its being returned.
In due time Hannah made her appearance, but without the kettle.

"Well?" inquired Aunt Mary, in a tone of disappointment.

"Mrs. Tompkins says, ma'am," replied Hannah, "that you needn't be in
such a fever about your old preserving kettle, and that it is not at
all neigh-hourly to be sending for a thing before it is done with. She
says she won't be through with her mamlet before day after to-morrow,
and that you can't have the kettle before then."

"Well, it is a downright shame!" said Aunt Mary, with a warmth of
manner unusual to her.

"And so I told her," responded Hannah.

"You did! And what did Mrs. Tompkins say?"

"Oh, she fired right up, and said she didn't want any of my imperdence."

"But you oughtn't to have said so, Hannah."

"How could I help it, ma'am, when my blood was boiling over? It is a
shame; that's the truth."

Aunt Mary did not reply, but she thought all that Hannah had said to
Mrs. Tompkins, and a good deal more. Indeed, her forbearance was sorely
tried. Never since she could recollect, had she felt so unkindly
towards any one as she now did towards her neighbour and fellow church
member. Often did she try to put away these unkind and troublesome
thoughts; but the effort was vain. Mrs. Tompkins had trespassed so far
upon her rights, and then put such a face upon it, that she could not
help feeling incensed at her conduct.

After a while "day after to-morrow" came, which was on Saturday.

"I must have that kettle to-day, Hannah," said she, and Hannah started
off to Mrs. Tompkins.

"You needn't come after that kettle to-day," spoke up Mrs. Tompkins, as
Hannah entered, "my marmalade is not all done yet."

"But we must have it to-day, Mrs. Tompkins. Mrs. Pierce says as how I
mustn't come home without it. The preserves are nearly ruined now, and
all because you didn't send home the kittle when we first wanted it."

"I want none of your impudence," said Mrs. Tompkins, going off at once
into a passion, for she was rather a high-tempered woman, "and so just
shut up at once. If Mrs. Pierce is so fussy about her old worn-out
kettle, she can have it and make the most out of it. A pretty
neighbour, indeed! Here, Sally," calling to her help, "empty that
kettle and give it to Hannah."

"Where shall I empty it?" asked Sally.

"Empty it into the slop barrel, for what I care; the whole kettle of
marmalade will be spoiled any how. A pretty neighbour, indeed!"

Sally, who understood her mistress's mood, knew very well that her
orders were not to be literally obeyed. So she took the preserving
kettle from the fire, and poured its contents into a large pan, instead
of the slop barrel.

"Here's the kettle," said she, bringing it in and handing it to Hannah.
It was black and dirty on the outside, and within all besmeared with
the marmalade, for Sally cared not to take the trouble of cleaning it.

"There, take the kettle!" said Mrs. Tompkins in an excited tone, "and
tell Mrs. Pierce that it is the last time I'll borrow any thing from
her."

Hannah took the kettle, and started for home at full speed.

