had most pending upon the verdict. Ida hid her face upon her guardian's
arm.

"I would not trouble you needlessly, dear child;" he said, passing his
hand over her dark locks; "else I would tell you how dear you were to
us, before you lived with us;--how doubly dear you are now. If personal
feeling were the arbiter in this case, I would never have made the
statement you have heard to-night; and Jenny has not spoken, because
foreseeing that her affection might outrun her discretion, I exacted a
promise of non-interference. Your home is here, dear Ida, as long as
you choose to make us happy by your presence. I repeat--the decision
rests with you."

"I do not know what to say. Determine for me, dear Mr. Dana."

"I may not, my child."

"Carry! Charley! what ought I to do?"

Charley shook his head; but Carry was not so prudent. "Oh! Ida! your
going will break sister's heart; a year cannot make much difference."

"If it is my duty at all, it is now, as much as then--is it not?" asked
Ida, of Charley.

"I am afraid so;" said he, seriously.

"Charley! how can you!" exclaimed Carry. "One would think you were
willing to lose her! You are young, Ida--there is no necessity for
burying yourself alive, yet."

"Have a care, Carry! John is right--she must decide;" cautioned
Arthur.

"One question, Ida," said Charley, kindly. "You have revolved this
issue often in your mind, even since you have been with us--have you
not?"

"Yes."

"You said, a year ago, you felt bound to fulfil your mother's wishes,
and that your inclinations leaned the same way--how is it now? There is
the case in a nut-shell."

"One hard to crack, nevertheless;" said Ida, with glistening eyes. "I
love Sunnybank, and I have had misgivings that the indulgence I meet
here, may spoil me for the active, self-denying life I must lead;--for
I have always looked forward to a residence there, some time or
other;--but I am so happy here. Still, Mr. Dana, I have a vast deal of
surplus energy which ought to be employed. I am not working with all my
might. Does this sound ungrateful?"

"Not a bit of it!" struck in Charley's assuring tones. "It is not that
you love Caesar less, but Rome more."

"But it is so far!" objected Carry,--"and so out-of-the-way. Suppose
you fall sick! O, brother John! it is heartless to send her off by
herself!"

"She shall not go by herself, Carry. If she concludes to leave us, it
must not be before Spring; then Jenny and I will go with her. If she
is convinced, upon trial, that she is inadequate to the enterprise,
or dislikes it, we shall be too glad to have her back. Grant is a
respectable man, and an intelligent farmer; and she must secure a
companion. You mentioned his sister-in-law, I think, Ida?"

"As to the distance," said Charley, "If those snail-like fellows
continue the railroad, as they say they will--it will pass within six
miles of Sunnybank."

This was a ray of comfort; yet Mrs. Dana burst into tears, and Carry
threw her arms around Ida, sobbing bitterly, as she "feared she ought
to go."

"Carry! Jenny! you must not!" said Charley. "She has done her duty--and
should be encouraged. You are borrowing trouble upon interest. Who can
tell what may happen before Spring? An earthquake, or the end of the
world may stamp 'Finis' upon sublunary things, and you'll be ashamed of
yourselves for having anticipated evil."

He succeeded in calling up a smile, and Carry unintentionally effected
a further diversion. "Oh, Ida!" she sighed. "If you had married Mr.
Germaine!"

"I am happier as it is, Carry."

"I move a postponement of the subject, sine die;" said Charley. "We
must welcome in the year with a song. Come to the piano, Carry. Ida,
Arthur--come! we want a quartette."

They learned to speak of the coming separation with composure; but its
shadow was upon all hearts, longer and blacker as the time drew nearer.
Ida sometimes debated with herself whether she could be called to sever
a relationship which had taken such hold of her inmost soul. She was
not supine or useless; for the love a Christian's virtues gain, is
indirectly leading men to the Saviour; and every day she could animate
some drooping spirit, or alleviate some woe, were it only a child's.
Yet she was not performing labors commensurate with her talents and
energies; she was upon the circumference of the wheel;--Nature designed
her for the centre and motive power. There was a satisfaction in having
the matter settled. She had not the courage to introduce it herself;
but her guardian's straight-forward summing-up and appeal had convinced
her, and the rest of his hearers. A scheme, so uncommon, had opposers
and despisers in abundance. Some honestly lamented her departure; and
many more insinuated at "family disagreements" and "high-spirited young
ladies." She was "Quixotic" and "masculine," said others, boldly; and
there were benevolent friends who thought it a pity so much eloquence
should be wasted and carried faithful reports to the cause of the
commotion. Among the busiest in promulgating scandal, was Josephine
Read, until she was taught caution by a scathing rebuke from Charley,
inflicted publicly, in response to a sneer, not meant for his ears; and
of the opposite party, Ellen Morris' unobtrusive grief affected Ida
sadly. They seldom spoke of Lynn; but there was a tacit understanding
that his memory was the bond of their intimacy. Outwardly, Ellen was
the same--only Ida knew that the spontaneity of her gaiety was no
more, and that the most brilliant jets were forced up by a pressure,
that would have destroyed the spring of most hearts. On the second
anniversary of Lynn's death, she came to invite Ida to a walk--showing
a bouquet of spring flowers concealed in her veil. Divining their
destination, Ida turned their steps, of her own accord, to the
cemetery. The spring was forward; so it had been the year he died; but
its young blossoms were killed by the frost and snow which should have
belonged to winter--and he perished with them! The turf was green; the
evergreen rose, creeping over the headstone, was full of glossy leaves
and the violets upon his breast were budding. The girls knelt on either
side of the grave; trimmed away the dead twigs of the rose, plucked
the sere leaves of the violet, and clipped the ragged grass--talking
softly, as over a sleeping babe. Besides themselves, there were no
visitors in the grounds; and having deposited their offering upon the
mound, they sat down. Ellen's arm was encircling Ida's waist, while one
of the latter's rested on the grave.

"I may not do that," said Ellen, mournfully. "Although when it rains
or snows at night, I weep to think how it beats upon him, and pine
to shelter him with my arms,--when I am here--and I come often,
Ida--secretly! I see him dead--perhaps murdered by me--and I no more
dare embrace that clay, as you are doing, than the murderer would touch
the body of his victim, lest it should bleed afresh."

"This is morbid regret, Ellen. I was his sister and confidante. You
had nothing to do with his death; if you had never parted, the disease
might have assailed him. The blight upon your heart is deadly enough,
without increasing it by unmerited self-reproach. Everything is so calm
and sweet here, this afternoon, and I have such a consoling surety that
he is happy! The spirits of the loved return to earth--are hovering
about us--present, although unseen. He may be with us."

'"Do they love there still?'" said Ellen.

"They do--with a love purged from selfishness and
doubtings--perfect--pure! Oh! Ellen! the bliss and holiness of Heaven!
why do we love this world so well?"

"They are loveless alike to me; I have no hope or rest in either. When
he was here, I loved this earth, because he was upon it; its charm has
gone--and can I thank, or revere Him who bereaved me?"

"My dear girl! He smites to heal. In my short life, I have studied His
providences sufficiently to teach me that it is the wise Physician,
as well as the Father, who takes away our hurtful delights, and rives
our hearts. He waits now, Ellen, to infuse life--His life, into your
fainting soul--to wind these severed cords about His loving heart. This
patient, boundless love was our Lynn's dying hope; and you will never
be comforted until you accept it."

"It is easy to talk!" said Ellen, fretfully. "You cannot understand a
sorrow like mine."

"The heart knoweth its own bitterness, Ellen, and my life has not
been all sunshine. There are griefs, piercing and drying up the
spirit--never revealed to man."

"I know that. Is not my soul shrouded in sackcloth drinking wormwood
and gall--when my body is bedizened in its finest array, and the
sparkling wine reflecting the lying bloom, that says I am glad and
gay! I envied you your mourning dress as long as you wore it; and when
he was named by the hypocrites who fawned upon him in life, I had to
seem as unconcerned as they; you had no need to stifle your sighs,
for he was your friend. I had denied him as my lover, while we were
betrothed; I cannot publish it now. There is but one restraint upon my
despair. If, as you say, the spirits of beloved ones are with us, and
he is among the blest, he must be grieved,--if they can grieve--that I
contemn the Being he loves."

"Ellen! this language is evidence that your chastisement is not wanton
injustice. Whether he hears you or not, you grieve and insult your
Maker by your mad words, the Saviour, to whom you are indebted for
being and comforts and friends--who has loved you from the beginning.
You knelt to a creature He had made; He interposed the gate of death,
to save you from the fate of the idolater, and you ask to spend your
life in bewailing your affliction--in showing your adoration of
perishable dust, and reviling your best Friend! Is this your gratitude?"

Ellen did not speak. Ida drew her closer. "My dearest girl!" she
said, "I do not reprove you in my own name. I have been as guilty as
yourself; and it is in remembrance of the retribution which followed,
I warn you--in remembrance of the love that forgave me, and bestowed
peace and joy, in place of disquiet and mourning, that I entreat
you--come to Jesus!"

"I cannot! your pleadings are water upon a rock. I have been thinking,
as you were speaking, whether I cared to go to Heaven--and I painted
it, gloriously beautiful, as holy men tell us it is--but without the
love, my foolish vanity tempted me to sport with, when it was mine--for
which I would imperil my soul now--and the Creator of that heaven, and
its angels, and fair sights and music were delightless. Rather misery
with him, than every other joy without. Oh! if he had known how I
loved him!"

Her head fell upon the tomb, and the tears rained upon the turf. Ida
wept, too--but in pity. Ellen was perverse in her hopeless sorrow--her
friend could only commit her to the tender mercy she had besought her
to seek.

"If you knew how Our Father loves you both, dear Ellen!" she whispered,
but there was no reply.

It was a trial to say farewell to that grave. She had visited it ere
the sods joined over it; planted flowers there, and watered them with
tears; had sat there at sunset, and watched the "long, bright pomp" he
used to love; had learned there lessons of contentment and charity,
and active usefulness, "while the day lasted." Next to one other green
heap, where the willow shadows were dancing, this was the dearest spot
on earth to her. She seemed brought so near to Lynn by the sight of it;
and as she had kissed his white brow in death, she pressed her lips to
the marble, with a murmur of regretful fondness--"Brother!"




CHAPTER XXVIII.


John Dana, his wife and little ones, attended Ida to Sunnybank. They
arrived late at night, tired and sleepy; but their sunrise matins were
caroled by Ida, as she sang a lively hymn in the breakfast-room, under
the guest-chamber. She roamed briskly to and fro, rummaging side-boards
and peeping into closets.

"Jest like you used to do, Miss Ida!" said Aunt Judy. "Law me! this
comes of faith. I allers said I should live to deliver up them keys
into your hands. And you've come home for good, honey?"

"Yes, Aunt Judy--come to stay with, and take care of you. That's 'for
good,' isn't it?"

"To be sure! It's a mighty 'sponsibility, honey!"

"She'll have strength given her to bear it!" said Will, behind her.
"It's time your biscuits were baking, Aunt Judy, and you're talking
about 'sponsibility!"

"I shall depend upon you, Uncle Will," said Ida. "The servants were
easily controlled while mother's influence was at work. How they will
submit to one of my age and experience remains to be seen."

"Mr. Grant keeps them tolerably straight, ma'am. I can't say it's
exactly as 'twas in her time, but they'll break in pretty easy, I
reckon. An overseer, no matter how smart and good, ain't a marster
or mistis. We get our victuals and clothes, and look just the same,
but there's nobody to ride down from 'the house,' after planting, and
hoeing, and harvesting's done, and say, well done, boys!' and at night,
when we, whose quarters are in the yard, come up, it's so dark and
lonesome, and still, and the doors and windows all shut, it makes us
low-spirited--like 'twas no use to work--and Sunday--we feel it then!"

"So you are rather glad I am back again?"

"Glad! mistis! I couldn't be more pleased if you was my own child! We
need you, ma'am; we need you!"

"Still, as Aunt Judy says, it's a great responsibility."

"You're one of the Lord's lambs, mistis. He will provide."

He went out, and Ida caught up his last words, and through the dark
nooks and reverberating galleries of the old house, sounded the
refrain--

  "His call we obey, like Abram of old,
  Not knowing our way, but faith makes us bold,
  For 'though we are strangers, we have a good guide,
  And trust in all dangers, the Lord will provide!'"

She met her guests with a kiss, and a jingle of the key-basket, and
seating them at table, poured out the coffee; refuting Mr. Dana's
objection that his was too sweet, by the Irish lady's answer to a
similar complaint from General Washington--"Shure, and if 'twas all
sugar, 'twouldn't be too good for yer Honor!"--piled the children's
plates with buttered cakes--rattling all the while of her dignities,
possessions and "'sponsibility." After finding a clean grass plat for
the children's playground, she challenged Mrs. Dana to a stroll over
the house and garden. It was an old-fashioned family mansion, rambling
and picturesque; some rooms wainscotted to the ceiling, and lighted
by rows of narrow windows, with surprisingly small panes. These were
chambers: the lower story, the parlour, dining-room, and the apartments
appropriated to her mother and herself, were light, large, and finished
in a more modern style. Mrs. Dana preferred the antique. The massive
furniture suited them so well, and it was interesting to think of the
generations they had known--what stories they would relate if the
panelled oak could speak.

"With a little variation, they would tell one of all," replied Ida.
"They were born, suffered, joyed and died!" And she thought how she had
gone through all, except the last, within these walls. The garden was
ploughed up. There was no comeliness in it, but it was less desolate
than when overgrown with weed.

"The soil is fertile," said Mr. Grant. "We shall have vegetables worth
showing this summer, Miss Ida. Mr. Dana sends his respects, and will
you step into the parlour? we would like to consult you."

Ida composed her face into a Malvolio expression of solemnity and
conceit: pompously apologised to Mrs. Dana, and obeyed. But the
account books were shut, and her guardian was luxuriating in an
arm-chair and a cigar.

"Mr. Grant and myself have been investigating and comparing accounts,
Ida," he said; "and the result is highly creditable to him and those in
his service. Without wearying you with particulars, I have set down the
sums total here. You perceive that the crops have met the expenditures
of the plantation; and each year, the net profits have surpassed those
of the preceding--a proof that your land is constantly improving. This,
as I said, is to be attributed to Mr. Grant's judicious management.
Your servants are well fed and clothed, and the doctor's bill trifling
in its amount. Praise is also due to Mr. Read. I approve entirely of
the investments he has made of the funds, left after the necessary
disbursements for expenses. Your money is safe and not idle. You were
fortunate in your stewards, and assume the control of an unincumbered
estate, under most favorable auspices."

"I am indeed grateful to Providence, and to them, sir. It is not my
wish, however, to release you from your guardianship. I cannot do it
nominally, as yet, and after the law shall permit it, I shall still
rely upon you for direction. A woman is not fitted to be a financier.
It is a trespass upon your time and goodness, but I cannot endure that
you should give me up."

"Nor I, my child. You will never ask advice or assistance from me
in vain. If your measures are ill-advised, I shall oppose them, and
forward your interest by every means in my power."

"Thank you, sir. I was unjust to question this for an instant. You
feared to weary me with particulars;--you have no other objection to my
looking into them?"

"None, certainly."

She pored over the columns attentively, and her guardian felt his
respect for her rising still higher, as the deep thoughtfulness which
had its home in the eyes and brow, slowly covered the face. It was no
common mind speaking there--it was competent to its work. A gleam of
pleasure shot across her countenance, as she concluded the examination.
Dipping a pen into the standish, she sketched rapidly a calculation
upon a sheet of paper, and spread it before Mr. Dana.

"I registered a vow, years ago, that my maiden enterprise, when I
should come into office, should be the establishment of a charity
school. You have there an estimate of the amount needed to put it into
operation--not guess-work, but the actual sums I will have to expend
for teacher's salary, books and furniture, repair of the room, and a
small remainder for contingent expenses. This knowledge I have gained
by inquiry of those familiar with these things. I am confounded at the
paltry total--I interpret that arch of the eyebrows," she continued,
laughing, "but before you cast any obstacle in my way, listen--dear Mr.
Dana! I have kept an 'expense-book' ever since I can recollect. During
the first winter and spring of my going into society in Richmond,
I spent more than that in dresses and ornaments--the two summers I
passed with Carry, previous to her marriage, as much more,--for it was
a fashionable country neighborhood, and in such, the passion for show
and ostentation is not a whit less than in the city. The price I should
pay for board elsewhere, will meet my personal expenses here; I have no
near relatives for whom to economise, and there are scores of children,
growing up around me, destitute of education, except that bestowed
gratis by poverty and vice."

"I commend your resolution, my daughter,"--this was his phrase of
greatest endearment--"but it is a weighty undertaking for a young
person, and a woman. If commenced, it must be prosecuted vigorously, or
it will do more harm than good. One session will hardly suffice for a
beginning. This appropriation, which is a liberal deduction from your
income, small as you deem it, is not for this year alone. Hitherto
your affairs have prospered, but you may have reverses. A failure of
crops, which not unfrequently happens to others, would embarrass you
considerably."

"I would draw upon my invested funds."

"And if stocks fall, or a bank breaks?"

"And what is more probable than that all these misfortunes will crowd
upon me at once, I may die!" said Ida, with persuasive gravity, "and
when my Heavenly Master demands the reckoning of my stewardship, I
shall render in the plea, 'Lo! here is Thy talent, hid in a napkin!' He
has given me--if not riches--more than a competency for my wants. It
may not be worldly-wise, dear guardian, but it is Christian-like, to
give of my present abundance, and trust that he will be as bountiful in
time to come, as He has been until now."

"There's sense and religion in that!" commented Mr. Grant, admiringly.
