"You're as like yourself as ever you can be, doctor!" she said, smiling
at him. "How you used to try to get round me!"

"I don't remember!" said the doctor. "I am sure I never succeeded, Mrs.
Derrick?"

"I'm afraid you did, sometimes," she said, shaking her head. He smiled
a little, and turned the other way.

"Linden, I've been considering the German question."

"Will it please you to state the result?"

"This!" said the doctor. "I have come to the conclusion,--that in order
to be One and Somewhat, it is necessary to begin by being Nought and
All--Thus ranging myself in security on both sides of a great abyss
of metaphysics. What do you think? Unphilosophical?"

"Unsafe--" said Mr. Linden. "And impossible."

"Humph?"--said the doctor. "Nothing is impossible in
metaphysics--because you may be on both sides of an abyss, and in the
bottom of it!--at once--and without knowing where you are. The angel
that rode Milton's sunbeam, you know, was no time at all going from
heaven to earth; and I suppose he went the other way as quick."

"I don't see the abyss in that case," said Mr. Linden,--"but

   ----'Uriel to his charge
   Returned on that bright beam'--

so probably he did."

"Yes"--said the doctor.--"And my meaning skipped the abyss,--also on a
sunbeam. It referred to the unsubstantial means of travelling in use
among metaphysicians."

"And among angels."

"That reminds me," said the doctor. And quitting his stand on the rug,
which he had taken again, he went over to Faith and sat down by her.

"Is the Nightingale flourishing on her rose-bush to-day?"

"What, sir?" said Faith, her eyes opening at him a little.

"I beg pardon!" said the doctor. "I have been living in a part of the
world, Miss Derrick, where it is the fashion to call things not by
their right names. I have got a foolish habit of it. Do you feel quite
recovered?"

"Quite. I'm a little tired to-night, perhaps."

"I see you are, and I'll not detain you. Mrs. Custers wants to see you
again." He had dropped all banter, and was speaking to her quietly,
respectfully, kindly, as he should speak; in a lowered tone, but not so
low as to be unheard by others than her.

"I will try to see her again soon--I will try to go very soon," she
answered.

"Would you be afraid to go with my father's old stand-bys?--they are
safe!"--

"I cannot do that, Dr. Harrison--but I will try to see her soon."

"Can you go without riding?"

"No," she said smiling; "but I must find some other way."

"I won't press that point," said the doctor. "I can't blame you. I must
bear that. But--I want for my own sake to have the honour of a little
talk with you--I want to explain to you one or two things. Shall you be
at leisure to-morrow afternoon?"

"I am hardly at leisure any time, Dr. Harrison. I do not suppose I
shall be particularly busy then."

"Then will you take that time for a walk?"

Faith hesitated. "I have very little time, sir."

"But you take time to go out?"

"Not much."

"I will not ask much. A little will do; and so much you owe to skyey
influences. You will not refuse me that?"

"I will go, Dr. Harrison," Faith answered after an instant a little
soberly. He rose up then; proposed to attend upon Mr. Linden, and they
went up stairs together.



CHAPTER XXVIII.



Faith was half ready to wish the next day might be rainy; but it rose
fair and bright. She must go to walk, probably; and visiters might
come. The only thing to be done was to despatch her ordinary duties as
quick as possible, prepare her French exercise, and go to her teacher
early. Which she did.

She came in with a face as bright as the day, although a little less
ready to look in everybody's eyes. There were enough things ready for
her. Lessons were pressed rather more steadily than usual, perhaps
because they had been neglected a little for the last two days--or
hindered; and it was not till one book and another had done its work,
till the exercise was copied and various figure puzzles disposed of,
that Mr. Linden told her he thought a talking exercise ought to come
next,--if she had one ready he should like to have the benefit of it.

"You are tired, Mr. Linden!" said Faith quickly.

"You may begin by giving me the grounds of that conclusion."

"I don't know," she said half laughing,--"I don't see it; but that
don't make me know. I was afraid you were tired with this work."

"Very unsafe, Miss Faith, to build up such a superstructure upon
grounds that you neither see nor know. I was immediately beginning to
question the style of my own explanations this morning."

"Why, sir?"

"If I seem tired, said explanations may have seemed--tiresome."

She looked silently, with a smile, as if questioning the possibility of
his thinking so; and her answer did not go to that point.

"You didn't seem tired, Mr. Linden--I had no reason for thinking so, I
suppose. I was only afraid. I was going to ask you what Dr. Harrison
meant last night by the angel riding upon a sunbeam? I saw you knew
what he meant."

Mr. Linden got up and went for a book--then came back to his couch
again.

"Precisely what Dr. Harrison meant, Miss Faith, I should not like to
say. What he referred to, was a part of Paradise Lost, where the angels
set to guard the earth have a messenger.

   'Thither came Uriel, gliding through the even
   On a sunbeam, swift as a shooting star.'"


"Who is Uriel? an angel?"

"Yes. He is called,

   'The archangel Uriel, one of the seven
   Who in God's presence, nearest to his throne,
   Stand ready at his command, and are his eyes.
   That run through all the heavens, or down to the earth,
   Bear his swift errands over moist and dry,
   O'er sea and land.'"


Faith listened, evidently with a pleased ear.

"But I suppose the angel could come as well without the sunbeam as with
it?"

"I suppose so!" he said smiling. "In my belief, angels go where the
sunbeams do not. But Milton chose to name Uriel as the special regent
of the sun, and so passing to and fro on its rays."

"What do you mean by 'regent,' Mr. Linden?"

"A regent is one appointed to rule in place of the king."

"But that don't seem to me true, Mr. Linden," said Faith after a little
meditation.

"What, and why?"

Faith blushed at finding herself 'in for it,' but went on.

"I don't suppose the sun wants anybody to rule it or to take care of
it, under its Maker?"

"Yet it may please him to have guardian spirits there as well as
here,--about that we know not. In the Revelation, you know, an angel is
spoken of as 'standing in the sun,' and from that Milton took his idea.
Part of the description is very beautiful, at least;--

   'So spake the false dissembler unperceived;
   For neither man nor angel can discern
   Hypocrisy, the only evil that walks
   Invisible, except to God alone,
   By his permissive will, through heaven and earth.
   And oft though wisdom wake, suspicion sleeps
   At wisdom's gate, and to simplicity
   Resigns her charge, while goodness thinks no ill,
   Where no ill seems: which now for once beguiled
   Uriel, though regent of the sun, and held
   The sharpest sighted spirit of all in heaven.'"


"Who is the person spoken of in the first line, Mr. Linden?"

"Satan--applying to Uriel for guidance to the new created earth and its
inhabitants, on the same plea that Herod presented to the wise men."

"But that's a story?" said Faith.

"Yes. The Bible only tells the work done by him after he got here."

"Mr. Linden, will you read that over once more for me."

She listened with a face of absorbed intentness while it was read; then
looked away from the book with an unconscious but very audible sigh.

"Well?" Mr. Linden said, smiling as he looked at her.

"I like it very much!" was Faith's answer.

"Is that what made you sigh?"

"Sigh!" she said starting a little and colouring. "No,--I didn't mean
to sigh."

"The fact is more than the intention. Whence came that?"

"It was only--Please don't ask me, Mr. Linden. I can't tell you."

He made no answer to that, but turning over the leaves read to her here
and there without much comment,--then asked her if she was tired of
hearing about angels.

"I think I should never be tired!" said Faith. "But you must be, Mr.
Linden. Please," she said putting her hand gently on the book,--"don't
read for me any more. Is all the book like that?"

"Not quite all--I have given you some bits that I particularly like,
but there is much more. You need not be uneasy about my being tired,"
he said smiling; "if I were, by your own shewing I can have rest.
However, Miss Faith--lessons being the order of the day--will you read
French to me?"

In her reading, Faith came to the description of the philosopher's
perplexity in finding that the birds would not pick up the crumbs he
threw to them on the roof as usual. He concluded the feathered things
were not more reason able than mankind, and had taken fright for
nothing.



"J'allais fermer ma fenêtre sur cette réflexion, quand j'aperçois tout
à coup, dans l'espace lumineux qui s'étend à droite, l'ombre de deux
oreilles qui se dressent, puis une griffe qui s'avance, puis la tête
d'un chat tigré qui se montre à l'angle de la gouttière. Le drôle était
là en embuscade, espérant que les aniettes lui amèneraient du gibier.

"Et moi qui accusais la couardise de mes hôtes! J'étais sûr qu'aucun
danger ne les menaçait! je croyais avoir bien regardé partout! je
n'avais oublié que le coin derrière moi!

"Dans la vie comme sur les toits, que de malheurs arrivent pour avoir
oublié un seul coin!"



Faith closed the book then, very much amused with the philosopher's
"chat tigré."

"But often one can't see round the corner," she remarked.

A little gesture of lips and brow, half asserted that if one could not,
one could: but Mr. Linden only said,

"Most true! Miss Faith. Nevertheless, the knowledge that there are
corners is not to be despised."

"I don't know. I shouldn't like to live always in fear of seeing the
shadow of a cat's ears come in."

"Have you quite outgrown the love of cats?" said Mr. Linden smiling.

"No, but I was talking of the fear of corners," she said with an
answering smile. "I don't think I want to remember the corners, Mr.
Linden."

"I don't think I want you should. Philosophers and birds, you know, go
through the world on different principles."

She laughed a little at that, gave the hearth a parting brush, and went
off to dinner.

Business claimed its place after dinner, business of a less pleasant
kind, quite up to the time when Faith must put on her bonnet to walk
with Dr. Harrison.

Faith had no great mind to the walk, but she couldn't help finding it
pleasant. The open air was very sweet and bracing; the exercise was
inspiriting, and the threatened talk went well with both. There was
nothing whatever formidable about it; the words and thoughts seemed to
play, like the sunlight, on anything that came in their way. Dr.
Harrison knew how to make a walk or a talk pleasant, even to Faith, it
seemed. Whatever she had at any time seen in him that she did not like,
was out of sight; pleasant, gentle, intelligent, grave, he was
constantly supplying ear and mind with words and things that were worth
the having. Probably he had discovered her eager thirst for knowledge;
for he furnished her daintily with bits of many a kind, from his own
stores which were large. She did not know there was any design in this;
she knew only that the steps were taken very easily in that walk. So
pleasant it was that Faith was in no haste to turn, in no mood to
quicken her pace. But something else was on her mind,--and must come
out.

"Dr. Harrison,"--she said when they were in a quiet part of the way,
with nobody near, "may I speak to you about something?--that perhaps
you won't like?"

"You can speak of nothing I should not like--to hear," he said with
gentle assurance.

"Dr. Harrison--" said Faith, speaking as if the recollection touched
her,--"when you and I were thrown out in that meadow the other day and
came so near losing our lives--if the almost had been quite, if we
had both been killed,--I should have been safe and well, I
believe.--How would it have been with you?"

Dr. Harrison looked at her.

"If I had gone in your company," he said, "I think it would hardly have
been ill with me."

"Do you know so little as that?"--she said, in such a tone of sorrow
and pity as might have suited one of the 'ministering spirits' she had
been likened to.

"I don't think I am as good as you are," the doctor said with a face
not unmoved.

"Good!" said Faith. "What do you mean by goodness, Dr. Harrison?"

"I shall have the worst of it if I try to go into definitions again,"
he said smiling. "I think you will find what I mean, in consulting your
own thoughts."

"Goodness?" said Faith again. "Do you remember the silver scale-armour
of that Lepisma, Dr. Harrison? That is perfection. That is what God
means by goodness--not the outside things that every eye, or your own,
can see;--but when the far-down, far-back thoughts and imaginations of
your heart will bear such looking at and be found faultless! Less
than that, God will not take from you, if you are going to heaven by
your own goodness."

He looked at her. They had changed sides; and as fearless now as he,
she was the speaker, and he had little to say.

"I don't know much about these things, Miss Faith," he answered soberly.

"I don't know much, Dr. Harrison," she said humbly. "But think what you
were near the other day."

"I don't know!"--said he, as if making a clean breast of it. She paused.

"Dr. Harrison, will a wise man leave such a matter in uncertainty?"

"I am not wise," said he. "I am ignorant--in this."

"You know you need not remain so."

"That is not so certain! I have seen so much--of what you have seen so
little, my dear Miss Derrick, that you can scarce understand how light
the weight of most people's testimony is to me."

"But there is the testimony of one higher," said Faith. "There is God's
own word?"

"I don't know it."

"Won't you know it, sir?"

"I will do anything you ask me in that voice," he said smiling at her.
"But after all one reads people and people's professions, miss
Faith;--and they make the first impression."

"I dare say it is often not true," said Faith sadly.

"You are true," said he; "and you may say to me what you will, on
this subject or any other, and I will believe it."

They walked a little distance in silence.

"What are you thinking of?" said the doctor in a very gentle accent of
inquiry.

"I am sorry--very sorry for you, Dr. Harrison."

"Why?" said he taking her hand.

"Because it seems to me you are not caring in earnest about this
matter."

He kissed the hand, without asking permission. But it was done with a
