and apparently no work to do. From his present stand-point, the captain
occupied the most difficult and trying place in the ship, and he almost
wished he had declined the command offered to him.

Outside the bay, the sealed orders were opened. As he had anticipated,
he was ordered to cruise in search of rebel steamers, whose depredations
on the coast had severely tried the patience of the nation. He was
directed to proceed first to the eastward, and then to use his own
judgment. There were several rebel privateers, or naval vessels
belonging to the Confederacy. The Tallahassee, the Chickamauga, and the
Olustee had been the most mischievous; and it was believed that there
were others at Wilmington, and the neutral ports of New Brunswick,
Nova Scotia, and the West Indies.

Having learned where he was to go, and what he was to do, he went on
deck and gave his orders to Mr. Gamage, the first lieutenant. The
Firefly was headed to the north-east, and all sail set to help her
along. Before Somers went below, she logged fifteen knots, which was
splendid for a ship with her bunkers full of coal.

In the evening the young commander invited Tom Longstone to visit his
cabin. The veteran was in his happiest frame of mind. All the
aspirations of his earlier years seemed to have been rekindled in his
soul; he had abandoned the use of slang, and conducted himself so much
like a gentleman, outwardly, that no one could have suspected he had
spent thirty odd years of his life before the mast; but as he had always
been a gentleman at heart, it was comparatively easy for him to assume
the externals of his new profession.

The old man had donned a new uniform; and though his hair and beard were
iron gray, he looked as "spruce" as a dry goods clerk. No change of
dress, however, could make him any other than an "old salt." He walked
with a rolling gait, and had all the airs of a veteran seaman. It is
true that in the transposition from the forecastle to the ward-room he
had discarded "pigtail," and confined himself to "fine cut," taken from
a silver box; but he still used as much of the "weed" as an old
sheet-anchor man.

"You sent for me, Captain Somers," said the second lieutenant, as he
touched his fore-top, from the force of habit.

"Sit down, Mr. Longstone," said the captain. "It is one of the blessings
of my present position that I have a place to sit down and talk with old
friends. I suppose you know we are bound to the eastward in search of
rebel privateers."

"So Mr. Gamage told me, sir. I hope we shall catch some of them."

"So do I; but I'm afraid we are on a wild-goose chase."

"Perhaps not--at least, I hope not. If there is a rebel ship in these
waters, we'll have her, if we have to dive after her."

"The ocean is very broad. None of our ships have had much luck in
catching these rebel pirates. I would rather have gone down on the
blockade, where there is some show for us."

"Don't give it up, Captain Somers."

"I don't give it up; but I do not see any reason why I should be more
fortunate than others. A score of our ships have cruised for months
without catching a single one of them."

"They didn't look where they were," laughed Tom.

"If I knew where they were, I would look there."

"You will certainly catch one of the pirates, Captain Somers."

"Why do you say so?"

"Because you are smart, and you are lucky. I know you will make a
capture on this cruise. I feel it in my bones."

"I hope I shall. Wouldn't it be glorious, if I could send such a
despatch as Captain Winslow did, after he had sunk the Alabama?"

Somers's eyes glistened as he thought of it, but it was only an
air-castle; and after he had contemplated it for a moment, his common
sense obliged him to come down from the clouds.

The cruise of the Firefly would supply matter enough for a whole volume,
but we have only space for a mere outline of the voyage. The steamer lay
off and on for a week without meeting with anything that looked like a
rebel privateer, when her commander decided to run into Halifax, where
he hoped to obtain some information. The city was a nest of "secesh
sympathizers," and the captain of the Firefly was not received with much
enthusiasm outside of the American consulate. He had not been in the
habit of hearing his country and her rulers vilified, and as he sat in
the parlor of the hotel, and listened to hostile remarks, evidently
intended for his ear, nothing but prudence prevented him from indulging
in the luxury of pulling the noses of the speakers. He preserved his
dignity in spite of his inclination.

"Upon my word, this is a very unexpected pleasure," said a familiar
voice.

He looked up from the newspaper he was reading. Before him stood Mr.
Pillgrim!

"Quite as unexpected to me as to you, Mr. Pillgrim!" replied Somers,
with abundant self-possession.

"I dare say, Mr. Somers," laughed Pillgrim. "Of course you did not
expect to see me. Will you take a glass of wine with me, Mr. Somers?"

"No, I thank you; I never indulge--as you are aware."

"I didn't know but your rapid advancement had changed your tastes."

"No, sir."

"You command the Ben Lomond now, Mr. Somers, I learn from the papers."

"The Firefly is her present name."

"Bah! What an ugly name for a fine steamer like her. The Tallapoosa is
much better. Be that as it may, I congratulate you on your promotion and
your appointment; and you know how sincere I am!

"I do know; and, therefore, cannot even thank you for your good wishes."

"Don't be savage, Mr. Somers. You can afford to be very good-natured."

"I am."

"You don't seem to be very glad to see me."

"On the contrary, I am. I hope, with your usual candor, that you will
tell me what you are going to do next, and give me an opportunity to cut
out your vessel. I am up here for that purpose."

Pillgrim bit his lip.

"At present, Mr. Somers, I must be silent; but we shall yet meet and
settle up old accounts. Let us not be ill-natured. If we meet as
enemies, we will fight it out."

"We can never meet in any other way."

"That isn't friendly. How is Miss Portington?"

"She was well, last time I saw her;" and Somers blushed, and looked
disconcerted--as he really was.

"I am glad to hear it, Mr. Somers," said Pillgrim, significantly.

Somers changed the topic at once, and finally contrived to ask the
traitor how he happened to be in Halifax, instead of Fortress Monroe.
Pillgrim laughed exultingly, and declared there were no irons, bolts, or
bars that could keep him a prisoner; and the facts seemed to justify the
assertion.

"Mr. Somers, not more than one half of the people of the North are in
favor of this cruel war. I have friends in Washington and other cities
whom no one suspects of favoring the South. I am indebted to them for my
liberation. I shall yet carry out my original purpose. I have lost three
vessels. I was paid for two by the Confederacy; and I have your bond for
half the value of the third. I am a commander in the Confederate navy.
In one week I shall be at sea. I shall sink, burn, and destroy! You
can't help yourself."

"Is your ship here?"

"Yes--no."

Pillgrim laughed, turned on his heel, and walked away. Somers was
excited. He wanted to know more. He went to the American consul. A
"blue-nose" sailor of the Firefly was sent on shore, who found Pillgrim,
and without much difficulty shipped in the "Sunny South" for a voyage on
the coast. This was all the information that could be obtained. There
was no such craft as the Sunny South in port. Somers examined all the
vessels in the harbor, and found a steamer called the Ben Ledi--another
Scottish mountain. She was Clyde-built, and similar to the Ben Nevis and
the Ben Lomond. The name alone satisfied the inquirer that she belonged
to the same family as the two vessels he had already captured.

Things began to look a little more hopeful, and the young commander
carefully read his books on international law. He attempted to place the
Firefly where he could watch the suspected steamer; but the authorities,
on various pretences, prevented him from doing so. The next morning the
Ben Ledi was gone. Somers was exceedingly mortified, for he might as
well look for a needle in a haymow as try to find the vessel on the
ocean. He put to sea at once. A "blue-nose" official laughed at him as
his gig pulled off to the ship, and everybody on shore was in high glee
because the Confederate had eluded the Yankee.

Somers kept cool in spite of his chagrin; and believing the Ben Ledi
would run for Wilmington, where she would probably be fitted out as a
cruiser, he headed the Firefly in that direction, and gave chase.




CHAPTER XXIX.

A LONG CHASE.


Somers was somewhat bewildered by the events which had transpired during
his brief stay at Halifax. It was almost incredible that Pillgrim had
again escaped; but the traitor had powerful friends--men who appeared to
be loyal while they were in full sympathy with the leaders of the
rebellion. The three "Bens," the last of which was now fleeing before
him, were certainly an interesting family. Pillgrim, while abroad, and
operating for the Southern Confederacy, had apparently purchased a whole
line of Clyde-built steamers. Two of them were now in good hands, and
doing good service to the loyal cause; but Somers feared that the third
would escape him.

Pillgrim had learned prudence from the experience of the past. Somers
hoped he would indulge in his customary reckless boasting; that his
thirst for revenge would again lead him to betray himself; but he had
not dropped even a hint that could be of any service. The decoy seaman
had only learned that he was to sail in the "Sunny South." The sudden
departure of the Ben Ledi was the only important fact in possession of
the commander of the Firefly.

When the ship was well out of the bay, and her course laid down, Somers
went into his cabin to consult his charts, and consider a plan for
future operations. Unfortunately there was no information on which to
base a theory in regard to the pirate's course. He could only guess at
her destination. The Firefly was run at her best speed during the rest
of the day, but her course for a large portion of the time was through a
dense Nova Scotia fog, and nothing was seen or heard.

On the following day, the sun shone through a clear air, and at noon
there was seen, dead ahead, some evidences of black smoke in the
horizon. This was a hopeful sign, for there was a steamer burning
English coal in the direction indicated. It might be the Ben Ledi, and
it might not; but the appearance created a tremendous excitement on
board the Firefly.

"Captain Somers, you will have her," said Tom Longstone, placing himself
by the side of the young commander. "It is your luck."

"That may not be the steamer we are after. We haven't seen her yet."

"That's the Ben Ledi; you may depend upon it. I wouldn't give five cents
to any man to guarantee my share of prize money in her."

"Don't be too confident, Mr. Longstone."

"She is ours, Captain Somers."

"I wish I could believe it."

"You must believe it, and work for it."

"I shall certainly work for it."

And he did work for it. Everything that would add a fraction of a knot
to the speed of the Firefly was done. The black smoke was visible all
the rest of the day, but not a sight of the steamer from which it
proceeded could be obtained. Darkness settled down upon the ocean, and
nothing could be seen during the night. The next day was cloudy, and
there was not a sign of encouragement to those on board of the pursuing
vessel. Then came a gale of twenty hours' duration; but the Firefly held
her course, and proved herself to be a perfect sea boat.

The fourth day out from Halifax was fine, and shortly after sunrise the
cloud of black smoke was again discovered, and a thrill of delight
coursed through the veins of Somers as he discovered it. The steamer was
on the port bow now, but it was evident that both steamers were bound to
the same point, though their courses had slightly varied during the
gale.

"I told you so, Captain Somers!" exclaimed Lieutenant Longstone, as he
rubbed his hands briskly in view of the bright prospect.

"We haven't caught her yet, Mr. Longstone."

"But you will catch her, just as sure as the sun shines."

"Mr. Pillgrim will not allow himself to be taken."

"He cannot help himself."

"Perhaps he can. That steamer sails as well as the Firefly, and we are
not a hundred and fifty miles from Cape Fear."

"No matter; we have got ten hours' working time, and we shall use her
up. Shall we put the helm to starboard, Captain Somers?"

"No; keep her as she is," replied the commander. "If she is going into
Wilmington we shall be making something on this tack. We have the
weather-gage of her."

It was soon clearly demonstrated that the chase had "slowed down," so as
not to approach the coast before night should favor her operations,
though her great speed gave her every advantage over an ordinary
pursuer. The Firefly had run down so that the Ben Ledi was on her port
beam, about eight miles distant. Both steamers had hoisted English
colors, for Somers had no idea of being cheated out of the game by
"showing his hand."

The most intense excitement prevailed on board of the Firefly, for it
was evident that a few hours more would settle the question one way or
the other. Somers was not disposed to wait until night, which would
favor the chase more than himself; and he was afraid, if he headed
towards her, that she would take the alarm and beat him on time. He kept
quiet for a couple of hours, just as though he were waiting for the
darkness to cover him in running the blockade.

His plan seemed to be a success, for after a while the Ben Ledi began to
bear down upon him. It was an anxious hour for Somers. He ordered the
first lieutenant to beat to quarters, and the chief engineer to have on
a full head of steam. The guns were loaded with solid shot, and every
preparation made for an exciting time. Pillgrim did not seem to suspect
thus far that the steamer under English colors was the one he had left
in Halifax harbor. It was certain that he did not yet recognize her.

The Firefly reciprocated the attention of the Ben Ledi, and moved slowly
towards her, for Somers was careful not to excite suspicion by being
precipitate. The two steamers approached within three miles, and the
respective captains were busy in examining each other's ship through
their glasses. The chase now hoisted her number. As Somers had the
Lloyd's signal book, he read it without difficulty. It was the Ben Ledi.
To the question, "What ship is that?" he had no answer to give, for it
was not prudent to hoist the old number of the Ben Lomond.

Our younger readers may not understand how a conversation is carried on
between ships at sea, several miles distant from each other. There are
ten small signal flags representing the nine digits and the zero. Any
number can of course be formed of these figures. Every ship is provided
with a number, which if it consists of two figures is represented by two
flags, hoisted together; three figures, three flags; and so on.

The signal book also contains a great number of questions and answers,
such as, "What ship is that?" "Where bound?" "All well." "Short of
water," &c. Each sentence has its invariable number, which may be
indicated by the signal flags. If one vessel shows the number 124, the
captain of the ship signalized would find this number in his signal
book; and against it would be printed the question or answer.

Somers was not disposed to reply to the question of Pillgrim; and as he
did not do so, the traitor immediately took the alarm. The Ben Ledi went
about, and made off to the eastward under full steam. The Firefly was
all ready to follow, and then commenced a most exciting chase. It was
useless to waste shot at that distance, and Somers confined his
attention to the speed of his vessel. For three hours the pursuit was
continued, without any perceptible decrease of the distance between the
two steamers.

But it was soon discovered that Pillgrim was gradually wearing round.
Somers perceived his intention, but it was not prudent to attempt to
cut him off all at once, by taking the arc of a smaller circle; but he
worked his ship slowly round; and when both vessels were headed to the
west, he had gained a mile. Pillgrim had evidently made up his mind to
go into Wilmington at any risk, though under ordinary circumstances the
more prudent course would have been for him to continue at sea, where a
dark night or a fog might have enabled him to elude his pursuer. Somers
concluded, therefore, that the Ben Ledi was short of coal, for his own
supply was nearly exhausted.

The furnaces of the Firefly were now worked to their utmost capacity,
and every expedient to make steam was resorted to by the excited
engineers and firemen. There was a stiff breeze from the south-west, and
both vessels had crowded on every stitch of canvas that could be spread.
It had already been demonstrated that there was no appreciable
difference in the speed of the two steamers, and the result of the chase
was to depend entirely upon the management of each.

When the two vessels had come about so as to make a fair wind, the
Firefly had been the first to spread her canvas, and the superior
discipline of her crew was thus made apparent. A slight advantage had
thus been gained, and it was certain that "the balance of power" lay in
the sails. At meridian an observation was obtained, and the position of
the ship was accurately laid down on the chart. The latitude was 33°
59' 7"; the longitude 76° 29' 23". To make the Swash Channel, which was
covered by the guns of Fort Fisher, the Ben Ledi would have laid a
course about half a point south of west; but her present course was
west-south-west. Somers, after examining his chart, had some doubts
whether she was going into Wilmington.

Tom Longstone had the deck during the afternoon watch. He was a veteran
seaman, and his experience had made him more familiar with canvas than
with steam. With the most anxious solicitude he watched the sails during
the afternoon, and under his skilful directions they were kept perfectly
trimmed. On that momentous occasion everything was reduced down to the
finest point, as well in the handling of the engine as the tacks,
sheets, and halliards.

The case was hopeful, though the gain could not be perceived in one, or
two, hours; but at eight bells hardly a mile lay between the contending
steamers. The first lieutenant wanted to open on the chase with the
rifled gun on the top-gallant forecastle; but Somers refused permission,
for while he was gaining on the Ben Ledi only in inches, he could not
afford to lose feet by the recoil of the gun, until there was a better
chance of hitting the mark. At two bells in the first dog watch, just as
the sun was setting, the Ben Ledi doubled Frying Pan Shoals, passing
close to the breakers. Then, as her people discovered a couple of
vessels belonging to the blockading squadron, she sheered off, and went
to the westward.

These changes, with the doubt and uncertainty which prevailed on board
of the Ben Ledi, had been very favorable to the Firefly, now within half
a mile of her. Two vessels from the blockading fleet had started to
engage in the exciting work, but they were too late to help or hinder
the pursuit. Somers gave the order to fire upon the Ben Ledi, which was
