"I suppose, from your investing in lots, Mr. Hunter, that you are
thinking of getting married, and living in a house of your own," said
Miss Peyton, simpering.

"No," said Dick, "I shan't get married for a year. Nobody ought to be
married before they're seventeen."

"That's just my age," said Miss Peyton.

Mr. Clifton afterwards informed Dick that Miss Peyton was twenty-five,
but did not mention how he had ascertained. He likewise added that when
he first came to the boarding-house, she had tried her fascinations upon
him.

"She'd have married me in a minute," he said complacently; "but I'm too
old a bird to be caught that way. When you see Mrs. Clifton, gentlemen,
you'll see style and beauty, and--money" he added, after a moment's
reflection.

Mr. Clifton had a tolerably good opinion of himself, as may be inferred
from this remark. In fact, he valued himself rather more highly than the
ladies appeared to do; but such cases are not remarkable.

"Mrs. Clifton will be a lucky woman," said Dick, with a sober face.

"You're very kind to say so," said Mr. Clifton, modestly. "I believe I'm
tolerably good-looking, and nobody'll deny that I've got style. But
money,--that's my weak point. You couldn't lend me five dollars, could
you, till next week?"

"I'm afraid not," said Dick. "My up-town lots cost so much, and then
there'll be the taxes afterwards."

"Oh, it's of no consequence. I thought a little of going to the opera
to-night, and I need a new pair of gloves. It costs a sight to keep a
fellow in gloves."

"So it does," said Dick. "I bought a pair for fifty cents six months
ago, and now I've got to buy another pair."

"Ha, ha! good joke! By the way, I wonder you fellows don't take a better
room."

"Why should we? Isn't this good enough?" asked Fosdick.

"Oh, it's comfortable and all that," said Clifton; "but you know what I
mean. You wouldn't want any of your fashionable friends to call upon you
here."

"That's a fact," said Dick. "Suppose," he said, turning to Fosdick, with
a twinkle in his eye, "Johnny Nolan should call upon us here. What would
he think of our living in such a room?"

"He would probably be surprised," said Fosdick, entering into the joke.

"Is he one of your Madison-Avenue friends?" asked Clifton, a little
mystified.

"I don't know where he lives," said Dick, with truth; "but he's a friend
of mine, in business down town."

"Wholesale or retail?"

"Retail I should say,--shouldn't you, Fosdick?"

"Yes," said Fosdick, amused at Clifton's evident mystification.

"Well, good-evening, gents," said Clifton, sauntering out of the room.
"Call and see me when you haven't anything better to do."

"Thank you. Good-night."

"Were you in earnest, Dick, about the up-town lots," asked Fosdick,
after Clifton had left the room.

"Yes," said Dick. "It's an investment that Mr. Murdock advised. I'll
tell you about it, and then you can tell me what you think of it."

Dick thereupon gave an account of the conversation that had taken place
between him and the head clerk, and what they proposed to do. "What do
you think of it?" he concluded.

"I have no doubt it is an excellent plan," said Fosdick; "but of course
my opinion isn't worth much. I don't see but you stand a chance to be a
rich man some time, Dick."

"By the time I get to be a hundred," said Dick.

"A good while before that, I presume. But there's something else we must
not forget."

"What is that?"

"Money is a good thing to have, but a good education is better. I was
thinking to-day that since we have come here we haven't done any
studying to amount to anything."

"That is true."

"And the sooner we begin the better."

"All right. I agree to that."

"But we shall need assistance. I've taught you about all I know myself,
and now we want to go higher."

"What shall we do?"

"I'll tell you, Dick. Have you noticed the young man that has a room
just opposite ours?"

"His name is Layton,--isn't it?"

"Yes."

"What about him?"

"I heard yesterday that he was a teacher in a private school. We might
engage him to teach us in the evening, or, at any rate, see if he is
willing."

"All right. Is he in now, I wonder?"

"Yes. I heard him go into his room a few minutes since."

"Very well; suppose we go in and speak to him."

The boys at once acted upon this suggestion, and, crossing the entry,
knocked at the door.

"Come in!" said a voice from within.

The door being opened, they found themselves in the presence of a young
man of pleasant appearance, apparently about twenty-five years of age.

"Good-evening, gentlemen," he said. "I am glad to see you. Will you have
seats?"

"Thank you," said Fosdick. "We came in on a little business. I
understand you are a teacher, Mr. Layton."

"Yes, I am engaged in a private school in the city."

"My friend and myself are engaged in business during the day, but we
feel that our education is quite deficient, and we want to make
arrangements to study evenings. We cannot do this to advantage without
assistance. Are you occupied during the evenings?"

"No, I am not."

"Perhaps you would not like teaching in the evening, after being engaged
in the daytime."

"On the contrary, I have been hoping to secure scholars; but I hardly
knew how to set about it."

"Are you acquainted with the French language, Mr. Layton?"

"Yes, I am tolerably familiar with it. I studied it at college with a
native teacher."

"If you are a college graduate, then, you will be able to teach us
whatever we desire to learn. But I am afraid we may not be able to make
it worth your while. We have neither of us large salaries. But if four
dollars a week--two dollars for each of us--would be satisfactory--"

"I shall be satisfied with it," said Mr. Layton. "In fact," he added,
frankly, "I shall consider it quite a welcome addition to my salary. My
father died a year since, and my mother and sister are compelled to
depend upon me in part for support. But I have not been able to do as
much for them as I wished. This addition to my earnings will give me the
means of increasing their comforts."

"Then it will be a pleasant arrangement all round," said Fosdick. "What
would you advise us to study?"

After a few inquiries as to their present attainments, Mr. Layton
recommended a course of mathematics, beginning with algebra, history,
and the French language. He gave the boys a list of the books they would
be likely to need.

The next evening the boys commenced studying, and determined to devote
an hour and a half each evening to mental improvement. They found Mr.
Layton an excellent teacher, and he on his side found them very apt
pupils.

Dick had an active, intelligent mind, and an excellent capacity, and
Fosdick had always had a thirst for learning, which he was now able to
gratify. As his salary would have been insufficient to pay his expenses
and the teacher besides, he was obliged to have recourse to his little
fund in the savings bank. Dick offered to assist him, but Fosdick would
not consent. Just as his savings were about exhausted, his wages were
raised two dollars a week, and this enabled him to continue the
arrangement without assistance.

In the course of a few weeks the boys commenced reading French, and
found it quite interesting.




CHAPTER IX.

ROSWELL CRAWFORD AT HOME.


While Fosdick and Dick are devoting their evenings to study, under the
guidance of Mr. Layton, we will direct the reader's attention to a young
gentleman who considered himself infinitely superior in the social scale
to either. Roswell Crawford could never forget that Dick had once been a
boot-black, and looked upon it as an outrage that such a boy should be
earning a salary of ten dollars a week, while he--a gentleman's son--was
only paid four, which he regarded as a beggarly pittance. Roswell's
father had once kept a small dry goods store on Broadway, but failed
after being in business a little less than a year. This constituted his
claim to gentility. After his failure, Mr. Crawford tried several kinds
of business, without succeeding in any. His habits were not strictly
temperate, and he had died two years previous. His wife hired a house in
Clinton Place, and took boarders, barely succeeding in making both ends
meet at the end of the year. The truth was that she was not a good
manager, and preferred to talk of her gentility and former wealth to
looking after the affairs of the household. She was very much like her
son in this respect.

Among Mrs. Crawford's boarders was Mr. Gilbert, who is already known to
the reader as the book-keeper of Rockwell & Cooper. It has been
mentioned also that he was Roswell's cousin, being a son of Mrs.
Crawford's only brother. He, too, was not unlike his aunt and cousin,
and all three combined to hate and despise Dick, whom Mrs. Crawford saw
fit to regard as her son's successful rival.

"How's the boot-black, Cousin James?" asked Roswell, on the evening
succeeding that which Dick had passed at Mr. Rockwell's.

"Putting on airs worse than ever," replied Gilbert.

"Mr. Rockwell has a singular taste, to say the least," said Mrs.
Crawford, "or he wouldn't hire a boy from the streets, and give him such
extravagant wages. To pay such a vagabond ten dollars a week, when a boy
of good family, like Roswell, can get but four, is perfectly
ridiculous."

"I don't believe he gets so much," said Roswell. "It's only one of his
big stories."

"You're mistaken there," said Gilbert. "He does get exactly that."

"Are you sure of it?"

"I ought to be, since I received directions from Mr. Rockwell to-day to
pay him that amount to-morrow night, that being the end of the week."

"I never heard of such a thing!" ejaculated Mrs. Crawford. "The man must
be a simpleton."

"If he is, there's another besides him."

"Who do you mean?"

"Mrs. Rockwell."

"Has she made acquaintance with the boot-black, then?" asked Roswell,
with a sneer.

"Yes, he visited them last evening at their house."

"Did he tell you so?"

"Yes."

"I should think they'd feel honored by such a visitor."

"Probably they did, for Mrs. Rockwell made him a present of a gold
watch."

"WHAT!" exclaimed Roswell and his mother in concert.

"It's true. I sent him out to ask the time to-day, when he pulled out a
new gold watch with an air of importance, and told me the time."

"Was it a good watch?"

"A very handsome one. It must have cost, with the chain, a hundred and
twenty-five dollars."

"The idea of a boot-black with a gold watch!" exclaimed Roswell, with a
sneer. "It's about as appropriate as a pig in a silk dress."

"I can't understand it at all," said Mrs. Crawford. "It can't be that
he's a poor relation of theirs, can it?"

"I should say not. Mr. Rockwell wouldn't be likely to have a relation
reduced to blacking boots."

"Is the boy so attractive, then? What does he look like?"

"He's as bold as brass, and hasn't got any manners nor education," said
Roswell.

Poor Dick! His ears ought to have tingled, considering the complimentary
things that were said of him this evening. But luckily he knew nothing
about it, and, if he had, it is doubtful whether it would have troubled
him much. He was independent in his ideas, and didn't trouble himself
much about the opinion of others, as long as he felt that he was doing
right as nearly as he knew how.

"Do you think this strange fancy of Mr. Rockwell's is going to last?"
inquired Mrs. Crawford. "I wish Roswell could have got in there."

"So do I, but I couldn't accomplish it."

"If this boy should fall out of favor, there might be a chance for
Roswell yet; don't you think so?" asked Mrs. Crawford.

"I wish there might," said Roswell. "I'd like to see that beggar's pride
humbled. Besides, four dollars a week is such a miserable salary."

"You thought yourself lucky when you got it."

"So I did; but that was before I found out how much this boot-black was
getting."

"Well," said Gilbert, "he isn't a favorite of mine, as you know well
enough. If there's anything I can do to oust him, I shall do it."

"Couldn't you leave some money in his way? He might be tempted to steal
it."

"I don't know yet what course would be best. I'll try to get him into
trouble of some kind. But I can tell better by and by what to do."

Gilbert went up to his room, and Mrs. Crawford and Roswell were left
alone.

"I wish you were at Rockwell & Cooper's, Roswell," said his mother.

"So do I, mother; but it's no use wishing."

"I don't know about that. Your cousin ought to have some influence
there."

"The boot-black's in the way."

"He may not be in the way always. Your cousin may detect him in
something that will cause his discharge."

"Even if he does, I've tried once to get in there, and didn't succeed.
They didn't seem to take a fancy to me."

"I shouldn't expect them to, if they take a fancy to a common street
boy. But when they find him out, they may change their opinion of you."

"I don't know how that will be, mother. At any rate, I think I ought to
get more than four dollars a week where I am. Why, there's Talbot, only
two years older than I, gets eight dollars, and I do more than he. To
tell the truth, I don't like the place. I don't like to be seen carrying
round bundles. It isn't fit work for a gentleman's son."

Roswell forgot that many of the most prosperous merchants in the city
began in that way, only on less wages. One who wants to climb the ladder
of success must, except in very rare cases, commence at the lowest
round. This was what Roswell did not like. He wanted to begin half-way
up at the very least. It was a great hindrance to him that he regarded
himself as a gentleman's son, and was puffed up with a corresponding
sense of his own importance.

The more Roswell thought of his ill-requited services, as he considered
them, the more he felt aggrieved. It may be mentioned that he was
employed in a dry goods store on Sixth Avenue, and was chiefly engaged
in carrying out bundles for customers. A circumstance which occurred
about this time deepened his disgust with the place.

About the middle of the next week he was carrying a heavy bundle to a
house on Madison Avenue. Now it happened that Mr. Rockwell, who, it will
be remembered, lived on the same street, had left home that morning,
quite forgetting an important letter which he had received, and which
required an early answer. He therefore summoned Dick, and said,
"Richard, do you remember the location of my house?"

"Yes, sir," said Dick.

"I find I have left an important letter at home. I have written a line
to my wife, that she may know where to look for it. I want you to go up
at once."

"Very well, sir."

Dick took the note, and, walking to Broadway, jumped on board an
omnibus, and in a few minutes found himself opposite the Fifth Avenue
Hotel. Here he alighted, and, crossing the Park, entered Madison Avenue,
then as now lined with fine houses.

Walking briskly up the avenue, he overtook a boy of about his own size,
with a large bundle under his arm. Glancing at him as he passed, he
recognized Roswell Crawford.

"How are you, Crawford?" said Dick, in an offhand manner.

Roswell looked at the speaker, whom he recognized.

