"Perhaps I do, and perhaps I don't; but maybe I might find somebody."

"I'll tell you what I'll do. If any one will set me up there, I will
give him a third of the profits after paying expenses."

"And you think that you can make a thousand dollars a year?"

"Yes, I feel sure of it."

"That's a good offer," said Rufus, meditatively.

"I'm willing to make it. At that rate I shall make fourteen dollars a
week, and I have never been paid but twelve for clerking it. Besides, I
should be my own master."

"You might not make so much."

"If I make less I can live on less. There's a small room in back, where
I can put in a bed, that will save me room-rent. My meals I can buy at
the restaurants. I don't believe it will cost me over three hundred and
fifty dollars to live."

"So that you could save up money."

"Yes, I should be sure to. After a while I could buy out the whole
business."

Rufus was silent for a moment. He had five hundred dollars. Why should
he not set up George Black in business on the terms proposed? Then,
instead of getting a paltry thirty dollars' interest for his money, he
would get two or three hundred dollars, and this would abundantly make
up what he needed to live in good style at Mrs. Clayton's, and afford
Rose and himself occasional recreation. Of course a good deal depended
on the honesty of George Black. But of this young man Rufus had a very
good opinion, having known him for two or three years. Besides, as
partner he would be entitled to inquire into the state of the business
at any time, and if anything was wrong he would take care that it was
righted.

"What are you thinking about?" inquired the young man, observing his
silence.

"How would you like me for a partner?" asked Rufus, looking up suddenly.

"I'd just as lief have you as anybody, if you had the money," said
George Black.

"I have got the money," said our hero.

"You don't mean to say you've got five hundred dollars?" asked Black, in
surprise.

"Yes, I do."

"How did you get it? You didn't make it selling papers in the street."

"You may bet on that. No; I found part of it and the rest I had given
me."

"Tell me about it."

Rufus did so.

"Where is the money?"

"I keep it in a savings-bank."

"I'll tell you what, Rufus," said George, "if you'll buy out the shop
for me, and come in as my partner, I'll do what I said, and that'll be
a good deal better than the savings-bank can do for you."

"That's true; but there'll be more risk."

"I don't think there will. I shall manage the business economically, and
you can come in any time and see how it's going on. But I never thought
you had so much money."

"If you had, maybe you'd have thought more of me," said Rufus.

"Maybe I should. 'Money makes the mare go' in this world. But when will
you let me know about it? I've only got two days to decide in."

"I should like to see the shop myself," said Rufus, with commendable
prudence.

"Of course; that's what I'd like to have you do. When will you come
round with me and see it?"

"I can't come now," said our hero, "for it would make me late at the
office. Is it open in the evening?"

"Yes."

"Then I'll tell you what. I'll meet you there this evening at eight
o'clock. Just give me the number, and I'll be sure to be there."

"All right. Have you got a pencil?"

"Yes; and here's one of our cards. You can put it down here."

The address was put down, and the two parted.

George Black went round to the shop at once to say that he would
probably be able to make an arrangement. In the evening, at the
appointed hour, the two met at the periodical store.

Rufus was favorably impressed on first entering. The room was small, but
it was very neat. It had a good window opening to the street, and it
appeared well filled with stock. A hasty survey satisfied our hero that
the stock was really worth more than the amount asked for it.

The proprietor seemed a sickly-looking man, and the plea of ill-health,
judging from his appearance, might readily be credited.

"This is the capitalist I spoke of this morning," said George Black,
introducing Rufus.

"He seems young,", said the proprietor, a little surprised.

"I'm not very aged yet," said Rufus, smiling.

"The main thing is, that he's got the money," said Black. "He's in
business in Wall Street, and is looking about for an investment of his
spare funds."

Rufus was rather pleased with this way of stating his position. He saw
that it heightened his importance considerably in the mind of the owner
of the shop.

"He'll do well to invest here," said the latter. "It's a good stand. I
wouldn't sell out if my health would let me hold on. But confinement
doesn't suit me. The doctor says I shan't live a year, if I stay here,
and life is better than money."

"That's so."

"How long has this shop been established?" asked Rufus.

"Five years."

"It ought to be pretty well known."

"Yes; it's got a good run of custom. If the right man takes hold of it,
he'll make money. He can't help it."

"What do you think of it, Rufus?" asked George Black, turning to our
hero. "Isn't it as I represented?"

"Yes," said Rufus. "I should think a good business might be done here."

"If I get hold of it, a good business shall be done here," said Black,
emphatically. "But it all depends on you. Say the word, and we'll close
the bargain now."

"All right!" said Rufus, promptly. "I'll say the word. We'll take the
shop."




CHAPTER VIII.

THE NEW BOARDING-HOUSE.


It might be considered hazardous for Rufus to invest all his money in a
venture which depended to so great an extent upon the honesty of
another. But there is no profit without risk, and our hero felt
considerable confidence in the integrity of his proposed partner. It
occurred to him, however, that he might need some money before he should
receive any from the business. Accordingly, as the young man had told
him that he had a hundred dollars, he proposed that he should contribute
one half of that sum towards the purchase of the shop, while he made up
the balance,--four hundred and fifty dollars. This would leave him fifty
dollars for contingent expenses, while George Black would have the same.

Our hero's street-life had made him sharp, and he determined to secure
himself as far as possible. He accordingly proposed to George Black that
they should go to a lawyer, and have articles of agreement drawn up.
For this, however, he did not have time till the next morning.

One article proposed by Rufus was, that he should draw fifty dollars a
quarter towards the third share of the profits, which it was agreed that
he should receive, and at the end of the year any balance that might
remain due. No objection was made by George Black, who considered this
provision a fair one. The style of the firm,--for as most of the capital
was furnished by Rufus, it was thought that his name should be
represented,--was "RUSHTON & BLACK."

A new sign was ordered, bearing their names, and it was arranged that
the new proprietors should take possession of the store at the
commencement of the next week, when it would probably be ready.

Rufus hesitated about announcing his new venture to Miss Manning and
Rose, but finally concluded not to do so just at present. It would be
time, he thought, when they had got fairly started.

Meanwhile he had transferred himself to the room at Mrs. Clayton's
boarding-house. He felt rather bashful at first about appearing at the
table. Half an hour before the time, he reached the house, and went up
at once to Miss Manning's room.

"O Rufie!" said Rose, jumping up from the sofa and running to meet him,
"have you come to stay?"

"Yes, Rosie," he answered, sitting down on the sofa, and taking her in
his lap.

"I am so glad. You are going down to dinner, aint you?"

"Yes, I suppose so."

"We have such nice dinners,--don't we, Miss Manning?"

"Very nice, Rose."

"A great deal better than I ever had before. I wonder where you will
sit, Rufie."

"He will sit next to you, Rose; I spoke to Mrs. Clayton about it. Rufus
will take care of you, and I am to look after Jennie and Carrie."

"That will be very nice."

"How do you like the little girls, Rose?" asked her brother.

"Very much. They have given me some of their dolls."

"And which knows the most,--you or they?"

"Oh, I know ever so much more," said Rose, positively.

"Is that true, Miss Manning, or is Rose boasting?" asked Rufus.

"Rose is farther advanced than either Jennie or Carrie," answered Miss
Manning. "They have studied comparatively little yet, but I find them
docile, and I think they will soon improve."

By the time Rufus had combed his hair, and put on a clean collar, the
dinner-bell rang. He followed Miss Manning down into the dining-room.

"Good-evening, Mr. Rushton," said Mrs. Clayton. "I am glad to see you."

"His name isn't Mr. Rushton," said Rose. "His name is Rufie."

"It is the first time Rose ever heard me called so," said Rufus,
smiling. "She will soon get used to it."

He was rather pleased than otherwise to be called Mr. Rushton. It made
him feel more like a man.

"You may take that seat, Mr. Rushton," said the landlady. "Your little
sister will sit beside you."

Rufus took the chair indicated.

Next to him was seated a lady of thirty or more, whose hair fell in
juvenile ringlets. This was Mrs. Clifton, formerly Miss Peyton, who will
be remembered by the readers of "Fame and Fortune." Rufus was introduced
to her.

"I am very glad to make your acquaintance, Mr. Rushton," said Mrs.
Clifton, graciously. "You have a very sweet little sister."

"Yes; she is a very good little girl," said Rufus, better pleased with a
compliment to Rose than he would have been with one to himself.

"I understand you are in business in Wall Street, Mr. Rushton."

"Yes," said Rufus. "I am in the office of Mr. Turner."

"I sometimes tell Mr. Clifton I wish he would go into business in Wall
Street. He keeps a dry-goods store on Eighth Avenue."

"Can't remember ever hearing you mention the idea, Mrs. C----," remarked
her husband, who sat on the other side, in a pause between two
mouthfuls. "There aint much money in dry goods just now, by jove! I'll
open in Wall Street, if you say the word."

Mrs. Clifton slightly frowned, and did not see fit to answer the remark
made to her. Her husband was not very brilliant, either in business,
wit, or in any other way, and she had married him, not from love, but
because she saw no other way of escaping from being an old maid.

"Do you know, Mr. Rushton," said Mrs. Clifton, "you remind me so much of
a very intimate friend of mine, Mr. Hunter?"

"Do I?" added Rufus. "I hope he is good-looking."

"He's very handsome," said Mrs. Clifton, "and so witty."

"Then I'm glad I'm like him," said Rufus.

For some reason he did not feel so bashful as he anticipated,
particularly with Mrs. Clifton.

"He's soon going to be married to a very rich young lady,--Miss Greyson;
perhaps you know her."

"That's where he has the advantage of me," said Rufus.

"Mr. Clifton," said his wife, "don't you think Mr. Rushton looks very
much like Mr. Hunter?"

"Yes," said her husband; "as much as I look like the Emperor Napoleon."

"Don't make a goose of yourself, Mr. Clifton," said his wife, sharply.

"Thank you, I don't intend to. A goose is a female, and I don't care to
make such a change."

"I suppose you think that is witty," said Mrs. Clifton, a little
disdainfully.

It is unnecessary to pursue the conversation. Those who remember Mrs.
Clifton when she was Miss Peyton will easily understand what was its
character. It had the effect, however, of putting Rufus at his ease. On
the whole, considering that he was only used to cheap restaurants, he
acquitted himself very well for the first time, and no one suspected
that he had not always been accustomed to live as well. The dinner he
found excellent. Mrs. Clayton herself superintended the preparation of
dinner, and she was not inclined to undue economy, as is the case with
many landladies.

"I'm glad I came here," thought Rufus. "It's worth the difference in
price."

As they rose from the table, Mrs. Colman asked Miss Manning, "Is that
the brother of your little girl?"

"Yes," answered Miss Manning.

"He has a very good appearance; I should like to have you bring him into
our room a while."

Miss Manning communicated this invitation to Rufus. He would have
excused himself gladly, but he felt that this would have been hardly
polite; therefore he accepted it.

"I am glad to make your acquaintance, Mr. Rushton," said Mrs. Colman.

"Thank you," said Rufus.

"I hear that you have come to board with us."

"Yes," he answered, wishing that he might think of something more to
say, but not succeeding.

"It is a pleasant boarding-place; I hope you will like it."

"I think I shall."

"You have a very nice little sister; my little girls like her very much.
She will be a great deal of company for them."

"I think she is a very good little girl," said Rufus; "but then I am
her brother, so I suppose it is natural for me to think so."

"You are in an office in Wall Street, I am told," said Mr. Colman.

"Yes, sir," said Rufus.

"Whose, may I ask?"

"Mr. Turner's."

"He is an able business-man, and stands high. You could not learn
business under better auspices."

"I like him very much," said Rufus; "but then I have not been long in
his office."

"I find Miss Manning relieves me of a great deal of care and trouble,"
said Mrs. Colman (her new governess being just then out of the room). "I
feel that I was fortunate in securing her services."

"I think you will like her," said Rufus. "She is very kind to Rose. I
don't know what I should do with little sister, if I did not have her to
look after her."

"Then your mother is not living, Mr. Rushton."

"No," said Rufus; "she has been dead for two years."

"And you are the sole guardian of your little sister?"

"Yes, ma'am."

After half an hour's call, which Rufus found less embarrassing and more
agreeable than he anticipated, he excused himself, and went upstairs.

On Tuesday of the nest week, he decided to reveal his new plans to Miss
Manning. Accordingly, he managed to reach home about half-past four in
the afternoon, and invited her and Rose to take a walk with him.

"Where shall we walk?" she asked.

"Over to Sixth Avenue," said Rufus. "I want to show you a store there."

Miss Manning soon got ready, and the three set out.
