the trunks into an affair of some length, but the baggage-master did his
duty with pitiless celerity; and so Basil, in the mere excess of his
disoccupation, bought an accident-insurance ticket. This employed him
half a minute, and then he gave up the unequal contest, and went and
took his place beside Isabel, who sat prettily wrapped in her shawl,
perfectly content.

“Isn’t it charming,” she said gayly, “having to wait so long? It puts
me in mind of some of those other journeys we took together. But I can’t
think of those times with any patience, when we might really have had
each other, and didn’t! Do you remember how long we had to wait at
Chambery? and the numbers of military gentlemen that waited too, with
their little waists, and their kisses when they met? and that poor
married military gentleman, with the plain wife and the two children,
and a tarnished uniform? He seemed to be somehow in misfortune, and
his mustache hung down in such a spiritless way, while all the other
military mustaches about curled and bristled with so much boldness. I
think ‘salles d’attente’ everywhere are delightful, and there is such a
community of interest in them all, that when I come here only to go out
to Brookline, I feel myself a traveller once more,--a blessed stranger
in a strange land. O dear, Basil, those were happy times after all, when
we might have had each other and didn’t! And now we’re the more precious
for having been so long lost.”

She drew closer and closer to him, and looked at him in a way that
threatened betrayal of her bridal character.

“Isabel, you will be having your head on my shoulder, next,” said he.

“Never!” she answered fiercely, recovering her distance with a start.
“But, dearest, if you do see me going to--act absurdly, you know, do
stop me.”

“I’m very sorry, but I’ve got myself to stop. Besides, I didn’t
undertake to preserve the incognito of this bridal party.”

If any accident of the sort dreaded had really happened, it would not
have mattered so much, for as yet they were the sole occupants of the
waiting room. To be sure, the ticket-seller was there, and the lady who
checked packages left in her charge, but these must have seen so many
endearments pass between passengers,--that a fleeting caress or so would
scarcely have drawn their notice to our pair. Yet Isabel did not so much
even as put her hand into her husband’s; and as Basil afterwards said,
it was very good practice.

Our temporary state, whatever it is, is often mirrored in all that come
near us, and our friends were fated to meet frequent parodies of their
happiness from first to last on this journey. The travesty began with
the very first people who entered the waiting-room after themselves, and
who were a very young couple starting like themselves upon a pleasure
tour, which also was evidently one of the first tours of any kind that
they had made. It was of modest extent, and comprised going to New York
and back; but they talked of it with a fluttered and joyful expectation
as if it were a voyage to Europe. Presently there appeared a burlesque
of their happiness (but with a touch of tragedy) in that kind of young
man who is called by the females of his class a fellow, and two young
women of that kind known to him as girls. He took a place between these,
and presently began a robust flirtation with one of them. He possessed
himself, after a brief struggle, of her parasol, and twirled it about,
as he uttered, with a sort of tender rudeness inconceivable vapidities,
such as you would expect from none but a man of the highest fashion. The
girl thus courted became selfishly unconscious of everything but her own
joy, and made no attempt to bring the other girl within its warmth, but
left her to languish forgotten on the other side. The latter sometimes
leaned forward, and tried to divert a little of the flirtation to
herself, but the flirters snubbed her with short answers, and presently
she gave up and sat still in the sad patience of uncourted women. In
this attitude she became a burden to Isabel, who was glad when the three
took themselves away, and were succeeded by a very stylish couple--from
New York, she knew as well as if they had given her their address on
West 999th Street. The lady was not pretty, and she was not, Isabel
thought, dressed in the perfect taste of Boston; but she owned frankly
to herself that the New-Yorkeress was stylish, undeniably effective. The
gentleman bought a ticket for New York, and remained at the window of
the office talking quite easily with the seller.

“You couldn’t do that, my poor Basil,” said Isabel, “you’d be afraid.”

“O dear, yes; I’m only too glad to get off without browbeating; though
I must say that this officer looks affable enough. Really,” he added, as
an acquaintance of the ticket-seller came in and nodded to him and said
“Hot, to-day!” “this is very strange. I always felt as if these men had
no private life, no friendships like the rest of us. On duty they seem
so like sovereigns, set apart from mankind, and above us all, that it’s
quite incredible they should have the common personal relations.”

At intervals of their talk and silence there came vivid flashes of
lightning and quite heavy shocks of thunder, very consoling to our
friends, who took them as so many compliments to their prudence in not
going by the boat, and who had secret doubts of their wisdom whenever
these acknowledgments were withheld. Isabel went so far as to say
that she hoped nothing would happen to the boat, but I think she would
cheerfully have learnt that the vessel had been obliged to put back to
Newport, on account of the storm, or even that it had been driven ashore
at a perfectly safe place.

People constantly came and went in the waiting-room, which was sometimes
quite full, and again empty of all but themselves. In the course of
their observations they formed many cordial friendships and bitter
enmities upon the ground of personal appearance, or particulars of
dress, with people whom they saw for half a minute upon an average; and
they took such a keen interest in every one, that it would be hard to
say whether they were more concerned in an old gentleman with vigorously
upright iron-gray hair, who sat fronting them, and reading all the
evening papers, or a young man who hurled himself through the door,
bought a ticket with terrific precipitation, burst out again, and then
ran down a departing train before it got out of the station: they loved
the old gentleman for a certain stubborn benevolence of expression, and
if they had been friends of the young man and his family for generations
and felt bound if any harm befell him to go and break the news gently
to his parents, their nerves could not have been more intimately wrought
upon by his hazardous behavior. Still, as they had their tickets for
New York, and he was going out on a merely local train,--to Brookline,
I believe, they could not, even in their anxiety, repress a feeling of
contempt for his unambitious destination.

They were already as completely cut off from local associations and
sympathies as if they were a thousand miles and many months away from
Boston. They enjoyed the lonely flaring of the gas-jets as a gust of
wind drew through the station; they shared the gloom and isolation of
a man who took a seat in the darkest corner of the room, and sat there
with folded arms, the genius of absence. In the patronizing spirit of
travellers in a foreign country they noted and approved the vases of
cut-flowers in the booth of the lady who checked packages, and the pots
of ivy in her windows. “These poor Bostonians,” they said; “have some
love of the beautiful in their rugged natures.”

But after all was said and thought, it was only eight o’clock, and they
still had an hour to wait.

Basil grew restless, and Isabel said, with a subtile interpretation of
his uneasiness, “I don’t want anything to eat, Basil, but I think I know
the weaknesses of men; and you had better go and pass the next half-hour
over a plate of something indigestible.”

This was said ‘con stizza’, the least little suggestion of it; but Basil
rose with shameful alacrity. “Darling, if it’s your wish--”

“It’s my fate, Basil,” said Isabel.

“I’ll go,” he exclaimed, “because it isn’t bridal, and will help us to
pass for old married people.”

“No, no, Basil, be honest; fibbing isn’t your forte: I wonder you went
into the insurance business; you ought to have been a lawyer. Go because
you like eating, and are hungry, perhaps, or think you may be so before
we get to New York.

“I shall amuse myself well enough here!”

I suppose it is always a little shocking and grievous to a wife when she
recognizes a rival in butchers’-meat and the vegetables of the season.
With her slender relishes for pastry and confectionery and her dainty
habits of lunching, she cannot reconcile with the idea (of) her
husband’s capacity for breakfasting, dining, supping, and hot meals at
all hours of the day and night--as they write it on the sign-boards of
barbaric eating-houses. But Isabel would have only herself to blame
if she had not perceived this trait of Basil’s before marriage. She
recurred now, as his figure disappeared down the station, to memorable
instances of his appetite in their European travels during their first
engagement. “Yes, he ate terribly at Susa, when I was too full of
the notion of getting into Italy to care for bouillon and cold roast
chicken. At Rome I thought I must break with him on account of the
wild-boar; and at Heidelberg, the sausage and the ham!--how could he,
in my presence? But I took him with all his faults,--and was glad to get
him,” she added, ending her meditation with a little burst of candor;
and she did not even think of Basil’s appetite when he reappeared.

With the thronging of many sorts of people, in parties and singly, into
the waiting room, they became once again mere observers of their kind,
more or less critical in temper, until the crowd grew so that individual
traits were merged in the character of multitude. Even then, they could
catch glimpses of faces so sweet or fine that they made themselves felt
like moments of repose in the tumult, and here and there was something
so grotesque in dress of manner that it showed distinct from the rest.
The ticket-seller’s stamp clicked incessantly as he sold tickets to all
points South and West: to New York, Philadelphia, Charleston; to New
Orleans, Chicago, Omaha; to St. Paul, Duluth, St. Louis; and it would
not have been hard to find in that anxious bustle, that unsmiling
eagerness, an image of the whole busy affair of life. It was not a
particularly sane spectacle, that impatience to be off to some place
that lay not only in the distance, but also in the future--to which no
line of road carries you with absolute certainty across an interval of
time full of every imaginable chance and influence. It is easy enough to
buy a ticket to Cincinnati, but it is somewhat harder to arrive there.
Say that all goes well, is it exactly you who arrive?

In the midst of the disquiet there entered at last an old woman, so very
infirm that she had to be upheld on either hand by her husband and the
hackman who had brought them, while a young girl went before with shawls
and pillows which she arranged upon the seat. There the invalid lay
down, and turned towards the crowd a white, suffering face, which was
yet so heavenly meek and peaceful that it comforted whoever looked at
it.

In spirit our happy friends bowed themselves before it and owned that
there was something better than happiness in it.

“What is it like, Isabel?”

“O, I don’t know, darling,” she said; but she thought, “Perhaps it is
like some blessed sorrow that takes us out of this prison of a world,
and sets us free of our every-day hates and desires, our aims, our
fears, ourselves. Maybe a long and mortal sickness might come to wear
such a face in one of us two, and the other could see it, and not regret
the poor mask of youth and pretty looks that had fallen away.”

She rose and went over to the sick woman, on whose face beamed a tender
smile, as Isabel spoke to her. A chord thrilled in two lives hitherto
unknown to each other; but what was said Basil would not ask when the
invalid had taken Isabel’s hand between her own, as for adieu, and she
came back to his side with swimming eyes. Perhaps his wife could have
given no good reason for her emotion, if he had asked it. But it made
her very sweet and dear to him; and I suppose that when a tolerably
unselfish man is once secure of a woman’s love, he is ordinarily more
affected by her compassion and tenderness for other objects than by her
feelings towards himself. He likes well enough to think, “She loves me,”
 but still better, “How kind and good she is!”

They lost sight of the invalid in the hurry of getting places on the
cars, and they never saw her again. The man at the wicket-gate leading
to the train had thrown it up, and the people were pressing furiously
through as if their lives hung upon the chance of instant passage. Basil
had secured his ticket for the sleeping-car, and so he and Isabel
stood aside and watched the tumult. When the rash was over they passed
through, and as they walked up and down the platform beside the train,
“I was thinking,” said Isabel, “after I spoke to that poor old lady,
of what Clara Williams says: that she wonders the happiest women in the
world can look each other in the face without bursting into tears, their
happiness is so unreasonable, and so built upon and hedged about with
misery. She declares that there’s nothing so sad to her as a bride,
unless it’s a young mother, or a little girl growing up in the innocent
gayety of her heart. She wonders they can live through it.”

“Clara is very much of a reformer, and would make an end of all of us
men, I suppose,--except her father, who supports her in the leisure
that enables her to do her deep thinking. She little knows what we poor
fellows have to suffer, and how often we break down in business hours,
and sob upon one another’s necks. Did that old lady talk to you in the
same strain?”

“O no! she spoke very calmly of her sickness, and said she had lived a
blessed life. Perhaps it was that made me shed those few small tears.
She seemed a very religious person.”

“Yes,” said Basil, “it is almost a pity that religion is going out. But
then you are to have the franchise.”

“All aboard!”

This warning cry saved him from whatever heresy he might have been
about to utter; and presently the train carried them out into the
gas-sprinkled darkness, with an ever-growing speed that soon left
the city lamps far behind. It is a phenomenon whose commonness
alone prevents it from being most impressive, that departure of the
night-express. The two hundred miles it is to travel stretch before it,
traced by those slender clews, to lose which is ruin, and about which
hang so many dangers. The draw bridges that gape upon the way, the
trains that stand smoking and steaming on the track, the rail that has
borne the wear so long that it must soon snap under it, the deep cut
where the overhanging mass of rock trembles to its fall, the obstruction
that a pitiless malice may have placed in your path,--you think of these
after the journey is done, but they seldom haunt your fancy while it
lasts. The knowledge of your helplessness in any circumstances is so
perfect that it begets a sense of irresponsibility, almost of security;
and as you drowse upon the pallet of the sleeping car, and feel yourself
hurled forward through the obscurity, you are almost thankful that you
can do nothing, for it is upon this condition only that you can endure
it; and some such condition as this, I suppose, accounts for many heroic
facts in the world. To the fantastic mood which possesses you equally,
sleeping or waking, the stoppages of the train have a weird character;
and Worcester, Springfield, New Haven, and Stamford are rather points in
dream-land than well-known towns of New England. As the train stops you
drowse if you have been waking, and wake if you have been in a doze; but
in any case you are aware of the locomotive hissing and coughing beyond
the station, of flaring gas-jets, of clattering feet of passengers
getting on and off; then of some one, conductor or station-master,
walking the whole length of the train; and then you are aware of an
insane satisfaction in renewed flight through the darkness. You think
hazily of the folk in their beds in the town left behind, who stir
uneasily at the sound of your train’s departing whistle; and so all is a
blank vigil or a blank slumber.

By daylight Basil and Isabel found themselves at opposite ends of the
car, struggling severally with the problem of the morning’s toilet.
When the combat was ended, they were surprised at the decency of their
appearance, and Isabel said, “I think I’m presentable to an early
Broadway public, and I’ve a fancy for not going to a hotel. Lucy will be
expecting us out there before noon; and we can pass the time pleasantly
enough for a few hours just wandering about.”

She was a woman who loved any cheap defiance of custom, and she had an
agreeable sense of adventure in what she proposed. Besides, she felt
that nothing could be more in the unconventional spirit in which they
meant to make their whole journey than a stroll about New York at
half-past six in the morning.

“Delightful!” answered Basil, who was always charmed with these small
originalities. “You look well enough for an evening party; and besides,
you won’t meet one of your own critical class on Broadway at this hour.
We will breakfast at one of those gilded metropolitan restaurants,
and then go round to Leonard’s, who will be able to give us just three
unhurried seconds. After that we’ll push on out to his place.”

At that early hour there were not many people astir on the wide avenue
down which our friends strolled when they left the station; but in the
aspect of those they saw there was something that told of a greater
heat than they had yet known in Boston, and they were sensible of having
reached a more southern latitude. The air, though freshened by the
over-night’s storm, still wanted the briskness and sparkle and pungency
of the Boston air, which is as delicious in summer as it is terrible
in winter; and the faces that showed themselves were sodden from the
yesterday’s heat and perspiration. A corner-grocer, seated in a sort of
fierce despondency upon a keg near his shop door, had lightly equipped
himself for the struggle of the day in the battered armor of the day
before, and in a pair of roomy pantaloons, and a baggy shirt of neutral
tint--perhaps he had made a vow not to change it whilst the siege of the
hot weather lasted,--now confronted the advancing sunlight, before which
the long shadows of the buildings were slowly retiring. A marketing
mother of a family paused at a provision-store, and looking weakly in at
the white-aproned butcher among his meats and flies, passes without an
effort to purchase. Hurried and wearied shop-girls tripped by in the
draperies that betrayed their sad necessity to be both fine and shabby;
from a boarding-house door issued briskly one of those cool young New
Yorkers whom no circumstances can oppress: breezy-coated, white-livened,
clean, with a good cigar in the mouth, a light cane caught upon the
elbow of one of the arms holding up the paper from which the morning’s
news is snatched, whilst the person sways lightly with the walk; in the
street-cars that slowly tinkled up and down were rows of people with
baskets between their legs and papers before their faces; and all showed
by some peculiarity of air or dress the excess of heat which they had
already borne, and to which they seemed to look forward, and gave by the
scantiness of their number a vivid impression of the uncounted thousands
within doors prolonging, before the day’s terror began, the oblivion of
sleep.

As they turned into one of the numerical streets to cross to Broadway,
and found themselves in a yet deeper seclusion, Basil-began to utter in
a musing tone:

        “A city against the world’s gray Prime,
        Lost in some desert, far from Time,
        Where noiseless Ages gliding through,
        Have only sifted sands and dew,
        Yet still a marble head of man
        Lying on all the haunted plan;
        The passions of the human heart
        Beating the marble breast of Art,
        Were not more lone to one who first
        Upon its giant silence burst,
        Than this strange quiet, where the tide
        Of life, upheaved on either aide,
        Hangs trembling, ready soon to beat
        With human waves the Morning Street.”

“How lovely!” said Isabel, swiftly catching at her skirt, and
deftly escaping contact with one of a long row of ash-barrels posted
sentinel-like on the edge of the pavement. “Whose is it, Basil?”

“Ah! a poet’s,” answered her husband, “a man of whom we shall one day
any of us be glad to say that we liked him before he was famous. What a
nebulous sweetness the first lines have, and what a clear, cool light of
day-break in the last!”

“You could have been as good a poet as that, Basil,” said the
ever-personal and concretely-speaking Isabel, who could not look at a
mountain without thinking what Basil might have done in that way, if he
had tried.

“O no, I couldn’t, dear. It’s very difficult being any poet at all,
though it’s easy to be like one. But I’ve done with it; I broke with
the Muse the day you accepted me. She came into my office, looking so
shabby,--not unlike one of those poor shop-girls; and as I was very
well dressed from having just been to see you, why, you know, I felt
the difference. ‘Well, my dear?’ said I, not quite liking the look of
reproach she was giving me. ‘You are going to leave me,’ she answered
sadly. ‘Well, yes; I suppose I must. You see the insurance business is
very absorbing; and besides, it has a bad appearance, your coming about
so in office hours, and in those clothes.’ ‘O,’ she moaned out, ‘you
used to welcome me at all times, out in the country, and thought me
prettily dressed.’ ‘Yes, yes; but this is Boston; and Boston makes a
great difference in one’s ideas; and I’m going to be married, too.
Come, I don’t want to seem ungrateful; we have had many pleasant times
together, I own it; and I’ve no objections to your being present at
Christmas and Thanksgiving and birthdays, but really I must draw the
line there.’ She gave me a look that made my heart ache, and went
straight to my desk and took out of a pigeon hole a lot of papers,--odes
upon your cruelty, Isabel; songs to you; sonnets,--the sonnet, a mighty
poor one, I’d made the day before,--and threw them all into the grate.
Then she turned to me again, signed adieu with mute lips, and passed
out. I could hear the bottom wire of the poor thing’s hoop-skirt
clicking against each step of the stairway, as she went slowly and
heavily down to the street.” “O don’t--don’t, Basil,” said his wife, “it
seems like something wrong. I think you ought to have been ashamed.”

“Ashamed! I was heart broken. But it had to come to that. As I got
hopeful about you, the Muse became a sad bore; and more than once I
found myself smiling at her when her back was turned. The Muse doesn’t
like being laughed at any more than another woman would, and she would
have left me shortly. No, I couldn’t be a poet like our Morning-Street
