give you rest." On each side of the church are the figures of the
twelve apostles, placed against the walls at equal distances, so as to
include the whole extent. In the middle of the choir, in front of the
altar, is the figure of an angel, holding a baptismal font, in the
shape of a shell, which some call Thorwaldsen's masterpiece. In the
sacristy of the church are several other works of the great sculptor,
who was first interred in this place, before the museum was ready to
receive his remains.

Mrs. Kendall declared she had seen enough for one day, for
sight-seeing is the hardest work one can do when it is overdone. After
supper, when the lady was rested, she consented to visit Tivoli, where
the students were to spend the evening. This celebrated resort of the
Copenhageners is situated just outside of the old walls of the city,
near the arm of the sea which divides Amager from Seeland. One of the
two horse-railways, which the people in Europe generally persist in
calling "tramways," extends through the city, passing the gates of
this garden. Several of the officers and seamen of the ship came by
the cars, which hardly differ from those in use in the principal
cities of the United States; but all of them have accommodations for
passengers on the top.

Captain Lincoln--who had been on board of the ship since he left the
party with whom he had spent the afternoon--and Norwood were
passengers in a car; but though they could not speak a word of Norsk,
they were not disturbed by the situation. Presently the conductor
presented himself, which caused a general sounding of pockets among
the occupants of the car. He had a tin box, suspended by a strap,
which passed around his neck, to contain the money he received. In his
hand he held a compact little roll of yellow paper, an inch and a half
in width, across which was printed a succession of little tickets,
each with a number. The fare was four skillings, or two and one fourth
cents, and, as each person paid, the conductor handed him one of these
papers, torn from the roll. Captain Lincoln gave him a piece of money,
and held up two fingers, pointing to his companion at the same time,
to indicate that he paid for both. The man gave him his change, and
two of the yellow tickets.

 [Illustration: Kjobenhavns
                Sporvei.
                4 Skilling.
                904]

"What are these for?" asked Lincoln, glancing at the little papers.

"They are tickets, of course," replied Norwood.

"I don't think so," added the captain. "All the people seem to throw
them away, and the floor of the car is covered with them."

"O, I know now what they are!" exclaimed Norwood. "I have heard of
such things."

"I never did."

"I suppose you know what 'knocking down' means--don't you?" laughed
the second lieutenant.

"It means stealing."

"Precisely so. It is said that conductors and omnibus drivers at home
'knock down' a good deal, which is the technical name for taking a
portion of the fares. They use 'spotters' in our country to keep the
conductors and drivers honest."

"Spotters?"

"Yes, that's the name of them. They are men and women, whom the
conductors cannot distinguish from other passengers, employed by the
railway companies to ride in the cars, and report the number of
passengers on certain trips, so that the agents can tell whether the
fares are all paid over. These tickets are used for the same purpose."

"I don't see what good they do. They certainly can't keep the men
honest, for almost everybody throws away his ticket."

"They are called control-marks," said a gentleman next to the captain,
who had been listening with interest to the conversation, and who
spoke good English. "The man has to tear one of them off every time a
passenger pays him."

"They are all numbered, I see; mine is nine hundred and four," added
Lincoln.

"When the man gives up this roll at night, the next number will show
how many he has torn off. If he began at No. 200 this morning, he has
taken seven hundred and four fares."

"But he might neglect to tear off fifty or a hundred in the course of
a day," suggested Lincoln, "and put the money for them in his pocket."

"If he does so, everybody is watching him, and anybody may report him
to the agent. I am a share-owner of the company, and for aught the
conductor knows, there may be one in every car. If the man neglects
his duty, my interest would prompt me to look after him."

"I see; thank you, sir."

"Here is Tivoli," added the gentleman. "I suppose you are going
there."

"Yes, sir."

"It is a fine garden, and very cheap."

The young officers left the car, and bought tickets at the gate, for
which they paid one mark, or nine cents, each. Near the entrance they
found a man selling programmes of the evening's entertainment, at two
skillings each. Captain Lincoln bought one, for he carefully preserved
every handbill, ticket, or programme for future reference. He could
read a little of it. The performances were varied, and covered the
time from six o'clock till midnight. But the young officers preferred
to take a general view of the premises. It was an extensive garden,
prettily and tastefully laid out, with accommodations for concerts,
circus, and theatrical performances. In the centre was a "beer
garden," with table and seats, for little parties, who drank their
beer and chatted, while a band played in a kiosk. Near it was a
bazaar, where all kinds of fancy articles were arranged for sale, with
the attendant raffles and lotteries. Farther removed from the centre
was a theatre, consisting, however, of only the stage, the audience
seating themselves in the open air. The performance, from six to
seven, as the captain read in his programme, was

    R1. 6. Entrée gymnastique af Brodrene Hermann.

Or, in plain English, a gymnastic exhibition by the brothers Hermann.

In the circus there was a performance at half past seven, such as one
sees in the United States, and "Hr. Wallet" was clown. At half past
nine o'clock, another exhibition was given in an enclosed building, to
which an extra admission fee was charged. At the theatre, dancing by
some "celebrated sisters" was in progress at nine o'clock. A Russian
mountain was in operation during the whole evening. It was a railroad
down one inclined plane, and up another, and back over the same track,
a ride costing a few skillings. The concert was continued at intervals
during the entire evening. The "café chantant" was in full blast
after nine o'clock, in two places, one of which was a small hall, with
a bar, and the other the interior of a Swiss cottage, with a gallery
surrounding it. In each of these were tables, where the audience
seated themselves, and drank brandy, wine, beer, and milder beverages.
The singers, who are all females, stood upon a stage, and were
accompanied by a piano. After one or two songs had been sung, one of
the singers passed around among the audience with a plate to receive
their contributions, each person generally giving a small copper coin.
This order was continually repeated, and the money thus received is
the only salary of the performers, whose singing is villanously vile,
and whose character is worse than their singing. A canal, extending
from the sea, comes up to Tivoli, and passes around an island. Boats
are to let here; and, indeed, there is no end to the variety of
amusements, and "all for nine cents," as Joseph had said half a dozen
times during the afternoon to his party, and a dozen times more during
the evening. At half past ten the students returned to the squadron,
for by that time they had seen all they desired.




CHAPTER XVI.

AN EXCURSION TO KLAMPENBORG AND ELSINORE.


Peaks sat near the brig and read his book, which he had procured from
the librarian in anticipation of a dull and heavy afternoon. Clyde sat
in his cage, watching the boatswain. The book was evidently a very
interesting one, for the reader hardly raised his eyes from it for a
full hour, and then only to bestow a single glance upon the occupant
of the ship's prison. The volume was Peter Simple, and the boatswain
relished the adventures of the hero. Once in a while his stalwart
frame was shaken by an earthquake of laughter, for he had a certain
sense of dignity which did not permit him to laugh outright all alone
by himself, and so the shock was diffused through all his members, and
his body quaked like that of a man in the incipient throes of a fever
and ague fit. The magnanimous conduct of O'Brien, who flogged Peter
for seasickness, simply because he loved him, proved to be almost too
much for the settled plan of the boatswain, and it was with the utmost
difficulty that he restrained an outbreak of laughter.

For a full quarter of an hour Clyde convinced himself that he was
entirely satisfied with the situation. The brig was not a bad place,
or, at least, it would not be, if the boatswain would only leave the
steerage and allow the prisoner to be by himself. He wished very much
to try the carpenter's saw upon the slats of his prison. At the end of
the second quarter of an hour, the Briton was slightly nervous; the
close of the third found him rather impatient, and at the expiration
of an hour, he was decidedly provoked with Peaks for staying where he
was so long. When the stout sentinel glanced at him, he flattered
himself with a transitory hope; but the boatswain only changed his
position slightly, and still appeared to be as deeply absorbed as ever
in the book.

Clyde was disgusted, and emphatically angry at the end of another half
hour. The brig was a vile place, and putting a free-born Briton into
such a den was the greatest indignity which had yet been offered to
him. It was even worse than ordering him to be silent, or to go
forward. It was an insult which required both redress and vengeance.
He rose from his seat, and walked to the door of his prison, but with
his gaze still fixed upon his jailer. He had come to the conclusion
that, if he moved, Peaks would, at least, look at him; but that worthy
did not raise his eyes from his book. Clyde took hold of the barred
door and began to shake it, making considerable noise by the act.
Peaks took no notice whatever of him, and it seemed just as though the
boatswain intended to insult him by thus disregarding him. He shook
the door again with more violence, but did not succeed in attracting
the attention of his custodian. Then he began to kick the door. Making
a run of the length of the brig, he threw himself against it with all
the force he could, hoping to break it down; but he might as well
have butted against the side of the ship. It yielded a little, and
rattled a great deal; but it was too strong to be knocked down in any
such manner.

The prisoner was boiling over with wrath, as much because Peaks did
not notice him, as on account of the indignity of his confinement.
He kicked, wrenched, and twisted at the door, till he had nearly
exhausted his own strength, apparently without affecting that of
the door. The boatswain still read, and still shook with suppressed
laughter at the funny blunders and situations of Peter Simple. He had
seen just such fellows as Clyde in the brig; had seen them behave just
as the present prisoner did; and he had learned that it was better to
let them have their own way till they were satisfied, for boys are
always better satisfied when they solve such problems for themselves.

"I'm not going to stay in this place!" howled Clyde, when he had
wasted all his powers upon the obstinate door.

"No?"

The boatswain happened to be at the end of a chapter in his book, and
he closed the volume, uttering only the single negative participle,
with the interrogative inflection, as he glanced at his charge in the
brig.

"No, I'm not!" roared Clyde, rousing from his seat, upon which he had
dropped in sheer exhaustion, and throwing himself desperately against
the unyielding door. "I won't stay in here any longer!"

"Well, now, I thought you would," added Peaks, with the most provoking
calmness.

"I won't!"

"But it seems to me that you do stay there."

"I won't any longer."

"Well?"

"I'll send for the British minister."

"Do."

"I won't stand it any longer."

"Sit down, then."

Clyde dashed himself against the door again with all the remaining
force he had; but the boatswain, apparently unmoved, opened his book
again. It was terribly lacerating to the feelings of the Briton to be
so coolly disregarded and ignored. Clyde had the saw, but he had sense
enough left to know that any attempt to use it would attract the
attention of his jailer, and end in the loss of the implement, with
which he could remove a couple of the slats when left alone, or when
all hands were asleep at night. Finding that violence accomplished
nothing, he seated himself on his stool,--which, however, was far from
being the stool of repentance,--and considered the situation more
calmly. He was in a profuse perspiration from the energy of his
useless exertions. Perhaps he was conscious that he had made a fool of
himself, and that his violence was as impolitic as it was useless. In
a few moments he was as quiet as a lamb, and remained so for half an
hour, though his bondage was no less galling than before.

"Mr. Peaks," said he, in the gentlest of tones.

"Well, my lad, what shall I do for you?" replied the boatswain,
closing his book, and going to the door of the brig.

"I'm very thirsty, and want a glass of water. Will you give me one?"

"Certainly, my boy."

The boatswain passed a mug of water through the bars, and Clyde drank
as though he was really thirsty.

"You have worked hard, and it makes you dry," said Peaks. "You can
keep a mug of water in the brig if you like."

"I will," replied Clyde, as he placed the mug on the deck, after the
boatswain had filled it. "Can't you let me out, Mr. Peaks?"

"Certainly I can."

"You will--won't you?"

"With all my heart."

"Do, if you please."

"On certain conditions, you know."

"What conditions?"

"That you won't attempt to run away. But, my lad, it is only a few
hours since you said the brig was a very nice place, and you would
grow gray in it before you would promise not to leave when you got a
good chance."

"I hadn't tried it, then. But I think it is an insult to a fellow to
put him in here. I would rather be flogged outright."

"We don't flog the boys."

"I would rather take a flogging, and have it done with."

"That's one of the reasons why we don't do it. We don't want to have
it done with till the boy means to do about right. You are a smart
boy, my lad; but you have got a heap of bad blood in your veins,
which ought to be worked off. If you would only do your duty like a
man, you would be comfortable and happy."

"I never can stay in this ship."

"Why not?"

"I don't understand the duty."

"You will soon learn all the ropes in the ship, and they will all come
as handy to you as the key of your own watch."

Clyde pulled out his watch, and glanced at the boatswain.

"That's a nice time-keeper you have, my lad; gold, I suppose."

"Yes; it cost thirty pounds. Wouldn't you like it?"

"I?"

"Yes."

"Well, I have a pretty good silver one, which answers my purpose very
well," replied Peaks, smiling.

"I'll give it to you, if you will let me out, and permit me to go on
shore," added Clyde, in an insinuating tone.

"Thank you, my lad, I don't want it bad enough to do that."

"You can sell it, you know. Or I will give you thirty pounds in cash,
if you prefer."

"I can't afford to do it for that," laughed the boatswain.

"I'll give you fifty pounds then," persisted Clyde.

"Can't afford to do it for that, either."

"Say sixty, then."

"Say a hundred, if you like, my lad; and then say a thousand. I can't
afford to do it for all the money your mother is worth. You are on
the wrong tack, my lad. I can't be bought at any price."

"I won't ask you to let me out. If you will only go on deck, and keep
out of the way, I will manage it all myself."

"No, no; sheer off, my hearty. When I have a duty to do, I always mean
to do it; and if it isn't done, it isn't my fault. You can't leave the
ship with my consent."

"I can't stay here, I say. I should die in a month."

"Very well, die like a man, then," said Peaks, good-naturedly; for,
though he could not be bought at any price, he did not indulge in any
righteous indignation against his victim. "Learn your duty, and then
do it. There is plenty of fun going on in the ship, and you will enjoy
yourself as soon as you get on the right tack. That's the up and down
of the whole matter."

"I can't take off my cap to these young squirts of officers, and be
ordered around by them. It isn't in an Englishman to do anything of
the sort."

"Upon my word, I think it is in them. They make first-rate sailors,
and always obey their officers."

"Common sailors do; but I'm a gentleman."

"So am I; but I always obey orders," replied the democratic Peaks,
warmly. "The officers of this ship are required to behave like
gentlemen, and give their orders in a gentlemanly manner. If they
don't do it, they are liable to be reduced. Do your duty, and you may
be an officer yourself."

Peaks continued for some time to give the prisoner good advice,
assuring him that he was no better than the rest of the crew, and
that it would not hurt him any more than others to obey the orders of
the officers. But it was sowing seed in stony ground, and Clyde,
finding he could make nothing out of the honest boatswain, decided to
await his time with what patience he could command, which, however,
was not much. Peaks was permitted to follow Peter Simple in his
stirring career during the rest of the afternoon. The crew returned
