traits of tenderness and spirituality pervaded his character and his
teachings. In fact, my father once said to me, "She made me by her
influence."

In these days, we sometimes hear women, who have reared large families
on small means, spoken of as victims who had suffered unheard of
oppressions. There is a growing materialism that refuses to believe that
there can be happiness without the ease and facilities and luxuries of
wealth.

But my father and mother, though living on a narrow income, were never
really poor. The chief evil of poverty is the crushing of ideality out
of life--the taking away its poetry and substituting hard prose;--and
this with them was impossible. My father loved the work he did, as the
artist loves his painting and the sculptor his chisel. A man needs less
money when he is doing only what he loves to do--what, in fact, he
must do,--pay or no pay. St. Paul said, "A necessity is laid upon me,
yea, woe is me, if I preach not the gospel." Preaching the gospel was
his irrepressible instinct, a necessity of his being. My mother, from
her deep spiritual nature, was one soul with my father in his life-work.
With the moral organization of a prophetess, she stood nearer to heaven
than he, and looking in, told him what she saw, and he, holding her
hand, felt the thrill of celestial electricity. With such women, life
has no prose; their eyes see all things in the light of heaven, and
flowers of paradise spring up in paths that to unanointed eyes, seem
only paths of toil. I never felt, from anything I saw at home, from any
word or action of my mother's, that we were poor, in the sense that
poverty was an evil. I was reminded, to be sure, that we were poor in a
sense that required constant carefulness, watchfulness over little
things, energetic habits, and vigorous industry and self-helpfulness.
But we were never poor in any sense that restricted hospitality or made
it a burden. In those days, a minister's house was always the home for
all the ministers and their families, whenever an exigency required of
them to travel, and the spare room of our house never wanted guests of
longer or shorter continuance. But the atmosphere of the house was such
as always made guests welcome. Three or four times a year, the annual
clerical gatherings of the church filled our house to overflowing and
necessitated an abundant provision and great activity of preparation on
the part of the women of our family. Yet I never heard an expression of
impatience or a suggestion that made me suppose they felt themselves
unduly burdened. My mother's cheerful face was a welcome and a
benediction at all times, and guests found it good to be with her.

In the midst of our large family, of different ages, of vigorous growth,
of great individuality and forcefulness of expression, my mother's was
the administrative power. My father habitually referred everything to
her, and leaned on her advice with a childlike dependence. She read the
character of each, she mediated between opposing natures: she translated
the dialect of different sorts of spirits, to each other. In a family of
young children, there is a chance for every sort and variety of natures;
and for natures whose modes of feeling are as foreign to each other, as
those of the French and the English. It needs a common interpreter, who
understands every dialect of the soul, thus to translate differences of
individuality into a common language of love.

It has often seemed to me a fair question, on a review of the way my
mother ruled in our family, whether the politics of the ideal state in a
millennial community, should not be one equally pervaded by
mother-influences.

The woman question of our day, as I understand it is this.--Shall
MOTHERHOOD ever be felt in the public administration of the affairs of
state? The state is nothing more nor less than a collection of families,
and what would be good or bad for the individual family, would be good
or bad for the state.

Such as our family would have been, ruled only by my father, without my
mother, such the political state is, and has been; there have been in it
"conscript fathers," but no "conscript mothers;" yet is not a mother's
influence needed in acts that relate to the interests of collected
families as much as in individual ones?

The state, at this very day, needs an influence like what I remember our
mother's to have been, in our great, vigorous, growing family,--an
influence quiet, calm, warming, purifying, uniting--it needs a womanly
economy and thrift in husbanding and applying its material resources--it
needs a divining power, by which different sections and different races
can be interpreted to each other, and blended together in love--it needs
an educating power, by which its immature children may be trained in
virtue--it needs a loving and redeeming power, by which its erring and
criminal children may be borne with, purified, and led back to virtue.

Yet, while I thus muse, I remember that such women as my mother are
those to whom in an especial manner all noise and publicity and
unrestful conflict are peculiarly distasteful. My mother had that
delicacy of fibre that made any kind of public exercise of her powers an
impossibility. It is not peculiarly a feminine characteristic, but
belongs equally to many men of the finest natures. It is characteristic
of the poets and philosophers of life. It is ascribed by the sacred
writers to Jesus of Nazareth, in whom an aversion for publicity and a
longing for stillness and retirement are specially indicated by many
touching incidents. Jesus preferred to form around him a family of
disciples and to act on the world through them, and it is remarkable
that he left no writings directly addressed to the world by himself, but
only by those whom he inspired.

Women of this brooding, quiet, deeply spiritual nature, while they
cannot attend caucuses, or pull political wires or mingle in the strife
of political life, are yet the most needed force to be for the good of
the State. I am persuaded that it is not till this class of women feel
as vital and personal responsibility for the good of the State, as they
have hitherto felt for that of the family, that we shall gain the final
elements of a perfect society. The laws of Rome, so said the graceful
myth, were dictated to Numa Pompilius, by the nymph, Egeria. No mortal
eye saw her. She was not in the forum, or the senate. She did not
strive, nor cry, nor lift up her voice in the street, but she made the
laws by which Rome ruled the world. Let us hope in a coming day that not
Egeria, but Mary, the mother of Jesus, the great archetype of the
Christian motherhood, shall be felt through all the laws and
institutions of society. That Mary, who kept all things and pondered
them in her heart--the silent poet, the prophetess, the one confidential
friend of Jesus, sweet and retired as evening dew, yet strong to go
forth with Christ against the cruel and vulgar mob, and to stand
unfainting by the cross where He suffered!

From the time that my mother discovered my store of manuscripts, she
came into new and more intimate relation with me. She took me from the
district school, and kept me constantly with herself, teaching me in the
intervals of domestic avocations.

I was what is called a mother's-boy, as she taught me to render her all
sorts of household services, such as are usually performed by girls. My
two older sisters, about this time, left us, to establish a seminary in
the neighborhood, and the sister nearest my age went to study under
their care, so that my mother said, playfully, she had no resource but
to make a girl of me. This association with a womanly nature, and this
discipline in womanly ways, I hold to have been an invaluable part of my
early training. There is no earthly reason which requires a man, in
order to be manly, to be unhandy and clumsy in regard to the minuti√¶ of
domestic life; and there are quantities of occasions occurring in the
life of every man, in which he will have occasion to be grateful to his
mother, if, like mine, she trains him in woman's arts and the secrets
of making domestic life agreeable.

But it is not merely in this respect that I felt the value of my early
companionship with my mother. The power of such women over our sex is
essentially the service rendered us in forming our ideal, and it was by
my mother's influence that the ideal guardian, the "shadow wife," was
formed, that guided me through my youth.

She wisely laid hold of the little idyl of my childhood, as something
which gave her the key to my nature, and opened before me the hope in my
manhood of such a friend as my little Daisy had been to my childhood.
This wife of the future she often spoke of as a motive. I was to make
myself worthy of her. For her sake I was to be strong, to be efficient,
to be manly and true, and above all pure in thought and imagination and
in word.

The cold mountain air and simple habits of New England country life are
largely a preventive of open immorality; but there is another temptation
which besets the boy, against which the womanly ideal is the best
shield--the temptation to vulgarity and obscenity.

It was to my mother's care and teaching I owe it, that there always
seemed to be a lady at my elbow, when stories were told such as a pure
woman would blush to hear. It was owing to her, that a great deal of
what I supposed to be classical literature both in Greek and Latin and
in English was to me and is to me to this day simply repulsive and
disgusting. I remember that one time when I was in my twelfth or
thirteenth year, one of Satan's agents put into my hand one of those
stories that are written with an express purpose of demoralizing the
young--stories that are sent creeping like vipers and rattle-snakes
stealthily and secretly among inexperienced and unguarded boys hiding in
secret corners, gliding under their pillows and filling their veins with
the fever poison of impurity. How many boys in the most critical period
of life are forever ruined, in body and soul, by the silent secret
gliding among them of these nests of impure serpents, unless they have
a mother, wise, watchful, and never sleeping, with whom they are in
habits of unreserved intimacy and communion!

I remember that when my mother took from me this book, it was with an
expression of fear and horror which made a deep impression on me. Then
she sat by me that night, when the shadows were deepening, and told me
how the reading of such books, or the letting of such ideas into my mind
would make me unworthy of the wife she hoped some day I would win. With
a voice of solemn awe she spoke of the holy mystery of marriage as
something so sacred, that all my life's happiness depended on keeping it
pure, and surrounding it only with the holiest thoughts.

It was more the thrill of her sympathies, the noble poetry of her nature
inspiring mine, than anything she said, that acted upon me and
stimulated me to keep my mind and memory pure. In the closeness of my
communion with her I seemed to see through her eyes and feel through her
nerves, so that at last a passage in a book or a sentiment uttered
always suggested the idea of what she would think of it.

In our days we have heard much said of the importance of training women
to be wives. Is there not something to be said on the importance of
training men to be husbands? Is the wide latitude of thought and reading
and expression which has been accorded as a matter of course to the boy
and the young man, the conventionally allowed familiarity with
coarseness and indelicacy, a fair preparation to enable him to be the
intimate companion of a pure woman? For how many ages has it been the
doctrine that man and woman were to meet in marriage, the one
crystal-pure, the other foul with the permitted garbage of all sorts of
uncleansed literature and license?

If the man is to be the head of the woman, even as Christ is the head of
the Church, should he not be her equal, at least, in purity?

My shadow-wife grew up by my side under my mother's creative touch. It
was for her I studied, for her I should toil. The thought of providing
for her took the sordid element out of economy and made it unselfish.
She was to be to me adviser, friend, inspirer, charmer. She was to be my
companion, not alone in one faculty, but through all the range of my
being--there should be nothing wherein she and I could not by
appreciative sympathy commune together. As I thought of her, she seemed
higher than I. I must love up and not down, I said. She must stand on a
height and I must climb to her--she must be a princess worthy of many
toils and many labors. Gradually she became to me a controlling power.

The thought, of what she would think, closed for me many a book that I
felt she and I could not read together--her fair image barred the way to
many a door and avenue, which if a young man enters, he must leave his
good angel behind,--for her sake I abjured intimacies that I felt she
could not approve, and it was my ambition to keep the inner temple of my
heart and thoughts so pure, that it might be a worthy resting place for
her at last.




CHAPTER V.

I START FOR COLLEGE AND MY UNCLE JACOB ADVISES ME.


The time came at last when the sacred habit of intimacy with my mother
was broken, and I was to leave her for college.

It was the more painful to her, as only a year before, my father had
died, leaving her more than ever dependent on the society of her
children.

My father died as he had lived, rejoicing in his work and feeling that
if he had a hundred lives to live, he would devote them to the same
object for which he had spent that one--the preaching of the Gospel. He
left to my mother the homestead and a small farm, which was under the
care of one of my brothers, so that the event of his death made no
change in our family home center, and I was to go to college and fulfill
the hope of his heart and the desire of my mother's life, in
consecrating myself to the work of the Christian ministry.

My father and mother had always kept sacredly a little fund laid by for
the education of their children; it was the result of many small savings
and self-denials--but self-denials so cheerfully and hopefully
encountered that they had almost changed their nature and become
preferences. The family fund for this purpose had been used in turn by
two of my older brothers, who, as soon as they gained an independent
foothold in life, appropriated each his first earnings to replacing this
sum for the use of the next.

It was not, however, a fund large enough to dispense with the need of a
strict economy, and a supplemental self-helpfulness on our part.

The terms in some of our New England colleges are thoughtfully arranged
so that the students can teach for three of the winter months, and the
resources thus gained help out their college expenses. Thus at the same
time they educate themselves and help to educate others, and they study
with the maturity of mind and the appreciation of the value of what they
are gaining, resulting from a habit of measuring themselves with the
actual needs of life.

The time when the boy goes to college is the time when he feels manhood
to begin. He is no longer a boy, but an unfledged, undeveloped man--a
creature, half of the past and half of the future. Yet every one gives
him a good word or a congratulatory shake of the hand on his entrance to
this new plateau of life. It is a time when advice is plenty as
blackberries in August, and often held quite as cheap--but nevertheless
a young fellow may as well look at what his elders tell him at this
time, and see what he can make of it.

As I was "our minister's son," all the village thought it had something
to do with my going. "Hallo, Harry, so you've got into college! Think
you'll be as smart a man as your dad?" said one. "Wa-al, so I hear
you're going to college. Stick to it now. I could a made suthin ef I'd a
had larnin at your age," said old Jerry Smith, who rung the
meeting-house bell, sawed wood, and took care of miscellaneous gardens
for sundry widows in the vicinity.

But the sayings that struck me as most to the purpose came from my Uncle
Jacob.

Uncle Jacob was my mother's brother, and the doctor not only of our
village, but of all the neighborhood for ten miles round. He was a man
celebrated for medical knowledge through the State, and known by his
articles in medical journals far beyond. He might have easily commanded
a wider and more lucrative sphere of practice by going to any of the
large towns and cities, but Uncle Jacob was a philosopher and preferred
to live in a small quiet way in a place whose scenery suited him, and
where he could act precisely as he felt disposed, and carry out all his
little humors and pet ideas without rubbing against conventionalities.

He had a secret adoration for my mother, whom he regarded as the top and
crown of all womanhood, and he also enjoyed the society of my father,
using him as a sort of whetstone to sharpen his wits on. Uncle Jacob was
a church member in good standing, but in the matter of belief he was
somewhat like a high-mettled horse in a pasture,--he enjoyed once in a
while having a free argumentative race with my father all round the
theological lot. Away he would go in full career, dodging definitions,
doubling and turning with elastic dexterity, and sometimes ended by
leaping over all the fences, with most astounding assertions, after
which he would calm down, and gradually suffer the theological saddle
and bridle to be put on him and go on with edifying paces, apparently
much refreshed by his metaphysical capers.

Uncle Jacob was reported to have a wonderful skill in the healing craft.
He compounded certain pills which were stated to have most wonderful
effects. He was accustomed to exact that, in order fully to develop
their medical properties, they should be taken after a daily bath, and
be followed immediately by a brisk walk of a specific duration in the
open air. The steady use of these pills had been known to make wonderful
changes in the cases of confirmed invalids, a fact which Uncle Jacob
used to notice with a peculiar twinkle in the corner of his eye. It was
sometimes whispered that the composition of them was neither more nor
less than simple white sugar with a flavor of some harmless essence, but
upon this subject my Uncle Jacob was impenetrable. He used to say, with
the afore-mentioned waggish twinkle, that their preparation was his
secret.

Uncle Jacob had always had a special favor for me, shown after his own
odd and original manner. He would take me in his chaise with him when
driving about his business, and keep my mind on a perpetual stretch with
his odd questions and droll, suggestive remarks or stories. There was a
shrewd keen quality to all that he said, that stimulated like a mental
tonic, and none the less so for a stinging flavor of sarcasm and
cynicism, that stirred up and provoked one's self-esteem. Yet as Uncle
Jacob was companionable and loved a listener, I think he was none the
less agreeable to me for this slight touch of his claws. One likes to
find power of any kind--and he who shows that he can both scratch and
bite effectively, if he holds his talons in sheath, comes in time to be
regarded as a sort of benefactor for his forbearance: and so, though I
got many a shrewd mental nip and gripe from my Uncle Jacob, I gave on
the whole more heed to his opinion than that of anybody else that I
knew.

From the time that I had been detected with my self-invented manuscript,
up to the period of my going to college, the expression of my thoughts
by writing had always been a passion with me, and from year to year my
mind had been busy with its own creations, which it was a solace and
amusement for me to record.

Of course there was ever so much crabbed manuscript, and no less
confused, immature thought. I wrote poems, essays, stories, tragedies,
and comedies. I demonstrated the immortality of the soul. I sustained
the future immortality of the souls of animals. I wrote sonnets and
odes, in whole or in part on almost everything that could be mentioned
in creation.

My mother advised me to make Uncle Jacob my literary mentor, and the
best of my productions were laid under his eye.

"Poor trash!" he was wont to say, with his usual kindly twinkle. "But
there must be poor trash in the beginning. We must all eat our peck of
dirt, and learn to write sense by writing nonsense." Then he would pick
out here and there a line or expression which he assured me was "not
bad." Now and then he condescended to tell me that for a boy of my age,
so and so was actually hopeful, and that I should make something one
of these days, which was to me more encouragement than much more decided
praise from any other quarter.

[Illustration: UNCLE JACOB'S ADVICE.

"So you are going to college, boy! Well, away with you; there's no use
advising you; you'll do as all the rest do. In one year you'll know more
than your father, your mother, or I, or all your college officers--in
fact, than the Lord himself."]

We all notice that he who is reluctant to praise, whose commendation is
scarce and hard-earned, is he for whose good word everybody is fighting;
he comes at last to be the judge in the race. After all, the fact which
Uncle Jacob could not disguise, that he had a certain good opinion of
me, in spite of his sharp criticisms and scant praises, made him the one
whose dicta on every subject were the most important to me.

I went to him in all the glow of satisfaction and the tremble of
self-importance that a boy feels who is taking the first step into the
land of manhood.

I have the image of him now, as he stood with his back to the fire, and
the newspaper in his hand, giving me his last counsels. A little wiry,
keen-looking man, with a blue, hawk-like eye, a hooked nose, a high
forehead, shadowed with grizzled hair, and a cris-cross of deeply lined
wrinkles in his face.

"So you are going to college, boy! Well, away with you; there's no use
advising you; you'll do as all the rest do. In one year you'll know more
than your father, your mother, or I, or all your college officers--in
fact, than the Lord himself. You'll have doubts about the Bible, and
think you could have made a better one. You'll think that if the Lord
had consulted you he could have laid the foundations of the earth
better, and arranged the course of nature to more purpose. In short,
you'll be a god, knowing good and evil, and running all over creation
measuring everybody and everything in your pint cup. There'll be no
living with you. But you'll get over it,--it's only the febrile stage of
knowledge. But if you have a good constitution, you'll come through with
it."

I humbly suggested to him that I should try to keep clear of the febrile
stage; that forewarned was forearmed.
