
"No; but I have a theory which I shall work up to-morrow. Don John's
evidence is the first I have obtained, that amounts to anything."

"If he pounded Hasbrook, why should he run over to Seal Harbor, when he
had a fair wind to come up?" asked Donald.

"To deceive you, as it seems he has," laughed Mr. Beardsley. "Probably
getting aground deranged his plans."

"But he ran over to Northport after we parted."

"Because it was a better place to conceal himself during the day. Sykes
says he went down to Vinal Haven that day. I know he did not. Now, Don
John, we must go to Turtle Head to-night, and see about that box."

"I am ready, sir."

"I will go with you," added Captain Patterdale; "and we will take the
Sea Foam."

Donald was permitted to go home and comfort his mother with the
assurance that he was entirely innocent of the crime with which he was
charged; and great was the joy of his mother and sister. The mainsail of
the Sea Foam was hoisted when he went on board. The wind was rather
light, and it was midnight before the yacht anchored off Turtle Head.
The party went ashore in the tender, the sheriff carrying a lantern and
a shovel. Donald readily found the place where the earth had been
disturbed by Laud's clam-digger. Mr. Beardsley dug till he came to a
rock, and it was plain that no tin box was there.

"But I am sure that Laud had been digging here, for I saw the print of
his clam-digger," said Donald.

"This hole had been dug before," added the sheriff.

"Even Laud Cavendish would not be fool enough to bury the box in such an
exposed place as this," suggested Captain Patterdale.

"I know he came down here on the day the box was stolen," said Donald,
"and that he was here with his clam-digger on the day I met Captain
Shivernock. He must have put those papers in the shop."

"If the box was ever buried here, it has been removed," added the
captain.

"Just look at the dirt which came out of the hole," continued Mr.
Beardsley, pointing to the heap, and holding the lantern over it. "What
I threw out last is beach gravel. That was put in to fill up the hole
after he had taken out the box. When he first buried it, he had to carry
off some of the yellow loam. In my opinion, the box has been here."

"It is not here now, and we may as well return," replied Captain
Patterdale. "I am really more desirous of finding the papers in the box
than the money."

"He has only chosen a new hiding-place for it," said the sheriff. "If we
say nothing, and keep an eye on him for a few days, we may find it."

As this was all that could be done, the party returned to the city; and
early in the morning Donald went to bed, to obtain the rest he needed
before the great day. Possibly Mr. Beardsley slept some that night,
though it is certain he was at Saturday Cove, in Northport, the next
forenoon. He had a "theory;" and when a man has a theory, he will
sometimes go without his sleep in order to prove its truth or its
falsity. Jacob Hasbrook was with him, and quite as much interested in
the theory as the officer, who desired to vindicate his reputation as a
detective. He had driven to the house of the victim of the outrage, and
looked the matter over again in the light of the evidence obtained from
the boat-builder.



"I have been trying to see Donald Ramsay," said Hasbrook. "I have been
to his shop four times, but he's always off on some boat scrape. You say
he saw Captain Shivernock the next morning."

"Yes; and the captain didn't want to be seen, which is the best part of
the testimony. If it was he, it seems to me you would have known him
when he hammered you."

"How could I, when he was rigged up so different, with his head all
covered up?" replied Hasbrook, impatiently. "The man was about the
captain's height, but stouter."

"He was dressed for the occasion," added the sheriff, as he walked to
the shore, where the skiff lay.

They dragged it down to the water,--for it was low tide,--and got into
it. Beardsley had traced to the cove the print of the heavy boot, which
first appeared in some loam under the window where the ruffian had
entered Hasbrook's house. He found it in the sand on the shore; and he
was satisfied that the perpetrator of the outrage had arrived and
departed in a boat. He had obtained from the captain's boot-maker a
description of his boots, but none corresponded with those which had
made the prints in Northport and Lincolnville.

At the cove all clew to the ruffian had been lost; but now it was
regained.

The sheriff paddled the skiff out from the shore in the direction of
Seal Island. The water was clear, and they could see the bottom, which
they examined very carefully as they proceeded.

"I see it," suddenly exclaimed Hasbrook, as he grasped the boat-hook.

"Lay hold of it," added the sheriff. "I knew I was right."

"I have it."

Hasbrook hauled up what appeared to be a bundle of old clothes, and
deposited it in the bottom of the skiff. Mr. Beardsley had worked up his
case very thoroughly, though it was a little singular that he had not
thought to ask Donald any questions; but these investigations had been
made when the boat-builder was at home all the time, and the detective
did not like to talk about the case any more than was necessary. He had
ascertained that Captain Shivernock wore his usual gray suit when Donald
saw him after the outrage, and he came to the conclusion that the
ruffian had been disguised, for Hasbrook would certainly have known him,
even in the dark, in his usual dress. They returned to the shore; and
the bundle was lifted, to convey it to the beach.

"It is very heavy," said Hasbrook. "I suppose there is a rock in it to
sink it."

"Open it, and throw out the rock," added the sheriff.

Instead of a rock, the weight was half a pig of lead, which had
evidently been chopped into two pieces with an axe.

"That's good evidence, for the ballast of the Juno is pig lead," said
Beardsley, as he stepped on the beach with the clothes in his hand.

They were spread on the sand, and consisted of a large blue woolen
frock, such as farmers sometimes wear, a pair of old trousers of very
large size, and a pair of heavy cow-hide boots.

"Now I think of it, the man had a frock on," exclaimed Hasbrook.

"That's what made him look stouter than the captain," added Beardsley,
as he proceeded to measure one of the boots, and compare it with the
notes he had made of the size of the footprints. "It's a plain case;
these boots made those tracks."

"And here's the club he pounded me with," said Hasbrook, taking up a
heavy stick that had been in the bundle.

"But where in the world did Captain Shivernock get these old duds?"
mused the sheriff.

"Of course he procured them to do this job with," replied Hasbrook.

"That's clear enough; but where did they come from? He has covered his
tracks so well, that he wouldn't pick these things up near home."

"There comes a boat," said the victim of the outrage, as a sail rounded
the point.

"Get out of the way as quick as you can," added the sheriff, in excited
tones, as he led the way into the woods near the cove, carrying the wet
clothes and boots with him.

"What's the matter now?" demanded Hasbrook.

"That boat is the Juno; Laud Cavendish is in her, and I want to know
what he is about. Don't speak a word, or make a particle of noise. If
you do, he will sheer off; and I want to see the ballast in that boat."

Laud ran his craft up to the rocks on one side of the cove, where he
could land from her; but as it is eleven o'clock, the hour appointed for
the regatta, we must return to the city.




CHAPTER XVII.

THE GREAT RACE.


It was nine o'clock when Donald turned out on the day of the great
regatta. He had returned at three in the morning, nearly exhausted by
fatigue and anxiety. It was horrible to be suspected of a crime; and
bravely as he had carried himself, he was sorely worried. He talked the
matter over with his mother and sister while he was eating his
breakfast.

"Why should Laud Cavendish charge you with such a wicked deed?" asked
his mother.

"To save himself, I suppose," replied Donald. "But he won't make
anything by it. He hid those papers in the shop within a day or two, I
am sure, for I had my hand in the place where he put them, feeling for a
brad-awl I dropped day before yesterday, and I know they were not there
then. But he is used up, anyhow, whether we find the box or not, for he
tells one story and Captain Shivernock another; and I think Captain
Patterdale believes what I say now. But the race comes off to-day, and
if I lose it, I am used up too."

The boat-builder left the house, and went on board of the Maud, which
lay off the shop. Samuel Rodman was on deck, and they hoisted the
mainsail. The wind had hauled round to the north-west early in the
morning, and blew a smashing breeze, just such as Donald wanted for the
great occasion. In fact, it blew almost a gale, and the wind came in
heavy gusts, which are very trying to the nerves of an inexperienced
boatman. The Penobscot, gayly dressed with flags, was moored in her
position for the use of the judges.

"We shall not want any kites to-day," said Donald, as he made fast the
throat halyard.

"No; and you may have to reef this mainsail," added Rodman.

"Not at all."

"But it is flawy."

"So much the better."

"Why so?"

"Because a fellow that understands himself and keeps his eyes wide open
has a chance to gain something on the heavy flaws that almost knock a
boat over. It makes a sharper game of it."

"But Commodore Montague is up to all those dodges."

"I know he is; but in the other race, he lost half his time by luffing
up in a squall."

"But don't you expect a fellow to luff up in a squall?" demanded Rodman.

"If necessary, yes; but the point is, to know when it must be done. If
you let off the main-sheet or spill the sail every time a puff comes,
you lose time," replied Donald. "I believe in keeping on the safe side;
but a fellow may lose the race by dodging every capful of wind that
comes. There goes the first gun."

"Let us get into line," added Rodman, as he cast off the moorings and
hoisted the jib. "Let her drive."

Donald took the helm, and the Maud shot away like an arrow in the fresh
breeze.

"Her sails set beautifully," said the skipper for the occasion; though
Rodman was nominally the captain of the yacht, and was so recorded in
the books of the club.

"Nothing could be better."

"We shall soon ascertain how stiff she is," added Donald, as a heavy
flaw heeled the yacht over, till she buried her rail in the water. "I
don't think we shall get anything stronger than that. She goes down just
so far, and then the wind seems to slide off. I don't believe you can
get her over any farther."

"That's far enough," replied Rodman, holding on, to keep his seat in the
standing-room.

The Maud passed under the stern of the judges' yacht, and anchored in
the line indicated by the captain of the fleet. The Skylark soon
arrived, and took her place next to the Penobscot. In these two yachts
all the interest of the occasion centred. The Phantom and the Sea Foam
soon came into line; and then it was found that the Christabel had
withdrawn, for it blew too hard for her. Mr. Norwood and his son came on
board, with Dick Adams, who was to be mate of the Maud, and Kennedy, who
was well skilled in sailing a boat. Donald had just the crew he wanted,
and he stationed them for the exciting race. Mr. Norwood was to tend the
jib-sheets in the standing-room, Kennedy the main sheet, while Dick
Adams, Frank Norwood, and Sam Rodman were to cast off the cable and
hoist the jib forward.

"Are you all ready, there?" called Donald, raising his voice above the
noise made by the banging of the mainsail in the fresh breeze.

"All ready," replied Dick Adams, who was holding the rode with a turn
around the bitts.

"Don't let her go till I give the word," added Donald. "I want to fill
on the port tack."

"Ay, ay!" shouted Dick; "on the port tack."

This was a very important matter, for the course from the judges'
station to Turtle Head would give the yachts the wind on the port
quarter; and if any of them came about the wrong way, they would be
compelled to gybe, which was not a pleasant operation in so stiff a
breeze. Donald kept hold of the main-sheet, and by managing the sail a
little, contrived to have the tendency of the Maud in the right
direction, so that her sail would fill on the port tack. He saw that
Dick Adams had the tender on the port bow, so that the yacht would not
run it down when she went off.

"There goes the gun!" shouted Rodman, very much excited as the decisive
moment came.

But Dick Adams held on, as he had been instructed to do, and pulled with
all his might, in order to throw the head of the Maud in the right
direction.

"Hoist the jib!" shouted Donald, when he saw that the yacht was sure to
cast on her port tack.

Rodman and Norwood worked lively; and in an instant the jib was up, and
Mr. Norwood had gathered up the lee sheet.

"Let go!" added Donald, when he felt that the Maud was in condition to
go off lively.

She did go off with a bound and a spring. Donald crowded the helm hard
up, so that the Maud wore short around.

"Let off the sheet, lively, Kennedy!" said the skipper. "Ease off the
jib-sheet, Mr. Norwood!"

"We shall be afoul of the Phantom!" cried Dick Adams, as he began to run
out on the foot-ropes by the bowsprit.

"Lay in, Dick!" shouted Donald. "Don't go out there!"

Dick retraced his steps, and came on deck. The Phantom had not cast in
the right direction, and was coming around on the starboard tack, which
had very nearly produced a collision with the Maud, the two bowsprits
coming within a few inches of each other.

"I was going out to fend off," said Dick, as he came aft, in obedience
to orders.

"I was afraid you would be knocked off the bowsprit, which is a bad
place to be, when two vessels put their noses together. It was a close
shave, but we are all right now," replied the skipper.

"The Sea Foam takes the lead," added Mr. Norwood.

"She had the head end of the line. The Skylark made a good start."

"First rate," said Kennedy. "She couldn't be handled any better than she
is."

"We lead her a little," continued Mr. Norwood.

"We had the advantage of her about half a length; as the Sea Foam has a
length the best of us."

The yachts were to form the line head to the wind, and this line was
diagonal with the course to Turtle Head, so that the Sea Foam, which was
farthest from the Penobscot, had really two length's less distance to go
in getting to Stubb's Point Ledge than the Skylark; but this difference
was not worth considering in such a breeze, though, if the commodore was
beaten by only half a length by the Maud, he intended to claim the race
on account of this disparity. The two yachts in which all the interest
centred, both obtained a fair start, the Maud a little ahead of her
great rival. The Phantom had to come about, and get on the right tack,
for Guilford was too careful to gybe in that wind. The Sea Foam got off
very well; and Vice Commodore Patterdale was doing his best to make a
good show for his yacht, but she held her position only for a moment.
The tremendous gusts were too much for Edward's nerves, and he luffed
up, in order to escape one. The Maud went tearing by her, with the
Skylark over lapping her half a length.

"Haul up the centre-board a little more, Dick," said Donald, who did not
bestow a single glance upon his dreaded rival, for all his attention was
given to the sailing of the Maud. "A small pull on the jib-sheet, Mr.
Norwood, if you please."

"You gained an inch then," said Kennedy, striving to encourage the
struggling skipper.

But Donald would not look at the Skylark. He knew that the shortest
distance between two points was by a straight line; and having taken a
tree on the main land near Castine as his objective point, he kept it in
range with the tompion in the stove-pipe, and did not permit the Maud to
wabble about. Occasionally the heavy gusts buried the rail in the brine;
but Donald did not permit her to dodge it, or to deviate from his
inflexible straight line. She went down just so far, and would go no
farther; and at these times it was rather difficult to keep on the seat
at the weather side of the standing-room. Dick Adams, Norwood, and
Rodman were placed on deck above the trunk, and had a comfortable
position. The skipper kept his feet braced against the cleats on the
floor, holding on with both hands at the tiller; for in such a blow, it
was no child's play to steer such a yacht.

"You are gaining on her, Don John," said Mr. Norwood.

"Do you think so, sir?"

"I know it."

"The end of her bowsprit is about even with the tip of our main boom,"
added Kennedy.

"How much fin have we down, Dick?" asked the skipper.

The mate of the Maud rushed to the cabin, where the line attached to the
centre-board was made fast, and reported on its condition.

"Haul up a little more," continued Donald. "Steady! Not the whole of it,
but nearly all."

"It is down about six inches now."
