offered. He had so much taste, besides his extravagant love for
flowers; and then he had studied their habits, the soil they required,
the time of blossoming, parting, or resetting. And it seemed as if he
could make any thing grow. Slips of geranium, rose-cuttings, and indeed
almost every thing, flourished as soon as he took it in hand.

The new railroad brought them in direct and easy communication with
another city, Newbury. Hal took a journey thither one day, and found a
florist and nurseryman who conducted operations on quite an extensive
scale. But still it was expensive in the start. He had thought of
mortgaging the place; but the little money he could raise in that way
would hardly be sufficient; and then, if he was not prosperous, they
might lose their little home.

At midsummer they heard some wonderful news about Florence. Mrs.
Osgood wrote that she was going to marry very fortunately, a gentleman
of wealth and position. She sent love to them, but she was very much
engrossed; and Mrs. Osgood said they must excuse her not writing. She
enlarged considerably upon Florence's brilliant prospect, and appeared
to take great pleasure in thinking she had fitted her for the new
position.

"Oh!" said Granny with a sigh, "we've lost her now. She will be too
rich and grand ever to come back to us."

"I don't know," returned Hal. "She did owe Mrs. Osgood a good deal of
gratitude; and it was right for her to be happy and obedient when she
was having so much done for her. But now she may feel free"--

"She has forgotten us, Hal: at least, she doesn't want to remember;"
and Granny wiped her eyes.

"I can't quite believe it. She had a good heart, and she did love us.
But maybe it's best anyway. We have been unfortunate"--

Hal's voice trembled a little. Granny rocked to and fro, her old method
of composing her mind when any thing went wrong. And, though she could
not bear to blame Flossy, there was a soreness and pain in the old
heart,--a little sting of ingratitude, if she had dared to confess it.

"Hal," said Dr. Meade one day, "they are going to start a new school
over at the cross-roads. It's a small place, and probably there will
not be more than twenty or thirty scholars,--some of the mill-children.
If you would like to teach it, I am pretty sure that I could get it for
you."

"Oh, if I could!" and Hal's eyes were all alight.

"To be sure you can. The salary is very small"--and Dr. Meade made a
long pause.

"Even a little would help along," was Hal's reply, his heart beating
with a strange rapidity.

"There can't be any appropriation made for it, you
see, as there will be no election till spring. But four hundred dollars
have been subscribed, and the committee had a fancy that they might get
a lady for that."

"I'd take it," said Hal. Four hundred dollars looked like quite a
fortune to him.

"It may get up to four hundred and fifty, though I would not like to
promise. It is a small sum."

"But there's always Saturday to yourself, and nights and mornings," was
Hal's hopeful reply.

"Well, I will propose you, then. I shall be on the examining committee."

"How kind you are!" and Hal's smile was most grateful.

Still Hal was in so much doubt about his good fortune that he didn't
say a word to Granny until the examination was over and he was sure of
the appointment.

"It's just royal, isn't it?" and his eyes danced with delight. "I
was wondering what we should do this winter, when there would be no
gardening, unless I went to work in one of the mills."

"And you'd like this better? O Hal! it does seem as if the good God
was watching over us, and always sent something along in the right
time."

"He does, Granny, I am sure."

"For, when we were nearly out last winter, there was that splendid
surprise-party. I never can get over it, Hal. And your bewtiful
quilt, that I don't believe another boy in the world could have done. O
Hal! you're such a comfort!"

And Granny wiped her poor old eyes.

The first pea-vines were pulled up; and then Hal began to prepare for
his spring bed. It was vacation; and Charlie and Kit went into the
experiment with a great deal of zeal. First Hal dug two trenches about
twelve feet long, and four feet apart. He laid in these the stones the
children brought in a wagon that he had manufactured for Dot a long
while before. He piled them up like a wall, sifted sand between them,
and then banked up the outside, making one edge considerably higher
than the other. Around it all, at the top, he put a row of planking
about twelve inches high, and fixed grooves for the sashes to slide
across. Then he lowered the ground inside, and enriched it with manure,
making quite a little garden-spot.

Charlie wanted to have something planted right away; and she did put in
surreptitiously some peas, morning-glories, and a few squash-seed.

"I don't know but we might make another," said Hal, surveying it with a
good deal of pride.

"Oh, do!" exclaimed Charlie. "It's such fun!"

Kit didn't mind, if Hal would only tell him a story now and then.
Mozart's childhood that he had read in a stray copy of an old magazine,
fragments of Mendelssohn, and all the floating incidents he could
recall of Ole Bull. When these were exhausted, Hal used to draw a
little upon his imagination. They had a wonderful hero named Hugo, who
was stolen by gypsies when he was a little boy, and wandered around
in the German forest for years, meeting with various adventures, and
always playing on a violin to solace himself when he was cold, or
tired, or hungry, or beaten.

And, though Hal often declared that he couldn't think of any thing
more, Kit pleaded so wistfully with his luminous blue eyes and soft
voice, that Hugo would be started upon his travels again.

When the frames were done, Hal went to see Mr. Sherman, the carpenter
at Madison, to find what the sashes would cost.

"There's an odd lot up in the loft," he said to the boy. "They are
old-fashioned; and nobody seems to want any thing of that kind, except
now and then for a kitchen. I'll sell 'em cheap, if you can make 'em
answer."

So they were sent down to the Kenneths. Hal worked over them a few
days, and found that he could make them serviceable, only there would
not be quite enough. He was very handy; and soon fitted them in their
places.

"Now, that's what I call smart," exclaimed Mr. Sherman. "Why, Hal!
you'd make a good carpenter. Tell you what I'll do. I'm in an awful
hurry; and, if you'll come over and work for me a spell, we will quit
square."

Hal was delighted, and accepted at once.

"How lucky it all comes round, Granny!" he said in a gratified tone.
"And I've been thinking"--

"I'll be bound it's a bright idea;" and Granny gave her little
chirruping laugh.

"I was considering about the loom-room, Granny. You'll never weave any
more carpets; it's too hard work: and then Mr. Higgins wants to set up
in the business. He asked me about our loom the other day."

"No, I sha'n't never weave no more;" and Granny sighed, not at the
confusion of negatives, but at the knowledge that old things were
passing away.

"And it would make such a beautiful flower-room, lying to the south and
west!"

Joe would have said, "What! the loom?" But dear, rollicking Joe was not
there to catch anybody tripping in absence of mind.

"So it would. Yes, you shall have it, Hal."

For Granny would have given him her two eyes, if it would have done him
any good, and been satisfied to be led about by a dog and a string all
the rest of her life.

They ran up stairs to survey. The afternoon sun was shining in at the
windows, covering half the floor.

"Oh, it would be splendid! We can put up a little stove here; and I
can have it for a kind of study besides. And a room full of flowers!"

The tears fairly stood in Hal's eyes.

There was not much time to lose; for in ten days school would begin.
And now Hal considered what he must do.

The windows came almost down to the floor, the ceiling being low. But
it would not do to have all the flowers stand on a level, as the sun
would not reach them alike. And then a brilliant idea occurred to Hal.

He went over to Mr. Sherman's, and gathered some pieces of joist that
had been sawed off, and thrown by as nearly useless. He found eight
that he made of a length, about three feet high, and bespoke a number
of rough hemlock-boards. Out of these he made a sort of counter, with
the joists for support; and then, nailing a piece all round, he had
quite a garden-bed. This was to stand back from the windows, and have
slips and various seeds planted in it. Charlie and Kit helped bring up
the soil to fill it.

Then Hal bought, for a trifle, a lot of old butter-tubs and firkins
that Mr. Terry was not sorry to be rid of. He sawed them down just the
height he wanted; and they made very good flower-pots for some of the
larger plants. They were so beautiful, that it would be a shame to
leave them out to perish in the cold blasts.

"And somehow they seem just like children to me," he said, his brown
eyes suffused with tenderness.

On the last Saturday he cast up his accounts, and took a small
inventory.

"We shall have potatoes and vegetables for winter; and we have a barrel
of flour, and a hundred of meal, besides lots of corn for the chickens;
then my salary will be a little more than thirty-six dollars a month,
counting eleven months; and fifty dollars for our poultry."

"Why, we'll be as rich as kings!" was Granny's delighted reply. "You're
a wonderful boy, Hal!"

"And if I could sell some flowers! Anyhow, there will be the spring
things. It does look a little like prosperity, Granny."

"I'm so thankful!" and Granny twisted up her apron in pure gratitude.

"Charlie had better go to school again. I wish she could learn to be a
teacher; for she never will like to sew."

"No," replied Granny, with a solemn shake of the head.

"And she is getting to be such a large girl! Well, I suppose something
will come. It has to all of us."




CHAPTER XIV.

  A FLOWER-GARDEN IN DOORS.


Hal went to school bright and early the first Monday in September. It
was about a mile to the place called the "Cross-roads," because from
there the roads diverged in every direction. An old tumble-down house
had been put in tolerable order, and some second-hand desks and benches
arranged in the usual fashion. Just around this point, there was quite
a nest of cottages belonging to the mill workmen.

The children straggled in shyly, eying the new master. Rather unkempt,
some of them, and with not very promising faces, belonging to the
poorer class of German and English; then others bright and tidy, and
brimming over with mirthful smiles.

By ten o'clock sixteen had assembled. Hal gave them a short address,
made a few rules, and attempted to classify them. They read and spelled
a little, at least those who were able, when the bell on the factory
rang out the hour of noon.

Three new ones came after dinner. Hal labored faithfully; but it was
a relief to have the session close.

Before the week ended, however, the prospect became more inspiriting.
There were twenty-three scholars, and some whom it would be a pleasure
to teach. But, after all, it was not as delightful as working among
the flowers,--the dear, beautiful children who gave only fragrance and
loveliness continually.

He had been so tired every night, that he could do nothing but rest;
and so he was glad to have Saturday come.

"It seems early to take them in," he said, surveying the garden so full
of glory. "But there is a good deal to do; and I shall have only one
day in the week."

Kit took the wheelbarrow, and trundled off to the woods for some more
good soil; for Hal had to be economical, since he could not afford to
buy every thing. They were out of debt, and had a little money,--very
little indeed; but there were some pears and grapes to sell. Hal's
Concord and Rogers hybrid had done beautifully; and two of the
new-comers in Madison had offered to take all he had, at ten cents a
pound.

"I could get more in the city," he said; "but there would be the time
and trouble of going. And grapes are heavy too: it doesn't take many
bunches to weigh a pound; and ten pounds come to a dollar."

But on this day he went at his roses. He had obtained quite a number
of slips of hybrid monthlies, mostly tea-roses; and they were doing
nicely. Some had blossomed once, and others were just showing bud.
These he meant to transplant to his bed up stairs. Careful and patient,
he took up the most of them so nicely, that I don't believe they knew
they were moved, until they began to look around for their companions.

Dot ran up stairs and down, and was most enthusiastic.

"It will be so lovely to have a garden in the house!" was her
constant ejaculation.

By noon he had all the small roses in,--five white ones, four pink, and
about a dozen of different shades of deep velvety red. In this soil
he had used an abundance of powdered charcoal. Then came half a dozen
young heliotropes.

"Now, I am going to save the rest of the space, and shall plant
sweet-alyssum and candytuft, and some mignonette. I guess we have done
about enough for one day," he said to Granny and Dot.

Charlie and Kit were lolling under the trees, resting from their
labors. Now and then they had a merry outburst; but Charlie had grown
strangely quiet. She would sit lost in thought for hours together,
unless some one spoke to her; and then she would take to reading in the
same absorbed manner.

"Hal," she said one evening, "what do you know of drawing?"

"A little more than the old woman who could not tell a cow from a
rosebud;" and Hal smiled with quiet humor.

"I wish some one would teach me!"

"They do not have any drawing at school?"

"No, only at the academy. Belle Hartman is learning; but I don't care
any thing about flowers and such."

Faces and grotesque situations were Charlie's passion. She could see
the ludicrous side so quickly!

"You might practise at home, evenings."

"But paper costs a good deal. Oh, I wish I had some money!"

"Well Charlie, be patient. Something may come around by and by."

"Oh, dear!" and Charlie sighed. "I wish some one would come along and
adopt me; but then I'm not handsome, like Flossy. I suppose she is
having a splendid time. It seems to me that she might write just a
little word."

Hal thought so too. As the months went on, he began to feel bitterly
disappointed. Ah! if they could but see her once,--their beautiful
Florence.

Through the course of the month Hal managed to get his flowers in very
nice order,--several fuchsia that were in splendid bloom, two large
heliotropes, an elegant and thrifty monthly carnation, and a salvia
that was a glory in itself. But alas! that drooped and withered: so
Hall trimmed it down. Besides this, some rose and balm geraniums, a tub
full of callas, and ten of his tuberoses, that he had saved for winter
blossoming. The other two had been a source of untold comfort to him.
Then he had an exquisite safrano, and two chromatilla roses.

"Why it's quite a green-house," he said delightedly. "Now, if I can
only make them blossom all winter!"

The first spare Saturday he went over to Salem to see Mr. Thomas.
He was rather diffident, and did not like to explain his economical
arrangements, but said that he was likely to have some flowers for
sale. Mr. Thomas took him through his green-house again; and, though
there were a great many more plants, Hal thought he could show almost
as much bloom.

"I'll take your flowers," he promised, "provided you do not have too
many, and if we could manage it this way: sometimes I receive a large
order nearly a week beforehand, and I could let you know, in order that
you might bring me all you had which were really fine. And, to be frank
with you, I cannot afford to pay as much as you might get at Newbury or
New York."

"I should like to know some of the prices," Hal remarked.

"It depends a good deal upon the demand and the season; but prices
never vary a great deal."

They went round, and Hal learned a good deal in the course of his tour.


"Do you know of any place in Newbury where I could dispose of flowers?"
he asked.

"There is a Mr. Kirkman,--one brother keeps a confectionery, and the
other supplies flowers. But perhaps I may be able to do as well by you.
However, I will give you his card."

Hal and Mr. Thomas parted very good friends; and the florist gave him
some valuable advice.

"That fellow will succeed," he said to himself, watching Hal's
retreating figure. "His whole soul is in the flowers; and he blushes
over them as if they were a sweetheart. Looks pale and delicate,
though."

Truth to tell, Hal had been working pretty hard. The school was a
great tax upon him; and the labor with his plants had been severe. Kit
and Granny tried to save him all they could in the way of getting in
winter vegetables, and looking after the chickens.

Ten days after his visit to Salem, he received a little note from Mr.
Thomas on this wise.

    "Bring me on Thursday morning, if you have them, three dozen roses,
    assorted colors, heliotrope, and fine sprays of fuchsia, if yours
    are still in bloom."
