long, perhaps, and I should like to give her just a taste of comfort, if
not love, before she finds her ‘Marmar’ again.”

“Lead Rosa I’m going to take this child home, and if Uncle is willing,
I’ll adopt her, and she shall be happy!” cried Rose, with the sudden
glow of feeling that always made her lovely. And gathering poor baby
close, she went on her way like a modern Britomart, ready to redress the
wrongs of any who had need of her.

As he led the slowly stepping horse along the quiet road, Mac could not
help thinking that they looked a little like the Flight into Egypt, but
he did not say so, being a reverent youth only glanced back now and
then at the figure above him, for Rose had taken off her hat to keep the
light from baby’s eyes and sat with the sunshine turning her uncovered
hair to gold as she looked down at the little creature resting on the
saddle before her with the sweet thoughtfulness one sees in some of
Correggio’s young Madonnas.

No one else saw the picture, but Mac long remembered it, and ever after
there was a touch of reverence added to the warm affection he had always
borne his cousin Rose.

“What is the child’s name?” was the sudden question which disturbed a
brief silence, broken only by the sound of pacing hoofs, the rustle of
green boughs overhead, and the blithe caroling of birds.

“I’m sure I don’t know,” answered Mac, suddenly aware that he had fallen
out of one quandary into another.

“Didn’t you ask?”

“No, the mother called her ‘Baby,’ and the old woman, ‘Brat.’ And that
is all I know of the first name the last is Kennedy. You may christen
her what you like.”

“Then I shall name her Dulcinea, as you are her knight, and call her
Dulce for short. That is a sweet diminutive, I’m sure,” laughed Rose,
much amused at the idea.

Don Quixote looked pleased and vowed to defend his little lady stoutly,
beginning his services on the spot by filling the small hands with
buttercups, thereby winning for himself the first smile baby’s face had
known for weeks.

When they got home Aunt Plenty received her new guest with her
accustomed hospitality and, on learning the story, was as warmly
interested as even enthusiastic Rose could desire, bustling about to
make the child comfortable with an energy pleasant to see, for the
grandmotherly instincts were strong in the old lady and of late had been
beautifully developed.

In less than half an hour from the time baby went upstairs, she came
down again on Rose’s arm, freshly washed and brushed, in a pink gown
much too large and a white apron decidedly too small; an immaculate pair
of socks, but no shoes; a neat bandage on the bruised arm, and a string
of spools for a plaything hanging on the other. A resigned expression
sat upon her little face, but the frightened eyes were only shy now, and
the forlorn heart evidently much comforted.

“There! How do you like your Dulce now?” said Rose, proudly displaying
the work of her hands as she came in with her habit pinned up and
carrying a silver porringer of bread and milk.

Mac knelt down, took the small, reluctant hand, and kissed it as
devoutly as ever good Alonzo Quixada did that of the Duchess while he
said, merrily quoting from the immortal story: “‘High and Sovereign
Lady, thine till death, the Knight of the Rueful Countenance.’”

But baby had no heart for play and, withdrawing her hand, pointed to the
porringer with the suggestive remark: “Din-din, now.”

So Rose sat down and fed the Duchess while the Don stood by and watched
the feast with much satisfaction.

“How nice she looks! Do you consider shoes unhealthy?” he asked,
surveying the socks with respectful interest.

“No, her shoes are drying. You must have let her go in the mud.”

“I only put her down for a minute when she howled, and she made for a
puddle, like a duck. I’ll buy her some new ones clothes too. Where do I
go, what do I ask for, and how much do I get?” he said, diving for his
pocketbook, amiably anxious but pitiably ignorant.

“I’ll see to that. We always have things on hand for the Pointers as
they come along and can soon fit Dulce out. You may make some inquiries
about the father if you will, for I don’t want to have her taken away
just as I get fond of her. Do you know anything about him?”

“Only that he is in State Prison for twenty-one years, and not likely to
trouble you.”

“How dreadful! I really think Phebe was better off to have none at all.
I’ll go to work at once, then, and try to bring up the convict’s little
daughter to be a good woman so that she will have an honest name of her
own, since he has nothing but disgrace to give her.”

“Uncle can show you how to do that if you need any help. He has been so
successful in his first attempt, I fancy you won’t require much,” said
Mac, picking up the spools for the sixth time.

“Yes, I shall, for it is a great responsibility, and I do not undertake
it lightly,” answered Rose soberly, though the double-barreled
compliment pleased her very much.

“I’m sure Phebe has turned out splendidly, and you began very early with
her.”

“So I did! That’s encouraging. Dear thing, how bewildered she looked
when I proposed adopting her. I remember all about it, for Uncle had
just come and I was quite crazy over a box of presents and rushed at
Phebe as she was cleaning brasses. How little I thought my childish
offer would end so well!” And Rose fell a-musing with a happy smile on
her face while baby picked the last morsels out of the porringer with
her own busy fingers.

It certainly had ended well, for Phebe at the end of six months not only
had a good place as choir singer but several young pupils and excellent
prospects for the next winter.

“Accept the blessing of a poor young man, Whose lucky steps have led him
to your door, and let me help as much as I can. Good-bye, my Dulcinea.”

And, with a farewell stroke of the smooth head, Mac went away to report
his success to his mother, who, in spite of her seeming harshness, was
already planning how she could best befriend this inconvenient baby.




Chapter 17 AMONG THE HAYCOCKS

Uncle Alec did not object and, finding that no one had any claim upon
the child, permitted Rose to keep it for a time at least. So little
Dulce, newly equipped even to a name, took her place among them and
slowly began to thrive. But she did not grow pretty and never was a gay,
attractive child, for she seemed to have been born in sorrow and brought
up in misery. A pale, pensive little creature, always creeping into
corners and looking timidly out, as if asking leave to live, and, when
offered playthings, taking them with a meek surprise that was very
touching.

Rose soon won her heart, and then almost wished she had not, for baby
clung to her with inconvenient fondness, changing her former wail of
“Marmar” into a lament for “Aunty Wose” if separated long. Nevertheless,
there was great satisfaction in cherishing the little waif, for she
learned more than she could teach and felt a sense of responsibility
which was excellent ballast for her enthusiastic nature.

Kitty Van, who made Rose her model in all things, was immediately
inspired to go and do likewise, to the great amusement as well as
annoyance of her family. Selecting the prettiest, liveliest child in
the Asylum, she took it home on trial for a week. “A perfect cherub” she
pronounced it the first day, but an “enfant terrible” before the week
was over, for the young hero rioted by day, howled by night, ravaged the
house from top to bottom, and kept his guardians in a series of panics
by his hairbreadth escapes. So early on Saturday, poor exhausted Kitty
restored the “cherub” with many thanks, and decided to wait until her
views of education were rather more advanced.

As the warm weather came on, Rose announced that Dulce needed mountain
air, for she dutifully repeated as many of Dr. Alec’s prescriptions as
possible and, remembering how much good Cozy Corner did her long ago,
resolved to try it on her baby. Aunt Jessie and Jamie went with her, and
Mother Atkinson received them as cordially as ever. The pretty daughters
were all married and gone, but a stout damsel took their place, and
nothing seemed changed except that the old heads were grayer and the
young ones a good deal taller than six years ago.

Jamie immediately fraternized with neighboring boys and devoted himself
to fishing with an ardor which deserved greater success. Aunt Jessie
reveled in reading, for which she had no time at home, and lay in
her hammock a happy woman, with no socks to darn, buttons to sew, or
housekeeping cares to vex her soul. Rose went about with Dulce like a
very devoted hen with one rather feeble chicken, for she was anxious to
have this treatment work well and tended her little patient with
daily increasing satisfaction. Dr. Alec came up to pass a few days and
pronounced the child in a most promising condition. But the grand event
of the season was the unexpected arrival of Phebe.

Two of her pupils had invited her to join them in a trip to the
mountains, and she ran away from the great hotel to surprise her little
mistress with a sight of her, so well and happy that Rose had no anxiety
left on her account.

Three delightful days they spent, roaming about together, talking as
only girls can talk after a long separation, and enjoying one another
like a pair of lovers. As if to make it quite perfect, by one of those
remarkable coincidences which sometimes occur, Archie happened to run
up for the Sunday, so Phebe had her surprise, and Aunt Jessie and the
telegraph kept their secret so well, no one ever knew what maternal
machinations brought the happy accident to pass.

Then Rose saw a very pretty, pastoral bit of lovemaking, and long after
it was over, and Phebe gone one way, Archie another, the echo of sweet
words seemed to linger in the air, tender ghosts to haunt the pine
grove, and even the big coffeepot had a halo of romance about it, for
its burnished sides reflected the soft glances the lovers interchanged
as one filled the other’s cup at that last breakfast.

Rose found these reminiscences more interesting than any novel she had
read, and often beguiled her long leisure by planning a splendid future
for her Phebe as she trotted about after her baby in the lovely July
weather.

On one of the most perfect days she sat under an old apple tree on the
slope behind the house where they used to play. Before her opened the
wide intervale, dotted with haymakers at their picturesque work. On the
left flowed the swift river fringed with graceful elms in their bravest
greenery; on the right rose the purple hills serene and grand; and
overhead glowed the midsummer sky, which glorified it all.

Little Dulce, tired of play, lay fast asleep in the nest she had made
in one of the haycocks close by, and Rose leaned against the gnarled old
tree, dreaming daydreams with her work at her feet. Happy and absorbing
fancies they seemed to be, for her face was beautifully tranquil, and
she took no heed of the train which suddenly went speeding down the
valley, leaving a white cloud behind. Its rumble concealed the sound of
approaching steps, and her eyes never turned from the distant hills till
the abrupt appearance of a very sunburned but smiling young man made her
jump up, exclaiming joyfully: “Why, Mac! Where did you drop from?”

“The top of Mount Washington. How do you do?”

“Never better. Won’t you go in? You must be tired after such a fall.”

“No, thank you. I’ve seen the old lady. She told me Aunt Jessie and the
boy had gone to town and that you were ‘settin’ round’ in the old
place. I came on at once and will take a lounge here if you don’t mind,”
 answered Mac, unstrapping his knapsack and taking a haycock as if it
were a chair.

Rose subsided into her former seat, surveying her cousin with much
satisfaction as she said: “This is the third surprise I’ve had since I
came. Uncle popped in upon us first, then Phebe, and now you. Have you
had a pleasant tramp? Uncle said you were off.”

“Delightful! I feel as if I’d been in heaven, or near it, for about
three weeks, and thought I’d break the shock of coming down to the earth
by calling here on my way home.”

“You look as if heaven suited you. Brown as a berry, but so fresh and
happy I should never guess you had been scrambling down a mountain,”
 said Rose, trying to discover why he looked so well in spite of the blue
flannel suit and dusty shoes, for there was a certain sylvan freshness
about him as he sat there full of reposeful strength the hills seemed to
have given, the wholesome cheerful days of air and sunshine put into a
man, and the clear, bright look of one who had caught glimpses of a new
world from the mountaintop.

“Tramping agrees with me. I took a dip in the river as I came along and
made my toilet in a place where Milton’s Sabrina might have lived,”
 he said, shaking back his damp hair and settling the knot of scarlet
bunchberries stuck in his buttonhole.

“You look as if you found the nymph at home,” said Rose, knowing how
much he liked the “Comus.”

“I found her here,” and he made a little bow.

“That’s very pretty, and I’ll give you one in return. You grow more like
Uncle Alec every day, and I think I’ll call you Alec, Jr.”

“Alexander the Great wouldn’t thank you for that,” and Mac did not look
as grateful as she had expected.

“Very like, indeed, except the forehead. His is broad and benevolent,
yours high and arched. Do you know if you had no beard, and wore your
hair long, I really think you’d look like Milton,” added Rose, sure that
would please him.

It certainly did amuse him, for he lay back on the hay and laughed so
heartily that his merriment scared the squirrel on the wall and woke
Dulce.

“You ungrateful boy! Will nothing suit you? When I say you look like the
best man I know, you gave a shrug, and when I liken you to a great poet,
you shout. I’m afraid you are very conceited, Mac.” And Rose laughed,
too, glad to see him so gay.

“If I am, it is your fault. Nothing I can do will ever make a Milton of
me, unless I go blind someday,” he said, sobering at the thought.

“You once said a man could be what he liked if he tried hard enough, so
why shouldn’t you be a poet?” asked Rose, liking to trip him up with his
own words, as he often did her.

“I thought I was to be an M.D.”

“You might be both. There have been poetical doctors, you know.”

“Would you like me to be such a one?” asked Mac, looking at her as
seriously as if he really thought of trying it.

“No. I’d rather have you one or the other. I don’t care which, only
you must be famous in either you choose. I’m very ambitious for you,
because, I insist upon it, you are a genius of some sort. I think it is
beginning to simmer already, and I’ve got a great curiosity to know what
it will turn out to be.”

Mac’s eyes shone as she said that, but before he could speak a little
voice said, “Aunty Wose!” and he turned to find Dulce sitting up in her
nest staring at the broad blue back before her with round eyes.

“Do you know your Don?” he asked, offering his hand with respectful
gentleness, for she seemed a little doubtful whether he was a friend or
stranger.

“It is ‘Mat,’” said Rose, and that familiar word seemed to reassure the
child at once, for, leaning forward, she kissed him as if quite used to
doing it.

“I picked up some toys for her, by the way, and she shall have them at
once to pay for that. I didn’t expect to be so graciously received by
this shy mouse,” said Mac, much gratified, for Dulce was very chary of
her favors.

“She knew you, for I always carry my home album with me, and when she
comes to your picture she always kisses it, because I never want her to
forget her first friend,” explained Rose, pleased with her pupil.

“First, but not best,” answered Mac, rummaging in his knapsack for the
promised toys, which he set forth upon the hay before delighted Dulce.

Neither picture books nor sweeties, but berries strung on long stems of
grass, acorns, and pretty cones, bits of rock shining with mica, several
bluebirds’ feathers, and a nest of moss with white pebbles for eggs.

“Dearest Nature, strong and kind” knows what children love, and has
plenty of such playthings ready for them all, if one only knows how
to find them. These were received with rapture. And leaving the little
creature to enjoy them in her own quiet way, Mac began to tumble the
things back into his knapsack again. Two or three books lay near Rose,
and she took up one which opened at a place marked by a scribbled paper.

“Keats? I didn’t know you condescended to read anything so modern,” she
said, moving the paper to see the page beneath.

Mac looked up, snatched the book out of her hand, and shook down several
more scraps, then returned it with a curiously shamefaced expression,
saying, as he crammed the papers into his pocket, “I beg pardon, but it
was full of rubbish. Oh, yes! I’m fond of Keats. Don’t you know him?”

“I used to read him a good deal, but Uncle found me crying over the ‘Pot
of Basil’ and advised me to read less poetry for a while or I should get
too sentimental,” answered Rose, turning the pages without seeing them,
for a new idea had just popped into her head.

“‘The Eve of St. Agnes’ is the most perfect love story in the world, I
think,” said Mac, enthusiastically.

“Read it to me. I feel just like hearing poetry, and you will do it
justice if you are fond of it,” said Rose, handing him the book with an
innocent air.

“Nothing I’d like better, but it is rather long.”

“I’ll tell you to stop if I get tired. Baby won’t interrupt; she will be
contented for an hour with those pretty things.”

As if well pleased with his task, Mac laid himself comfortably on the
grass and, leaning his head on his hand, read the lovely story as only
one could who entered fully into the spirit of it. Rose watched him
closely and saw how his face brightened over some quaint fancy, delicate
description, or delicious word; heard how smoothly the melodious
measures fell from his lips, and read something more than admiration in
his eyes as he looked up now and then to mark if she enjoyed it as much
as he.

She could not help enjoying it, for the poet’s pen painted as well as
wrote, and the little romance lived before her, but she was not thinking
of John Keats as she listened; she was wondering if this cousin was
a kindred spirit, born to make such music and leave as sweet an echo
behind him. It seemed as if it might be; and, after going through the
rough caterpillar and the pent-up chrysalis changes, the beautiful
butterfly would appear to astonish and delight them all. So full of
this fancy was she that she never thanked him when the story ended but,
leaning forward, asked in a tone that made him start and look as if he
had fallen from the clouds: “Mac, do you ever write poetry?”

“Never.”

“What do you call the song Phebe sang with her bird chorus?”

“That was nothing till she put the music to it. But she promised not to
tell.”

“She didn’t. I suspected, and now I know,” laughed Rose, delighted to
have caught him.

Much discomfited, Mac gave poor Keats a fling and, leaning on both
elbows, tried to hide his face for it had reddened like that of a modest
girl when teased about her lover.

“You needn’t look so guilty; it is no sin to write poetry,” said Rose,
amused at his confession.

“It’s a sin to call that rubbish poetry,” muttered Mac with great scorn.

“It is a greater sin to tell a fib and say you never write it.”
