
"Thank you, Mr. Dewey. I would sooner apply to you than any man I
know--except Bradley," he added, noticing that his faithful comrade
seemed disturbed by what he said.

Jake Bradley brightened up and regarded Ben with a look of affection. He
had come to feel deeply attached to the boy who had shared his dangers
and privations, and in all proved himself a loyal friend.

The next morning the three friends set out for San Francisco, carrying
with them the hearty good wishes of the whole mining-settlement.

"You have promised to come back?" said more than one.

"Yes," said Bradley; "we'll come back if we ain't prevented, and I
reckon we won't be unless we get hanged for hoss-stealin' somewhere on
the road."

This sally called forth a hearty laugh from the miners, who appreciated
the joke.

"It's all very well for you to laugh," said Bradley, shaking his head,
"but I don't want to come any nearer hangin' than I was last night."

"All's well that ends well," said one of the miners lightly.

Neither Ben nor Richard Dewey could speak or think so lightly of the
narrow escape they had had from a shameful death, and though they
smiled, as was expected by the crowd, it was a grave smile, with no
mirth in it.

"You'll come back too, boy?" was said to Ben.

"Yes, I expect to."

"You won't be sorry for it.--Boys, let us stake out two claims for the
boy and his friend, and when they come back we'll help them work them
for a while."

"Agreed! agreed!" said all.

So with hearty manifestations of good-will the three friends rode on
their way.

"It's strange," observed Dewey, thoughtfully, "how this wild and lonely
life effects the character. Some of these men who were so near hanging
us on the unsupported accusation of two men of whom they knew nothing
were good, law-abiding citizens at home. There they would not have
dreamed of such summary proceedings."

"That's where it comes in," said Bradley. "It ain't here as it is there.
There's no time here to wait for courts and trials."

"So you too are in favor of Judge Lynch?"

"Judge Lynch didn't make any mistake when he swung off them two rascals,
Hadley and Bill Mosely."

"We might have been in their places, Jake," said Ben.

"That would have been a pretty bad mistake," said Bradley, shrugging his
shoulders.




CHAPTER XX.

A LITTLE RETROSPECT.


It will be remembered that a merchant in Albany, Mr. John Campbell, was
the guardian of Miss Florence Douglas, whom our hero, Ben, had escorted
from New York to San Francisco.

The disappearance of his ward was exceedingly annoying, since it
interfered with plans which he had very much at heart. He had an only
son, Orton Campbell, now a young man of twenty-eight. He was young in
years only, being a stiff, grave, wooden-faced man, who in his starched
manners was a close copy of his father. Both father and son were
excessively fond of money, and the large amount of the fortune of the
young lady, who stood to the father in the relation of ward, had excited
the covetousness of both. It was almost immediately arranged between
father and son that she should marry the latter, either of her own free
will or upon compulsion.

In pursuance of this agreement, Mr. Orton Campbell took advantage of the
ward's residence in his father's family to press upon her attentions
which clearly indicated his ultimate object.

Florence Douglas felt at first rather constrained to receive her
guardian's son with politeness, and this, being misinterpreted, led to
an avowal of love.

Orton Campbell made his proposal in a confident, matter-of-fact manner,
as if it were merely a matter of form, and the answer must necessarily
be favorable.

The young lady drew back in dignified surprise, hastily withdrawing the
hand which he had seized. "I cannot understand, Mr. Campbell," she said,
"what can have induced you to address me in this manner."

"I don't know why you should be surprised, Miss Douglas," returned Orton
Campbell, offended.

"I have never given you any reason to suppose that I regarded you with
favor."

"You have always seemed glad to see me, but perhaps that was only
coquetry," said Orton, in a disagreeable manner.

"I certainly have never treated you with more than ordinary politeness,
except, indeed, as my residence in your father's house has necessarily
brought us nearer together."

"I don't think, Miss Douglas, you would find me a bad match," said the
young man, condescending to drop his sneering tone and plead his cause.
"I am already worth a good sum of money. I am my father's partner, and I
shall become richer every year."

"It is not a matter of money with me, Mr. Campbell. When I marry, that
will be a minor consideration."

"Of course, because you have a fortune of your own."

"Yes," said Florence, regarding him significantly, for she suspected
that it was rather her fortune than herself that he desired, being no
stranger to his love of money.

Perhaps he understood her, for he continued: "Of course I don't care
for that, you know. I should offer myself to you if you had nothing."

This Florence Douglas thoroughly disbelieved. She answered coldly, "I
thank you for the compliment you pay me, but I beg you to drop the
subject."

"I will wait."

"You will wait in vain. I will look upon you as a friend if you desire
it, but there can be nothing more than friendship between us."

Orton Campbell was very much chagrined, and reported the result of his
suit to his father.

"I will speak to her myself," said the father. "As her guardian I ought
to have some influence with her."

He soon ascertained, however, that Florence Douglas had a will of her
own.

After a time he dropped persuasion and had recourse to threats. "Miss
Douglas," he said, "I shall have to remind you that I am your guardian."

"I am quite aware of that fact, sir."

"And I shall remain in that position till you have completed your
twenty-fifth year."

"That is quite true, sir."

"If you take any imprudent steps I shall think it necessary to
interfere."

"What do you mean, sir?"

"I shall not allow you to fall a prey to any designing fortune-hunter."

"You need not fear, sir: I am in no danger."

"I am of a different opinion. I am quite aware that Richard Dewey has
been seeking to ingratiate himself with you."

"Then," said his ward with dignity, "I have no hesitation in informing
you that he has succeeded."

"Ha! I thought so. That is why you rejected my son."

"Excuse me, sir: you are quite mistaken. I should refuse your son if
there were no other man in the world likely to marry me."

"And what is the matter with my son, Miss Douglas?" demanded her
guardian, stiffly.

Florence might have answered that he was too much like his father, but
she did not care to anger her guardian unnecessarily, and she simply
answered, "It would be quite impossible for me to regard him as I wish
to regard the man whom I hope to marry."

"But you could regard Richard Dewey in that way," sneered Campbell.
"Well, Miss Douglas, I may as well tell you that he asked my permission
yesterday to address you, and I ordered him out of my presence.
Moreover, I have charged the servants not to admit him into the house."

"So you have insulted him, Mr. Campbell?" said his ward, her eyes
flashing with resentment.

"It was the treatment which he deserved as an unscrupulous
fortune-hunter."

"That word will better apply to your son," said the young lady, coldly.
"I shall not remain here to have Mr. Dewey insulted."

"You will repent this, Miss Douglas," said her guardian, with an ugly
frown. "Mark my words: I will keep you and Dewey apart. I have the
power, and I will exert it."

Two weeks later Richard Dewey sailed for California in search of
fortune, and five months later Miss Douglas, fearing that her guardian
might imprison her in a mad-house, escaped from his residence, and,
aided by Ben, also managed to reach California. For a time Mr. Campbell
was entirely ignorant of her place of refuge. The next chapter will show
how he discovered it.




CHAPTER XXI.

MR. CAMPBELL RECEIVES TIDINGS OF HIS WARD.


"It is strange we can't find Florence," said Orton Campbell to his
father one morning some months after the young lady's departure. "Is
there no clue?"

"The detective I have employed has failed to trace her."

"Has he no theory?"

"He suggests that she may have gone to Europe," said Mr. Campbell, "but
I am not of that opinion."

"What do you think, then?"

"I suspect she has buried herself in some obscure country place under
some assumed name, there to remain till she has attained her
twenty-fifth year, when my guardianship ceases."

"When will that be?"

"Six months hence."

"It is very important, then, that we should find her before that time,"
said Orton Campbell, thoughtfully.

"That is true. After the time referred to my power ceases, and I shall
be unable to assist you in your plans."

"Her fortune amounts to one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, does it
not?"

"More than that. The interest has been accumulating till it amounts to
nearer one hundred and seventy thousand dollars."

Orton Campbell's eyes sparkled with covetous greed.

"That is a stake worth playing for," he said. "With what I have of my
own, it would make me independently rich."

"Just so, Orton," said his father.

"And nothing stands in the way but the caprice of a foolish girl! I
declare, father, it is too exasperating. Suppose we try another
detective? Your man can't be very sharp."

"I have no objection, Orton," said the merchant, "but as he would be
employed in your interest, it is only fair that you should pay the
expense incurred."

"I don't see that," said the son. "She is your ward, you know. It ought
to come out of her property."

"The item may not be allowed. In that case I should be responsible,"
said John Campbell, cautiously.

"I'll tell you what I will do, father: if she is found and I marry her,
I'll freely pay the whole expense."

"Suppose we find her, and she won't marry you: what then?" asked his
father, keenly.

The son looked nonplussed, but finally consented in that case to defray
the expense out of his private means--that is, if it could not be taken
out of the young lady's fortune.

The matter having been satisfactorily adjusted, they were discussing the
choice of a detective when a clerk came to the door of the private
counting-room in which father and son were seated and said, "There's a
man outside wants to speak to you, Mr. Campbell."

"Who is he, Saunders?"

"I think it's Jones, who used to be in your employ as light porter."

"How does he look? Well-to-do?"

"He is decidedly shabby," answered Saunders.

"Come to ask help, probably," muttered the merchant. "I think I won't
see him."

Saunders left the office, but presently returned.

"Well, has he gone?" asked the merchant.

"No; he says he wants to see you on business of importance."

"Of importance to himself, probably.--Shall I see him, Orton?"

"Yes, father. If he is humbugging us, we can send him off."

So permission was given, and almost immediately Saunders ushered into
the room a short, broad-shouldered fellow, who looked very much like a
professional tramp.

"Good-morning, Mr. Campbell," said he, deferentially.

"Humph, Jones, is it you? You don't look as if you had prospered."

"No more I have, sir."

"Don't come near me. Really, your appearance is very disreputable."

"I can't help that, sir. I've just come from California in the steerage,
and you can't keep very neat there."

"I believe you went to California to make your fortune, didn't you,
Jones?" said Orton Campbell, with a cynical smile.

"Yes, Mr. Orton, I did."

"And you didn't make it, I infer from your appearance."

"I haven't got much money about me now," said Jones, with a shrug and a
smile.

"You would have done better not to have left my employment, Jones," said
the merchant. "You wanted higher pay, I believe, and as I wouldn't give
it, you decided that you could better yourself at the mines."

"That is about so, sir."

"Well, and what luck did you have?"

"Good luck at first, sir. I made a thousand dollars at the mines in a
few months."

"Indeed!" said Orton, in surprise.

"I came with it to San Francisco, and gambled it away in one night. Then
I was on my beam-ends, as the sailors say."

"Did you go back?"

"No. I went to work in the city, and managed to get enough money to buy
a steerage passage, and here I am."

"I suppose you have come to ask me to take you back into my employ?
That, I take it, is your business with me."

"No, sir--not exactly."

"Then, what is it?" asked the merchant, looking a little puzzled. It
crossed his mind that Jones might so far have forgotten his rule never
to give away money for any purpose as to suppose there was a chance to
effect a loan.

"I thought you and Mr. Orton might be willing to pay my expenses back to
San Francisco," said Jones, coolly.

"Are you out of your head, Jones?" demanded Orton Campbell, amazed at
the man's effrontery.

"Not at all."

"If this is meant as a joke, Jones," said the merchant in a dignified
tone, "it is a very poor--and, I may add, a very impudent--one. What
possible claim have you on us, that you should expect such a favor?"

"Have you heard anything of your ward, Mr. Campbell?" asked Jones, not
in the least abashed.

"No. What has my ward to do with your concerns?"

"I have seen her," answered Jones, briefly.

"Where?" asked John Campbell and his son simultaneously.

"That information belongs to me," said Jones, quietly. "A detective
doesn't work without pay."

The two Campbells now began to see the point. This man had information
to sell, and would not give it up without what he considered suitable
compensation. They determined to drive the best possible bargain with
him. He was poor, and probably could be bought over for a small sum.

"Your information is worth something, Jones," said the merchant,
guardedly. "I will go so far as to give you twenty-five dollars cash for
it."

