Gertrude knows more of the world and is silent. What if some day Floyd
should become suddenly blinded by madame's fascinations? It is always
so in novels.

Somewhere about mid-afternoon there is a breezy voice in the house, and
a step comes up the stair which is not Grandon's. A light tap, and the
partly open door is pushed wider.

"Mr. Grandon allows me the privilege of making a call of condolence,"
the professor says, with his cheery smile, that wrinkles his face in
good-humored lines. "My dear Mrs. Grandon, did you really forget you
had no wings when you attempted to fly? Accept my sympathies, my very
warmest, for I was once laid up in the same way, without the excuse of
the stairs. Ah, Miss Grandon," and he holds out his hand to her, "have
you given up the pleasure at the park?"

"I wouldn't let her give up the reception," interrupts Violet. "No one
is to give it up for me," and she remembers suddenly that no one has
offered.

"I should be a great deal happier and better pleased to remain here,"
responds Gertrude, "but Laura would be vexed. After all, it is a good
deal to her and madame. Mrs. Floyd Grandon will take her turn next
year, when she arrives at legal age. She is yet a mere child."

"It is so, mignonne, and you could not dance with a lame foot."

"You are going?" Violet says.

"Yes, I hurried back. Mrs. Delancy was so kind as to send a note. And I
had a desire to see my friend's house on this occasion. But why were
you not moved?" and he turns his questioning eyes on Violet.

"The doctor forbade it," answers Violet. "And I want to get thoroughly
well, so I obey."

"That is good, that is good," replies the professor, in a tone of the
utmost commendation.

They have a most agreeable chat until Mr. Grandon comes in, when Denise
sends up some tea and wafer biscuits that would tempt an anchorite. The
carriage is at the door for Gertrude, and an urgent note for Floyd, who
has been deep in business all the afternoon, making up Eugene's
shortcomings.

"You must go," Violet says, but it is half questioningly.

"Yes. Gertrude, I shall be very glad to have you keep me in
countenance. We will discourse cynically upon the follies of the day
and young people in general."

"No," Violet says, with pretty peremptoriness. "Gertrude is going to be
young to-night. Oh, what will you wear?"

"There is nothing but black silk," answers Gertrude, "and that never
was especially becoming, as I can indulge in no accessories. But
Laura's dress is perfection. The palest, loveliest pink you can
imagine, and no end of lace. Luckily, Mr. Delancy has not his fortune
to make."

Floyd kisses his wife tenderly and whispers some hurried words of
comfort. When they are gone the professor drops into his own luxurious
chair and does not allow Mrs. Grandon time for despondency. He has an
Old World charm; he has, too, the other charm of a young and fresh
heart when he is not digging into antiquities.

Some way the talk comes around to Gertrude. She is so delicate, so
melancholy, she shrinks so away from all the happy confusion that most
women love. "Is it her grief for her father?" he asks.

"I don't think it all that," says Violet, with a most beguiling flush.
"There was another sorrow in her life, a--she loved some one very much.
If he had died it would not have been as bad, but--oh, I wonder if I
ought to tell?" and she finds so much encouragement in his eyes that
she goes on. "He was--very unworthy."

"Ah!" The professor strokes and fondles his long, sunny beard. "But she
should cast him out, she should not keep pale and thin, and in ill
health, and brood over the trouble."

"I do not believe her life is--well, you see they all have other
pursuits and are fond of society, and she stays too much alone,"
explains Violet, with a perplexed brow. "She is so good to me, I like
her."

"Who could help being good to thee, mignonne?" and the look with
which he studies the flower-like face brings a soft flush to it.
Torture would not make her complain, but she feels in her inmost soul
that Gertrude, alone, has been even kind. And she wishes somehow she
could make him like her better than any of the others, even the
beautiful madame, about whom he is enthusiastic.

"Bah!" he says. "Why should one go mourning for an unworthy love? When
it is done and over there is the end. When you are once disenchanted,
how can you believe?"

"But you are not disenchanted," says Violet, stoutly. "You have
believed and loved, you have made a little world of your own, and even
if it does go down in the great ocean you can never quite forget it was
there."

"But there are other worlds. See, Mrs. Grandon, when I was
two-and-twenty I loved to madness. She was eighteen and adorable, but
her mother would not hear to a betrothment. I had all my fortune yet to
make. I threw up my hopes and aims and took to commercial pursuits,
which I hated. We exchanged vows and promised to wait, and the end of
it was that she married a handsome young fellow with a fortune. I went
back to my books. A few years afterward I saw her, stout, rosy, and
happy, with her two children, and then--well, I did not want her. The
life she delighted in would have been ashes in my mouth. It was better,
much better. People are not all wise at two-and-twenty."

"If Gertrude had something to do," says Violet, "and that is where men
are fortunate. They can try so many things."

The professor goes on stroking his head, and drops into a revery. "Yes,
it is hard," he says, "it is hard." And he wonders not at the colorless
life.

But he must smoke his pipe and then dress for the party, so he bids
Violet a cordial good evening. She feels a little tired after all the
excitements of the day, and is glad to have Denise put her in bed,
where she lies dreamily and wonders what love is like.

Meanwhile the reception is at its height, and it is certainly a
success. Laura has discriminated in this affair, like a shrewd woman of
the world that she is already. The dinner had to satisfy the amour
propre of old friends; this was allowed a wider latitude. The rooms
are brilliantly lighted, and glow with autumn flowers; the wide out of
doors with its rich fragrance shows in colored tones and blended tints,
sending long rays over the river. Floyd Grandon may well be proud of
his home, and to-night, in spite of some discomforts, he feels that he
would not exchange it for anything he has seen that it was possible for
him to possess. If Violet were only here! How she would enjoy the
lights, the music, the throngs of beautifully dressed women! Floyd
Grandon is no cynic. He admires beauty and grace and refinement, and it
is here at its best, its finest. Not mere youthfulness. There are
distinguished people, who would have gone twice the distance to meet
Mr. Grandon and Prof. Freilgrath. The Latimers are really enchanted,
and Mrs. Delancy rises in the esteem of many who have looked upon her
as simply a bright and pretty girl who has made a good marriage.

Indirectly this is of immense benefit to the business, though that was
farthest from Laura's thoughts. There have been rumors that "Grandon &
Co." have not prospered of late, and there is a curiously indefinite
feeling about them in business circles. The rumor gains credence from
this on, that Floyd Grandon's private fortune is something fabulous,
and that for family reasons he stands back of all possible mishap; that
a misfortune will not be allowed.

If Eugene is not a success amid the toil and moil of business, he
shines out pre-eminently on such occasions as these. His handsome face
and fine society breeding render him not only a favorite, but a great
attraction. Not a girl but is honored by his smile, and the elder
ladies give him that charming indulgence which is incense to his
vanity. Eugene Grandon is too thoroughly selfish to be silly or even
weak, and this very strength of demeanor carries a certain weight, even
with men, and is irresistible to the tenderer sex.

If there is a spot that is touched it is his utter admiration for
madame. She treats him as if he were still in the tender realms of
youth; she calls him Eugene, and asks pretty favors of him in a
half-caressing manner that is not to be misunderstood. She puts the
years between them in a very distinct manner. She will have no
"philandering." He belongs to the young girls. She dances with him
several times, and then chooses partners for him. She is regal
to-night, that goes without saying. Her velvet is a pale lavender, that
in certain lights looks almost frost white, and it fits her perfect
figure admirably.

Laura has been disappointed in the wish of her soul, her grand stroke.

"Floyd," she said, when he came down, looking the faultless gentleman,
"you must open the dancing with Madame Lepelletier. You can walk
through a quadrille, so you need not begin with excuses. I have
arranged the set."

"In this you must excuse me, Laura," he answers, with quiet decision.
"I have not danced for years, and, under the circumstances----"

"You don't mean you are going to turn silly, just because--your wife is
not here?" and her authority dominates his. "It would not be decent for
her to dance if she were here! We never even went to a dancing party
after papa's death, until--well, not until this autumn, and I wouldn't
marry before six months had elapsed. Then, I have everything planned, I
have even spoken to madame. O Floyd!" and seeing his face still
unrelenting, her eyes fill with tears.

"My dear Laura----" A woman's slow tears move him inexpressibly, while
noisy crying angers him, and he bends to kiss her. "Do not feel hurt,
my child. Command me in anything else, but this I cannot do."

"Oh, I know, she made you promise, the mean, jealous little thing!"

"Hush," he commands. "She asked no favors and I made no promises. She
would not care if I danced every set."

"That is just it!" cries Laura, angrily. "She doesn't care, she doesn't
know----"

"She is my wife!" He walks away, so indignant the first moment that he
all but resolves to return to Violet, then his duty as host presents
itself. He and the professor and a few others keep outside of the magic
circle, but no one would suspect from his demeanor that he had been
ruffled for an instant. There is enough enjoyment in the rambles about
the lawn and smoking on the balcony. It is the perfection of an early
autumn night; in fact, for two or three days it has been unusually
warm.

Gertrude looks quite well for her. Madame has added a few incomparable
toilet touches. Floyd is attentive to her, and Prof. Freilgrath takes
her to supper, promenades with her, and is quite delightful for an old
bookworm. Mr. Latimer talks to her and finds her a great improvement on
Marcia, but the German keeps thinking over her poor little story. If
there was something for her to do! and he racks his brain. There are
no crowds of nephews and nieces, there is no house to keep, there is no
gardening, and he remembers his own busy countrywomen.

A little whisper floats about in the air that young Mrs. Grandon is not
quite--but no one finishes the sentence that Laura so points with a
shrug. It seems a pity that a man of his position and attainments
should stumble upon such a mesalliance. The sprained ankle is all
very well, but the feeling is that some lack in gift or grace or
education is quite as potent as any physical mishap in keeping her away
to-night. Gertrude, out of pure good-nature, praises her, but Gertrude
is a little passé and rather out of society. The professor speaks
admiringly, but he is Mr. Grandon's confrère, and a scholar is not a
very good judge of a young girl's capacity to fill such a place in the
world as Mrs. Floyd Grandon's ought to be. But all this creates in
his favor a romantic sympathy, and this evening men and women alike
have found him charming.




CHAPTER XVII.

Of a truth there are many unexpected things in a long life.--ARISTOPHANES.


"With whom did you dance?" Violet asks, her face one lovely glow of
eager interest; jealousy and she are unknown at this period.

"Dance? an old fellow like me?"

"You are not old!" and her face is a delicious study of indignation.
"You are not as old as the professor."

"But he did not dance, and Gertrude did not dance."

"Oh," her face clouds over, "are people--do they get too old to dance?"

"They certainly do."

"And you said you would dance with me!" she cries, in despairing
accents.

He laughs heartily, and yet it is very sweet to witness her abandon of
disappointment.

"My darling, I shall not be too old to dance with you until I am bald
and rheumatic and generally shaky," he answers, in a fond tone.

"Then it was because--was it because I was not there?"

"It certainly was"; and he smiles down into the velvety brown eyes.
"And it was very base manners, too."

"Oh," with a long, quivering breath, that moves her whole slender body,
"how thoughtful you were! And did madame dance much?" she asks,
presently. "It must be lovely to see her dance. What did she wear?"

"Violet velvet. Well, the color of some very pale wood violets, such as
I used to find hereabouts when I was a lad. Last summer I found another
kind."

She considers a moment before she sees the point, and then claps her
hands delightedly.

"They are all coming over to call this afternoon, I believe. Isn't
there some sort of pretty gown among those things that came from New
York?"

"Yes, a lovely white cashmere, with bits of purple here and there."

"And I shall carry you down-stairs. We must have a fire made in the
professor's parlor. It will be your reception. The ladies go home on
Saturday."

"And now tell me all about it, last night, I mean. Begin at the very
first," she says, with a bewitching imperiousness.

In spite of himself a quick color goes over his face. The "very first"
was Laura's impossible command. Then he laughs confusedly and
answers,--

"The professor was the earliest guest. Then the train came in and the
people multiplied."

"But I want to hear about the dresses and the music and the lovely
lighted lawn."

The professor comes up and is impressed in the arduous service, but
they are not as much at home as in the description of a ruin, though it
is a great deal merrier. Cecil strays in and climbs over her father's
knee. Her enthusiasm spends itself largely in the kitchen with Denise,
compounding startling dishes, playing house in one corner with a family
of dolls, or talking to the gentle, wise-eyed greyhound.

After lunch Floyd goes down to the park and rummages through Violet's
wardrobe in a state of hapless bewilderment, calling finally upon
Gertrude to make a proper selection. Denise attires her young mistress,
who looks really pale after this enforced seclusion. Mr. Grandon
carries her down-stairs; and if it is not a conventional parlor, the
room still has some picturesque aspects of its own, and the two
luxurious wolf-robes on the floor are grudged afterward, as Laura steps
on them. There is a great jar full of autumn branches and berries in
one corner that sends out a sort of sunset radiance, and a cabinet of
china and various curious matters. But the fire of logs is the crowning
glory. The light dances and shimmers, the logs crackle and send up
glowing sparks, the easy-chairs look tempting. They are all in the
midst of an animated discussion when the carriage drives around. At the
last moment Mrs. Grandon has given out with a convenient headache and
sends regrets.

Violet is curious to see Madame Lepelletier. The lovely woman sweeps
across the room and bends over the chair to take Violet's hand. It is
small and soft and white, and the one slippered foot might vie with
Cinderella's. The clear, fine complexion, the abundant hair with
rippling sheen that almost defies any correct color tint, and is
chestnut, bronze, and dusky by turns, the sweet, dimpled mouth, the
serene, unconscious youth, the truth and honor in the lustrous velvet
eyes: she is not prepared to meet so powerful a rival. The Grandons
have all underrated Violet St. Vincent. Floyd Grandon is not a man to
kindle quickly, but there may come a time when all the adoration of the
man's nature will be aroused by that simple girl.

"Oh," says Laura, pointedly, "are you well enough to come down-stairs?
Now we heard such a dreadful report that you could hardly stir."

"I was not allowed to stir at first." Violet's voice is trained to the
niceties of enunciation, and can really match madame's. Laura's has a
rather crude strain beside it, the acridness of youth that has not yet
ripened. "The doctor has forbidden my trying my foot for some time to
come."

"She has two--what do you call them?--loyal knights to obey her
slightest frown," declares the professor.

"Oh, do I frown?" She smiles now, and the coming color makes her look
like a lovely flower.

"No, no, it is nod or beck. I cannot always remember your little
compliments, and I make blunders," says the professor, quickly.

"She is extremely fortunate," replies madame, who smiles her sweetest
smile, and it is one of rare art and beauty. "I am sorry to have missed
you through this little visit," she continues, with a most fascinating,
delicate regret.

"And I am so sorry." She is sorry now; she feels more at home with
Madame Lepelletier in five minutes than she does with any of the
family, Gertrude excepted. She knows now that she should have enjoyed
the reception, even if she had no right to dance.

Laura spies out the china, and she has the craze badly. Madame turns to
inspect the cabinet. There is a true Capo di Monté, and some priceless
Nankin, and here a set of rare intaglios. Some one must have had taste
and discernment. Laura would like to cavil, but dares not. The
professor tells of curiosities picked up in the buried cities of
centuries ago,--lamps and pitchers and vases and jewels that he has
sent to museums abroad,--and stirs them all with envy.

During this talk Violet listens with an air of interest. She knows at
least some of the points of good breeding, decides madame. She also
asks Grandon to bring two or three odd articles from Denise's cupboard.

"You don't admit that you actually drink out of them," cries Laura, in
amaze, at last.

"Why, yes," and Violet laughs in pure delight. If there was a tint of
triumph in it, Laura would turn savage, but it is so generous, so
genial. "I wish you would accept that," she says, "and drink your
chocolate out of it every day. Won't you please wrap it some way?" and
she turns her eyes beseechingly to Floyd.

The love of possession triumphs over disdain. Laura is tempted so
sorely, and Floyd brings some soft, tough, wrinkled paper, that looks
as if it might have been steeped in amber, and gently wraps the
precious cup and saucer, while Laura utters thanks. They all politely
hope that she will soon be sufficiently recovered to come home, and
madame prefers a gentle request that she shall be allowed to offer her
some hospitality presently when she begins to go into society.

"Oh," declares Violet, when the two gentlemen return from their
farewell devoirs, "how utterly lovely she is! I do not suppose
princesses are always elegant, but she seems like one, the most
beautiful of them all; and her voice is just enchanting! I could
imagine myself being bewitched by her. I could sit and look and
listen----"
