time of it yet."

"We can't turn her adrift," added Matt.

"Of course not; but we can put four of our fellows into her and send
her home," said Dory.

It was promptly decided to dispose of her in this manner, and Dory
selected the three members of the old Goldwing club who were on board,
making Thad Glovering the temporary coxswain. Ben Ludlow was added to
the number. They objected to leaving the Goldwing just as the battle was
coming on.

"There will be no fight if I can avoid one," argued the skipper.
"Probably we shall pick up the Winooski in about the same way we did the
Gildrock. You need not hurry home, and you can see from the boat all
there is to be seen. But we must be in a hurry, for the job must be done
before the Chesterfields can get down here to meddle with the affair."

The objections were overcome, and the four oarsmen were to take the
Gildrock as soon as the Winooski could be seen. Tom Topover had got his
craft into the smooth water, as compared with the open lake, of one of
the numerous inlets when the Gildrock was captured. When last seen, his
crew were laying on their oars watching the operations of the Goldwing.

The schooner was now approaching this inlet, and the next minute or two
would inform the skipper where she was. About half an hour had elapsed
since she lost her consort. Tom Topover might have gone to the aid of
the rest of his party, and it was strange that he had not done so. The
fact was that he had been jawing with Kidd Digfield more than half the
time in regard to what they should do. The crew did not like the idea of
going out into the rough water again.

"There's the Winooski!" shouted Thad Glovering, who was lying on the
half deck at the heel of the bowsprit.

Dory instantly threw the schooner up into the wind, and Matt hauled in
the Gildrock. Thad and his crew were hurried into her, and the Goldwing
filled away again. The Winooski was coming out of the cove, and was just
striking into the rough water. Dory gave the tiller to Matt, and went
forward himself. He had the lasso ready, but he had his doubts about
being able to use it again.

The skipper directed Matt to tack at the proper moment, and the Goldwing
rushed on her course in a direction to intercept the Winooski. When Tom
Topover saw the schooner approaching, he called Kidd Digfield to the
tiller-lines, and, taking a boathook in his hand, went forward himself.

"That fellow means fight," said Oscar Chester.

"No doubt of it; he means it every time, and for that reason you had
better have a boathook in your hand, and be on the forward deck with
me," answered Dory, as he picked up his lasso. "Keep her off a little
more, if you please, Matt."

The oarsmen of the Winooski showed a disposition to abandon their oars,
for a collision seemed to be inevitable to them. Tom stood in the bow of
the barge with his boathook poised ready to strike. Dory saw that it
would be impossible for him to lasso the boat, and he removed the stove
cover from his line.

"Luff a little, Matt," called Dory; and the schooner rounded in upon the
barge. This movement seemed to be too much for Tom's nerves, and instead
of striking with the boathook, he used it to fend off. The moment he
bent over, Dory threw his line, not at the stem of the boat, but at the
body of the Topover. The noose went over his head, and dropped down upon
his shoulders.

"Keep her off!" shouted Dory.

The instant Tom felt the rope, he dropped the boathook and tried to
seize hold of the bow of the barge. The Goldwing fell off, and dashed
ahead on her course. Dory let off his line a few feet, and then took a
turn with it over a cleat. Tom Topover suddenly felt a smart jerk, which
was irresistible, and he was twitched out of the boat as a fish is
twitched out of the water.

[Illustration: "Tom Topover suddenly felt a smart jerk, which was
irresistible."--Page 168.]

With Oscar's help, he was dragged alongside, and pulled on board of the
yacht. It was found that he had the painter of the Winooski in his
hands, which he had grasped in his effort to save himself. Matt had
thrown the schooner up into the wind, and the painter was secured and
made fast. The Winooski brought up at the stern of the Goldwing,
captured by the aid of Tom Topover.




CHAPTER XVII.

THE CHESTERFIELDS AND THEIR ALLIES RENEW THE BATTLE.


Commodore Topover was bewildered by the sharp practice of the skipper of
the Goldwing. While he was expecting an assault in another direction, he
had been suddenly dragged out of the Winooski into the water, and then
on board of the schooner. The painter of the barge was made fast astern,
and Dory relieved the prisoner from the noose with which he had been
captured.

Kidd Digfield and his companions in the boat seemed to be almost as much
astonished as the commodore. They were paralyzed by the unexpected
onslaught, and the successor of Tom needed a little time to enable him
to determine what to do. Both craft had come to a standstill, the sails
of the Goldwing shaking in the wind.

Tom Topover was the first to recover his wits. He had been thoroughly
ducked, but he had not been injured in the operation of taking him out
of the Winooski. He looked about him, and it did not require much time
to enable him to take in the situation. He was a prisoner in the hands
of the students. He was in the same boat with Dory, who had knocked him
over with a single blow of his fist; and the remembrance of this fact
was the first idea that came to him.

Before Kidd had decided to do anything the wind had driven the barge
astern of the schooner, and whirled her about. In this position there
were only two things Tom's successor could do; one was to haul the boat
alongside the yacht by the painter, board her, and fight it out; and the
other was to cut the painter, and thus recover possession of the barge.
But Tom Topover considered himself as still the commodore of the fleet,
even in the misfortunes which had befallen it, and he proceeded to use
his authority.

"Kidd Digfield!" called Tom, as soon as he comprehended the situation.
"Haul in on the painter, and fetch her alongside!"

"I think your fellows had better not try to do that," interposed Dory.

"I give you two minutes to put me back in that boat," replied Tom, with
a savage glance at the skipper.

"What if I don't do it?" asked Dory, laughing.

"I'll give you the biggest licking you ever had in your life. I'll pound
you till you can't see out of your eyes," blustered Tom.

"You needn't wait two minutes before you begin, for I shall not put you
into the boat," replied the skipper lightly. "Fill away, Matt, if you
please."

Dory had seated himself in the standing-room opposite the place where he
had deposited Tom when he hauled him on board. As Matt put the helm up,
Tom made a spring at the skipper; but Dory was on his feet in an
instant, warded off the blow of the Topover, and hit him square in the
face. The yacht heeled over at this moment under the pressure of the
wind, and Tom fell back into his seat.

"We won't have any fight in the boat," said Dory, picking up a reef
pendant. "We will tie his hands behind him, and keep him quiet till we
get rid of him."

"No you won't tie my hands behind me!" yelled Tom, boiling over with
wrath.

Oscar Chester sprang upon him, and in spite of his struggles bore him
down upon his back. Dory then assisted him, and between them they had
no difficulty in putting the commodore in a position of
non-interference.

"The fellows in the boat are hauling in on the painter," said Matt, when
Dory and Oscar had disposed of the obstreperous prisoner.

"Let them haul on it," replied the skipper laughing. "They will have a
nice time of it. Keep her away a little more, if you please."

Kidd had got hold of the painter, and Pell Sankland was trying to help
him; but the former could not haul in enough of the line to afford him a
chance to assist. The schooner had got under full headway, and there was
considerable strain on the rope. Three of the Topovers had repaired to
the bow while the other three were about in the middle of the barge. She
was loaded by the head, and as soon as the Goldwing began to force her
through the water at her own pace, the craft scooped up about half a
barrel of water.

Kidd was sailor enough to see what the matter was, and he hastily
retreated to the stern of the boat, followed by his companions. Not more
than one of them at a time could get hold of the painter, and there was
no danger that the marauders would haul the boat alongside the schooner.
But Kidd soon went forward again, after he had stationed his crew as
far aft as he could get them, and began to saw away with his knife at
the painter.

Matt let off the sheets, and kept the Goldwing away several points at
once. As he did so, Dory slacked off the painter as much as its length
would permit. When the schooner straightened the line again, she did it
with a violent jerk, at an angle with the length of the barge. The
effect was to tip the boat until her gunwale at the bow went under, and
she shipped another half barrel of water.

Kidd's nerves were not strong enough to stand this kind of treatment,
and he dreaded what might come next. He retreated to the stern; but not
till he had found that it would have taken him half an hour at least to
saw off the painter with his dull jack-knife. He realized that there was
nothing more he could do.

The four-oar boats were now within a short distance of the scene of the
strife. The crews had laid upon their oars most of the time, watching
the progress of the action. The Winooski had been taken, and the battle
was finished. It only remained to dispose of the prisoners. Dory had
given the order to head the schooner to the nearest land. The four-oar
boats reached the point off which the yacht had just come up into the
wind. Tom was handed into the boat with Mr. Jepson, who was greatly
amused at the exploits of the boys. He was put ashore, but the reef
pendant was removed from his arms only when he was safe on the beach.

The tender and the other four-oar boat landed the prisoners from the
Winooski, who had concluded not to make any resistance. As the boats
left the discomfited ruffians on the shore, Tom cast a large stone at
one of them, and the rest proceeded to follow his example. But no harm
was done, and the boats were soon out of the way of their missiles.

"Homeward bound!" shouted Dory, as soon as he had taken his crew from
the tender on board.

Two oarsmen were taken from each of the small boats, for the remaining
two could easily pull them across the lake with the wind, and
transferred to the Winooski. Thad Glovering in the Gildrock was close
by, for his party had no idea of leaving the scene while there was any
fun in prospect. The whole squadron, consisting of the Goldwing and the
four row-boats, were within talking distance of each other. The battle
had been fought and won, and there was nothing to do but go home. The
Gildrock was farthest out on the lake, and she led the way. All the
fleet were in the smoother water of the cove.

"The Chesterfields!" shouted Oscar Chester, when the Goldwing was fairly
under way. "They are just coming around the point; and they have half
the Topovers on board."

"We need not bother our heads any more about the Chesterfields or the
Topovers," replied Dory. "We have got our boats, and that was all I
wanted."

"All right," added Oscar, as he settled himself in his seat.

But the skipper soon came to the conclusions that it was not all right.
The Chesterfield barges had changed their course, and were headed for
the four Beech Hill boats which had just started for home. The Dasher
and the Racer were fully manned, while the Gildrock and Winooski had
each only one-third of a crew.

"That's bad," said Dory, who began to be very anxious for the safety of
the recaptured barges.

"I thought it might be," replied Oscar. "But I think we can give them
enough of it to satisfy them in a very few minutes."

"Do you mean a fight?" asked the skipper.

"Not a hand-to-hand fight, but if either of those barges attempts to
meddle with the Gildrock or the Winooski, I should run her down,"
answered Oscar, with a good deal of vim in his tones.

"I don't like to do anything of that kind," replied Dory, seriously.
"When we smashed the Dasher yesterday, I did not intend to give her such
a rap."

"I should say it would be for the Chesterfields and their new allies to
elect whether you smash them or not. But they are making for the
Gildrock, and of course they can easily take her from the four fellows
in charge of her."

"Of course I don't mean to let them take her from our fellows," added
Dory. "Keep her away; run for the Gildrock, if you please, Matt."

Thad Glovering pulled the stroke oar of the Gildrock, and he had already
discovered the danger that menaced him in the approach of the
Chesterfield barges. He was making his crew do their utmost; but the
barge had been headed off by the enemy, who were not seen until they
came around the point of land.

The improvement in the rowing of the Chesterfields was not very
manifest. They had evidently being practising since they obtained their
smashed barge from the builder who had repaired it, and it was just as
plain that they had adopted the stroke of the Beach Hill barges.

"The Topovers are helping them," said Oscar, who watched the Dasher with
the closest attention.

"I see they are," replied Dory; "and they are making very good headway."

A Topover had been placed on the thwart with each student as far as
their number would permit. Mad Twinker was in charge of the head boat,
and he was driving his crew to the limit of their power. But the
Goldwing, even in the higher wind near the weather shore, could make two
miles to the Dasher's one. Matt was directed to run close to the quarter
of the Gildrock; and the schooner came up with her not a moment too
soon, for in spite of Thad's best efforts, the Dasher was all ready to
pounce upon her intended victim. The Racer had continued on her former
course, and was making for the Winooski. It was clear that they intended
to capture both boats. When they had done this probably the
Chesterfields would be satisfied that they had got even with the
Beech-Hillers for the humiliation of the day before.

The Goldwing was almost before the wind, and she was surging down upon
the Dasher with tremendous speed and power. The Chesterfields did not
look behind them, and they could not have failed to take notice of the
Winooski's drill on the preceding day. Mad Twinker had no little nerve,
but he was appalled at the rushing, surging, roaring approach of the
Goldwing.

"Sheer off, or I shall run into you!" shouted Dory, on the half deck of
the schooner. "If you meddle with the Gildrock I'll smash your boat."

Mad could stand it no longer, and he let go one tiller line, and pulled
on the other with all his might. The Dasher whirled around in obedience
to her helm. The Goldwing came about; Dory hove his long line to the
Gildrock, and she was dragged out into the rough sea, out of the way of
her assailant. But the Winooski was by this time in the same peril, and
the schooner hastened to her assistance.




CHAPTER XVIII.

DORY DORNWOOD DEALS IN MORAL COURAGE.


Wash Barker, the former coxswain of the Racer, had resigned his office
partly because he declined to adopt a policy as vigorous as his
followers desired. Probably his successor possessed the qualities which
Wash lacked. Jeff Monroe had seen the Dasher cheated out of her prey, as
he regarded it, and he knew he was sure to be condemned by his
associates if he failed to capture the Winooski.

Nim Splugger was in the barge with him, and this worthy assured the
coxswain that Dory would not dare to run into him. It was all bully in
his opinion. The crew expressed their disapprobation in very emphatic
terms at the weakness of Mad Twinker in allowing himself to be cheated
out of his game.

The Goldwing had been obliged to beat up to the position of the
Winooski, and her approach was not so appalling as when she neared the
Dasher. But she had gone well to windward so as to get a good full, and
she was making at least eight knots when she came within hailing
distance of the Racer. Dory gave the same warning as before, and
repeated it several times. But the Racer did not budge. Her crew were
all ready to leap into the Winooski.

Dory had fully made up his mind to smash the Racer. A collision would
certainly accomplish her destruction. It was probable that the Goldwing
would bear the barge under her bottom, and thus go over her. The
coxswain and all his crew were very ignorant in regard to the management
of a boat, and could not realize the peril to which they were exposing
themselves.

Probably most of the crew of the Racer could not swim, and, even if they
could, some of them might be seriously injured if the schooner went over
the barge. There was more than a possibility that one or more lives
might be lost in the encounter. The skipper of the Goldwing shuddered
when he thought of such a catastrophe. At the worst, the Chesterfields
could only capture the Winooski; and that would not kill or hurt anyone.
It was not a case of life and death; in fact it was nothing more than a
frolic on the part of the Chesterfields.

In another instant the Goldwing would strike the Racer, and the
calamity the skipper dreaded must come, either in whole or in part. If
he "backed down," Oscar would laugh at him, and his other companions
would rail at him for timidity. But Dory had the moral courage to brave
any censure or sarcasm rather than expose the lives of the enemy.

"Down with the helm, Matt!" shouted he with startling energy.

Matt promptly obeyed, and the sails of the schooner shook in the wind.

"What did you do that for, Dory?" demanded Oscar Chester, utterly
disgusted at the backing down of the skipper.

But there was no time to answer the question. Instead of striking the
Racer, the Goldwing was struck by the barge on her broadside. But the
blow came at an angle of about forty-five degrees, and the stem slid off
by the stern. Still it was a hard rap, and the yacht shook under its
force. Doubtless her side was dented and scraped, but she sustained no
injury of any consequence.

"Keep your places, fellows!" yelled Jeff Monroe, as the rowers began to
stand up and think how they should save themselves, for they thought
the barge was smashed in the collision. "We are all right! Keep your
places!"

The Racer was not injured, but she was thrown from her course, and
brought up with her stern alongside the schooner. Two of her spoon oars
were broken, and two more of them lost overboard, for all the starboard
oars had been swept from the rowlocks by the contact with the yacht. The
crew were in utter confusion, for their discipline was not proof against
such a scene as that which had just transpired.

"Do you mean to drown us all?" demanded Jeff. "You have made a pretty
mess of it."

"You act as though you intended to drown yourself and your crew,"
replied Dory, as he directed Matt to fill away again.

"We shall get even with you yet!" retorted Jeff angrily.

The barge had come about, so that she was now in the trough of the sea,
though the waves were not heavy; but the motion served to increase the
confusion on board of her. The crew obeyed the order of the coxswain to
