companion: she has all the defects of a passionate woman, with none of
her good qualities; she is without mercy, without love, without virtue,
without sex.

The revelation of chastity in man is inexpressibly radiant.

Misery is a tonic to some; to others it is a dissolvent.

A woman who has a lover becomes very indulgent.

Power is clement, it is open to conviction, it is just and undisturbed;
but the anger engendered by weakness is pitiless.

Monomanias are not contagious; but where the insanity lurks in constant
discussions and in the manner in which things in general are regarded,
then it may become so.

One of the misfortunes to which great minds are subjected is that they
are forced to understand all things,—vices as well as virtues.

Beauty is like nobility: it cannot be acquired.

Nothing good is to be expected of those who acknowledge their faults,
repent, and then sin again. The truly great acknowledge their faults to
no one, but they punish themselves accordingly.

Do not fear to make enemies,—unfortunate is he who has none; but try
to give no cause for ridicule, and avoid the appearance of evil.

There is as much mud in the upper ranks of society as in the lower, but
in the former it is gilded.

The most superb vengeance is the disdain of one at hand.

Laws are not always so cruel as are the usages of the world.

Historians are privileged liars, who lend their pen to popular beliefs
in the same manner that our newspapers express but the sentiments of
their readers.

A lover is a herald who proclaims a woman’s merit, beauty, or wit. What
does a husband proclaim?

A woman’s real physiognomy does not begin until she is thirty. Up to
that age, the painter finds in her face but pink and white, and a
repetition of the uniform and depthless smiles of love and youth.

Science consists in imitating nature.

Through a peculiar mental contraction, women see only the defects in a
man of talent, and in a fool but his good qualities.

Love may be heard in the voice before it is seen in the eyes.

The heart of a woman of twenty-five is as little like that of a girl of
eighteen as the heart of a woman of forty is like that of a woman of
thirty: each age creates a new woman.

Love has its escutcheon.

Man clings to life in proportion to its infamy: it is then a
protestation, a vengeance of every moment.

Glory is the deification of egotism.

He who foresees a bright future marches through the miseries of
existence like an innocent man led to the scaffold. He knows not shame.

The slow execution of works of genius demands either a ready fortune or
a cynical indifference to poverty.

No man can flatter himself that he knows a woman and makes her happy
until he sees her continually at his feet.

The Orientals sequestrate their women. A woman who loves should
sequestrate herself.

A cornice is the sweetest, the most submissive, the most indulgent
confidant that a woman can find when she does not dare to look her
interlocutor in the face. The cornice of a boudoir is an institution.
It is a confessional minus the priest.

True love appears in but one of two ways: either at first sight, which
is doubtless an effect of second sight; or else in the gradual fusion
of two natures, which is the realization of Plato’s androgyne.

A mother’s heart is an abyss in whose depths forgiveness is always to
be found.

The practice of religion sometimes causes a mental ophthalmia.

Life is made up of varied accidents, of alternating griefs and joys.
Dante’s Paradise, that changeless blue and sublime expression of the
ideal, is to be found but in the soul; and to demand it from the
actualities of existence is a luxury against which nature hourly
protests.

It is despair, not hope, which gives the real measure of our ambitions.
We give ourselves up in secret to the beautiful poems of hope, but
grief stands before us, unveiled.

The most ordinary and respectable of men will, when with others, try to
appear the rake.

Human justice is, I think, the development of the thought which floats
through space.

Through an inexplicable phenomenon, there are many who have hope, but
are lacking in faith. Hope is the flower of desire; faith is the fruit
of certainty.

A petty work engenders pride, while modesty is born of great
achievements.

The problem of eternal beatitude is one whose solution is known but to
God. Here below, poets bore their readers to death with their pictures
of Paradise.

It costs more to satisfy a vice than to feed a family.

A husband should never permit himself to say anything against his wife
in the presence of a third person.

Love prefers contrasts to similitudes.

The sentiment of wrong doing is in proportion to the purity of the
conscience, and an act which to one is barely a fault will assume to
another the dimensions of a crime.

Woman lives by sentiment, where man lives by action.

Probity, like virtue, should be divided into two classes: to wit,
negative and positive. The former would refer to those who are honest
so long as no occasion to enrich themselves is offered; while the
latter would refer to those who face temptation and resist it.

Woman, as a rule, feels, enjoys, and judges successively; hence, three
distinct periods, of which the last coincides with the melancholy
approach of old age.

A lover is never in the wrong.

Distrust a woman who speaks of her virtue.

In love, there is nothing so persuasive as courageous stupidity.

Weak natures are reassured as easily as they are alarmed.

The most incurable wounds are those which are made by the tongue or the
eye, by mockery or by disdain.

To two lovers the rest of the world is but landscape.

Expiation is not obliteration.

A virtuous woman has a fibre more or a fibre less than other women. She
is stupid or sublime.

Language in the magnificence of its phases has nothing as varied and as
eloquent as the correspondence of the eyes and the harmony of smiles.

The slave has his vanities; he would prefer to obey only the greatest
of despots.

Customs are the hypocrisies of nations.

It is not enough for a man to be honest; he must appear so.

If a man is superstitious he is never thoroughly miserable. A
superstition is a hope.

Expressionless beauty is an imposture.

A lack of taste in dress is a defect inseparable from a false
conception of religion.

It is more difficult to explain the difference which exists between
those who are swell and those who are not than it is for those who are
not to efface the difference.

If a man is clever he will appear at once to yield to a woman’s whim,
and then, while suggesting a reason or two for its non-execution, he
will leave to her the right of changing her mind as often as she
chooses.

A woman who is happy does not go into society.

Love is not simply a sentiment; it is an art.

Doubt has two faces, of which one turns to the light, and the other to
darkness.

A husband should never fall asleep first nor wake up last.

That expression of peace and serenity, which sculptors give to the
faces which are intended to represent Justice and Innocence is a young
girl’s greatest charm; if it is assumed, girlhood is dead within her.

In the lower classes women are not only superior to men, but, as a
rule, govern them completely.

To forestall the desires of a lover is a fault in women which few men
forgive. The majority of them see but degradation in this celestial
flattery.

When a love-letter is so well written that it would afford pleasure to
any third person who might read it, it emanates most assuredly from the
brain, and not from the heart.

It takes an old woman to read an old woman’s face.

It is easier to be a lover than a husband, for the same reason that it
is more difficult to be witty every day than now and then.

The woman who has laughed at her husband can love him no longer. A man
should be to the woman who loves him a being full of force and
greatness, and continually imposing. Households cannot last without
despotism. Nations, reflect upon it!

A man seldom passes without remorse from the position of confidant to
that of rival.

When two women could kill each other, and each sees a poisoned dagger
in the other’s hand, they present a picture of harmony which is
touching and untroubled until one of them accidentally drops her weapon.

Study is so motherly and good that it is almost a sin to ask of it
other rewards than the pure and sweet delights with which it nourishes
its children.

We must handle many lamps of Aladdin before we find that the real one
is chance, or labor, or genius.

In the life of every woman there is a moment when she understands her
destiny, and in which her organization, hitherto dumb, speaks
authoritatively. It is not always a man who wakes this sixth and
sleeping sense; it may be an unexpected spectacle, a landscape,
something she has just read, a religious ceremony, a concert of natural
flowers, the caressing notes of a strain of music; in a word, some
unexpected movement of the soul or body.

However malicious a man may be, he can never say anything worse of
women than they think of themselves.

One may be both a great man and a wicked one, as one may be a fool and
a perfect lover.

The ancients were right in their worship of beauty. Has not some
traveler or other told us that wild horses choose the most beautiful
among them for leader? Beauty is the spirit of all things. It is the
seal which Nature has placed on her most perfect creations. It is the
truest of symbols, and the one the most rarely encountered. Who has
ever thought of a deformed angel?

We allow others to elevate themselves above us, but we never forgive
those who refuse to descend to our level.

The customs of every class of society are more or less alike, and
differ only in degrees. High life has a slang of its own, but its slang
is termed “style.”

A fact worthy of notice is the extent to which we make engagements with
ourselves, and the manner in which we create our own lot in life.
Chance has assuredly not so much to do with it as we think.

The weakest of thinking creatures is wounded in that which is most dear
when performing, at the command of another, that which would have been
done unordered; and the most odious of all tyrannies is that which
continually divests of intention the merit of its actions and thoughts.
The word which is the easiest to pronounce and the sentiment which is
the sweetest to express dies within us when we feel that it is
commanded. We abdicate without having reigned.

The art of marriage, as of literature, consists solely in graceful
transitions.

Events are never absolute. Their results depend entirely on the
individual. Misfortune is a stepping-stone to genius, a treasure to the
adroit, but to the weak an abyss.

To forget is the great secret of strong and creative lives,—to forget
utterly, after the manner of Nature, who knows no past, and who each
hour recommences the mysteries of her indefatigable parturitions. It is
the weak who live with grief, and who, instead of changing it into
apothegms of existence, toy and saturate themselves therewith, and
retrograde each day to consummated misfortunes.

There are incommensurable differences between the man who mingles with
others and him who dwells with nature. Once captured, Toussaint
Louverture died without uttering a word, while Napoleon, on his rock,
chattered like a magpie; he wished to explain himself.

Man has a horror of solitude, and of all solitudes the purely moral is
the most terrible. The early anchorites lived with God. They dwelt in
the spiritual world, which is the most populous of all. Misers inhabit
a world of fantasy and delight; for the miser has everything, even to
his sex, in his brain. Man’s first thought, then, be he leper or
galley-slave, is to find an accomplice to his destiny. To the
satisfaction of this aim, which is life itself, he employs all his
strength and all his power. Without this sovereign desire, could Satan
have found companions?

Solitude is inhabitable only by the man of genius, who peoples it with
ideas, or by the contemplator of the universe, who sees it illuminated
by the light of heaven and animated by the voice of God. To others
solitude is to torture as the mind is to the body. It is suffering
multiplied by the infinite.

The moral of all things has puddles, from which the world’s dishonored,
as they drown, throw mud on others.

The study of the mysteries of thought, the discovery of the organs of
the soul, the geometry of the forces, the phenomena of its power, the
appreciation of the faculty which we seem to possess of moving
independently of the body,—in a word, the laws of its dynamics, and
those of its physical influence will constitute the coming centuries’
glorious share in science.

We are obliged to accept the ideas of the poet, the picture of the
painter, the statue of the sculptor; but we all of us interpret music
according to our grief or our happiness, our hopes or our despair.
Where other arts circle our thoughts, and fix them on a determined
object, music sends them flitting over the expanses of nature which it
has the power to depict.

Thought is the key to every treasure. It brings to us a miser’s joy
without his cares.

There is not a forest without its significance, not a high-way nor a
by-way which does not present analogies with the labyrinth of human
thought. What man, whose mind is cultivated or whose heart has
suffered, ever walked in a forest that the forest did not speak to him?
Insensibly there arises a voice, either consoling or terrible, and
often consoling and terrible. If the cause of the grave and mysterious
sensation which then seizes him be sought, it will be found, I think,
in the sublime spectacle of creatures obeying the destinies to which
they are immutably subjected. Sooner or later an overwhelming sentiment
of the permanence of nature fills the heart, and the thought turns
irresistibly to God.

The more illegal the gain, the greater its attraction. Such is the
heart of man.

An out-and-out criminal rarely exists, for there are few among us who
do not permit themselves one or two good actions, at least. Be it from
curiosity, from pride, for the sake of contrast, or by accident, every
man has had his moment of kindliness and benevolence.

When we condemn a fellow creature in refusing to him forever our
esteem, we have but ourselves to rely on; and even so, have we the
right to make our hearts a tribunal, and summon our neighbor there?
Where would the law be, in what would the measure of judgment consist?
That which is our weakness is perhaps his strength. To so many
different beings so many different circumstances for each act, for no
two occurrences are ever the same. Society alone has the right to
repress its members. As to punishment, I contest it; the curb is
sufficient, and cruel enough at that.

The genius is he who perpetually impresses his deeds with his thought.

When a man feels that he is destined to great things, it is difficult
for him to conceal it. The bushel has always crevices through which the
light must pass.

Women of the world have a marvelous talent for diminishing their
faults. They can efface anything with a smile, a question, or a feigned
surprise. They remember nothing, and explain everything; they become
astonished, ask questions, criticise, amplify, quarrel, and wind up by
chasing their faults away, as easily as they would a spot with a bit of
soap. You know them to be black, and in a moment they have become white
and innocent. As for you, consider yourself lucky if, in the mean time,
they have not found you guilty of some unpardonable sin.

The fortune of a new word is made when it answers to a class of men or
things which otherwise could not be described without periphrasis.

One of the most important rules in the science of manners is that you
preserve an almost absolute silence concerning yourself. Play the
comedy, some day, of speaking of your own interests to ordinary
acquaintances, and you will see feigned attention swiftly followed by
indifference, and then by weariness, until every one has found a
pretext for leaving you. But if you wish to group about you the
sympathies of all, and to be considered a charming and agreeable
fellow, talk to them of themselves, seek some way of bringing each into
action in turn; then they will smile at you, think well of you, and
praise you when you are gone.

There is no ease in the gestures of a soulless woman.

Instincts are implacable. If we disobey them we are punished. There is
one in particular which the animal obeys unhesitatingly: it is the one
which commands us to avoid the person who has once injured us, whether
the injury was intentional or accidental. The creature that has harmed
us once will be always harmful: whatever his rank may be, however
nearly he may be related to us, break with him at once; he is an envoy
of our evil genius.

Prudence consists in never threatening; in facilitating an enemy’s
retreat; in not treading, as the proverb has it, on the serpent’s tail;
and in avoiding, as one would a murder, an injury to the self-esteem of
