A few weeks later Hermia gave a dinner to Cryder. The other guests were
Mr. Overton, Mr. Simms, Alan Emmet, a young author who combined the
literary and the sensational in a manner which gave him much notoriety,
Mr. Langley, Cryder’s publisher, and Ralph Embury, a noted young
journalist. Helen Simms was there to chatter serious thought to ambush,
and Miss Starbruck, primly alert, and waiting to be shocked.

Poor Miss Starbruck! She drifted like a gray shadow through Hermia’s
rooms, and longed for her modest cottage at Nantucket. She had been an
active member of sewing-circles and reading-clubs, and the farther down
her past’s perspective did this unexciting environment retreat, the
oftener did she sigh as she contrasted its cool shadows with the hot
glare into which fate’s caprice had suddenly cast her. But Hermia was
considerate—if Miss Starbruck appeared at her niece’s dinners and
receptions, and drove with her occasionally, she could sit up in her
room and dream of Nantucket and bewail duty as much as she pleased. Mrs.
Dykman was chaperon-in-chief.

Hermia wore a gown of white velvet, simply made, and fitting in
wrinkleless perfection the free lines and curves of her full, lithe
figure. About her throat hung a silver chain of Roman workmanship, and
around her waist a girdle of similar but heavier links. The wiry maze of
her hair outshone the diamond pins that confined it.

Miss Simms wore a dinner-gown of black tulle and a profusion of
chrysanthemums. Her hair was as sleek as a mole.

The conversation was naturally more or less literary, and Hermia drew
out her ambitious guests with a good deal of skill. It was hard to curb
them when they were started, but she managed to make each feel that he
had had an opportunity to shine. Some day, when her personal interest in
life had ceased, she intended to have a salon, and this was a pleasant
foretaste. She even let Mr. Simms tell a few anecdotes, but after the
third gently suppressed him.

It is not easy to check the anecdotal impulse, and both Mr. Langley and
Mr. Overton were reminiscent. The former told a tale of a young man who
had brought him a manuscript ten years before, and never returned to ask
its destiny.

“He looked delicate, and I imagine he died of consumption,” said the
great publisher, placidly, as he discussed his pâté. “At all events I
have never heard from him since. Our readers unanimously advised us not
to publish the manuscript. It was entirely out of our line, and would
have involved great risk. We put it aside and forgot all about it. The
other day I happened to meet one of the readers through whose hands it
passed—he has not been with us for some years—and he asked me why I
did not publish the rejected book. ‘That sort of thing has become
fashionable now,’ he said, ‘and you would make money out of it.’ I
merely mention this as an illustration of how fashion changes in
literature as in everything else.”

“You publishers are awful cowards,” said Emmet, in his drawling tones;
“you are so afraid of anything new that all authors you introduce are
branded Prophets of the Commonplace.”

Mr. Langley’s blonde, pleasant little face took a warmer hue, and he
answered somewhat testily: “The publisher was brave, indeed, who
presented you to the public, Mr. Emmet.”

In spite of the general laugh, Emmet replied imperturbably: “The best
advertisement I had, and the only one which I myself inserted, was that
‘Mrs. Bleeker’ had been refused by every conservative house in New York.
My reward is that I have the reputation instead of the firm.”

“No; the firm hasn’t any left—that’s a fact,” retorted Mr. Langley; and
Emmet turned to Helen with a pout on his boyish face.

“Do my books shock you?” he asked her.

Helen smiled. “No, they do not,” she said, briefly. “I quite adore them.
I don’t always acknowledge having read them, but I don’t mind telling
you, considering that you are the author.”

“Oh, some women assure me that nothing would induce them to read my
books. I am glad you have the courage of your opinions. I scorn women
who have not, and I will not talk to a girl unless I can do so as freely
as to a man.”

“Oh, I am not a prude,” said Helen, lightly. “I only draw the line at
positive indecency, and you are quite vague enough. But do you always
talk to men on improper subjects?”

“Oh—no; I merely meant that I like to feel the same lack of restraint
with women as with men. It is a bore to call up every thought for
inspection before you utter it.”

“Yes,” said Helen; “you wouldn’t talk at all, you would only inspect.”

“Speaking of mysterious disappearances,” broke in Embury’s voice, “what
has become of that girl who used to give us such bucketfuls of soulful
lava?—the one who signed herself ‘Quirus’?”

Mr. Overton laughed, and much to Hermia’s relief every one turned to
him. “She brought me that poem I published, herself, and I came near
laughing outright once or twice. I have seen few plainer women; there
was such a general dinginess about her. At the same time there was a
certain magnetism which, I imagine, would have been pronounced had she
been a stronger woman. But I should not be surprised to hear that she
had died of consumption.”

“Is it possible?” said Embury. “Her work was strong, however. Why didn’t
you take her in hand and bring her up in the way she should go?”

“My dear Embury, life is too short. That girl was all wrong. She worked
her syllogisms backward, so to speak. Her intellect was molten with the
heat of her imagination, and stunted with the narrowness of her
experience. She reasoned from effect to cause. Her characters, instead
of being the carefully considered products of environment and heredity,
were always altered or distorted to suit some dramatic event. Intellect
without experience of the heart and of life is responsible for more
errors than innate viciousness which is controlled by worldly wisdom, or
natural folly which is clothed in the gown of accumulated knowledge. I
have seen so many clever writers go to pieces,” he added, regarding his
empty plate with a sigh; “they lie so. They have no conscience whatever,
and they are too clever to see it.”

“Then how can they help themselves?” asked Hermia, with a puzzled look.

“They had better wait until they can.”

Hermia did not care to pursue the subject, and saw, moreover, that
Embury was waiting to be heard. “What would journalism do if no one knew
how to lie?” she asked him, with a smile, and was somewhat surprised
when every man at the table except Embury laughed aloud.

Embury colored, but replied promptly: “It would probably die for want of
patronage.”

“You are right, Embury,” said Cryder. “You could not have found a more
appreciative field for your talents.”

Embury looked at him reproachfully, and Cryder continued: “I never could
resist the temptation to kick a friend when he was down. I will give you
an opportunity later.”

“Life is made up of lost opportunities—I probably shall not see it.
True, I might review your books, but to do so I should have to read
them.”

“Is this the way literary people always spar?” murmured Hermia to
Cryder.

“Oh! do not let it worry you,” he replied. “This is only
facetiousness—American humor. It doesn’t hurt.” He dropped his voice.
“Are you not well? You look tired.”

“I am tired,” said Hermia, returning his gaze—he seemed very near to
her at that moment. “Clever people, singly, are very delightful, but en
masse they keep one on the rack.”

“Don’t bother any more!” said Cryder. “Leave them to me; I will take
care of them.”

“You are good,” murmured Hermia. “When I am old I shall like a salon;
I shall like the power of it. Now—it bores me a little.”

Cryder bent somewhat nearer to her. “Do not wait too long for anything,”
he murmured. “A man’s power comes with age; a woman’s power goes with
age.”

He turned from her suddenly and addressed a remark to Embury which
immediately gave that clever young man a chance to entertain his
companions for ten minutes. Hermia found herself drifting from her
guests. She had undergone many evolutions of thought and feeling during
the past few weeks. At times she had believed herself in love with
Cryder; at others, she had been conscious of indifferent liking. She was
puzzled to find that his abstract image thrilled her more than his
actual presence. On the other hand, she liked him better when with
him. He was so entertaining, so sympathetic; he had such delicate tact
and charm. When absent, she sometimes thought of him with a certain
distaste; he had qualities that she disliked, and he was diametrically
different from all imagined lovers. Then she would make up her mind to
close her eyes to his deficiencies and to love him spiritually. She
would compel herself to think of him for hours together on an exalted
mental and spiritual plane, where passion had no place. Not that she
believed him incapable of passion, by any means—she believed that all
men were constructed on the same plan—but he was so different from that
man who now dwelt behind a barred door in her brain that she felt it her
duty, to both, to love him in a different way. She was surprised to find
that after such æsthetic communion she almost hated him. Reaction
following excess of passion may be short-lived; but immoderate
sentimentality leaves a mental ennui that requires a long convalescence.
Sentimentality is a growth of later civilization, and trails its roots
over the surface like a pine; while passion had its seeds planted in the
garden of Eden, and is root, branch, twig, and leaf of human nature.

In summing up her sensations she had come to the conclusion that on the
whole she was in love with him. No one had ever moved her one-tenth as
much before. If she had not lost her head about him, it was because her
nature had slept too long to awake in a moment. That would come by
degrees. There were times when she felt the impulse to cast herself on
her face and sob farewell to the dreams of her youth and to the lover
who had been a being more real than Ogden Cryder; but she thrust aside
the impulse with a frown and plunged into her daily life.

At opportune moments Hermia’s attention returned to her guests. Miss
Starbruck rose at a signal from her niece and the women went into the
library. The men joined them soon after, and Cryder, much to the
gratitude of his tired and dreamy hostess, continued to entertain them
until eleven o’clock, when they went home.

                 




                             CHAPTER XVII.


                         AN ILLUSION DISPELLED.

The front door had closed after the last guest, the butler had turned
down the lights in the hall, Miss Starbruck had gone up-stairs, and
Hermia was standing by the library fire. She heard some one come down
the hall, and turned her head, her expression of indifference and mental
fatigue lifting a little. The portière was pushed aside and Cryder
entered the room.

                 

The next morning Hermia stood gazing at her bedroom fire for a few
moments before going down-stairs. Her face wore a peculiar expression.
“Is there anything in love?” she murmured, half aloud. “Is there?”

She went down to the library and sank listlessly into a chair, and
covered her face with her hands. She did not love Cryder. There was but
one answer to the question now. Imagination and will had done their
utmost, but had been conquered by fact. She had made a horrible mistake.
She felt an impulse to fling herself on the floor and shriek aloud. But
the self-control of years was stronger than impulse. In spite of the
softening influences of happier conditions, she must suffer or enjoy in
her old dumb way until something had smashed that iron in her nature to
atoms or melted it to lava.

But, if she was saturated with dull disgust and disappointment, her
conscience rapped audibly on her inactive brain. It was her duty to
herself and to Cryder to break the thing off at once—to continue it, in
fact, was an impossibility. But she shrank from telling Cryder that he
must go and not return. He loved her, not as she had wanted to be loved,
perhaps, but with his heart, his sentiment. She liked him—very much
indeed—and had no desire to give him pain. He might suffer the more
keenly because of the fineness of his sensibilities. Suppose he should
kill himself? Men so often killed themselves for women who did not love
them. She remembered that she had dreamed of men dying for hopeless love
of her; but, now that it seemed imminent, the romance was gone. It would
be nothing but a vulgar newspaper story after all.

What should she do? She must tell him. She turned to her desk, then sank
back into her chair. She could not write. He would come again that
evening. She would tell him then. Written words of that sort were always
brutal.

How she got through that day she never knew. It seemed as if the very
wheels of life were clogged. The sky was gray and the snow fell heavily;
the gas had to be lighted in the house. No one called; but Hermia was
willing to be left to solitude. She was not restless, she was dully
indifferent. The grayness of the day entered into her and enveloped her;
life in the Brooklyn flat had never looked colder and barer than in this
palace which her will and her wealth had created.

When evening came she gave orders that no one but Cryder should be
admitted. Somewhat to her surprise he did not come. She did not care
particularly, but went to bed at half-past nine, and had Miss Newton rub
her to sleep.

                 




                             CHAPTER XVIII.


                        A BLOODLESS ENTHUSIAST.

Cryder did not come the next day or evening, nor did he write. At first
Hermia experienced a mild fear that he was ill; but Helen Simms called
the following morning and said, en passant, that she had met him a few
moments before on the street. Then Hermia began to be piqued and a
little mortified. For several hours she thought less about dismissing
him. The next day the whole thing seemed like a dream; she caught
herself wondering if it had really happened. At this point she received
a note from Cryder.

    “It is a year since I have seen you, but I have a book due at
    the publisher’s on Thursday, and I have been working night and
    day. After the weary grind is over you will see too much of me.
    In the mean time I am with you always. In fancy I look into your
    eyes and see the waves break over the rocks, and watch the moon
    coquet with the tides. Now the green bosom of the sea is placid
    for a moment, and I see * * * the mermaids * * * sleeping in
    their caves—

                                              “Until to-night!
                                                          “O. C.”

Hermia shrugged her shoulders. It was very pretty, but rather tame. At
the same time her pride was glad to be reassured that he still loved
her, and she once more put her dismissal into mental shape and blunted
the arrow of decree with what art she possessed.

When he was shown into the library that evening she rose nervously,
wondering how she was to keep him from kissing her. He raised her hand
lightly to his lips after his old habit, complimented her Catherine de’
Medici gown, and threw himself into an easy-chair by the fire.

“How grateful this fire is!” he exclaimed. “It is one of those horrid,
sleety nights. The horse slipped once or twice.”

“Did you come in a cab?” asked Hermia.

“Yes; I had not the courage to face that long block from the elevated.”

He settled himself back in his chair, asked permission to light a
cigarette, and for an hour entertained her in his most brilliant vein.
Hermia listened with the most complex sensations of her life. The
predominating one at first was intense mortification. There was no
danger of this man blowing out his brains for any woman. She was rather
the most agreeable woman he knew just then, but—there were plenty of
others in the world. Then her brain and her philosophy came to her aid,
and she began to be amused. She had always been able to laugh at her own
expense, and she indulged in a little private burst whilst Cryder was
reciting a graphic passage from his lately finished book. The laugh
added several years to her twenty-five, but on the whole, she concluded,
it did her good.

Then she began to reason: Why break it off? He is the most agreeable man
I have ever known; why lose him? If I dismiss him thus cavalierly, he
will be piqued at least, and I shall not even have his friendship. And I
can never love or have a throb of real feeling. All that was the
delusion of a morbid imagination. There are no men like those I have
dreamed of. The ocean rolls between the actual and the ideal.

She did Cryder some injustice in the earlier part of her meditations. He
was really very fond of her. There were many things about her that he
liked immensely. She was beautiful, she was artistic, she had a fine
mind, and, above all things, she was the fashion, and he had carried her
off. But he never rushed at a woman and kissed her the moment he entered
the room; he did not think it good taste. Moreover, she looked
particularly handsome in that black-velvet gown and stiff white ruff,
and her position in that carved, high-backed chair was superb. His eye
was too well pleased to allow the interference of his other senses.
After a time he went over and lifted her face and kissed her. She
shrugged her shoulders a little but made no resistance.

                 




                              CHAPTER XIX.


                            TASTELESS FRUIT.

She began to have an absurdly married feeling. When she had made up her
mind to drift on the wave she had chosen, she had consoled herself with
the thought that, if love was a disappointment, the situation was
romantic. By constantly reminding herself that she was the heroine of
“an experience,” she could realize in part her old wild dreams. To
create objective illusion was a task she soon renounced. No matrimonial
conditions were ever more prosaic and matter-of-fact than the various
phases of this affair.

The evenings were long and very pleasant. Cryder smoked innumerable
cigarettes in the most comfortable chair in the library, and was never
dull. Hermia began to get rather fond of him in a motherly sort of way.
One night he had a cold and she gave him a dose of quinine; occasionally
she sent him certain of her cook’s dainty concoctions. She always had a
little supper for him on his particular evenings, and took care that his
favorite dishes were prepared.

She had her intervals of disgust and fury with fate, but they were
becoming less frequent. Like all tragic and unversed women she was an
extremist. She had dreamed that life was one thing; her particular
episode had taught her that it was another. There was no medium nor
opposite pole; she had been wrong in every theory.

Ennui was her worst enemy. Sometimes she got tired of the very sound of
Cryder’s voice—it ceased so seldom. She longed for variety of any sort,
for something to assure her that she was not as flatly married as Bessie
and her husband. One day when she was more bored than usual Helen Simms
came in.

“How brilliant you look!” she exclaimed. “What is the matter with
you?”

“Ennui; life is a burden.”

“Where is Ogden Cryder? I thought he had put ennui to flight.”

“He is charming,” said Hermia, “and I am having that flirtation with him
that you advised; but even that is getting a little monotonous.”

“I will tell you what you want,” exclaimed Helen, decidedly. “You want
to see something of the champagne side of life. You have had enough of a
flirtation by a library fire in a feudal room; it is time you did
something a little more risqué! Get Mr. Cryder to take you to some
awfully wicked place to dine—some place which would mean social
