great day would come, of course, when she would marry some one else, and
when he should doubtless be buried in the ruin of his dreams, but until
then he would sustain the illusion.

And what an illusion it was! The magnitude of it appalled him.
Penniless, almost; dependent for his bread upon his ruined father;
baffled at every turn; taught by experience that he had none of the
power he seemed to feel—that was the list of his advantages, to be set
in the balance against those possessed by Constance Fearing. George
laughed bitterly to himself as he pursued his way through the crowded
streets. It struck him that he must be a singularly unlucky man, and he
wondered how men felt upon whom fortune smiled perpetually, who had
never known what it meant to work hard to earn a dollar, to whom money
seemed as common and necessary an element as air. He remembered indeed
the time when, as a boy, he had known luxury, and existed in unbroken
comfort, and the memory added a bitterness to his present case.
Nevertheless he was not downhearted. Black as the world looked, he could
look blacker, he fancied, and make the cheeks of fortune smart with the
empty purse she had tossed in his face. His walk quickened, and his
fingers itched for the pen. He was one of those men who harden and grow
savage under defeat, reserving such luxuries as despondency for the
hours of success.

Without the slightest hesitation, he set to work. He scarcely knew how
it was that he determined to write an article upon critics and
criticism; but when he sat down to his table the idea was already
present, and phrases of direful import were seething in the fire of his
brain. All at once he realised how he hated the work he had been doing,
how he loathed himself for doing it, how he detested those who had doled
out to him his daily portion. What a royal satisfaction it was to “sling
ink,” as the reporters called it! To heap his full-stocked thesaurus of
abuse upon somebody and something, and most especially upon himself, in
his capacity as one of the critics! To devote the whole profession to
the perdition of an everlasting contempt, to hold it up as a target for
the public wrath, to spit upon it, to stamp upon it, to tear it to rags,
and to scatter the tatters abroad upon the tempest of his reprobation!
The phrases ran like wildfire along the paper, as he warmed to his work,
and dragged old-fashioned anathemas from the closets of his memory to
swell the hailstorm of epithets that had fallen first. Anathema
Maranatha! Damn criticism! Damn the critics! Damn everything!

It was a very remarkable piece of work when it was finished, more
remarkable in some ways than anything he ever produced afterwards, and
if he had taken it to Johnson in its original form, the pale young man’s
future career might have been endangered by a fit of sudden and
immoderate mirth. Fortunately, George already knew the adage—is it not
Hood’s?—which says “it is the print that tells the tale.” He was well
aware that writing ink is to printers’ ink as a pencil drawing to a
painted canvas, and that what looks mild and almost gentle when it
appears in an irregular handwriting upon a sheet of foolscap can seem
startlingly forcible when impressed upon perfectly new and very
expensive paper, in perfectly new and very expensive type. He read the
article over.

“Perhaps it is a little strong,” he said to himself, with a grim smile,
as he reviewed what he had written. “I feel a little like Wellington
revisiting Waterloo!”

Indeed, from the style of the discourse, one might have supposed that
George had published a dozen volumes simultaneously, and that every
critic in the civilised world had sprung up and rent him with one
accord. “English Bards and Scotch Reviewers” was but milk and water,
with very little milk, compared with his onslaught. The dead lay in
heaps, as it were, in the track of his destroying charge, and he had
hanged, drawn and quartered himself several times for his own
satisfaction, gibbeting the quarters on every page. In his fury and
unquenchable thirst for vengeance, he had quoted whole passages from
notices he had written, only to tear them to pieces and make bonfires of
their remains.

“I think I had better wait a day or two,” he remarked, as he folded up
the manuscript and put it into a drawer of his table.

It is characteristic of the profession and its necessities, that, after
having crushed and dismembered all critics, past, present and to come,
in the most complete and satisfactory manner, George Wood laid his hand
upon the new volumes which he had last brought home and proceeded during
several days with the task of reviewing them. Moreover, he did the work
much better than usual, taking an odd delight in affecting the attitude
of a gentle taster, and in using the very language he most despised,
just for the sake of persuading himself that he was right in despising
it. The two editors who had given him work to do that week were
surprised to find that he had returned with such success to his former
style of writing. They were still further surprised when an article
entitled “Cheap Criticism” appeared, about six weeks later, in a well
known magazine, signed with his name in full. They did not like it all.

George had recast the paper more than once, and at last, when he had
regretfully “rinsed all the starch out of it,” as he said to himself, he
had taken it to Johnson.

“I did not know that any modern human being could use such violent
language without swearing,” said the pale young man, catching a phrase
here and there as he ran his eye over the manuscript.

“Do you call that violent?” asked George, delighted to find that he had
left his work more forcible than he had supposed. “I wish you could have
seen the first copy! This looked like prayer and meditation compared
with it.”

“If you pray in that style,” remarked Johnson, “your prayers will be at
least heard, if they are not answered. They will attract attention in
some quarter, though perhaps not in the right one.”

George’s face fell.

“Do you think it is too red-hot?” he asked. “I have been spreading
butter on the public nose so long,” he added, almost apologetically.

“Oleomargarine,” suggested Johnson. “It is rather warm. That
phrase—‘revelling in the contempt of appearing contemptible’—I say,
Wood, that is not English, you know, and it’s a scorcher, too.”

“Not English!” exclaimed George, whose blood was up at once. “Why not?”

“Because it is Volapück, or Malay—or something else, I don’t know what
it is, though I admit its force.”

“I do not see how I can put it, then. It is just what we all feel.”

“Look here. You do not mean that your victim despises himself for
appearing to be despicable, do you? He does, I dare say, but you wanted
to hit him, not to show that he is still capable of human feeling. I
think you meant to say that he rejoiced in his own indifference to
contempt.”

“I believe I did,” said George, relinquishing the contest as soon as he
saw he was wrong. “But ‘revel’ is not bad. Let that stand, at least.”

“You cannot revel in indifference, can you?” asked Johnson pitilessly.

“No. That is true. But it was English, all the same, though it did not
mean what I intended.”

“I think not. You would not say an author appears green, would you? You
would say he appears to be green. Then why say that a critic appears
contemptible?”

“You are always right, Johnson,” George answered with a good-natured
laugh. “I should have seen the mistake in the proof.”

“But that is the most expensive way of seeing mistakes. I will read this
carefully, and I will send you word to-morrow what I think of it.”

“What makes you so quick at these things?” asked George, as he rose to
go.

“Habit. I read manuscript novels for a publishing house here. I do it in
the evening, when I can find time. Yes—it is hard work, but it is
interesting. I am both prophet and historian. The book is the reality
which I see alternately from the point of view of the future and the
past.”

The result was that Johnson, who possessed much more real power than
George had imagined, wrote a note, with which the manuscript was sent,
and to George’s amazement the paper was at once accepted and put into
type, and the proofs were sent to him. Moreover the number of the
magazine in which his composition appeared was no sooner published than
he received a cheque, of which the amount at once demonstrated the
practical advantages of original writing as compared with those of
second-rate criticism.

With regard to the attention attracted by his article, however, George
was bitterly disappointed. He was on the alert for the daily papers in
which an account of the contents of the periodicals is generally given,
and he expected at least a paragraph from each.

In the first one he took up, after an elaborate notice of articles by
known persons, he found the following line:—

“Mr. George Winton Wood airs his views upon criticism in the present
number.”

That was all. There was not a remark, nor a hint at the contents of his
paper, nothing to break the icy irony of the statement. He pondered long
over the words, and then crammed the open sheet into the waste-paper
basket. This was the first. There might be better in store for him. On
the evening of the same day he found another.

“An unknown writer has an article upon criticism,” said the oracle,
without further comment.

This was, if possible, worse. George felt inclined to write to the
editor and request that his name might be mentioned. It was a peculiarly
hard case, as he had reviewed books for this very paper during the last
two years, and was well known in the office. The third remark was in one
of those ghastly-spritely medleys written under the heading of
“Chit-Chat.”

“By the way,” inquired the reviewer, “who is Mr. George Winton Wood? And
why is he so angry with the critics? And does anybody mind? And who is
he, any way?”

Half a dozen similar observations had the effect of cooling George’s
hopes of fame very considerably. They probably did him good by
eradicating a great deal of nonsense from his dreams. He had before
imagined that in labouring at his book notices he had seen and known the
dreariest apartment in the literary workhouse, forgetting that all he
wrote appeared anonymously and that he himself was shielded behind the
ægis of a prosperous newspaper’s name. He had not known that a beginner
is generally received, to use a French simile, like a dog in a game of
ninepins, with kicks and execrations, unless he is treated with the cold
indifference which is harder to bear than any attack could be. And yet,
cruel as the method seems, it is the best one in most cases, and saves
the sufferer from far greater torments in the future. What would happen
if every beginner in literature were received at the threshold with
cakes and ale, and were welcomed by a chorus of approving and
encouraging critics? The nine hundred out of every thousand who try the
profession and fail, would fail almost as certainly a little later in
their lives, and with infinitely greater damage to their sensibilities.
Moreover the cakes and ale would have been unworthily wasted, and the
chorus of critics would have been necessarily largely leavened with
skilful liars, which, it is to be hoped and believed, is not the case in
the present condition of criticism, in spite of George Wood and his
opinions. Is it better that boys should be allowed to remain in school
two or three years without being examined, and that the ignorant ones
should then be put to shame before their comrades? Or is it better that
the half-witted should be excluded from the first, and separately
taught? The question answers itself. We who, rightly or wrongly, have
fought our way into public notice, have all, at one time or another,
been made to run the gauntlet of abuse, or to swim the dead sea of
indifference. The public knows little of our lives. It remembers the
first book of which everybody talked and which, it foolishly supposed,
represented our first experiment in print. It knows nothing of the many
years of thankless labour in the columns of the daily press, it has
never heard of our first paper in a magazine, nor of our pride at seeing
our signature in a periodical of some repute, nor of the sovereign
contempt with which the article and the name were received. The
comfortable public has never dreamed of the wretched prices most of us
received when we entered the ranks, and, to be honest, there is no
reason why it should. It would be quite as sensible to found a society
for the purpose of condoling with school-boys during their examinations,
as to excite the public sympathy on behalf of what one may call
undergraduate authors. The weeding at the beginning keeps the garden
clean and gay—and amputations must be performed in good time, if the
gangrene is to be arrested effectually.

George Wood, as has been said before, was not of the kind to be
despondent, though he was easily roused to anger. The porcupine is an
animal known to literature, as well as a beast of the field, and the
quills of the literary porcupine can be very easily made to stand on
end. George was one of the species and, on the whole, a very favourable
specimen. Fortunately for those who had accorded so little appreciation
to his early efforts, he was at that time imprisoned in the enclosure
appropriated to unknown persons. He bristled unseen and wasted his wrath
on the desert air. He had looked forward to the publication of his first
article, as to an emancipation from slavery, whereas he soon discovered
that he had only been advanced to a higher rank in servitude. That is
what most men find out when they have looked forward to emancipation of
any kind, and wake up to find that instead of being chained to one side
of the wall, they are chained to the other.

George supposed that it would now be an easier matter to get some of his
former work into print. He had four or five things in very tolerable
shape, resting in a drawer where he had put them when last rejected. He
got them out again, and again began to send them to periodicals, without
consulting his friend Johnson. To his surprise, they were all returned
without comment.

“Go and ask for a job,” said Johnson, the omniscient, when he heard of
the failure. “Suggestion on the part of the editor is the better part of
valour in the writer.”

“What do you mean?” asked George. He had supposed that there was nothing
he did not know in this connection.

“They won’t take articles on general subjects without a deal of interest
and urging,” answered the other. “Get introduced to them in person. I
will do it with most of them. Then go to them and say, ‘I am a very
remarkable young man, though you do not seem to know it. I will write
anything about anything in the earth or under the earth. Sanskrit,
botany and the differential calculus are my especially strong points,
but the North Pole has great attractions for me, I am strong in theology
and political economy, and, if anything, I would rather spend a year in
writing up the Fiji Islands than not. If you have nothing in this line,
there is music and high art, in which I am sound, I have a taste for
architecture and I understand practical lobster-fishing. Have you
anything for me to do?’ That is the way to talk to these men,” Johnson
added with a smile. “Try it.”

George laughed.

“But that is not literature,” he objected.

“Not literature? Everything that can be written about is literature,
just as everything that can be eaten is man—in another form. You can
learn as much English in writing up lobster-fishing, as in trying to
compose a five-act tragedy, and you will be paid for it into the
bargain. Besides, if you are ever going to write anything worth reading,
you must see more and think less. Don’t read books for a while; read
things and people. Thinking too much, without seeing, is like eating too
much—it makes your writing bilious.”

“This is the critic’s recipe for acquiring fame in letters!” exclaimed
George.

“Fame in letters is a sort of stuffed bugbear. You can frighten children
with it, but it belongs to the days of witches and hobgoblins. The
object of literature nowadays is to amuse without doing harm. If you do
that well you will be famous and rich.”

“You are utterly cynical to-day, Johnson. Are you in earnest in what you
advise me to do?”

“Perfectly. Try everything. Offer your services to write anything. Among
all the magazines and weeklies there is sure to be one that is in
difficulties because it cannot get some particular article written.
Don’t be too quick to say you understand the subject, if you don’t. Say
you will try it. A man may get up almost any subject in six weeks, and
it is a good thing for the mind, once in a long time. Try everything, I
say. Make a stir. Let these people see you—make them see you, if they
don’t want to. It is not time lost. You can use them all in your books
some day. There is an age when it is better to wear out shoe-leather
than pens—when the sweat of the brow is worth a dozen bottles of ink.
Don’t sit over your desk yelping your discontent, while your real brain
is rusting. Confound it all! It is the will that does it, the stir, the
energy, the beating at other people’s doors, grinding up their stairs,
making them feel that they must not lose the chance of using a man who
can do so much, making them ashamed to send you away. Do you think I got
to be where I am without a rough and tumble fight at the first? Take
everything that comes into your way, do it as well as you know how, with
all your might, and keep up a constant howl for more. They will respect
you in spite of themselves.”

The pale young man’s steel-blue eyes flashed, the purple veins stood out
on his white clenched hands and there was a smile of triumph in his face
and a ring of victory in his voice. He had fought them all and had got
what he wanted, by talent, by industry, but above all by his restless
and untiring energy, and he was proud of it.

To George Wood, in his poverty, it seemed very little, after all, to be
the literary editor of a daily paper. That was not the position he must
win, if he would marry Constance Fearing.




                             CHAPTER VIII.


The summer passed quickly away without bringing any new element into
George’s life. He did not reject Johnson’s advice, but he did not follow
it to the letter. His instinct was against the method suggested by his
friend, and he felt that he had not the assurance to follow it out. He
was too sensitive and proud to employ his courage in besieging persons
who did not want him. Nevertheless he found work to do, and his position
was improved, though his writings still failed to attract any attention.
He had imagined that there was but a step from the composition of
magazine articles to the making of a book, but he soon discovered the
fallacy of the idea, and almost regretted the old days of
“book-tasting.”

Meanwhile, his thoughts dwelt much on Constance, and he adorned the
temple of his idol with everything upon which, figuratively speaking, he
could lay his hands. Strange to say, her absence during the summer was a
relief to him. It made the weakness of his position and the futility of
his hopes seem less apparent, and it gave him time to make at least a
step in the direction of success. He wrote to her, as often as he dared,
and twice in the course of the summer she answered with short letters
that had in his eyes a suspicious savour of kindness rather than of
anything even distantly approaching to affection. Nevertheless those
were great days in his calendar on which these missives came. The notes
were read over every morning and evening until Constance returned, and
were put in a place of safety during the day and night.

George looked forward with the greatest anxiety to Miss Fearing’s
return. He had long felt that her sister’s antagonism was one of the
numerous and apparently insurmountable obstacles that barred his path,
and he dreaded lest Grace’s influence should, in the course of the long
summer, so work upon Constance’s mind as to break the slender thread
that bound her to him. As regards Grace’s intention he was by no means
wrong. She lost no opportunity of explaining to Constance that her
friendship for George Wood was little short of ridiculous, that the man
knew he had no future and was in pursuit of nothing but money, that his
writings showed that he belonged to the poorest class of amateurs, that
men who were to succeed were always heard of from boyhood, at school, at
college and in their first efforts and that Constance was allowing her
good nature to get the better of her common-sense in encouraging such a
fellow. In short there was very little that Grace left unsaid. But
though George had foreseen all this, as Grace, on her part, had
determined beforehand upon her course of action during the summer,
neither Grace nor George had understood the effect that such talk would
produce upon her whom it was meant to influence. There was in
Constance’s apparently gentle nature an element of quiet resistance
which, in reality, it was not hard to rouse. Like many very good and
very conscientious people, she detested advice and abominated
interference, even on the part of those she loved best. Her attachment
for her sister was sincere in its way, though not very strong, and it
did not extend to a blind respect for Grace’s opinions. Grace could be
wrong, like other people, and Grace was hasty and hot-tempered,
prejudiced and not free from a certain sort of false pride. These were
assuredly not the defects of Constance’s character, at least in her own
opinion.

Her opposition was aroused and she began to show it. Indeed, her two
letters to George were both written immediately after conversations had
taken place in which Grace had spoken of him with more than usual
bitterness. She felt as though she owed him some reparation for the
ill-treatment he got at her sister’s hands, and this accounted in part
for the flavour of kindness which George detected in her words. The
