enthusiasm. They were conducted to the platform by Buckstone--Tom
Driscoll still following--and were delivered to the chairman in the
midst of a prodigious explosion of welcome. When the noise had moderated
a little, the chair proposed that "our illustrious guests be at once
elected, by complimentary acclamation, to membership in our
ever-glorious organization, the paradise of the free and the perdition
of the slave."

This eloquent discharge opened the flood-gates of enthusiasm again, and
the election was carried with thundering unanimity. Then arose a storm
of cries:

"Wet them down! Wet them down! Give them a drink!"

Glasses of whisky were handed to the twins. Luigi waved his aloft, then
brought it to his lips; but Angelo set his down. There was another storm
of cries:

"What's the matter with the other one?" "What is the blond one going
back on us for?" "Explain! Explain!"

The chairman inquired, and then reported--

"We have made an unfortunate mistake, gentlemen. I find that the Count
Angelo Capello is opposed to our creed--is a teetotaler, in fact, and
was not intending to apply for membership with us. He desires that we
reconsider the vote by which he was elected. What is the pleasure of the
house?"

There was a general burst of laughter, plentifully accented with
whistlings and cat-calls, but the energetic use of the gavel presently
restored something like order. Then a man spoke from the crowd, and said
that while he was very sorry that the mistake had been made, it would
not be possible to rectify it at the present meeting. According to the
by-laws it must go over to the next regular meeting for action. He would
not offer a motion, as none was required. He desired to apologize to the
gentleman in the name of the house, and begged to assure him that as far
as it might lie in the power of the Sons of Liberty, his temporary
membership in the order would be made pleasant to him.

This speech was received with great applause, mixed with cries of--

"That's the talk!" "He's a good fellow, anyway, if he is a teetotaler!"
"Drink his health!" "Give him a rouser, and no heeltaps!"

Glasses were handed around, and everybody on the platform drank Angelo's
health, while the house bellowed forth in song:

   For he's a jolly good fel-low,
   For he's a jolly good fel-low,
   For he's a jolly good fe-el-low,--
      Which nobody can deny.

Tom Driscoll drank. It was his second glass, for he had drunk Angelo's
the moment that Angelo had set it down. The two drinks made him very
merry--almost idiotically so--and he began to take a most lively and
prominent part in the proceedings, particularly in the music and
cat-calls and side-remarks.

The chairman was still standing at the front, the twins at his side. The
extraordinarily close resemblance of the brothers to each other
suggested a witticism to Tom Driscoll, and just as the chairman began a
speech he skipped forward and said with an air of tipsy confidence to
the audience--

"Boys, I move that he keeps still and lets this human philopena snip you
out a speech."

The descriptive aptness of the phrase caught the house, and a mighty
burst of laughter followed.

Luigi's southern blood leaped to the boiling-point in a moment under the
sharp humiliation of this insult delivered in the presence of four
hundred strangers. It was not in the young man's nature to let the
matter pass, or to delay the squaring of the account. He took a couple
of strides and halted behind the unsuspecting joker. Then he drew back
and delivered a kick of such titanic vigor that it lifted Tom clear over
the footlights and landed him on the heads of the front row of the Sons
of Liberty.

Even a sober person does not like to have a human being emptied on him
when he is not doing any harm; a person who is not sober cannot endure
such an attention at all. The nest of Sons of Liberty that Driscoll
landed in had not a sober bird in it; in fact there was probably not an
entirely sober one in the auditorium. Driscoll was promptly and
indignantly flung on to the heads of Sons in the next row, and these
Sons passed him on toward the rear, and then immediately began to pummel
the front-row Sons who had passed him to them. This course was strictly
followed by bench after bench as Driscoll traveled in his tumultuous and
airy flight toward the door; so he left behind him an ever lengthening
wake of raging and plunging and fighting and swearing humanity. Down
went group after group of torches, and presently above the deafening
clatter of the gavel, roar of angry voices, and crash of succumbing
benches, rose the paralyzing cry of "Fire!"

The fighting ceased instantly; the cursing ceased; for one distinctly
defined moment there was a dead hush, a motionless calm, where the
tempest had been; then with one impulse the multitude awoke to life and
energy again, and went surging and struggling and swaying, this way and
that, its outer edges melting away through windows and doors and
gradually lessening the pressure and relieving the mass.

The fire-boys were never on hand so suddenly before; for there was no
distance to go, this time, their quarters being in the rear end of the
market-house. There was an engine company and a hook-and-ladder company.
Half of each was composed of rummies and the other half of anti-rummies,
after the moral and political share-and-share-alike fashion of the
frontier town of the period. Enough anti-rummies were loafing in
quarters to man the engine and the ladders. In two minutes they had
their red shirts and helmets on--they never stirred officially in
unofficial costume--and as the mass meeting overhead smashed through the
long row of windows and poured out upon the roof of the arcade, the
deliverers were ready for them with a powerful stream of water which
washed some of them off the roof and nearly drowned the rest. But water
was preferable to fire, and still the stampede from the windows
continued, and still the pitiless drenching assailed it until the
building was empty; then the fire-boys mounted to the hall and flooded
it with water enough to annihilate forty times as much fire as there was
there; for a village fire-company does not often get a chance to show
off, and so when it does get a chance it makes the most of it. Such
citizens of that village as were of a thoughtful and judicious
temperament did not insure against fire; they insured against the
fire-company.


CHAPTER XII.

The Shame of Judge Driscoll.

Courage is resistance to fear, mastery of fear--not absence of fear.
Except a creature be part coward it is not a compliment to say it is
brave; it is merely a loose misapplication of the word. Consider the
flea!--incomparably the bravest of all the creatures of God, if
ignorance of fear were courage. Whether you are asleep or awake he will
attack you, caring nothing for the fact that in bulk and strength you
are to him as are the massed armies of the earth to a sucking child; he
lives both day and night and all days and nights in the very lap of
peril and the immediate presence of death, and yet is no more afraid
than is the man who walks the streets of a city that was threatened by
an earthquake ten centuries before. When we speak of Clive, Nelson, and
Putnam as men who "didn't know what fear was," we ought always to add
the flea--and put him at the head of the procession.--Pudd'nhead
Wilson's Calendar.

Judge Driscoll was in bed and asleep by ten o'clock on Friday night, and
he was up and gone a-fishing before daylight in the morning with his
friend Pembroke Howard. These two had been boys together in Virginia
when that State still ranked as the chief and most imposing member of
the Union, and they still coupled the proud and affectionate adjective
"old" with her name when they spoke of her. In Missouri a recognized
superiority attached to any person who hailed from Old Virginia; and
this superiority was exalted to supremacy when a person of such nativity
could also prove descent from the First Families of that great
commonwealth. The Howards and Driscolls were of this aristocracy. In
their eyes it was a nobility. It had its unwritten laws, and they were
as clearly defined and as strict as any that could be found among the
printed statutes of the land. The F. F. V. was born a gentleman; his
highest duty in life was to watch over that great inheritance and keep
it unsmirched. He must keep his honor spotless. Those laws were his
chart; his course was marked out on it; if he swerved from it by so much
as half a point of the compass it meant shipwreck to his honor; that is
to say, degradation from his rank as a gentleman. These laws required
certain things of him which his religion might forbid: then his religion
must yield--the laws could not be relaxed to accommodate religions or
anything else. Honor stood first; and the laws defined what it was and
wherein it differed in certain details from honor as defined by church
creeds and by the social laws and customs of some of the minor divisions
of the globe that had got crowded out when the sacred boundaries of
Virginia were staked out.

If Judge Driscoll was the recognized first citizen of Dawson's Landing,
Pembroke Howard was easily its recognized second citizen. He was called
"the great lawyer"--an earned title. He and Driscoll were of the same
age--a year or two past sixty.

Although Driscoll was a free-thinker and Howard a strong and determined
Presbyterian, their warm intimacy suffered no impairment in consequence.
They were men whose opinions were their own property and not subject to
revision and amendment, suggestion or criticism, by anybody, even their
friends.

The day's fishing finished, they came floating down stream in their
skiff, talking national politics and other high matters, and presently
met a skiff coming up from town, with a man in it who said:

"I reckon you know one of the new twins gave your nephew a kicking last
night, Judge?"

"Did what?"

"Gave him a kicking."

The old Judge's lips paled, and his eyes began to flame. He choked with
anger for a moment, then he got out what he was trying to say--

"Well--well--go on! give me the details!"

The man did it. At the finish the Judge was silent a minute, turning
over in his mind the shameful picture of Tom's flight over the
footlights; then he said, as if musing aloud--"H'm--I don't understand
it. I was asleep at home. He didn't wake me. Thought he was competent to
manage his affair without my help, I reckon." His face lit up with pride
and pleasure at that thought, and he said with a cheery complacency, "I
like that--it's the true old blood--hey, Pembroke?"

Howard smiled an iron smile, and nodded his head approvingly. Then the
news-bringer spoke again--

"But Tom beat the twin on the trial."

The Judge looked at the man wonderingly, and said--

"The trial? What trial?"

"Why, Tom had him up before Judge Robinson for assault and battery."

The old man shrank suddenly together like one who has received a
death-stroke. Howard sprang for him as he sank forward in a swoon, and
took him in his arms, and bedded him on his back in the boat. He
sprinkled water in his face, and said to the startled visitor--

"Go, now--don't let him come to and find you here. You see what an
effect your heedless speech has had; you ought to have been more
considerate than to blurt out such a cruel piece of slander as that."

"I'm right down sorry I did it now, Mr. Howard, and I wouldn't have done
it if I had thought: but it ain't slander; it's perfectly true, just as
I told him."

He rowed away. Presently the old Judge came out of his faint and looked
up piteously into the sympathetic face that was bent over him.

"Say it ain't true, Pembroke; tell me it ain't true!" he said in a weak
voice.

There was nothing weak in the deep organ-tones that responded--

"You know it's a lie as well as I do, old friend. He is of the best
blood of the Old Dominion."

"God bless you for saying it!" said the old gentleman, fervently. "Ah,
Pembroke, it was such a blow!"

Howard stayed by his friend, and saw him home, and entered the house
with him. It was dark, and past supper-time, but the Judge was not
thinking of supper; he was eager to hear the slander refuted from
headquarters, and as eager to have Howard hear it, too. Tom was sent
for, and he came immediately. He was bruised and lame, and was not a
happy-looking object. His uncle made him sit down, and said--

"We have been hearing about your adventure, Tom, with a handsome lie
added to it for embellishment. Now pulverize that lie to dust! What
measures have you taken? How does the thing stand?"

Tom answered guilelessly: "It don't stand at all; it's all over. I had
him up in court and beat him. Pudd'nhead Wilson defended him--first case
he ever had, and lost it. The judge fined the miserable hound five
dollars for the assault."

Howard and the Judge sprang to their feet with the opening
sentence--why, neither knew; then they stood gazing vacantly at each
other. Howard stood a moment, then sat mournfully down without saying
anything. The Judge's wrath began to kindle, and he burst out--

"You cur! You scum! You vermin! Do you mean to tell me that blood of my
race has suffered a blow and crawled to a court of law about it? Answer
me!"

Tom's head drooped, and he answered with an eloquent silence. His uncle
stared at him with a mixed expression of amazement and shame and
incredulity that was sorrowful to see. At last he said--

"Which of the twins was it?"

"Count Luigi."

"You have challenged him?"

"N--no," hesitated Tom, turning pale.

"You will challenge him to-night. Howard will carry it."

Tom began to turn sick, and to show it. He turned his hat round and
round in his hand, his uncle glowering blacker and blacker upon him as
the heavy seconds drifted by; then at last he began to stammer, and said
piteously--

"Oh, please don't ask me to do it, uncle! He is a murderous devil--I
never could--I--I'm afraid of him!"

Old Driscoll's mouth opened and closed three times before he could get
it to perform its office; then he stormed out--

"A coward in my family! A Driscoll a coward! Oh, what have I done to
deserve this infamy!" He tottered to his secretary in the corner
repeating that lament again and again in heartbreaking tones, and got
out of a drawer a paper, which he slowly tore to bits scattering the
bits absently in his track as he walked up and down the room, still
grieving and lamenting. At last he said--

"There it is, shreds and fragments once more--my will. Once more you
have forced me to disinherit you, you base son of a most noble father!
Leave my sight! Go--before I spit on you!"

The young man did not tarry. Then the Judge turned to Howard:

"You will be my second, old friend?"

"Of course."

"There is pen and paper. Draft the cartel, and lose no time."

"The Count shall have it in his hands in fifteen minutes," said Howard.

Tom was very heavy-hearted. His appetite was gone with his property and
his self-respect. He went out the back way and wandered down the obscure
lane grieving, and wondering if any course of future conduct, however
discreet and carefully perfected and watched over, could win back his
uncle's favor and persuade him to reconstruct once more that generous
will which had just gone to ruin before his eyes. He finally concluded
that it could. He said to himself that he had accomplished this sort of
triumph once already, and that what had been done once could be done
again. He would set about it. He would bend every energy to the task,
and he would score that triumph once more, cost what it might to his
convenience, limit as it might his frivolous and liberty-loving life.

"To begin," he said to himself, "I'll square up with the proceeds of my
raid, and then gambling has got to be stopped--and stopped short off.
It's the worst vice I've got--from my standpoint, anyway, because it's
the one he can most easily find out, through the impatience of my
creditors. He thought it expensive to have to pay two hundred dollars to
them for me once. Expensive--that! Why, it cost me the whole of his
fortune--but of course he never thought of that; some people can't think
of any but their own side of a case. If he had known how deep I am in,
now, the will would have gone to pot without waiting for a duel to help.
Three hundred dollars! It's a pile! But he'll never hear of it, I'm
thankful to say. The minute I've cleared it off, I'm safe; and I'll
never touch a card again. Anyway, I won't while he lives, I make oath to
that. I'm entering on my last reform--I know it--yes, and I'll win; but
after that, if I ever slip again I'm gone."




CHAPTER XIII.

Tom Stares at Ruin.

When I reflect upon the number of disagreeable people who I know have
gone to a better world, I am moved to lead a different life.--Pudd'nhead
Wilson's Calendar.

October. This is one of the peculiarly dangerous months to speculate in
stocks in. The others are July, January, September, April, November,
May, March, June, December, August, and February.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's
Calendar.

Thus mournfully communing with himself Tom moped along the lane past
Pudd'nhead Wilson's house, and still on and on between fences inclosing
vacant country on each hand till he neared the haunted house, then he
came moping back again, with many sighs and heavy with trouble. He
sorely wanted cheerful company. Rowena! His heart gave a bound at the
thought, but the next thought quieted it--the detested twins would be
there.

He was on the inhabited side of Wilson's house, and now as he approached
it he noticed that the sitting-room was lighted. This would do; others
made him feel unwelcome sometimes, but Wilson never failed in courtesy
toward him, and a kindly courtesy does at least save one's feelings,
even if it is not professing to stand for a welcome. Wilson heard
footsteps at his threshold, then the clearing of a throat.

"It's that fickle-tempered, dissipated young goose--poor devil, he find
friends pretty scarce to-day, likely, after the disgrace of carrying a
personal-assault case into a law-court."

A dejected knock. "Come in!"

Tom entered, and drooped into a chair, without saying anything. Wilson
said kindly--

"Why, my boy, you look desolate. Don't take it so hard. Try and forget
you have been kicked."

"Oh, dear," said Tom, wretchedly, "it's not that, Pudd'nhead--it's not
that. It's a thousand times worse than that--oh, yes, a million times
worse."

"Why, Tom, what do you mean? Has Rowena--"

"Flung me? No, but the old man has."

Wilson said to himself, "Aha!" and thought of the mysterious girl in the
bedroom. "The Driscolls have been making discoveries!" Then he said
aloud, gravely:

"Tom, there are some kinds of dissipation which--"

"Oh, shucks, this hasn't got anything to do with dissipation. He wanted
me to challenge that derned Italian savage, and I wouldn't do it."
