
“Jack!” exclaimed Katharine, almost offended at the idea.

“Yes--well,” he continued, rapidly, “it isn’t possible to say which has
done the most, or said the most, for the other’s sake. I think you’ve
done more for me than I have for you, if you want to know--but that’s
been the result of circumstances. You know I’d have done anything under
the sun, at any moment, don’t you?”

“Of course I do! Do you think I’d have made you marry me if I hadn’t
known that?”

“Well--that’s all right. As for saying things--I’ve said a great deal
more than you have. I’ve told you I love you several hundred thousand
times in the last year or two--haven’t I?”

“Yes--I’ve not counted.” Katharine smiled, but Ralston did not see his
advantage.

“I don’t say that I’ve found many new words to say it with,” he pursued.
“It doesn’t always seem to need new words, and if it did--well, I’m not
an author, you know. I’m not Frank Miner. I can’t go about with a
dictionary in my pocket, looking up new suits of clothes for my feelings
every time I want to air them. And sometimes I’ve said it to please you,
just because I knew you wanted me to say it and would be disappointed if
I didn’t. You see how frank I am.”

“Yes--you’re very frank!” She laughed a little, but rather hardly, as
though something hurt her.

“Don’t misunderstand me, dear,” he said, quickly. “You do--I see you do.
It’s just because I won’t be misunderstood that I’m talking as I am.
What I’m driving at is this. It isn’t true that words never mean
anything, as some people say--”

“Who says so? What nonsense!”

“Oh--people say it--books do--when the authors can’t find the words
people really say when they mean things. But it’s not true. Words mean a
great deal, when they do--when they just come because they must, you
know, in spite of everything and everybody--when they’ve strength enough
to force themselves out, instead of being dragged out, like olives out
of a bottle, and presented to you on a plate. But when they’re real,
they’re very real, with all of one, like pain or pleasure. Actions
always mean something. That’s the point. There’s no possible mistake
when a man does things that need a lot of doing, and don’t come easily.
Then you know he’s in earnest, if you’ll only look at what he does.
Don’t you think that’s true, Katharine?”

“Yes--oh, yes! That’s true enough. But it needn’t prevent a man from
saying that he cares--”

“Of course not--but if he doesn’t happen to want to say it just at that
moment--”

“But you should always want to say it. Don’t you always feel it?” She
looked at him in an odd surprise.

“Feel it--yes--always,” he answered, quickly. “But I don’t always want
to say just what I feel. Do you?”

“No. But that’s different. It makes me so happy when you say it, as you
can say it sometimes.”

“And don’t you think it makes me happy when you say it?” he retorted.
“And you don’t say it half as often as I do, I’m sure.”

“Don’t I? But I feel it, Jack.” Her eyes sought his, and found them
looking at her.

“Well--then--don’t you understand?” he asked.

But his voice was low, and it hardly reached her ears as the carriage
rumbled along, though she knew that his lips moved, and she tried hard
to catch the sounds. For a few seconds longer they looked into one
another’s eyes. Then, without word or warning, Ralston took his wife in
his arms and kissed her passionately again and again.

No one in the street could have seen, for the shades were half down and
the evening light was waning. The sun had just set, and the dark red
houses were floating in the afterglow, as everything seems to float when
twilight lifts reality from the earth into its dreamland. And the
carriage rolled and rumbled steadily along. But within it there was
silence for a while, as heart beat with heart and breath breathed with
breath.

“Jack--let me go to the Brights’,” said Katharine, suddenly, after what
had seemed a very long time.

Her voice was quite changed. It sounded so soft and touching that
Ralston could not resist it, being taken unawares.

“Dear--if you’d so much rather,” he answered, with hardly any
hesitation.

“Then tell the coachman, please,” she replied at once, without giving
him time to change his mind.

It was instinctive, and she could not help it. He yielded almost without
reluctance, and lowering the window in the front of the carriage, spoke
to the coachman. Katharine breathed a sigh of relief.

“I’m so glad--oh, I’m so glad!” she cried, leaning far back in her seat.
“I couldn’t have stood Crowdie for a whole evening!”

Ralston said nothing in answer, for he was already repenting of his
weakness, and the vision of his friend’s face rose before him, with all
its habitual calm cheerfulness suddenly twisted out of it.

“Thank you, dear,” said Katharine, softly laying her sound hand upon
his. “That was sweet of you. You don’t know how I feel about it. And
you’ll come in this evening, won’t you? Then perhaps Ham will go out.
And Mrs. Bright always goes to bed early, so we can have an hour or two
all to ourselves.”

“Certainly,” answered Ralston, a little absently, for he was thinking
more of Bright than of himself just then.

Katharine withdrew her hand from his, not quickly, nor so that he should
think she was hurt again by his tone. And she really suppressed the
little sigh of disappointment which rose to her lips.

They had been already in Fourth Avenue when Ralston had given the new
direction to the coachman, and he had turned his horses and was driving
back. The Brights lived in a small but pretty house in Park Avenue, on
Murray Hill. It was some distance to go back.

“Jack,” said Katharine, quietly, “Hamilton Bright’s your friend. Don’t
you think you’d better tell him that we’re married, and put him out of
his misery? Don’t you think it would be much more kind? You can trust
him, can’t you?”

“Just as I’d trust myself,” answered Ralston, without hesitation. “It’s
for your sake, dear--otherwise, I should have told him long ago. But you
know what most people think of secret marriages, and Ham’s full of queer
prejudices. Even the West couldn’t knock them out of him. He’s the most
terrific conservative about some things. That’s the reason why I never
thought of suggesting that I might tell him. Of course--if you’d rather.
It would be a blow to him, I think, but at the same time it’s much
better that he should know, for his own sake. Only--I’d rather not tell
him while you’re in the house.”

“Oh--if it’s going to make any difference about my staying there, we’d
better wait,” answered Katharine. “Of course--I hadn’t thought of that.
I suppose it would make it all the worse, just at first. He wouldn’t
like to see me. But he must have known, long ago, that we were engaged,
and that he had no chance.”

“The one doesn’t follow the other,” answered Ralston. “A man like Ham
doesn’t give up hope until the girl he loves is married and done for.”

“Married and done for! Jack! How you talk!”

“Oh--it’s a way of saying that she’s out of reach, that’s all. I’ve
heard you say it lots of times. No,” he continued, after a moment’s
pause, “I think it would be kinder to wait till you come away. But of
course I could tell him any day, down town.”

“Do as you think best, dear. Whatever you do will be right. Only--” She
stopped, and looked out of the window on her right, away from Ralston.

“Only what?” he asked.

“Only love me!” she cried, almost fiercely, and turning upon him so
quickly that she pressed her injured right arm against the side of the
carriage. “Only love me as I want to be loved--as I must be loved--”

The passion in her outran the pain of the physical hurt, that crept
after it and reached her a moment later, so that she turned a little
pale. Jack did not know of that, and in his eyes the pallor was of the
heart, as the voice was, and the words. It made her more beautiful, and
made love seem more true. Then his own heart beat hard, answering the
call of hers, as wave answers wave, and his arms were around her again
in an instant.

But at that moment the carriage stopped before the Brights’ house. A
smile came into the face of both of them as they drew back from one
another. Then Ralston opened the door and got out.

It might not have been easy to explain to Mrs. Bright exactly why
Katharine had arrived unexpectedly with a box and a valise to stay three
or four days with her, instead of going to her own house at such a time.
She knew, of course, that the young girl had been at Robert Lauderdale’s
during the last twenty-four hours. But Mrs. Bright wanted no
explanations, and was overjoyed to have Katharine for any reason, or
without any. She received her with open arms, ordered her things to be
taken upstairs, asked Ralston to stay and have some tea, and at once
began making many enquiries about Katharine’s arm. Ralston went away
immediately, however. After being alone with Katharine in the carriage,
as he had been, he did not care to sit still and listen to the excellent
Mrs. Bright’s questions.

“Thank you, dear,” said Katharine again, in an undertone, as he bade her
good-bye. “Come this evening. May Jack come this evening, aunt Maggie?”
she asked, turning to Mrs. Bright.

“Of course, my dear--whenever he likes,” answered the cheerful lady.

Mrs. Bright was a great-granddaughter of the primeval Alexander. Her
mother had been Margaret Lauderdale. By no possible interpretation of
the relationship was she entitled to be considered the aunt of any
member of the tribe. But they one and all called her aunt Maggie. Even
the three Miss Miners, who were nieces of Mr. Bright’s father, called
her so, and the custom had become fixed and unchangeable in the course
of many years. Of late, even grandpapa Lauderdale, the philanthropist,
had fallen into the habit, much to the amusement of everybody.

Mrs. Bright was a huge, fair, happy-faced woman with an amazingly kind
heart and a fresh face, peculiar from the apparent absence of
eyebrows--which existed, indeed, but were almost white by nature. She
had the busy manner peculiar to a certain type of very stout people.
When she was not asleep she was doing good to somebody--but she slept a
great deal. Her tastes were marvellously good, highly refined, and very
fastidious. Cleanliness is a virtue next to godliness, according to the
proverb--and since a number of persons have relegated godliness to the
catalogue of obsolete superstitions, cleanliness with them, at least,
should stand first of all. But Mrs. Bright’s mania was specklessness
surpassing all dreams of cleanliness, as pure spring water surpasses
soap as a symbol of purity. She took care to see that her house was
swept, and she garnished it herself. She exhaled a faint suggestion of
sprigs of lavender.

Hamilton Bright inherited his fresh complexion, sturdy build, and solid
good humour from her, but a certain shyness and reserve which were among
his characteristics had come to him from his father.

To Katharine’s surprise, he was already at home, and came down to see
her as soon as he heard that she was in the house. He sat down by the
little tea-table which stood between her and his mother, and he wondered
inwardly why she had come. He was pleased, however, and it seemed to him
that her coming crowned the day which had brought him such vast and
unexpected good fortune. There are men who love with all their hearts
and who are not loved in return, nor have any hope of such love, whose
greatest happiness is to see the vainly worshipped object of their
misplaced affections under just such circumstances. Bright was delighted
that Katharine should be his guest and his mother’s--she was his guest
first, in his thoughts, and it gave him the keenest pleasure to see her
drinking his and his mother’s tea out of his and his mother’s old
Dresden teacups, just as though it were her own, and thinking it just as
good.

He asked no questions, and he thought of no answers which she might give
if he asked any. He was simply pleased, and wished nothing to interfere
with his satisfaction as long as it might last.

“It’s awfully jolly to see you here,” he said, after he had looked at
her for nearly a minute.

“Well, you can’t be half as pleased as I am,” she answered. “I was there
all last night, you know, and all to-day. It’s grim. I couldn’t stand it
any longer. And I knew they didn’t exactly expect me at home--and I
didn’t want to go to Hester’s, so I thought I’d drop down upon you
without warning, as I knew you had nobody staying with you. But it was
rather a calm thing to do, now that I think of it--wasn’t it, aunt
Maggie?”

Mrs. Bright beamed, smiled, kissed her fingers to the young girl, and
then did perfectly useless things with the silver tea-strainer, rinsing
it again with boiling water, and touching it fastidiously, as though it
might possibly soil her immaculate hands.




CHAPTER XVII.


Katharine had expected to spend a quiet evening with Ralston. She had
counted upon Mrs. Bright’s sleepiness, which was overpowering when it
suddenly came upon her, and upon Hamilton Bright’s tact. She thought
that he would very probably go out soon after dinner and not appear
again. But she was very much mistaken in her calculations.

When she came down to dinner she found Bright already in the library. He
was bending over a low table and looking at a new book when she entered,
and she saw a broad, flat expanse of black shoulders, just surmounted by
a round, flaxen head. As he heard her step behind him he straightened
himself and turned round to meet her. He put out his hand. She seemed a
little surprised at this, since they had exchanged all the usual
greetings when she had come, but she took it with her left, with an
unconscious awkwardness which touched him. She laughed a little.

“It’s not easy with my left,” she said. “It doesn’t come right--besides,
we’ve shaken hands before.”

“I know,” he answered. “But it doesn’t do any harm to do it again, you
know.”

It gave him pleasure to touch even the tips of her fingers.

“You have a sort of classic look,” he said, glancing at her dress.
“Toga--you know--that sort of thing.”

“I don’t know how I’m dressed, I’m sure,” she answered. “It’s such a
bore to have one’s arm in a sling.”

She wore black. Her left side was fitted closely by the soft material,
and she had a certain little silver pin at her throat, which had
associations for her. She had worn it on the morning of her marriage
with John Ralston, and seldom appeared without it, though it was a most
insignificant little ornament. Over her right shoulder and arm she had
draped a piece of black silk and some lace. Mrs. Bright had come to her
room and arranged it for her with unerring skill and taste. It fell
gracefully almost to her feet, whence Bright’s remark about the toga.

“I should think it would be rather worse than a bore,” he said. “It must
hurt all the time. I wonder you keep up at all. But I’m glad you’ve come
down before my mother. I wanted to say something to you about all that’s
happened. You don’t mind, do you?”

“Why should I mind?” asked Katharine, smiling at the little timidity
which had checked him with its question.

“Well--you know--it’s about the will. There may be trouble about it.
Your father may wish to break it if he can. It’s not unnatural. But of
course, if he does, there’s going to be a most terrific row all round.
We shall all be raging furiously together like the heathen in about a
week, if he attacks the will. The Thirty Years’ War wouldn’t be in it,
with the row there’s going to be.”

“You take a cheerful view, cousin Ham,” said Katharine, with a smile.
“Who’s going to fight whom?”

“You and I are going to be on opposite sides,” answered Bright, gravely,
and fixing his clear blue eyes on her face.

“Well--what difference does that make?” she asked. “I mean, what
personal difference? We shall be just as good friends, shan’t we?”

“Ah--that’s it! Shall we?” He continued to watch her earnestly.

“Why not?” she asked, returning his gaze quietly. “What earthly
difference can it make to me? Of course, I hope papa won’t do anything
of the kind. We shall all have such heaps of money that I can’t see why
we should fight about a little, more or less--”

“No--but if he breaks the will, my mother and Hester and I shall get
nothing at all, and of course I shall fight it like anything. You
understand that, don’t you? It’s rather a big thing, you know--it’s
forty millions or nothing, because we’re not next of kin. You’ll
understand why I shall fight it, won’t you?”

He asked the last question very anxiously, and in his broad face there
was a curious struggle between the fighting instinct, expressed in the
setting of the firm jaw, and the painful fear of being misunderstood,
which showed itself in the entreating glance of the eyes.

“I understand perfectly,” answered Katharine. “It’s your duty to fight
it--of course.”

“I’m so glad you look at it in that way,” he said. “Because if you
didn’t--” He paused in the middle of the sentence.

“If I didn’t, I should be very stupid,” observed Katharine.

“No, no! I mean--if I thought you couldn’t understand it--well, I’ll be
hanged if I wouldn’t pretty nearly let the millions go, rather than
displease you!”

He blurted out the last words bluntly, as such men say wild but
sincerely meant things. Katharine understood.

“Please don’t say such foolish things, cousin Ham. You know it’s
perfectly absurd to talk of sacrificing a fortune in that way. Besides,
you’d have no right not to fight your best. Two-thirds of what you’ll
get will go to your mother and sister. You haven’t the slightest right
even to think of the possibility of sacrificing aunt Maggie and Hester.”

“No. I suppose I’ve not. And I know that it isn’t as though you weren’t
to have a big fortune anyway, however it turns out. Perhaps I’m a fool,
but I simply can’t bear to think of being opposed to you in anything.
That’s the plain fact, in two words.”

Katharine heard a sort of unsteadiness in the tone, and looked at him
for a moment in silence.

“Thank you, cousin Ham,” she said. “You’re a good friend. Thank you.”
She laid her hand upon his arm for an instant.

“That’s better than millions,” answered Bright, in an undertone, for his
mother was just entering the room.

Mrs. Bright might well be pardoned if she did not assume a lugubrious
and funereal expression that evening. To her, Robert Lauderdale had been
a distant relation of enormous wealth, from whom she had little or
nothing to expect, and whom she rarely saw. She had never needed his
help, and though he had occasionally remembered her and sent her a jewel
at Christmas, neither she nor her son had ever felt very much indebted
to him. The surprise was therefore overwhelming, and the rejoicing
inevitable and natural. Knowing, however, how dearly the old man had
loved Katharine, and that she had been with him at the time of his death
and had been really fond of him, Mrs. Bright avoided the subject
altogether during dinner. It would not keep out of her face, however,
nor out of her manner. Once or twice she and her son exchanged glances,
and both suppressed a happy smile. Katharine saw, understood, and felt
sad. The conversation turned upon generalities and was not very amusing.

Katharine could not help thinking of what Bright had said to her just
before dinner. At the moment, he had undoubtedly meant that he would
sacrifice the vast inheritance rather than incur her momentary
