presently. "I could not stand it any longer."

I asked what it was that Luke could not stand, though I guessed well
enough.

"He had a way of sitting in her chair and glaring at me, and then
howling." Luke shivered a little. "He didn't suffer at all, poor old
Bumble," he went on in a hurry, as if he thought I might imagine he had
been cruel. "I put dionine into his drink to make him sleep soundly, and
then I chloroformed him gradually, so that he could not have felt
suffocated even if he was dreaming. It's been quieter since then."

I wondered what he meant, for the words slipped out as if he could not
help saying them. I've understood since. He meant that he did not hear
that noise so often after the dog was out of the way. Perhaps he thought
at first that it was old Bumble in the yard howling at the moon, though
it's not that kind of noise, is it? Besides, I know what it is, if Luke
didn't. It's only a noise, after all, and a noise never hurt anybody
yet. But he was much more imaginative than I am. No doubt there really
is something about this place that I don't understand; but when I don't
understand a thing, I call it a phenomenon, and I don't take it for
granted that it's going to kill me, as he did. I don't understand
everything, by long odds, nor do you, nor does any man who has been to
sea. We used to talk of tidal waves, for instance, and we could not
account for them; now we account for them by calling them submarine
earthquakes, and we branch off into fifty theories, any one of which
might make earthquakes quite comprehensible if we only knew what they
are. I fell in with one of them once, and the inkstand flew straight up
from the table against the ceiling of my cabin. The same thing happened
to Captain Lecky--I dare say you've read about it in his "Wrinkles."
Very good. If that sort of thing took place ashore, in this room for
instance, a nervous person would talk about spirits and levitation and
fifty things that mean nothing, instead of just quietly setting it down
as a "phenomenon" that has not been explained yet. My view of that
voice, you see.

Besides, what is there to prove that Luke killed his wife? I would not
even suggest such a thing to any one but you. After all, there was
nothing but the coincidence that poor little Mrs. Pratt died suddenly in
her bed a few days after I told that story at dinner. She was not the
only woman who ever died like that. Luke got the doctor over from the
next parish, and they agreed that she had died of something the matter
with her heart. Why not? It's common enough.

Of course, there was the ladle. I never told anybody about that, and it
made me start when I found it in the cupboard in the bedroom. It was
new, too--a little tinned iron ladle that had not been in the fire more
than once or twice, and there was some lead in it that had been melted,
and stuck to the bottom of the bowl, all grey, with hardened dross on
it. But that proves nothing. A country doctor is generally a handy man,
who does everything for himself, and Luke may have had a dozen reasons
for melting a little lead in a ladle. He was fond of sea-fishing, for
instance, and he may have cast a sinker for a night-line; perhaps it was
a weight for the hall clock, or something like that. All the same, when
I found it I had a rather queer sensation, because it looked so much
like the thing I had described when I told them the story. Do you
understand? It affected me unpleasantly, and I threw it away; it's at
the bottom of the sea a mile from the Spit, and it will be jolly well
rusted beyond recognising if it's ever washed up by the tide.

You see, Luke must have bought it in the village, years ago, for the man
sells just such ladles still. I suppose they are used in cooking. In any
case, there was no reason why an inquisitive housemaid should find such
a thing lying about, with lead in it, and wonder what it was, and
perhaps talk to the maid who heard me tell the story at dinner--for that
girl married the plumber's son in the village, and may remember the
whole thing.

You understand me, don't you? Now that Luke Pratt is dead and gone, and
lies buried beside his wife, with an honest man's tombstone at his head,
I should not care to stir up anything that could hurt his memory. They
are both dead, and their son, too. There was trouble enough about Luke's
death, as it was.

How? He was found dead on the beach one morning, and there was a
coroner's inquest. There were marks on his throat, but he had not been
robbed. The verdict was that he had come to his end "by the hands or
teeth of some person or animal unknown," for half the jury thought it
might have been a big dog that had thrown him down and gripped his
windpipe, though the skin of his throat was not broken. No one knew at
what time he had gone out, nor where he had been. He was found lying on
his back above high-water mark, and an old cardboard bandbox that had
belonged to his wife lay under his hand, open. The lid had fallen off.
He seemed to have been carrying home a skull in the box--doctors are
fond of collecting such things. It had rolled out and lay near his head,
and it was a remarkably fine skull, rather small, beautifully shaped and
very white, with perfect teeth. That is to say, the upper jaw was
perfect, but there was no lower one at all, when I first saw it.

Yes, I found it here when I came. You see, it was very white and
polished, like a thing meant to be kept under a glass case, and the
people did not know where it came from, nor what to do with it; so they
put it back into the bandbox and set it on the shelf of the cupboard in
the best bedroom, and of course they showed it to me when I took
possession. I was taken down to the beach, too, to be shown the place
where Luke was found, and the old fisherman explained just how he was
lying, and the skull beside him. The only point he could not explain
was why the skull had rolled up the sloping sand toward Luke's head
instead of rolling downhill to his feet. It did not seem odd to me at
the time, but I have often thought of it since, for the place is rather
steep. I'll take you there to-morrow if you like--I made a sort of cairn
of stones there afterward.

When he fell down, or was thrown down--whichever happened--the bandbox
struck the sand, and the lid came off, and the thing came out and ought
to have rolled down. But it didn't. It was close to his head, almost
touching it, and turned with the face toward it. I say it didn't strike
me as odd when the man told me; but I could not help thinking about it
afterward, again and again, till I saw a picture of it all when I closed
my eyes; and then I began to ask myself why the plaguey thing had rolled
up instead of down, and why it had stopped near Luke's head instead of
anywhere else, a yard away, for instance.

You naturally want to know what conclusion I reached, don't you? None
that at all explained the rolling, at all events. But I got something
else into my head, after a time, that made me feel downright
uncomfortable.

Oh, I don't mean as to anything supernatural! There may be ghosts, or
there may not be. If there are, I'm not inclined to believe that they
can hurt living people except by frightening them, and, for my part, I
would rather face any shape of ghost than a fog in the Channel when it's
crowded. No. What bothered me was just a foolish idea, that's all, and I
cannot tell how it began, nor what made it grow till it turned into a
certainty.

I was thinking about Luke and his poor wife one evening over my pipe and
a dull book, when it occurred to me that the skull might possibly be
hers, and I have never got rid of the thought since. You'll tell me
there's no sense in it, no doubt; that Mrs. Pratt was buried like a
Christian and is lying in the churchyard where they put her, and that
it's perfectly monstrous to suppose her husband kept her skull in her
old bandbox in his bedroom. All the same, in the face of reason, and
common sense, and probability, I'm convinced that he did. Doctors do all
sorts of queer things that would make men like you and me feel creepy,
and those are just the things that don't seem probable, nor logical, nor
sensible to us.

Then, don't you see?--if it really was her skull, poor woman, the only
way of accounting for his having it is that he really killed her, and
did it in that way, as the woman killed her husbands in the story, and
that he was afraid there might be an examination some day which would
betray him. You see, I told that too, and I believe it had really
happened some fifty or sixty years ago. They dug up the three skulls,
you know, and there was a small lump of lead rattling about in each one.
That was what hanged the woman. Luke remembered that, I'm sure. I don't
want to know what he did when he thought of it; my taste never ran in
the direction of horrors, and I don't fancy you care for them either, do
you? No. If you did, you might supply what is wanting to the story.

It must have been rather grim, eh? I wish I did not see the whole thing
so distinctly, just as everything must have happened. He took it the
night before she was buried, I'm sure, after the coffin had been shut,
and when the servant girl was asleep. I would bet anything, that when
he'd got it, he put something under the sheet in its place, to fill up
and look like it. What do you suppose he put there, under the sheet?

I don't wonder you take me up on what I'm saying! First I tell you that
I don't want to know what happened, and that I hate to think about
horrors, and then I describe the whole thing to you as if I had seen it.
I'm quite sure that it was her work-bag that he put there. I remember
the bag very well, for she always used it of an evening; it was made of
brown plush, and when it was stuffed full it was about the size of--you
understand. Yes, there I am, at it again! You may laugh at me, but you
don't live here alone, where it was done, and you didn't tell Luke the
story about the melted lead. I'm not nervous, I tell you, but sometimes
I begin to feel that I understand why some people are. I dwell on all
this when I'm alone, and I dream of it, and when that thing
screams--well, frankly, I don't like the noise any more than you do,
though I should be used to it by this time.

I ought not to be nervous. I've sailed in a haunted ship. There was a
Man in the Top, and two-thirds of the crew died of the West Coast fever
inside of ten days after we anchored; but I was all right, then and
afterward. I have seen some ugly sights, too, just as you have, and all
the rest of us. But nothing ever stuck in my head in the way this does.

You see, I've tried to get rid of the thing, but it doesn't like that.
It wants to be there in its place, in Mrs. Pratt's bandbox in the
cupboard in the best bedroom. It's not happy anywhere else. How do I
know that? Because I've tried it. You don't suppose that I've not tried,
do you? As long as it's there it only screams now and then, generally at
this time of year, but if I put it out of the house it goes on all
night, and no servant will stay here twenty-four hours. As it is, I've
often been left alone and have been obliged to shift for myself for a
fortnight at a time. No one from the village would ever pass a night
under the roof now, and as for selling the place, or even letting it,
that's out of the question. The old women say that if I stay here I
shall come to a bad end myself before long.

I'm not afraid of that. You smile at the mere idea that any one could
take such nonsense seriously. Quite right. It's utterly blatant
nonsense, I agree with you. Didn't I tell you that it's only a noise
after all when you started and looked round as if you expected to see a
ghost standing behind your chair?

I may be all wrong about the skull, and I like to think that I am--when
I can. It may be just a fine specimen which Luke got somewhere long ago,
and what rattles about inside when you shake it may be nothing but a
pebble, or a bit of hard clay, or anything. Skulls that have lain long
in the ground generally have something inside them that rattles, don't
they? No, I've never tried to get it out, whatever it is; I'm afraid it
might be lead, don't you see? And if it is, I don't want to know the
fact, for I'd much rather not be sure. If it really is lead, I killed
her quite as much as if I had done the deed myself. Anybody must see
that, I should think. As long as I don't know for certain, I have the
consolation of saying that it's all utterly ridiculous nonsense, that
Mrs. Pratt died a natural death and that the beautiful skull belonged to
Luke when he was a student in London. But if I were quite sure, I
believe I should have to leave the house; indeed I do, most certainly.
As it is, I had to give up trying to sleep in the best bedroom where the
cupboard is.

You ask me why I don't throw it into the pond--yes, but please don't
call it a "confounded bugbear"--it doesn't like being called names.

There! Lord, what a shriek! I told you so! You're quite pale, man. Fill
up your pipe and draw your chair nearer to the fire, and take some more
drink. Old Hollands never hurt anybody yet. I've seen a Dutchman in Java
drink half a jug of Hulstkamp in a morning without turning a hair. I
don't take much rum myself, because it doesn't agree with my rheumatism,
but you are not rheumatic and it won't damage you. Besides, it's a very
damp night outside. The wind is howling again, and it will soon be in
the southwest; do you hear how the windows rattle? The tide must have
turned too, by the moaning.

We should not have heard the thing again if you had not said that. I'm
pretty sure we should not. Oh yes, if you choose to describe it as a
coincidence, you are quite welcome, but I would rather that you should
not call the thing names again, if you don't mind. It may be that the
poor little woman hears, and perhaps it hurts her, don't you know?
Ghost? No! You don't call anything a ghost that you can take in your
hands and look at in broad daylight, and that rattles when you shake it.
Do you, now? But it's something that hears and understands; there's no
doubt about that.

I tried sleeping in the best bedroom when I first came to the house,
just because it was the best and the most comfortable, but I had to give
it up. It was their room, and there's the big bed she died in, and the
cupboard is in the thickness of the wall, near the head, on the left.
That's where it likes to be kept, in its bandbox. I only used the room
for a fortnight after I came, and then I turned out and took the little
room downstairs, next to the surgery, where Luke used to sleep when he
expected to be called to a patient during the night.

I was always a good sleeper ashore; eight hours is my dose, eleven to
seven when I'm alone, twelve to eight when I have a friend with me. But
I could not sleep after three o'clock in the morning in that room--a
quarter past, to be accurate--as a matter of fact, I timed it with my
old pocket chronometer, which still keeps good time, and it was always
at exactly seventeen minutes past three. I wonder whether that was the
hour when she died?

It was not what you have heard. If it had been that I could not have
stood it two nights. It was just a start and a moan and hard breathing
for a few seconds in the cupboard, and it could never have waked me
under ordinary circumstances, I'm sure. I suppose you are like me in
that, and we are just like other people who have been to sea. No natural
sounds disturb us at all, not all the racket of a square-rigger hove to
in a heavy gale, or rolling on her beam ends before the wind. But if a
lead pencil gets adrift and rattles in the drawer of your cabin table
you are awake in a moment. Just so--you always understand. Very well,
the noise in the cupboard was no louder than that, but it waked me
instantly.

I said it was like a "start." I know what I mean, but it's hard to
explain without seeming to talk nonsense. Of course you cannot exactly
"hear" a person "start"; at the most, you might hear the quick drawing
of the breath between the parted lips and closed teeth, and the almost
imperceptible sound of clothing that moved suddenly though very
slightly. It was like that.

You know how one feels what a sailing vessel is going to do, two or
three seconds before she does it, when one has the wheel. Riders say the
same of a horse, but that's less strange, because the horse is a live
animal with feelings of its own, and only poets and landsmen talk about
a ship being alive, and all that. But I have always felt somehow that
besides being a steaming machine or a sailing machine for carrying
weights, a vessel at sea is a sensitive instrument, and a means of
communication between nature and man, and most particularly the man at
the wheel, if she is steered by hand. She takes her impressions directly
from wind and sea, tide and stream, and transmits them to the man's
hand, just as the wireless telegraph picks up the interrupted currents
aloft and turns them out below in the form of a message.

You see what I am driving at; I felt that something started in the
cupboard, and I felt it so vividly that I heard it, though there may
have been nothing to hear, and the sound inside my head waked me
suddenly. But I really heard the other noise. It was as if it were
muffled inside a box, as far away as if it came through a long-distance
telephone; and yet I knew that it was inside the cupboard near the head
of my bed. My hair did not bristle and my blood did not run cold that
time. I simply resented being waked up by something that had no
business to make a noise, any more than a pencil should rattle in the
drawer of my cabin table on board ship. For I did not understand; I just
supposed that the cupboard had some communication with the outside air,
and that the wind had got in and was moaning through it with a sort of
very faint screech. I struck a light and looked at my watch, and it was
seventeen minutes past three. Then I turned over and went to sleep on my
right ear. That's my good one; I'm pretty deaf with the other, for I
struck the water with it when I was a lad in diving from the foretopsail
yard. Silly thing to do, it was, but the result is very convenient when
I want to go to sleep when there's a noise.

That was the first night, and the same thing happened again and several
times afterward, but not regularly, though it was always at the same
time, to a second; perhaps I was sometimes sleeping on my good ear, and
sometimes not. I overhauled the cupboard and there was no way by which
the wind could get in, or anything else, for the door makes a good fit,
having been meant to keep out moths, I suppose; Mrs. Pratt must have
kept her winter things in it, for it still smells of camphor and
turpentine.

After about a fortnight I had had enough of the noises. So far I had
said to myself that it would be silly to yield to it and take the skull
out of the room. Things always look differently by daylight, don't they?
But the voice grew louder--I suppose one may call it a voice--and it got
inside my deaf ear, too, one night. I realised that when I was wide
awake, for my good ear was jammed down on the pillow, and I ought not to
have heard a fog-horn in that position. But I heard that, and it made me
lose my temper, unless it scared me, for sometimes the two are not far
apart. I struck a light and got up, and I opened the cupboard, grabbed
the bandbox and threw it out of the window, as far as I could.

Then my hair stood on end. The thing screamed in the air, like a shell
from a twelve-inch gun. It fell on the other side of the road. The night
was very dark, and I could not see it fall, but I know it fell beyond
the road. The window is just over the front door, it's fifteen yards to
the fence, more or less, and the road is ten yards wide. There's a
quickset hedge beyond, along the glebe that belongs to the vicarage.

I did not sleep much more that night. It was not more than half an hour
after I had thrown the bandbox out when I heard a shriek outside--like
what we've had to-night, but worse, more despairing, I should call it;
and it may have been my imagination, but I could have sworn that the
screams came nearer and nearer each time. I lit a pipe, and walked up
and down for a bit, and then took a book and sat up reading, but I'll be
hanged if I can remember what I read nor even what the book was, for
every now and then a shriek came up that would have made a dead man turn
in his coffin.

A little before dawn some one knocked at the front door. There was no
mistaking that for anything else, and I opened my window and looked
down, for I guessed that some one wanted the doctor, supposing that the
new man had taken Luke's house. It was rather a relief to hear a human
knock after that awful noise.

You cannot see the door from above, owing to the little porch. The
knocking came again, and I called out, asking who was there, but nobody
answered, though the knock was repeated. I sang out again, and said that
the doctor did not live here any longer. There was no answer, but it
occurred to me that it might be some old countryman who was stone deaf.
So I took my candle and went down to open the door. Upon my word, I was
not thinking of the thing yet, and I had almost forgotten the other
noises. I went down convinced that I should find somebody outside, on
the doorstep, with a message. I set the candle on the hall table, so
that the wind should not blow it out when I opened. While I was drawing
the old-fashioned bolt I heard the knocking again. It was not loud, and
it had a queer, hollow sound, now that I was close to it, I remember,
but I certainly thought it was made by some person who wanted to get in.

It wasn't. There was nobody there, but as I opened the door inward,
standing a little on one side, so as to see out at once, something
rolled across the threshold and stopped against my foot.

I drew back as I felt it, for I knew what it was before I looked down. I
cannot tell you how I knew, and it seemed unreasonable, for I am still
quite sure that I had thrown it across the road. It's a French window,
that opens wide, and I got a good swing when I flung it out. Besides,
when I went out early in the morning, I found the bandbox beyond the
thickset hedge.

You may think it opened when I threw it, and that the skull dropped out;
but that's impossible, for nobody could throw an empty cardboard box so
far. It's out of the question; you might as well try to fling a ball of
paper twenty-five yards, or a blown bird's egg.

To go back, I shut and bolted the hall door, picked the thing up
carefully, and put it on the table beside the candle. I did that
mechanically, as one instinctively does the right thing in danger
without thinking at all--unless one does the opposite. It may seem odd,
but I believe my first thought had been that somebody might come and
find me there on the threshold while it was resting against my foot,
lying a little on its side, and turning one hollow eye up at my face, as
if it meant to accuse me. And the light and shadow from the candle
played in the hollows of the eyes as it stood on the table, so that they
seemed to open and shut at me. Then the candle went out quite
unexpectedly, though the door was fastened and there was not the least
draught; and I used up at least half a dozen matches before it would
burn again.

I sat down rather suddenly, without quite knowing why. Probably I had
been badly frightened, and perhaps you will admit there was no great
shame in being scared. The thing had come home, and it wanted to go
upstairs, back to its cupboard. I sat still and stared at it for a bit,
till I began to feel very cold; then I took it and carried it up and set
it in its place, and I remember that I spoke to it, and promised that it
should have its bandbox again in the morning.

You want to know whether I stayed in the room till daybreak? Yes, but I
