Windover, and my business is with Windover sins. I have fought
it since I came among you, without an hour’s wavering of purpose,
and without an hour’s fear of the result; and at all costs, at any
cost, I shall fight it till I go from you. For God has set me among
you, not to minister to your self-satisfaction, but to your needs.”

Bayard paused here, and regarded his people with a long look.
Their faces blurred before him for a moment, for his heart was
full. He saw them all, in the distinctness with which the public
speaker perceives familiar sights; every trifle upon the map of his
audience started out.

He saw Captain Hap, anxious and wrinkled, doing usher’s duty by the
door--Captain Hap, neither pious nor godless, but ready to live for
the parson or to die for him, and caring little which; the good
fellow, true with the allegiance of age and a loyal nature--dear
Captain Hap!

Bayard saw Job Slip, pale with the chronic pallor of the reformed
drunkard--poor Job, who drank not now, neither did he taste; but
bore the thirst of his terrible desert, trusting in the minister
and God Almighty,--in the succession of the phrase.

Mari was there, incapable and patient, her face and figure stamped
with the indefinable something that marks the drunkard’s wife. And
Joey, serious and old--little Joey! Bob was there, and Jean, and
Tony, and all the familiar faces from the wharves. Mrs. Granite, in
her rusty black, sat tearfully in a front settee, with Jane beside
her. Jane looked at the minister, before all the people, as she
never ventured to look at home. But nobody noticed Jane. Bayard
did but glance at her pinched, adoring face; he dared not dwell
upon it.

Ben Trawl was not to be seen in the audience. But Lena was. She
stood the service through, for she had come in too late to find
a seat; she stood behind Johnny’s mother, who wore Helen’s crape
bonnet and veil, poor old lady, with a brown bombazine dress. Lena
had a worried look. She did not remove her eyes from the preacher.
Lena sang that day, when the people started “the minister’s hymn,”--

    “I need Thee every hour,
      Stay Thou near by.”

Her fine voice rose like a solo; it had a certain solitariness
about it which was touching to hear.

    “Temptations lose their power
      When Thou art nigh.”

The melody of the hymn died away into the hush in which Bayard rose
again, for it came to his heart to bless his people and his chapel
in one of his rare prayers.

“Lord,” he said, “Thou art the God of the sea and its perils; of
the land and its sorrow. Draw near to these sea-people who tread
upon the shore of Thy mercy. I dedicate them to Thee. Father, take
them from my hands! Lift them up! Hold them, that they fall not.
Comfort their troubles. Forgive their sins. Take them! Take my
people from my heart!... Lord, I consecrate this house of worship,
for their sakes, and in Christ’s name, and for Christ’s love, to
Thee, and to Thy service.... Father! Thou knowest how I have loved
this people.”...

Bayard’s voice broke. It was the only time--in all those years. His
prayer remained unfinished. The sobs of his people answered him;
and his silence was his benediction upon them.

The audience moved out quietly. It was now dark. The lights in the
chapel had been noiselessly lighted. The jets of the illuminated
words above the door were blazing.

The Professor and the clergymen and Helen’s mother stepped apart
and out into the street; none of them spoke to Bayard, for his look
forbade them. The Professor of Theology was greatly moved. Signs of
tears more natural than evangelical were on his aged face. Bayard,
lingering but a moment, came down the aisle with his wife upon his
arm.

“Love,” she whispered, “it is over, and all is well.”

“Yes,” he answered, smiling, “it is over, and it is well.”

They came down and out upon the steps. Bayard stood uncovered
beneath the white and scarlet lights, which spelled the words,--

  “THE LOVE OF CHRIST.”

He gave one glance down Angel Alley. It was packed; his people were
massed to protect him. Beyond them, marshaled into the darkness
and scarcely distinguishable from it, hovered certain sullen groups
of frowning men. Not a hand was raised. Not a cry was heard. No.
There was to be no mob. He had to meet, not violence, but mute and
serried Hate.

She clung to his arm with a start. She looked up into his face. Its
more than earthly radiance hushed the cry upon her lips. He was
transfigured before her. For that moment, all the people--they who
loved and they who loved him not--saw him glorified, there, beneath
the sacred words whose pure and blazing fires seemed to them the
symbol of his soul.

Then, from the darkest dark of Angel Alley a terrible oath split
the air. Something struck him; and he fell.




XXIX.


Half a thousand men gave chase; but the assailant had escaped to
the common shelter of the coasting town. He had taken to the water.

It was now quite dark; clouds had gathered; the wind had risen
suddenly; thunder was heard. A fierce gust tore the dust of Angel
Alley, and hurled it after the fleeing criminal; as if even the
earth that he trod rejected him. In this blinding and suffocating
whirlwind the pursuers stumbled over each other, and ran at
haphazard. The police swept every skulking-place, dividing their
forces between the Alley and the docks. But their man, who was
shrewd enough, had evaded them; it was clear that he had marked out
an intelligent map of escape, and had been able to follow it.

The baffled police, thinking at least to pacify the angry people
behind them, kept up that appearance of energy, with that absence
of expectation, for which their race is distinguished.

An officer who was stealthily studying the docks far to the
westward, and alone, suddenly stopped. A cry for help reached
him; and it was a woman’s cry. The voice kept up an interrupted
iteration:--

“Police! Help!--Murder! Sergeant!--Help! Help!” as if choked off,
or strangled in the intervals.

The sergeant, following the sound as well as he could, leaped down
the long, empty wharf from whose direction the cry seemed to come,
and peered over the slimy edge. The storm was passing noisily up
the sky, and the darkness was of the deepest.

Out of its hollow a girl’s voice uprose:--

“Sergeant! Sergeant! He’s drowning me! But I’ve got him!” and
bubbled away into silence.

At that moment there was lightning; and the outlines of two figures
struggling in the water could be distinctly seen. These two persons
were Lena and Ben Trawl. They seemed to have each other in a mutual
death-grip. The girl’s hands were at the man’s throat. He dashed
her under and under the water. But her clutch did not relax by a
finger. He held her down. But Lena held on.

“After I’ve strangled you!” gasped Lena.

“---- you,” muttered the man. “Drown, then!”

Her head went under; her mouth filled; this time she could not
struggle up; her ears rang; her brain burst. But the little fingers
on the big throat clutched on. Then she felt herself caught from
above--air came, and breath with it--and Ben swore faintly.

“Undo your hands, Lena,” said the sergeant. “We’ve got him. You
don’t want to hang him before his time.”

Another flash of lightning revealed the sea and sky, the docks and
the officers, and Ben, purple and breathing hard, stretched upon
the wharf. Lena heard the snap of the handcuffs upon his wrists;
and then she heard and saw no more.

The sergeant touched the girl’s dripping and unconscious figure
with a respect never shown to Lena in Windover police circles
before.

“She might not come to, yet,” he said; “she’s nigh enough to a
drowned girl. Get a woman, can’t you, somebody?”

“The man’s all we can manage,” replied a brother officer. “Get him
to the station the back way--here! Give a hand there! Quick! We’ll
have lynch-law here in just about ten minutes, if you ain’t spry.
Hark! D’ye hear that?”

A muffled roar came down the throat of Angel Alley. It grew, and
approached. It was the cry of all Windover raging to avenge the
Christian hero whom it learned, too late, to honor.

       

“Anyhow, he’ll hang for it,” muttered Lena, when she came to
herself in her decent room. Johnny’s mother was moaning over her.
Lena pushed the old woman gently away, and commanded the retreating
officer,

“Say, won’t he? Out with it!”

“Well,” replied the officer in a comfortable tone, “a good deal
depends. Liquor men ain’t skerce in this county. He’d get twenty
witnesses to swear to an alibi as easy as he’d get one.”

“Let ’em swear,” said Lena. “I see him do it. I saw him heave the
stone.”

“That might alter the case, and again it mightn’t,” replied the
officer; “it would depend on the value of the testimony--previous
reputation, and so on.”

Lena groaned.

“But I caught him by the arm! I stood alongside of him. I was
watching for it. I thought I’d be able to stop him. I’m pretty
strong. I grabbed him--but he flung me off and stamped on me. I see
him heave the rock. See! There’s the mark, where he kicked me. Then
he ran, and I after him. I can swear to it before earth and heaven.
I see him fling that rock!”

“You see,” observed the officer, “it ain’t a case of manslaughter
just yet. The minister was breathing when they moved him.”

       

They carried him to his own rooms, for it was not thought possible
to move him further. He had not spoken nor stirred, but his pulse
indicated that a good reserve of life remained in him. The wound
was in the lung. The stone was a large and jagged one, with a cruel
edge. It had struck with malignant power, and by one of those
extraordinary aims which seem to be left for hate and chance to
achieve.

His wife had caught him as he fell. She had uttered one cry; after
that, her lips had opened only once, and only to say that she
assented to her father’s proposal for the removal of her husband
to Mrs. Granite’s house, and that she entreated them to find some
gentle method of transportation over the rough road. For Windover
was a town of many churches, but of no hospital.

Oddly, the only quite coherent thought she had was of a man she had
heard about, a carpenter, who fell from a staging on the other side
of the Cape. He was put into an express cart and driven home, a
seven-mile gallop, over the rudest road in the State, to his wife;
naturally, he was dead when he got there. Bayard had been called to
see the widow.

Captain Hap stepped up (on tiptoe, as if he had been in a
sick-room), and whispered to the surgeon who had been summoned to
Angel Alley.

“That will do,” said the surgeon; “it has never been tried, that
I know of, but it is worth trying--most modern ideas are--if
practicable.”

“The fishermen hev cleared the car, the company has cleared the
track, and the motor man is one of his people,” said Captain Hap;
“an’ there’s enough of us to carry him from here to heaven so--so
lovin’ly he’d never feel a jolt.”

The old captain made no effort to wipe the tears which rained down
his wrinkled cheeks. He and Job Slip, with Mr. Bond and Bob and
Tony, took hold of the stretcher; they looked about, to choose, out
of a hundred volunteers, the sixth strong hand.

The Reverend George Fenton, agitated and trembling, forced his way
through the parting crowd, and pleaded piteously to be allowed to
offer his assistance in carrying his wounded classmate.

“I have never lifted a hand to help him since I came to Windover,”
cried Fenton in the voice of a man who would rather that the whole
world heard what he said and knew how he felt. “Let me have this
chance before it is too late!... I’m not worthy to touch his bier,”
added Fenton brokenly.

They gave way to his pleading, and it was done as he asked. Thus
the wounded man was carried gently to the electric car--“the
people’s carriage.” The fishermen, as the captain said, had
captured it; they stood with bowed heads, as the stretcher passed
through them, like children, sobbing. Throngs of them followed
the slowly moving car, which carried Bayard tenderly to his own
door. It was said afterwards that scores of them watched all
night outside the cottage, peering for some sign of how it fared
with him; but they were so still that one might hardly tell their
figures from the shadows of the night.

The wind had continued to rise, but the thunder had passed on, and
the shower was almost over when Bayard’s bearers lifted him across
the threshold of Mrs. Granite’s door. At that moment one belated
flash ran over earth and sea and sky. It was a red flash, and a
mighty one. By its crimson light the fishermen saw his face for
that last instant; it lay turned over on the stretcher quietly,
towards his wife. The red color dyed her bridal white, and the
terrible composure of her attitude was revealed; her hand was
fast in his; she seemed to communicate, God knew how, with the
unconscious man.

The flash went out, and darkness fell again.

“Then God shut the door,” muttered an old and religious fisherman
who stood weeping by the fence, among the larkspurs.

       

The wind went down, and the tide went out. Bayard’s pulse and
breath fell with the sea, and the June dawn came. The tide came in,
and the wind arose, and it was evening. Then he moaned, and turned,
and it was made out that he tried to say, “Helen?--was Helen hurt?”
Then the soul came into his eyes, and they saw her.

       

He did not sink away that day, nor the next, and the evening and
the morning were the third day in the chamber where death and life
made duel for him.

He suffered, it is hard to think how much; but the fine courage in
his habit of living clung on. The injury was not, necessarily, a
fatal one. The great consulting surgeon called from Boston said.
“The patient may live.” He added: “But the vitality is low; it has
been sapped to the roots. And the lung is weak. There has been a
strain sometime; the organ has received a lesion.”

Then Job Slip, when he heard this, thought of the minister’s
cough, which dated from that battle with the surf off Ragged Rock.
And the value of his own cheap life, bought at a price so precious,
overwhelmed the man. He would have died a hundred deaths for the
pastor. Instead, he had to do the harder thing. It was asked of him
to live, and to remember.

In all those days (they were eight in number) Jane Granite’s small,
soft eyes took on a strange expression; it was not unlike that we
see in a dog who is admitted to the presence of a sick or injured
master. God was merciful to Jane. The pastor had come back. To live
or to die, he had come. It was hers again to work, to watch, to
run, to slave for him; she looked at the new wife without a pang
of envy; she came or went under Helen’s orders; she poured out her
heart in that last torrent of self-forgetful service, and thanked
God for the precious chance, and asked no more. She had the spaniel
suffering, but she had the spaniel happiness.

       

For seven days and nights he lay in his shabby rooms, a royal
sufferer. The Christ above his bed looked down with solemn
tenderness; in his moments of consciousness (but these were few) he
glanced at the picture.

Helen had not left his room, either day or night. Leaning upon one
arm on the edge of the narrow bed, she watched for the lifting of
an eyelid, for the motion of a hand, for the ebbing or the rising
of a breath. Sometimes he knew her, and seemed to try to say to her
how comforting it was to him to have her there, in the dreary old
rooms, where he had dreamed of her sumptuous presence; where they
meant to begin their life and love together.

But he could not talk. She found herself already anticipating the
habit of those whom the eternal silence bereaves, recalling every
precious phrase that his lips had uttered in those last days; she
repeated to herself the words which he had said to her on Sunday
morning,--

“Nothing can harm us now, for you are mine, and I am yours, and
this is forever.”

As the seventh day broke he grew perceptibly stronger. Helen
yielded to her father’s entreaties, and for a moment absented
herself from the sick-room--for she was greatly overworn,--to drink
a breath of morning air. She sat down on the step in the front door
of the cottage. She noticed the larkspur in the garden, blue and
tall; bees were humming through it; the sound of the tide came up
loudly; Jane Granite came and offered her something, she could not
have said what; Helen tried to drink it, but pushed the cup away,
and went hurriedly upstairs again.

A cot had now been moved in for her beside Bayard’s narrow bed. She
sat down on the edge of it, between her father and her husband. The
Professor stirred to step softly out.

“Dear Professor!” said Bayard suddenly. He looked at the Christ on
the wall, and smiled. “We meant--the same thing--after all,” he
whispered.

Then he put his hand in his wife’s, and slept.

It came on to be the evening of the eighth day. He had grown
stronger all the day, but he suffered much.

“Folks are keepin’ of him back by their prayers,” said the
religious, old fisherman, who leaned every day upon the garden
fence. “He can’t pass.”

But Job Slip and Captain Hap, who sat upon the doorsteps, listening
from dawn to dark for any sign from Bayard’s room, said nothing at
all.

It came to be evening, and the tide had risen with the wind. The
sea called all night long. Helen sat alone with her husband.

He did not wander that night, but watched her face whenever he was
not asleep.

“Kiss me, Helen,” he sighed at midnight.

She stooped and kissed him, but her lips took the air from him, and
he struggled for it.
