gratitude from her eye; "but I cannot think of taking your money."

"But, Mrs. Weston, you must take it."

"And you give up your pleasure for a poor body like me?"

"We give the money to you because it will afford us a greater pleasure
than to spend it for fire-crackers and gingerbread."

"How noble and generous! but you wrong yourselves."

"Oh, no, we don't," said Charles; and at that moment he felt happier
than if all the gingerbread and fire-crackers in the world had been
showered down upon him.

"Hush! here comes Tony. Not a word to him about it if you please."

"Heaven bless you, boys!" said the poor woman as she put the money in
her pocket.

Frank and Charles talked a few moments with Tony about the "glorious
Fourth," and then took leave of the family.




CHAPTER III

A DISAPPOINTED BOY


Captain Sedley was an early riser. Every morning at sunrise he was
abroad in the pleasant grove that bordered the lake near his house. It
was a favorite spot, and he had spent a great deal of time and money in
bringing Art into communion with Nature in this lovely retreat. He had
cleared out the underbrush, made gravel walks and avenues through it,
erected a summer-house in the valley, and an observatory on the summit
of the hill, which terminated on the lake side in a steep rocky
precipice, at whose base the waters rippled.

The worthy shipmaster was a devout man, which was perhaps the reason
why he so much enjoyed his morning walk. It was the pleasantest hour of
all the day to him,--a fit time for meditation, and for the
contemplation of the beautiful scenery that surrounded his habitation.
The trees looked greener and the lake more limpid then, when his mind
was invigorated by the peaceful slumbers of the preceding night; and
there, in his favorite retreat, while all nature was smiling upon him,
went up his morning prayer to that beneficent Being who had spared him
yet another day, and crowned his life with loving-kindness and tender
mercies.

It was the morning of the Fourth of July; and the sounds of the booming
cannon and the pealing bells, which the westerly breeze bore up the
lake, reminded him of the gratitude he owed to God for the political,
social, and religious privileges which had been bequeathed to the
country by the fathers of the Revolution. He prayed for his country,
that a blessing might always rest upon it.

As he walked along, thus engaged in his inaudible devotions, he heard a
footstep behind him. The solitude of his morning walk was seldom
disturbed by the intrusion of others. Turning, he recognized the friend
of his son.

"You are abroad early, Charles," said he.

"Yes, sir; this is the Fourth of July."

"And you feel like a little patriot on the occasion."

"I feel like having some fun."

"No doubt of it; I am afraid the boys think more of the smoke and noise
of the day than they do of the momentous event it commemorates."

"We like to have a good time, and the Fourth of July comes but once a
year."

"Probably you will be fully satisfied before night comes."

"I don't know," replied Charles, in a tone and with an expression of
countenance which attracted the attention of Captain Sedley.

"You don't know! I thought you were depending upon a good time in the
city!"

"We did anticipate a great deal of pleasure, but we have given it
up."

"Indeed! I have made preparations to take you to Boston."

"We have given it up, sir," repeated Charles.

"Frank?"

"Yes, sir."

"He has not mentioned the fact to me."

"But he intends to do so."

"What is the meaning of all this? I am surprised."

"I knew you would be," said Charles evasively.

"But why have you given it up?"

"Oh! that's a secret."

"Is it, indeed? Then, you really are not going?"

"No, sir."

"I suppose the secret is not to be divulged to me."

"No, sir."

Captain Sedley was not a little perplexed by what he had heard. The
proposed excursion had been the topic of conversation for the last
fortnight, and Charles and Frank had both manifested the liveliest
interest in it. And now that the whole scheme had been abandoned, the
anticipated pleasure voluntarily resigned, was strange and
incomprehensible. At first he was disposed to believe some more
agreeable plan of spending the day had been devised, and it seemed
questionable to him whether the plan which must be kept secret could
meet his approbation.

"It was Frank's notion, Mr. Sedley," added Charles.

"And you have promised not to tell me?"

"Oh, no, sir! I don't know that Frank would like it if I should do so,
though I can't see what harm it would do."

"Of course you must do as you think proper," replied Captain Sedley. "I
don't wish you to betray Frank's confidence, unless you think he is
doing wrong."

"Nothing wrong, sir."

"Then, why should it be kept secret?"

"I do not know of any reason why it should be. You won't tell Frank if
I let the cat out of the bag?" said Charles with a kind of forced
laugh.

"Certainly not, if you wish it."

"Well, then, we are not going because we have no money to spend."

"No money! Why, I gave Frank three dollars towards it no longer ago
than yesterday, and he had some money before that," replied Captain
Sedley, not a little alarmed at the revelation.

"Frank had four dollars and seventy-five cents, and I had two dollars
and twenty-five cents, which made seven dollars between us."

"What have you done with it?" asked the kind father, fearful lest his
son had been doing wrong.

"Last night we concluded to give our money to the widow Weston, instead
of spending it for candy and crackers, and to stay at home instead of
going to Boston."

An expression of pleasure lighted up the features of the devoted
father. The confession of Charles was a great relief to him.

"Well done, boys!" exclaimed he. "That was noble and generous;" and
involuntarily he thrust his hand into his pocket, and drew forth his
purse.

"Frank proposed it," said Charles, a gleam of satisfaction lighting up
his eye as he beheld the purse.

Captain Sedley held it in his hand a moment, looked searchingly at
Charles, and then returned it to his pocket.

"It was a noble deed, Charles; and I had rather hear such a thing of my
son than to have all the wealth and honors which the world can give
bestowed upon him."

Charles looked disappointed when he saw Captain Sedley restore his
purse to his pocket.

"And Frank means to keep it a secret, does he?" continued the delighted
father.

"Yes, sir; till to-morrow."

"Very well; I will not mention the fact that you have told me about
it."

"Thank you, sir," replied Charles doubtfully.

"And I am glad you told me--that is, if you have not betrayed his
confidence;" and Captain Sedley looked rather sharply at Charles.

"Oh, no, sir! I have not."

"Because, when he tells me he does not intend to go, I should otherwise
have insisted on knowing the reason."

Charles was already sorry he had said a word about it.

"It was a noble sacrifice, Charles," continued Captain Sedley with much
enthusiasm. "If from a worthy motive we sacrifice our inclinations for
the good of others, we are always sure of finding our reward--indeed,
the act is its own reward."

Charles began to feel a little uneasy. It seemed to him as though
Captain Sedley never looked so sharply at him before. What could he
mean? He had given all his money to the widow Weston as well as Frank,
but Captain Sedley's looks seemed to reprove rather than commend him.
He did not feel satisfied with himself, or with Captain Sedley--why, he
could not exactly tell; so he happened to think that his father might
want him, and he ran home as fast as his legs would carry him.

But his father did not want him, and he walked nervously about the
house till breakfast-time. He had no appetite, and everything seemed to
go wrong with him.

"Come, Charles," said his mother, "eat your breakfast, or you will get
hungry before you get to Boston."

"Not going," answered he sulkily.

"Why not?" asked his father and mother in the same breath.

"Haven't got any money."

"No money! Where is the two dollars I gave you yesterday?" asked Mr.
Hardy rather sternly.

"Gave it away."

"You did?"

"Yes, sir."

"To whom?"

"Frank proposed last night to give our money to the widow Weston
instead of spending it; and like a great fool as I was, I agreed to
it."

"Poor fellow! It is too bad!" added Mrs. Hardy.

"What did he do it for, then?" said Mr. Hardy.

"Of course he didn't want to be behind Frank in doing a good action."

"But he is a long way behind him."

"Why, husband!"

"He has given the woman the money, and played the hypocrite," replied
Mr. Hardy, with the most evident expression of disgust in his tones and
looks. "He has acted just like a great many folks who put money into
the contribution-box for missions and Bible societies, because they
think it looks well."

"But, husband, you will give him some more money? You will make up the
sum to him which he has given in charity?"

"Given in charity! Given in hypocrisy, you mean! I shall do no such
thing."

"Deprive the poor boy of all his anticipated pleasure?" said the
indulgent mother.

"The bitter fruit of his own hypocrisy," replied Mr. Hardy.

"You are too bad!"

"No, I am not. If he gave away his money because he thought it was an
act of charity that would look well, that would make Frank and his
father think better of him, he is rightly served; and I am disposed to
shut him up in this room with a good book to teach him better, instead
of letting him go to the celebration."

Mr. Hardy was a blunt, honest man, perhaps a little too much inclined
to be harsh with his son when he had done wrong. Possibly his views of
parental discipline were not altogether correct, but in the main he
meant right. He was disgusted at the conduct of Charles, and thought no
reasonable penalty too severe for hypocrisy and deceit.

"On the other hand," continued he, "if he had made up his mind to
sacrifice his inclination at the call of charity, he would not have
felt as he does now. He would have been contented to stay at home. He
would have found a nobler satisfaction in the consciousness of having
done a good deed than in all the anticipated pleasures of the
celebration. It is very plain to me the whole thing was an act of gross
hypocrisy;" and Mr. Hardy rose from the table, and left the room.

Charles understood his father's analysis of his conduct. He felt that
it was truthful. What would his father have said if he had known his
motive in seeking Captain Sedley that morning? He was ashamed of
himself, and was glad that his father knew nothing about it.

He had not yet lost all hope that Captain Sedley would reimburse the
sums they had given the widow, and take them to Boston. But Frank's
father, appreciating the noble sacrifice his son had made, was content
that he should receive all the moral discipline to be derived from the
act. Therefore he said nothing about it, and went to the city alone.

Charles waited impatiently till ten o'clock; but no one came for him,
and he left the house in search of such enjoyment as Rippleton could
afford him.




CHAPTER IV

THE FOURTH OF JULY


Charles Hardy was sadly disappointed. He had given his money to the
widow Weston in the fullest confidence that it would be refunded to
him, and that he should be able to attend the celebration in Boston.
When Frank had proposed the charitable plan, his heart told him how
good and pleasant it would be to assist the poor woman. His feelings
were with his friend in the benevolent design; it was a mere impulse,
however, which prompted him to join in the act. He thought of the
sacrifice, but the hope of not being actually compelled to make it in
the end involuntarily helped him to a decision.

His father had misjudged his motive in calling him hypocritical, for he
really felt like doing the noble deed. He felt kindly towards the widow
Weston; but his principle was not strong and deep enough to enable him
to bear with pleasure, or even with a good grace, the deprivation which
his benevolent act had called upon him to suffer.

It was not so with Frank. He had given without the hope of reward; and
in staying at home on the Fourth of July, he was perfectly contented,
because it was the price he paid for the pleasure of doing good.

Charles, when he found that Captain Sedley did not come for him,
hastened over to find Frank. He and Tony Weston were on the beach.

"Hello, Charley! We have been waiting for you," said Frank, as he
approached.

"Hello, fellows! What's in the wind?" replied Charles. "What are you
going to do to-day?"

"We were just thinking about something."

"Has your father gone to the city, Frank?"

"Yes."

"What did he say?"

"Nothing."

"Didn't he look surprised?"

"Not much. He only asked me the reason, and I said I would tell him
to-morrow. He didn't say any more about it. Got off nicely, didn't I?"

"First-rate," replied Charles coldly.

"What are you talking about?" asked Tony, to whom, of course, this
conversation was unintelligible.

"Tell you some other time, Tony," replied Charles. "Now, what shall we
do to-day?"

"I don't know. Here comes Uncle Ben; perhaps he can give us an idea."

Uncle Ben was an old seaman, who had sailed a great many years in the
employ of Captain Sedley. He was a rough, blunt old fellow, but so
honest, warm-hearted, and devoted to his employer, that when the latter
retired from the duties of his profession, he had given him a home on
his estate. Uncle Ben was a good sailor, but he had never risen above
the place of second mate. Without much ambition to distinguish himself,
or to make money, he was perfectly content to live with Captain Sedley,
even in a humble capacity.

Frank was an especial favorite of Uncle Ben; and as the old sailor's
habits were good, and as his ideas of morality and religion rendered
him a safe companion for his son, Captain Sedley permitted and
encouraged their intimacy. During the long winter evenings, he listened
with the most intense interest and delight to Uncle Ben's descriptions
of sea life and of the various countries he had visited.

With the neighbors, and especially the boys in the vicinity, the old
sailor was respected, and treated with a great deal of consideration.
He was an old man, but he had always maintained an unblemished
character. He was full of kindness and sympathy, always manifesting the
liveliest regard for the welfare of his friends; and on this account
people had got into the way of calling him by the familiar sobriquet
of Uncle Ben. It is true he was sometimes rude and rough, but his kind
heart atoned for the blemishes in his deportment.

Though Captain Sedley considered Uncle Ben a necessary appendage to his
estate, he did not impose upon him the performance of any very arduous
duties. He kept a pleasure-boat on the lake, and the old sailor had the
entire charge of that. Occasionally he worked a little in the garden,
groomed the horses, and did the "chores" about the house; but to use
