the agent, and departed on the trip to Kuching.

The tide was going out, and they made a quick passage to the sea. On
their arrival there they found a stiff south-west wind blowing, and the
bay covered with white-caps. They had not tried the Blanchita in
anything like a heavy sea, though the rajah had declared that she was a
very able and weatherly sea-boat. Captain Scott was very glad of the
opportunity to test her behavior in rough weather. He went to the helm
himself as the boat came out of the Sadong. The very first wave that
broke on her bow scattered the spray from stem to stern.

[Illustration: THE BOAT ROSE GRACEFULLY ON THE BILLOWS.

Page 132.]

Scott ordered the men to batten down the curtains on the weather side.
But the boat rose gracefully on the billows, and did not scoop up any
water in doing so. Boxes, barrels, and other movable articles were
secured, and the captain was delighted with the working of the boat.

"I don't want any better sea-boat than the Blanchita," said he with
great enthusiasm. "I doubt if we get it any rougher than this on the
voyage to Cambodia Point."

"Unless we run into a typhoon," said Morris, who was observing the
conduct of the boat with quite as much interest as his superior officer.

"We won't run into a typhoon," replied the captain.

"How can you help yourself? As sailors we must take things as they
come."

"If navigators have a thousand miles or more of ocean ahead of them,
they must face the music. But among these islands, if the weather looks
typhoony, we can get under a lee, or make a harbor in some bay. But
don't try to cross the bridge till we get to it, Morris."

"Sail, ho!" shouted Clingman.

It was a steamer about as far off as she could be made out. The two
craft were approaching each other, and the steamer from the west went
into the Sarawak ahead of the Blanchita. She was a small vessel,
apparently of not more than three hundred tons. It soon became evident
that she was not a fast sailer, for the Blanchita held her own with her
all the way up the river to Kuching.




CHAPTER XV

ON THE VOYAGE TO POINT CAMBODIA


The Blanchita moored as usual in front of the town, while the steamer
anchored in the river. She proved to be the Delhi, from Calcutta; and it
was ascertained when the party went on shore later, that she was to sail
for Saigon the next day. The first care of the cabin party was to send
the fish to Rajah Brooke and two officers whose acquaintance they had
made.

Pitts overhauled the ice-chest, and found them in excellent condition;
and Achang was appointed to be the bearer of them, with the compliments
of the Americans, to the gentlemen who were to receive them. Two native
porters were to carry them; and the party knew that the fish were a
rarity in the town, and they were in season for the dinner of that day.

The four went on shore together just as a party from the Delhi landed
with a boat. The captain of the steamer hailed them in the street in
front of the government house, and asked if they belonged to the
steam-launch which had just come up the river. He was curious to know
something more about the explorers, and Captain Scott told him what they
had been doing in the island. He was invited on board of the Blanchita,
and was much interested in the young men.

They showed him over the boat; and he was greatly pleased with the
craft, and with the excellent accommodations for sleeping, eating, and
making the voyagers generally comfortable. They came to the ice-chest,
in which two of the choice fish still remained; and Scott presented one
of them to their guest.

"We intend to sail for Point Cambodia to-morrow to rejoin our ship,"
said the captain of the Blanchita, after the fish had been sent on
board.

"In this little tub of yours?" asked the commander of the Delhi with a
smile of incredulity.

"Is this part of the China Sea subject to violent seas?"

"Not at just this season of the year. With the south-west monsoons smart
squalls come up sometimes, but they are not very bad. I don't think you
will find it any rougher than we had it outside the river to-day on your
passage to the Point," replied Captain Rayburn, who stated then that he
had seen the Guardian-Mother when she was at Calcutta.

"You are bound to Saigon, I think you said."

"To Saigon, but a portion of my cargo goes to Kampot. If I found a
sailing-vessel here that was going up the Gulf of Siam, I was ordered to
reship my freight for Kampot in her; if not, I was to take it there in
the Delhi. I find no such vessel here."

"Then you will make your course direct for Point Cambodia, Captain
Rayburn?" said Scott.

"Precisely so; and if you can keep up with my steamer, we need not part
company on the voyage."

"I think we can keep up with you," replied the captain of the Blanchita
with a smile.

The party went on shore again, and arrangements were made for taking in
a supply of coal early the next morning. Everything on board of the
yacht had been stowed very carefully on the passage from Simujan, in
order to make all the room possible for coal; but the boat could carry a
supply for four days, and Scott was not at all afraid that he should
come short of this needed article. Pitts purchased all the provisions
and stores needed for the voyage.

After dinner the four paid their respects to the rajah, and visited the
two officers whose acquaintance they had made. They were heartily
thanked for the welcome gift of the fish, which the officers declared
were a great luxury; and Governor Brooke said that he should make a trip
to the lake where they were caught, in the government steam-yacht. These
gentlemen thought the young men were rather venturesome to undertake the
voyage before them in so small a craft; but the best wishes of all of
them went with the party.

At daylight in the morning the coaling was begun; the provisions and
stores were all looked over, and all deficiencies were supplied. By nine
o'clock everything was in readiness for sailing. Captain Rayburn sent
word that the Delhi would sail at ten o'clock, and afterwards went on
board of the Blanchita.

"You seem to be well supplied with coal," said he, as he looked about
him.

"I think we have a five-days' supply on board," replied Scott. "As I
figure it up, we shall make the run to the Point inside of three days."

"The Delhi's time is sixty-three hours," added her commander. "If your
coal should come short, I can help you out; but I think you won't need
it."

"Thank you, Captain Rayburn; that kind offer removes the only doubt I
have in regard to the voyage," replied Captain Scott.

"The Delhi, as you have seen for yourself, is not a fast steamer; but
the only fear I have is that you will not be able to keep up with her,"
added Captain Rayburn. "I am obliged to sail in the interest of my
owners, and I must make the best time I can. The south-west monsoons
prevail at this season; and by carrying sail I may add half a knot, or
perhaps a knot, to her speed. I should be sorry to run away from you,
but I must do my duty."

"Certainly; that is understood. If you run away from me, I shall still
wish you bon voyage. But suppose I should run away from you?"
suggested Scott, laughing.

"You will be quite welcome to do so. The Delhi is an old steamer, and
not up to modern-built ones; but with a breeze I have made nine knots in
her."

"I shall try to keep up with you, for I should be very sorry to have to
part company with so pleasant a captain as you are."

"Thank you, Captain Scott; and if we part company on the voyage, I hope
we shall meet again. I am liable to be detained some time in Saigon; for
mine is a tramp steamer, and I have to look up a cargo for some port,"
said Captain Rayburn, as he shook hands with the four, and went into his
boat alongside.

The first thing Scott did was to look up the mast and sail of the
Blanchita. It had not been covered up with coal, as he had feared; for
Clingman had suspended it inboard under the rail. The sail had been
stowed away in the bow of the boat, and it was brought out and
overhauled. It was nearly new, and needed no repairs. It was a
lug-foresail, with a gaff, but no boom. It was stepped just abaft the
galley, and the sail could be set in two or three minutes when it was
required.

The statement of the captain of the Delhi that he could gain a knot or
less in a good breeze had stimulated Scott to be ready for such an
emergency. The wind would be on the port quarter during the whole
voyage, and the sail would certainly add something to the speed of the
yacht. In the crowd that collected at the government storehouse were the
rajah and most of the officers of the place. The handshaking was all
done over again, and pleasant wishes were extended to the "Big Four" as
the Blanchita cast off her fasts.

The Delhi was already under way, and going at full speed down the river.
Clingman was at the wheel, and Scott went aft to the engine-room, as it
was called, though there was no such room, and the word applied simply
to the locality; and the same was true of the galley. The boat had been
delayed a little while the party were making and receiving the parting
salutations of their friends, and the Delhi had a lead of nearly half a
mile.

"Give her a spurt, Felipe," said the captain. "I want to know if that
craft has the ability to run away from us."

The engineer threw more coal into the furnace; and in a few minutes he
"let her out," as the captain called it. It was very soon perceived that
the yacht was gaining on the old steamer, and Scott became
correspondingly happy. She was farther down in the water than usual on
account of the extra quantity of coal in her bunkers, and all along her
sides, to trim her properly.

"I don't believe the Delhi will run away from us, Louis," said the
captain as the millionaire joined him, curious to know what he was
doing. "She isn't loaded for her best sailing, but she is doing
first-rate for her present trim."

"This is smooth water, Captain; what will she do when we get out to
sea?" asked Louis.

"We had a chance to try her yesterday in more than half a gale, and she
behaved like a lady on a dancing-floor."

"But she was not loaded down with coal then as she is now."

"The extra weight will not disturb her; on the contrary, I think it will
make her steadier."

"I talked with the rajah on board, who has used her for over a year, and
has made a trip to Rangoon in her. He said she was usually run at eight
knots an hour; but on his return voyage, when he was in a hurry, she
made nine knots for twelve hours together," Louis explained.

"That is all I want of her; but I shall not drive her up to that unless
the Delhi is likely to run away from us; and not then till after I have
added the sail to our power of locomotion. We are coming up with her
now, and probably Captain Rayburn's fears that his steamer may run away
from us are beginning to abate," said the captain, rubbing his hands in
his delight at the performance of the Blanchita.

Rather for the occupation it gave him, Scott took the wheel himself,
directing Clingman to call the men, and remove the stanchions and
connecting-rods on the starboard side of the boat from the galley to the
length of the mast aft, so that the sail might not be obstructed when it
was set.

Then, while the Blanchita was still making her nine knots, he ran her
alongside the Delhi on the port side, keeping at a safe distance from
her. Then he called to Felipe to reduce the speed to eight knots. He had
gained nearly half a mile in going half-way down the river to the sea;
and this fully satisfied him.

"Bully for you, Captain!" shouted Captain Rayburn from the quarter-deck
of his steamer.

"I won't run away from you!" returned Scott, as the noise of escaping
steam when the engineer reduced the speed must have reached his ears.

"Wait till we get out to sea!" called the captain of the Delhi.

"All right."

The two craft kept abreast of each other till they had passed the
mountain at the mouth of the river. The captain laid the course
north-west half-west; and this was to be the course for half the
distance to Point Cambodia, as he remarked to Louis, who was at his side
observing the progress of the yacht.

"How do you spell that word, Captain Scott?" asked Louis.

"Just as I spelled it when I went to school, and it is so put down on my
chart; but I noticed in Black's "Atlas" that it was spelled Camboja
instead of Cambodia," replied Scott. "I am a sailor, and I stick to the
chart."

"I see that Captain Rayburn has laid his course; how does it agree with
yours, Captain?" inquired Louis, when they were a mile off the mountain.

"I should say that it was identically the same. I will hail him."

"North-west half-west," was the answer returned by the captain of the
Delhi.

"I make it the same," replied Scott.

The cabin party were summoned to dinner at this time, and Clingman was
called to the wheel.

"What's the bill of fare to-day?" asked Scott as he took his seat at the
table.

"Baked fish and roast venison," replied Pitts, "with plum-duff."

"Very good," returned the captain. "We don't get so much breeze off here
as we did yesterday, Louis."

"It does not look at all rough off at sea," added the captain. "But when
we get Cape Datu on the beam, we may feel it more."

The Delhi had not yet set her foresail, for she was schooner-rigged, and
there was not wind enough to help her much; all the rest of the day the
two craft kept abreast of each other, as they had in coming down the
river. After supper the watches were arranged for the night. The
captain, with Clingman and Lane, had the first, or starboard watch,
while Morris, the mate, had the port watch, with Wales and Clinch.

Louis and Felix were appointed second engineers, as the seamen on board
relieved them from duty as deck-hands; and the three in that department
were to keep four-hour watches, like the officers and seamen. Achang
wanted something to do; and he was given the berth of second mate, and
as such he served in charge of the captain's watch.




CHAPTER XVI

AN EXCITING RACE IN THE CHINA SEA


Everything worked as smoothly on board of the Blanchita as though she
had been in commission for years, for there was not a green hand in the
cabin or forecastle. The experience obtained by the "Four" in the Maud
had made them proficients in the duties of their present positions.
Louis and Felix were not trained engineers or machinists; though they
were familiar with the machine, which was of very simple construction.
Both of them were competent to run the engine, and had served their
watches in the Maud. If there was any trouble, the chief engineer was
close at hand.

From eight to twelve it was the captain's watch. Achang, who had been
the master of a vessel, had been regularly installed as second mate, and
was in charge of this watch; though Scott remained on deck all the time,
for he was anxious to observe the movements of the Delhi. Clingman and
Lane had their two-hour tricks at the wheel, and there was no hard work
for anybody.

The breeze was good, though not heavy from the south-west; but the Delhi
had not yet set a sail. The Blanchita passed Cape Datu at ten in the
evening, and the second mate made a note of it on the log-slate. Both
craft were still making their eight knots, and remained abreast of each
other. The wind increased slightly in force, but the conditions were
about the same all night. At twelve the watch was changed, and Morris
came on duty, with Louis in the engine-room. The captain turned in at
this time.

At three in the morning the yacht was off the island of Sirhassen, of
which a note was made on the log-slate. Morris had studied the chart
enough to enable him to recognize the island, distant as it was, at six
bells, or three o'clock in the morning. Of course he could not identify
it by its looks, never having seen it before; but the captain had given
him the distances between the islands on the course. Sirhassen was forty
sea miles from Cape Datu, or five hours as the yacht was running; and
when land was reported on the beam, bearing about west, he knew what it
was. The chart gave the island as one of considerable size compared with
the multitude of small ones in that locality; and this indication
afforded him a further clew to the identification.

At eight bells, or four o'clock, the morning watch came on duty, with
Achang as its officer. Captain Scott did not turn out when the second
mate was called, with Felix to take his place at the engine, and it was
six o'clock when he made his appearance. Except when there is only one
mate, as in small vessels, the captain keeps no watch; but he is liable
to be called at any hour of the night in case of a squall or other
peril. His responsibility may induce him to spend the entire night on
deck.

When he came out of the cabin, his first care was to observe the signs
which indicate the coming weather. Then he went to the wheel, and read
the entries made on the log-slate. The sea was about the same as it had
been when he left the deck. He had looked at the barometer before he
left the cabin. There were no signs of bad weather in any direction.

"What do you think of the weather, Mr. Achang?" he asked of the officer
of the deck.

"It will be fine, Captain," replied the second mate. "I have come all
the way from Banjermassin to Calcutta with the weather just like this
always; but I think we have more wind when the sun come up."

"We can stand more than we have now," added Scott.

"Some of the young gentlemen fear to go to sea in open boat like this
yacht; but the dhows and the proas have not much decks," said the
Bornean.

"Then you think we shall have weather like this all the way to Point
Cambodia?"

"May blow a little more hard some time."

The sun was coming up in the east, and in the course of half an hour
Achang's prophecy of more wind was realized. It freshened rapidly for a
short time; but it did not come in flaws or squalls, and was a steady
breeze. A table had been set up in the fore cabin; and at half-past
seven, or seven bells, which is the usual hour for breakfast at sea,
the meal was served to the watch below.

"Land on the port bow, sir!" reported Clingman, who was the lookout man,
just before eight bells.

"That is Subi," said Achang, looking at the paper Morris had given him
when the watch was changed.
