made her faint.

"I did not know what you meant, my child," he said, growing more pale,
and very gently pushing her back a little.  "I was thinking of young
Knox.  I thought you loved him.  I was so sure that he was the man."

She drew back, now, of her own will, staring.

"Knox?  Mr. Knox?"  She repeated the name, hardly hearing her own words,
half stunned by her mistake.  "But you said--you said you loved me--"

"As your father does," said Colonel Wimpole, very gravely.  "Your father
and I are just of the same age.  We were boys together.  You know it, my
dear."

She was a mere child, and he made her feel that she was.  Her hands
covered her face in an instant as she fled, and before the door had
closed behind her, the colonel heard the first quick sob.

He had risen to his feet, and stood still, looking at the door.  When he
was alone, he might have smiled, as some men might have done, not at
Sylvia, indeed, though at the absurdity of the situation.  But his face
was sad, and he quietly sat down again by the table, and began to think
of what had happened.

Sylvia was very foolish, he said to himself, as he tried to impose upon
his mind what he thought should have been his conviction.  Yet he was
deeply and truly touched by her half-childish love, and its innocence
seemed pathetic to him, while he was hurt for her pain, and most of all
for her overwhelming confusion.

At the same time came memories and visions, and his head sank forward a
little as he sat in his chair by the table.  The vision of hope was
growing daily more dim, but the remembrance of the past was as undying
as what has been is beyond recall.

Sylvia would wake from her girlish dream, and, in the fulness of young
womanhood, would love a man of her own years.  The colonel knew that.
She would see that he was going in under the gateway of old age, while
she was on the threshold of youth’s morning.  A few days, or a few
months, or, at most, a few years more, and she must see that he was an
old man.  That was certain.

He sighed, not for Sylvia, but because age is that deadly sickness of
which hope must perish at last.  Time is a prince of narrow possessions,
absolute where he reigns at all, cruel upon his people, and relentless;
for, beyond his scanty principality, he is nothing, and his name is not
known in the empire of eternity.  Therefore while he rules he raises the
dark standard of death, taking tribute of life, and giving back a slow
poison in return.

Colonel Wimpole was growing old, and, though the woman he still loved
was not young, she was far younger than he, and he must soon seem an old
man even in her eyes.  And then there would not be much hope left.
Sadly he wondered what Sylvia saw in him which that other woman, who had
known him long, seemed to have never quite seen.  But such questioning
could find no satisfaction.

He might have remained absorbed in his reflexions for a long time had he
been left alone, but the door opened behind him, and he knew by the
steady and precise way in which it was opened and shut that his sister
had entered the room.

"Richard," she said, "I am surprised."  Then she stood still and waited.

Miss Wimpole was older than her brother, and was an exaggeration of him
in petticoats. Her genuine admiration for him was curiously tempered by
the fact that, when they had been children, she, as the elder, had kept
him out of mischief, occasionally by force, often by authority, but
never by persuasion.  When in pinafores the colonel had been fond of
sweets.  Miss Wimpole considered that he owed his excellent health to
her heroic determination to save him from destruction by jam.  Since
those days she had been obliged to yield to him on other points, but the
memory of victory in the matter of preserves still made her manner
authoritative.

She was very like him, being tall, thin, and not ungraceful, though as
oddly precise in her movements and gestures as she was rigid in her
beliefs, faithful in her affections, and just in her judgments.  She had
loved a man who had been killed in the civil war, and, being what she
was, she had never so much as considered the possibility of marrying any
one else.  She was much occupied in good works and did much good, but
she was so terribly accurate about it as to make Sylvia say that she was
like a public charity that had been brought up in good society.

The colonel rose as she spoke.

"What is the matter?" he asked.  "Why are you surprised?"

"What have you been saying to Sylvia, Richard?" enquired Miss Wimpole,
not moving.

It would have been hard to hit upon a question more certain to embarrass
the colonel.  He felt the difficulty of his position so keenly that, old
as he was, a faint colour rose in his cheeks. No answer occurred to him,
and he hesitated.

"She has locked herself up in her room," continued Miss Wimpole, with
searching severity, "and she is crying as though her heart would break.
I heard her sobbing as I passed the door, and she would not let me in."

"I am very sorry," said the colonel, gravely.

"You do not seem much concerned," retorted his sister.  "I insist upon
knowing what is the matter."

"Girls often cry," observed Colonel Wimpole, who felt obliged to say
something, though he did not at all know what to say.

"Sylvia does not often cry, Richard, and you know it.  You must have
said something very unkind to her."

"I hope not," answered the colonel, evasively.

"Then why is she sobbing there, all by herself? I should like you to
answer that question."

"I am very sorry that I cannot.  When she is herself again you had
better ask her."

Colonel Wimpole thought this good diplomacy. Since he meant not to tell
his sister the truth, and was incapable of inventing a falsehood, he saw
no means of escape except by referring Miss Wimpole directly to Sylvia.

"Richard," said the maiden lady, impressively, "I am surprised at you."
And she turned away rather stiffly.  "I thought you had more confidence
in me," she added, as she reached the door.

But Colonel Wimpole made no further answer, for he saw that she had
accepted his silence, which was all he wanted.  When he was quite sure
that she was in her own room, he went and got his hat and stick and
slipped quietly out of the hotel.




                               CHAPTER II


Colonel Wimpole did not like Lucerne, and as he strolled along the shady
side of the street, he unconsciously looked up at the sky or down at the
pavement rather than at the houses and the people.  He disliked the
tourists, the buildings, the distant scenery and the climate, and could
give a reason for each separate aversion. Excepting the old tower, which
was very much like a great many other old towers, he maintained that the
buildings were either flat and dull, or most modernly pretentious.  The
tourists were tourists, and that alone condemned them beyond redemption.
The climate was detestable, and he was sure that every one must think
so.  As for the scenery, with its prim lake, its tiresome snow
mountains, and its toy trees, he said that it was little better than a
perpetual chromolithograph, though at sunset it occasionally rose to the
dignity of a transparent ’landscape’ lamp-shade.  The colonel’s views of
places were not wholly without prejudice.  Being a very just man, where
men and women were concerned, he allowed himself to be as unfair as he
chose about inanimate things, from snow mountains to objects of art.

It was the pretension of Switzerland, he said, to please and to attract.
Since it neither attracted him nor pleased him, he could not see what
harm there could be in saying so.  The Rigi’s feelings could not be hurt
by a sharp remark, nor could Mount Pilatus be supposed to be sensitive.
He never abused Switzerland where any Swiss person could hear him.  The
same things, he said, were true of objects of art. If they failed to
please, there could be no reason for their existence, or for not saying
so, provided that the artist were not present.  As for the latter, the
charitable colonel was always willing to admit that he had done his
best.  It was gratuitous to suppose that any man should wilfully do
badly what he could do well.

The colonel strolled slowly through the back streets, keeping in the
shade.  The day was hot, and he felt something like humiliation at
having allowed himself to yield to circumstances and come out of the
house earlier than usual.  He would certainly not have acknowledged that
he had been driven from the hotel by the fear of his sister’s curiosity,
but he would have faced a hotter sun rather than be obliged to meet her
inquisitive questions again.

It was true that, being alone, he had to meet himself, and discuss with
himself the painful little scene which had taken place that afternoon,
for he was not one of those people who can get rid of unpleasant
difficulties simply by refusing to think about them.  And he examined
the matter carefully as he went along, staring alternately at the sky
and at the pavement, while his stick rang sharply in time with his light
but still military step.  He did not see the people who passed, but many
of them looked at him, and noticed his face and figure, and set him down
for a gentleman and an old soldier, as he was.

At first sight it seemed ridiculous that Sylvia should be in love with
him; then it seemed sad, and then it seemed childish.  He remembered the
tragedy of Ninon de l’Enclos and her son, and it was horrible until he
recalled an absurd story of a short-sighted young man who had fallen in
love with his grandmother because his vanity would not allow him to wear
spectacles. At this recollection, Colonel Wimpole smiled a little,
though he was obliged to admit that Sylvia’s eyes had always been very
good.  He wished, for a moment, that he were quite old already, instead
of being only on the edge of old age.  It would have been more easy to
laugh at the matter.  He was glad that he was not ten years younger, for
in that case he might have been to blame.  As he was turning into the
main street, he caught sight of his own reflexion in the big plate glass
window of a shop.  He stopped short, with a painful sensation.

Had the image been that of a stranger, he should have judged the
original to be a young man.  The figure he saw was tall and straight and
active, dressed in the perfection of neatness and good taste.  The straw
hat shaded the upper part of the face, but the sunlight caught the
well-cut chin and gilded the small, closely trimmed moustache.

The colonel was extremely annoyed, just then, by his youthful
appearance.  He stopped and then went close to the plate glass window,
till he could see his face distinctly in it, against the shadows of the
darkened shop.  He was positively relieved when he could clearly
distinguish the fine lines and wrinkles and grey hairs, which he saw
every morning in his mirror when he shaved.  It was the sunshine playing
with shadow that had called up the airy reflexion of his departed youth
for a moment.  Sylvia could never have seen him as he had appeared to
himself in the window.

He looked a little longer.  A lady in black was talking with the
shopkeeper, and a short young man stood beside her.  Colonel Wimpole’s
fingers tightened suddenly upon the familiar silver knob of his stick,
his face grew a little pale, and he held his breath.

The lady turned quietly, walked to the window, followed by the
shopkeeper and the young man, and pointed to a miniature which lay among
a great number of more or less valuable antiquities and objects of art,
all of them arranged so as to show them to an undue advantage.  She
stood quite still, looking down at the thing she wanted, and listening
to what the shopkeeper said.  The colonel, just on the other side of the
thick plate glass, could hear nothing, though he could have counted the
heavy lashes that darkly fringed the drooping lids as the lady kept her
eyes upon the miniature.  But his heart was standing still, for she was
the woman he had loved so long and well, and he had not known that she
was to pass through Lucerne. The short young man beside her was her son,
and Colonel Wimpole knew him also, and had seen him from time to time
during the nineteen years of his life.  But he scarcely noticed him now,
for his whole being was intent upon the face of the woman he loved.

She was dark, though her hair had never been jet black, and her
complexion had always reminded the colonel of certain beautiful roses of
which the smooth cream-coloured leaves are very faintly tinged with a
warm blush that bears no relation to pink, but which is not red either,
a tint without which the face was like marble, which could come in a
moment but was long in fading as a northern sunset, and which gave
wonderful life to the expression while it lasted.  The lady’s features
were bold and well cut, but there were sad lines of lifelong weariness
about the curved mouth and deep-set eyes; and there was a sort of
patient but not weak sadness in all her bearing, the look of those who
have tired but have not yielded, who have borne a calm face against a
great trouble from without and a true heart against a strong temptation
from within.

She was neither tall nor short, neither heavy nor light in figure, a
woman of good and strong proportion, and she was dressed in black,
though one small jewelled ornament and a coloured ribbon in her hat
showed that she was not in mourning.

The elderly man at the window did not move as he watched her, for he
felt sure that she must presently look up and meet his eyes.  Then he
would go in.  But it did not happen just in that way, for her son
recognized him first, a dark youth, very squarely built, with a heavy
face and straight eyebrows that met over his nose.  When he saw the
colonel he smiled, lifted his hat, and spoke to his mother.  The lady
started perceptibly and seemed to press the handle of her black parasol
to her side. Several seconds passed after that, before the fringed lids
were lifted, and the two looked at each other fixedly through the thick
glass.  A soft, slow smile smoothed and illuminated the lady’s face, but
Colonel Wimpole felt that he was paler than before, and his lips moved,
unconsciously pronouncing a name which he had never spoken carelessly
during two and twenty years.  Nor, in that long time, had he ever met
Helen Harmon suddenly, face to face, without feeling that his cheeks
grew pale and that his heart stood still for a moment.

But his pulse beat quite regularly again when he had entered the shop
and stood before her, extending his hand to meet hers, though he felt
that he was holding out his heart to meet her heart, and he was full of
unexpected happiness. So, in dim winter days, the sun shines out in a
sudden glory, and spring is in the air before her time, for an hour; but
afterwards it is cold again, and snow falls before night.  Many a far
glimpse of the flower-time had gladdened the colonel’s heart before now,
but the promised summer had never come.

The two stood still for a moment, hand in hand, and their eyes lingered
in meeting, just a second or two longer than if they had been mere
friends.  That was all that a stranger could have seen to suggest that
Richard Wimpole had loved Helen Harmon for twenty-two years, and the
young man at her side did not even notice it.  He shook hands with the
colonel in his turn, and was the first to speak.

"One meets everybody in Lucerne," he observed, in a tactless
generalization.

"I certainly did not hope to meet you," answered the colonel, smiling.
"It is true that the cross-roads of Europe are at Lucerne if they are
anywhere.  My sister and I are taking Sylvia Strahan home from Japan.
Of course we stopped here."

"Oh, of course!" laughed young Harmon. "Everybody stops here.  We have
been here ever so long, on our way to Carlsbad, I believe."

His mother glanced at him nervously before she spoke, as though she were
not sure of what he might say next.

"I am thinking of buying a miniature," she said.  "Will you look at it
for me?  You know all about these things.  I should like your advice."

The dealer’s face fell as he stood in the background, for he knew the
colonel, and he understood English.  But as she spoke, Mrs. Harmon was
thinking more of Wimpole than of the miniature; and he, when he
answered, was wondering how he could succeed in being alone with her for
one half-hour--one of those little half-hours on which he lived for
weeks and months after they were past.

Mrs. Harmon’s manner was very quiet, and there was not often very much
change in her expressions.  Her laugh was low, regretful, and now and
then a little bitter.  Sometimes, when one might have expected a quick
answer, she said nothing at all, and then her features had a calm
immobility that was almost mysterious.  Only now and then, when her son
was speaking, she was evidently nervous, and at the sound of his voice
her eyes turned quickly and nervously towards his face, while the
shadows about the corners of her mouth deepened a little, and her lips
set themselves.  When he said anything more witless than usual, she was
extraordinarily skilful and quick to turn his saying to sense by a clear
explanation.  At other times she generally spoke rather slowly and even
indolently, as though nothing mattered very much.  Yet she was a very
sensible woman, and not by any means unpractical in daily life. Her
tragedy, if it were one, had been slow and long drawn out.

First, a love which had been real, silent, and so altogether
unsuspected, even by its object, that Richard Wimpole had never guessed
it even to this day.  Then a marriage thrust upon her by circumstances,
and which she had accepted at last in the highest nobility of honest
purpose. After that, much suffering, most scrupulously covered up from
the world, and one moment of unforgotten horror.  There was a crooked
scar on her forehead, hidden by the thick hair which she drew down over
it.  When she was angry it turned red, though there was no other change
in her face.  Then a little while, and her husband’s mind had gone.
Even then she had tried to take care of him, until it had been hopeless,
and he had become dangerous.  The mercy of death seemed far from him,
and he still lived, for he was very strong.  And all along there had
been the slowly increasing certainty of another misfortune.  Her son,
her only child, had been like other children at first, then dull and
backward, and in the end, as compared with grown men, deficient.  His
mind had not developed much beyond a boy’s; but he was unusually strong,
he had learned to apply his strength, and had always excelled in
athletic sports.  One might have been deceived at first by the sharp
glance of his eyes, but they were not bright with intelligence.  The
young man’s perfect physical health alone made them clear and keen as a
young animal’s; but what they saw produced little reaction of
understanding or thought.

Nor was that all that Helen Harmon had borne.  There was one other
thing, hardest of any to bear.  By an accident she had learned at last
that Richard Wimpole had loved her, and she had guessed that he loved
her still.  He had fancied her indifferent to him; and Harmon had been
his friend in young days.  Harmon had been called fast, even then, but
not vicious, and he had been rich.  Wimpole had stood aside and had let
him win, being diffident, and really believing that it might be better
for Helen in the end.  He thought that she could make anything she chose
of Harmon, who was furiously in love with her.

So the two had made the great mistake, each meaning to do the very best
that could be done. But when Harmon had gone mad at last, and was in an
asylum without prospect of recovery, and Helen found herself the
administrator of his property for her son, it had been necessary to go
through all his disordered papers, and she had found a letter of
Wimpole’s to her husband, written long ago.  Had it been a woman’s
letter, she would have burned it unread.  But it was a duty to read
every paper which might bear upon business matters, from the beginning,
and she naturally supposed that Harmon must have had some reason for
keeping this one.  So she read it.

It had been written in the early days of her husband’s courtship.  He,
too, had been generous, then, with impulses of honour in which there had
been, perhaps, something of vanity, though they had impelled him to do
right.  There had been some conversation between the friends, and Harmon
had found out that Wimpole loved Helen.  Not being yet so far in love as
he was later, he had offered to go away and let the young colonel have a
chance, since the latter had loved her first.  Then Wimpole had written
this letter which she found twenty years later.

It was simple, grateful, and honourably conceived.  It said what he had
believed to be the truth, that Helen did not care for him, that Harmon
was quite as good as he in all ways, and much richer, and it finally and
definitely refused the offer of ’a chance.’  There was nothing tragic
about it, nor any high-flown word in its short, clear phrases.  But it
had decided three lives, and the finding of it after such a long time
hurt Helen more than anything had ever hurt her before.

In a flash she saw the meaning of Wimpole’s life, and she knew that he
loved her still, and had always loved her, though in all their many
meetings, throughout those twenty years, he had never said one word of
it to her.  In one sudden comprehension, she saw all his magnificent
generosity of silence.  For he had partly known how Harmon had treated
her.  Every one knew something of it, and he must have known more than
any one except the lawyer and the doctor whom she had been obliged to
consult.

And yet, in that quick vision, she remembered, too, that she had never
complained to him, nor ever said a word against Harmon.  What Wimpole
knew, beyond some matters of business in which he had helped her, he had
learned from others or had guessed.  But he had guessed much.  Little
