"Perhaps you are right," Guido answered. "But the whole question is not
worth arguing. What is life, after all, that we should attach any
importance to it?"

"It is all you have, and you only have it once."

"Who knows? Perhaps we may come back to it again, hundreds and hundreds
of times. There are more people in the world who believe that than there
are Christians."

"If that is what you believe," retorted Lamberti, "you must believe that
the sooner you leave life, the sooner you will come back to it."

"Possibly. But there is a chance that it may not be true, and that
everything may end here. That one chance may be worth taking."

"There is a chance that a man who deserts from his ship may not be
caught. That is not an argument in favour of desertion."

Guido laughed carelessly.

"You have a most unpleasant way of naming things," he said. "Shall we
go? It is growing late, and I have promised to see my aunt before
dinner."

"Will there be any one else there?" asked Lamberti.

"Why? Did you think of going with me?"

"I might. It is a long time since I have called. I think I shall be a
little more assiduous in future."

"It is not gay, at my aunt's," observed Guido. "Monsieur Leroy will be
there. You may have to shake hands with him!"

"You do not seem anxious that I should go with you," laughed Lamberti.

Guido said nothing for a moment, and seemed to be weighing the question,
as if it might be of some importance. Lamberti afterwards remembered the
slight hesitation.

"By all means come," Guido said, when he had made up his mind.

He glanced once more at the place, for he liked it, and it was pleasant
to carry away pictures of what one liked, even of a bit of neglected old
garden with a stone-pine in the middle, clearly cut out against the sky.
He wondered idly whether he should ever come again--whether, after all,
it would be cowardly to go to sleep with the certainty of not waking,
and whether he should find anything beyond, or not.

The world looked too familiar to him to be interesting, as if he had
known it too long, and he vaguely wished that he could change it, and
desire to stay in it for its own sake; and just then it occurred to him
that every man carries with him the world in which he must live, the
stage and the scenery for his own play. It would be absurd to pretend,
he thought, that his own material world was the same as Lamberti's, even
when the latter was at home. They knew the same people, heard the same
talk, ate the same things, looked on the same sights, breathed the same
air. There was perhaps no sacrifice worthy of honourable men which
either of them would not make for the other. Yet, to Guido d'Este, life
seemed miserably indifferent where it did not seem a real calamity,
while to Lamberti every second of it was worth fighting for, because it
was worth enjoying.

Guido looked at his friend's tanned neck and sturdy shoulders, following
him to the door, and he realised more clearly than ever before that he
was not of the same race. He felt the satiety bred in many generations
of destiny's spoilt and flattered sons; the absence of anything like a
grasping will, caused by the too easy fulfilment of every careless wish;
the over-critical sense that guesses at hidden imperfection, the cruelly
unerring instinct of a taste too tired to enjoy and yet too fine to be
deceived.

Lamberti turned at the door and saw his face.

"What are you thinking about?"

"I was envying you," Guido murmured. "You are glad to be alive."

Lamberti made rather an impatient gesture, but said nothing. The Sister
who had admitted the two opened the little iron door for them to go out.
She was a small woman, with a worn face and kind brown eyes, one of the
half-dozen who live in the little convent and work among the children of
the very poor in that quarter. Both men had taken out money.

"For the poor children, if you please," said Guido, placing his offering
in the nun's hand.

"And tell them to pray for a man who is in trouble," added Lamberti,
giving her money.

She looked at him curiously, thinking, perhaps, that
he meant himself. Then she gravely bent her head.

"I thank you very much," she said.

The small iron door closed with a rusty clang, and the friends began to
descend the steep way that leads down from the Porta San Pancrazio to
the Via Garibaldi.

"Why did you say that to the nun?" asked Guido.

"Are you past praying for?" enquired Lamberti, with a careless and
good-natured laugh.

"It is not like you," said Guido.

"I do not pretend to be more consistent than other people, you know. Are
you going directly to the Princess's?"

"No. I must go home first. The old lady would never forgive me if I went
to see her without a silk hat in my hand."

"Then I suppose I must dress, too," said Lamberti. "I will leave you at
your door, and drive home, and we can meet at your aunt's."

"Very well."

They walked down the street and found a cab, scarcely speaking again
until they parted at Guido's door.

He lived alone in a quiet apartment of the Palazzo Farnese, overlooking
the Via Giulia and the river beyond. The afternoon sun was still
streaming through the open windows of his sitting room, and the warm
breeze came with it.

"There are two notes, sir," said his servant, who had followed him. "The
one from the Princess is urgent. The man wished to wait for you, but I
sent him away."

"That was right," said Guido, taking the letters from the salver. "Get
my things ready. I have visits to make."

The man went out and shut the door. He was a Venetian, and had been in
the navy, where he had served Lamberti during the affair in China.
Lamberti had recommended him to his friend.

Guido remained standing while he opened the note. The first was an
engraved invitation to a garden party from a lady he scarcely knew. It
was the first he had ever received from her, and he was not aware that
she ever asked people to her house. The second was from his aunt,
begging him to come to tea that afternoon as he had promised, for a very
particular reason, and asking him to let her know beforehand if anything
made it impossible. It began with "Dearest Guido" and was signed "Your
devoted aunt, Anatolie." She was evidently very anxious that he should
come, for he was generally her "dear nephew," and she was his
"affectionate aunt."

The handwriting was fine and hard to read, though it was regular. Some
of the letters were quite unlike those of most people, and many of them
were what experts call "blind."

Guido d'Este read the note through twice, with an expression of dislike,
and then tore it up. He threw the invitation upon some others that lay
in a chiselled copper dish on his writing table, lit a cigarette, and
looked out of the window. His aunt's note was too affectionate and too
anxious to bode well, and he was tempted to write that he could not go.
It would be pleasant to end the afternoon with a book and a cup of tea,
and then to dine alone and dream away the evening in soothing silence.

But he had promised to go; and, moreover, nothing was of any real
importance at all, nothing whatsoever, from the moment of beginning life
to the instant of leaving it. He therefore dressed and went out again.




                               CHAPTER II


Lamberto Lamberti never wasted time, whether he was at sea, doing his
daily duty as an officer, or ashore in Africa, fighting savages, or on
leave, amusing himself in Rome, or Paris, or London. Time was life, and
life was far too good to be squandered in dawdling. In ten minutes after
he had reached his room he was ready to go out again. As he took his hat
and gloves, his eye fell on a note which he had not seen when he had
come in.

He opened it carelessly and found the same formal invitation which Guido
had received at the same time. The Countess Fortiguerra requested the
pleasure of his company at the Villa Palladio between four and six, and
the date was just a fortnight ahead.

Lamberti was a Roman, and though he had only seen the Countess three or
four times in his life, he remembered very well that she had been twice
married, and that her first husband had been a certain Count Palladio,
whose name was vaguely connected in Lamberti's mind with South American
railways, the Suez Canal, and a machine gun that had been tried in the
Italian navy; but it was not a Roman name, and he could not remember any
villa that was called by it. Palladio--it recalled something else,
besides a great architect--something connected with Pallas--but
Lamberti was no great scholar. Guido would know. Guido knew everything
about literature, ancient and modern--or at least Lamberti thought so.

He had kept his cab while he dressed, and in a few minutes the little
horse had toiled up the long hill that leads to Porta Pinciana, and
Lamberti got out at the gate of one of those beautiful villas of which
there are still a few within the walls of Rome. It belonged to a
foreigner of infinite taste, whose love of roses was proverbial. A
legend says that some of them were watered with the most carefully
prepared beef tea from the princely kitchen. The rich man had gone back
to his own country, and the Princess Anatolie had taken the villa and
meant to spend the rest of her life there. She was only seventy years
old, and had made up her mind to live to be a hundred, so that it was
worth while to make permanent arrangements for her comfort.

Lamberti might have driven through the gate and up to the house, but he
was not sure whether the Princess liked to see such plebeian vehicles as
cabs in her grounds. He had a strong suspicion that, in spite of her
royal blood, she had the soul of a snob, and thought much more about
appearances than he did; and as for Monsieur Leroy, he was one of the
most complete specimens of the snob species in the world. Therefore
Lamberti, who now had reasons for wishing to propitiate the dwellers in
the villa, left his cab outside and walked up the steep drive to the
house.

He did not look particularly well in a frock coat and high hat. He was
too muscular, his hair was too red, his neck was too sunburnt, and he
was more accustomed to wearing a uniform or the rough clothes in which
fighting is usually done. The footman looked at him and did not
recognise him.

"Her Highness is not at home," said the man, coolly.

A private carriage was waiting at a little distance from the porch, and
the footman who belonged to it was lounging in the vestibule within.

"Be good enough to ask whether her Highness will see me," said Lamberti.

The fellow looked at him again, and evidently made up his mind that it
would be safer to obey a red-haired gentleman who had such a very
unusual look in his eyes and spoke so quietly, for he disappeared
without making any further objection.

When Lamberti entered the drawing-room, he was aware that the Princess
was established in a high arm-chair near a tea-table, that Monsieur
Leroy was coming towards him, and that an elderly lady in a hat was
seated near the Princess in an attitude which may be described as one of
respectful importance. He was aware of the presence of these three
persons in the room, but he only saw the fourth, a young girl, standing
beside the table with a cup in her hand, and just turning her face
towards him with a look that was like a surprised recognition after not
having seen him for a very long time. He started perceptibly as his eyes
met hers, and he almost uttered an exclamation of astonishment.

He was checked by feeling Monsieur Leroy's toad-like hand in his.

"Her Highness is very glad to see you," said an oily voice in French,
but with a thick and rolling pronunciation that was South American
unless it was Roumanian.

For once Lamberti did not notice the sensual, pink and white face, the
hanging lips, the colourless brown hair, the insolent eyes, the
effeminate figure and dress of the little man he detested, and whose
mere touch was disgusting to him. By a strong effort he went directly up
to the Princess without looking again at the young girl whose presence
had affected him so oddly.

Princess Anatolie was gracious enough to give him her hand to kiss; he
bent over it, and his lips touched a few of the cold precious stones in
the rings that loaded her fingers. She had not changed in the year that
had passed since he had seen her, except that her eyes looked smaller
than ever and nearer together. Her hair might or might not be her own,
for it was carefully crimped and arranged upon her forehead; it was not
certain that her excellent teeth were false; there was about her an air
of youth and vitality that was really surprising, and yet it was
impossible not to feel that she might be altogether a marvellous sham,
on the verge of dissolution.

"This is most charming!" she said, in a voice that was not cracked, but
rang false. "I expect my nephew, Guido, at any moment. He is your great
friend, is he not? Yes, I never forget anything. This is my nephew
Guido's great friend," she continued volubly, and turning to the elderly
lady on her right, "Prince Lamberti."

"Don Lamberto Lamberti," said Monsieur Leroy in a low voice, correcting
her. But even this was not quite right.

"I have the good fortune to know the Countess Fortiguerra," said
Lamberti, bowing, as he suddenly recognised her, but very much surprised
that she should be there. "I have just received a very kind invitation
from you," he added, as she gave him her hand.

"I hope you will come," she said quietly. "I knew your mother very well.
We were at the school of the Sacred Heart together."

Lamberti bent his head a little, in acknowledgment of the claim upon him
possessed by one of his mother's school friends.

"I shall do my best to come," he answered.

He felt that the young girl was watching him, and he ventured to look at
her, with a little movement, as if he wished to be introduced. Again he
felt the absolute certainty of having met her before, somewhere, very
long ago--so long ago that she could not have been born then, and he
must have been a small boy. Therefore what he felt was absurd.

"Cecilia," said the Countess, speaking to the girl, "this is Signor
Lamberto Lamberti." "My daughter," she explained, as he bowed, "Cecilia
Palladio."

"Most charming!" cried the Princess, "the son and the daughter of two
old friends."

"Touching," echoed Monsieur Leroy. "Such a picture! There is true
sentiment in it."

Lamberti did not hear, but Cecilia Palladio did, and a straight shadow,
fine as a hair line, appeared for an instant, perpendicular between her
brows, while she looked directly at the man before her. A moment later
Lamberti was seated between her and her mother, and Monsieur Leroy had
resumed the position he had left to welcome the newcomer, sitting on a
very low cushioned stool almost at the Princess's feet.

In formal circumstances, a man who has been long in the army or navy can
usually trust himself not to show astonishment or emotion, and after the
first slight start of surprise, which only Monsieur Leroy had seen,
Lamberti had behaved as if nothing out of the common way had happened to
him. But he had felt as if he were in a dream, while healthily sure that
he was awake; and now that he was more at ease, he began to examine the
cause of his inward disturbance.

It was not only out of the question to suppose that he had ever before
now met Cecilia Palladio, but he was quite certain that he had never
seen any one who was at all like her.

If extinct types of men could be revived now and then, of those which
the world once thought admirable and tried to copy, it would be
interesting to see how many persons of taste would acknowledge any
beauty in them. Cecilia Palladio had been eighteen years old early in
the winter, and in the usual course of things would have made her
appearance in society during the carnival season. The garden party for
which her mother had now sent out invitations was to take the place of
the dance which should have been given in January. Afterwards, when it
was over, and everybody had seen her, some people said that she was
perfectly beautiful, others declared that she was a freak of nature and
would soon be hideous, but, meanwhile, was an interesting study; one
young gentleman, addicted to art, said that her face belonged to the
type seen in the Elgin marbles; a Sicilian lady said that her head was
even more archaic than that, and resembled a fragment from the temples
of Selinunte, preserved in the museum at Palermo; and the Russian
ambassador, who was of unknown age, said that she was the perfect Psyche
of Naples, brought to life, and that he wished he were Eros.

In southern Europe what is called the Greek type of beauty is often
seen, and does not surprise any one. Many people think it cold and
uninteresting. It was a small something in the arch of the brows, it was
a very slight upward turn of the point of the nose, it was the small
irregularity of the broader and less curving upper lip that gave to
Cecilia Palladio's face the force and character that are so utterly
wanting in the faces of the best Greek statues. The Greeks, by the time
they had gained the perfect knowledge of the human body that produced
the Hermes of Olympia, had made a conventional mask of the human face,
and rarely ever tried to give it a little of the daring originality that
stands out in the features of many a crudely archaic statue. The artist
who made the Psyche attempted something of the kind, for the right side
of the face differs from the left, as it generally does in living
people. The right eyebrow is higher and more curved than the left one,
which lends some archness to the expression, but its effect is destroyed
by the tiresome perfection of the simpering mouth.

Cecilia Palladio was not like a Greek statue, but she looked as if she
had come alive from an age in which the individual ranked above the many
as a model, and in which nothing accidentally unfit for life could
survive and nothing degenerate had begun to be. With the same general
proportion, there was less symmetry in her face than in those of modern
beauties, and there was more light, more feeling, more understanding.
She was very fair, but her eyes were not blue; it would have been hard
to define their colour, and sometimes there seemed to be golden lights
in them. While she was standing, Lamberti had seen that she was almost
as tall as himself, and therefore taller than most women; and she was
slender, and moved like a very perfectly proportioned young wild animal,
continuously, but without haste, till each motion was completed in rest.
Most men and women really move in a succession of very short movements,
entirely interrupted at more or less perceptible intervals. If our sight
were perfect we should see that people walk, for instance, by a series
of jerks so rapid as to be like the vibrations of a humming-bird's
wings. Perhaps this is due to the unconscious exercise of the human will
in every voluntary motion, for a man who moves in his sleep seems to
move continuously like an animal, till he has changed his position and
rests again.

Lamberti made none of these reflections, and did not analyse the face he
could not help watching whenever the chance of conversation allowed him
to look at Cecilia without seeming to stare at her. He only tried to
discover why her face was so familiar to him.

"We have been in Paris all winter," said her mother, in answer to some
question of his.

"They have been in Paris all winter!" cried the Princess. "Think what
that means! The cold, the rain, the solitude! What in the world did you
do with yourselves?"

"Cecilia wished to continue her studies," answered the Countess
Fortiguerra.

"What sort of things have you been learning, Mademoiselle?" asked
Lamberti.

