he had considerable education, and was put in a clerkship, which
gratified him extremely. But he often ran up to the Rue de Rive to chat
with Denys and Marchand over their adventures, and to watch the pretty,
dark-eyed girl who always sat so close to her uncle and held his hand.

And then came the winter gayeties. Throngs of children went out on the
great mound when the snow had a crust on it, and the girls, gathering up
their skirts, squatted down and were given a little push, and away they
went, swift as an arrow. One would tumble over and roll down to the
bottom, throwing about numerous little fleets, but they were so well
wrapped in furs no one was ever hurt. The great achievement was to spin
the whole length without a break.

It was merry again at Christmastide, and Renée enjoyed it much more than
last year; but there was a tender devoutness in her worship. Then the
great Feast of Lights, Epiphany and all the fun and frolic. André was
chosen a king by one of the pretty girls. He was a fine dancer and a
very good-looking young fellow.

Perhaps it made Renée more light-hearted to know that Barbe had a real
lover, and that he hardly allowed her to smile at any one else. She was
not quite betrothed as yet, but there could be no objections. He
belonged to a good New Orleans family, and was in a trading house second
only to the Chouteaus’. All the Guions said it would be an excellent
match, and Barbe was plenty old enough to marry. Bachelor girls had not
come in fashion, and when one had passed twenty the younger girls really
flouted her and thought she ought to step in the background.

She danced once with Gaspard Denys. No, he had never been a real lover.
But if he had not gone to Quebec after this little girl—well, all things
might have been different. And as well Jean Gardepier as any one. She
would go to New Orleans with him when he went down on trading
expeditions, and the gayety would delight her. She would have some fine
clothes and jewels, still she sighed a little when Denys took her back
to her sister.

“And here is Elise the second,” said Madame Renaud gayly. “See what a
tall girl she has grown. You must dance once with her. Oh, how soon they
are women, and then it is lovers and husbands. Gaspard, are you going to
stay single forever?” and Madame laughed softly.

“I’m such an old fellow now! I feel like a grandfather to these young
girls,” he returned jocosely.

But Elise thought him charming, and in her turn almost envied Renée.

Years unmarked by any special events pass on almost unheeded. Trade came
and went. A few new houses were built. Young people were married, new
children were born. Families came from across the river, not liking
their English neighbors over well. Occasionally there was an Indian
alarm, but St. Louis had the good fortune to live mostly at peace with
her red neighbors, while many of the Illinois towns suffered severely.

One of the events of the summer that delighted Renée was the birth of
Wawataysee’s baby. It was a great marvel to her, though there were
plenty of babies about. It was more French than Indian. It had beautiful
large dark eyes and was a very fine specimen of babyhood. It was named
for Uncle Gaspard, who was its godfather, and Wawataysee pleaded that
Renée should be godmother.

“For you are the two people I love best after my husband,” said the
Indian woman proudly. “You are like a little sister.”

Renée was very glad to be that now. She was learning to rejoice in the
happiness of others.

Then Barbe Guion had a very pretty wedding, and the boat in which she
was going to New Orleans was trimmed with flags. It was a long journey
then, sometimes a dangerous one; less so at this season. And Barbe might
be gone a whole year. There was a great turnout to wish her godspeed.
She looked very bright and happy in her wedding gear.

Renée took Uncle Gaspard’s hand and glanced up in his face, which was
rather grave.

“Are you sorry?” she asked.

“Sorry? What a question, child! Why should I be sorry?”

“She loved you very much,” was the answer, in a low tone.

“Nonsense! I am old enough to be her father. And Barbe married of her
own free will.”

“I wish you had been my true father,” Renée subjoined gravely. And
strange to say, she pitied Barbe in her secret heart, yet she was glad
she had gone so far away.

Renée went now and then to see her grandfather. It seemed as if he grew
older and thinner and more morose, yet her sympathy went out to him
curiously. She had heard the talk that he was suspected of being in
league with the river pirates and supplying the Indians with rum, which
was against the laws. One ship had been caught, the pirates
overmastered, four of them sent to New Orleans in irons, and two had
been wounded and drowned in an attempt to swim away. She felt a good
deal troubled. He would not talk of the affair when she mentioned it.

“But you are so lonely here outside the palisade. Why do you not come
in?” she inquired.

“It suits me well enough,” he answered roughly. “I did not ask you to
stay here. And you need not come for my pleasure.”

“But if the Indians should attack you some time?”

“Bah! The Indians know me better,” with a scowl of disdain.

“Is Antoine Freneau my grandfather really?” she asked that evening as
she sat in the moonlight with Denys.

“Why, yes,” in amaze at her question.

“Then it would be wicked not to—to have some regard for him,” she
remarked unwillingly.

Gaspard did not answer at once. Antoine had dropped down year by year.
He had not always been so churlish, though his discourteous, hermit-like
ways were of long standing. He had never doubted but that he had been
the father of the girl he loved, yet she had come up as a lily out of a
quagmire. But how could Renée respect or regard him? And how little he
cared for her!

“That’s a difficult question. We shall have to ask the good père some
day. He understands these matters.”

“But—I belong to you, surely?”

“You belong to me!” He clasped her hand fervently.

“And I shall always stay here?”

“Always, until some young lover comes;” but he drew her closer, as if he
disputed her being taken away.

“You shall be my lover,” with a gay laugh. “If ever I draw a bean at the
king’s ball you shall be my king.”




CHAPTER XIII

PASSING YEARS


Renée de Longueville was fifteen and very fair to look upon, if not as
beautiful as Madame Marchand, or perhaps as some of the belles of the
town. She was slight and not very tall, and her hair had not grown much
darker. Her eyes kept their soft wondering expression, sometimes a
curious depth that told of vehement emotions, ardent joys and a capacity
for suffering. But most people looking at the gay young face when it
smiled would only have read archness and mirth and a great capacity for
enjoyment.

Some curious events had been happening. The colonies had beaten England
and won their freedom, their recognition. From the Atlantic Ocean to the
Mississippi River it was all America. This side of the river it was
Spain still, a kind of French Spain. Commandant Cruzat was well-liked
and very social. Madame was charming. There were balls at the Government
House and at the handsome old Chouteau residence, that had been improved
year by year. A long gallery ran around two sides above the first story,
and it made a delightful place for dancers. The roof was high, with both
ends cut off as it were, broken by two chimneys and two dormer windows.
Downstairs a broad piazza also, and here the gentlemen would sit and
smoke and discuss business and the changes that were going on around
them, while within, Madame Chouteau dispensed charming hospitality.

St. Louis was still in an idyllic state, gay, joyous, friendly and
hospitable, with much simplicity of living. Others besides the Chouteaus
had enlarged their borders. Gaspard Denys had built two rooms and raised
the roof of his house so as to make a storeroom and one little chamber,
where Chloe, the slave, slept. Mère Lunde still took charge of the
house, but Denys insisted she should have some help, and then no
question was made of buying one. They were well treated and had good
homes, and were not overworked.

One of the new rooms was Uncle Gaspard’s, the other Renée’s, while her
old one was transferred to Mère Lunde, who at first thought she could
never sleep on a bedstead. And Renée’s room was quite a marvel of
prettiness. Great strips of white birch bark on which dainty pictures
were worked went from floor to ceiling, while between was soft gray
plaster. Sometimes this was stained in various colors. Then there were
shelves about on which were displayed odd bits of Indian work—a bowl, a
vase, or a pretty basket. Many of these came from Mattawissa’s hands and
not a few from Wawataysee’s.

Now Madame Marchand had a dainty little girl, christened Renée. Her
gracious air, her refinement and beauty, and her romantic story as well,
had made her many friends, and M. Marchand was one of the thriving
business men, very much honored and respected. Not infrequently he and
Gaspard were called into council on some important question.

And though the palisades and gates and towers were still looked upon as
a means of defence, the inhabitants ventured to enlarge their borders
without. Several bands of friendly Indians had settled toward the
northern and western ends. Parties no longer hesitated to wander through
the woods, and the children often went out to pick wild strawberries
that grew so plentifully all about. Then there were grapes and a
delicious kind of wild plum, pears and apples, and melons cultivated in
the gardens, with various small fruits.

Renée de Longueville had come in possession of quite a fortune; at
least, Uncle Gaspard held it in trust for her. And it made her quite a
person of consequence.

Antoine Freneau had grown really afraid to carry on his illicit trade
after the capture of the Red Rover. She had stores for him, and for
weeks he trembled when he saw two or three men approaching his cabin. He
was old and he resolved he would do no more at it. This he tried to
explain to those who came for a supply. True, he brought up his whiskey
and sold it as long as it lasted, but unfortunately the Indians used to
securing their indulgence in that manner would not believe it. They
brought furs, often stolen from the traders, and insisted that he should
exchange. They always came after nightfall, and sped away again in the
dark.

Angry at length at their repeated efforts, he would not open his door.
The bar within was very strong and he felt himself secure. But the old
stanchion had decayed at the ground point, and one night it gave way at
their united efforts.

Antoine found himself defenceless against the angry mob. They bound him
and began to ransack the place. Bringing to light one jug of whiskey,
they were confident there was more. They searched every corner, every
nook, but in vain. And then they fell upon the old man, beat him and
tortured him until he was limp and lifeless they thought, when, taking a
pack of the most valuable furs, they decamped.

It was not until noon of the next day that some one in passing noted the
unusual appearance and halted at the cabin. The old man lay on the
floor. He had revived from unconsciousness, but his hands were securely
fastened behind him, his face was bruised and swollen and everything in
disorder. He gave the alarm and some kindly neighbors came to his
assistance. Then another went for Gaspard Denys.

Perhaps nothing could have happened that would have rehabilitated
Antoine Freneau in the pity and good will of his fellow-men sooner.
Unsocial and under suspicion for years, asking and taking nothing from
them, seldom giving them a good word, his helplessness appealed now to
their sympathy. Gaspard had his wounds and bruises attended to, the
house made a little orderly, and found a slave woman who would care for
him. That he had been robbed was evident. Even the puncheon floor had
been torn up, and disclosed a sort of pit in which something had
evidently been stored.

Old Doctor Montcrevier came, but he shook his head doubtfully. The old
man breathed and occasionally opened heavy, wandering eyes. But on the
third day he rallied.

“Gaspard Denys!” he moaned. “Send—tell him,” and then he lapsed away
again.

Denys came and watched with him through the night. Several times his
name escaped the old man’s lips. Gaspard gave him some brandy he had
brought.

He opened his eyes again and gazed around piteously, resting them
finally upon Gaspard.

“I cannot think,” rubbing his forehead in a dazed fashion. “They were
Indians. They wanted rum. I had none, only one jug I kept in case—in
case I should need it. I am an old man, Gaspard. They—they beat me.”

“Yes. Can you tell who they were? No strange Indians have been seen
about.”

Even here the old man’s cunning came uppermost. He would not betray
himself. He shook his head slowly.

“Some marauding parties. Perhaps from the river.”

“The river! See if they are coming!” starting up in affright.

“No one is coming,” in a reassuring tone.

“Gaspard, am I hurt much? Oh, help me! I do not want to die. I hate
death! I want to live;” and he tried to raise himself, but fell back
exhausted.

“Would you like to have the priest?” Gaspard could think of no other aid
in this extremity.

“No! no! I will not die! They come to your deathbed. Stay with me
yourself.”

“What can I do?”

He was silent a long while. His breath came slowly and with effort, and
shudders ran over him.

“Renée,” he said presently. “You have the child, Gaspard?”

“Yes; you gave her to me.”

“If you had died—your money——”

“I had made a will. Everything would have gone to her.”

“That was right—right. Gaspard, there is some gold—is any one
listening?” moving his eyes in a frightened way.

“No, no!”

“There is some gold and silver put away. You might better take it.
Thieves may come again. Carry me to the chimney.”

He was a heavy burden. Gaspard put him down on some blankets.

“See! Count the stones. The third stone.” The eyes were wild in their
eagerness.

“This!” pointing. “Take it out.”

Gaspard worked with both strength and energy. It was fitted in very
securely, but it gave way at length.

“The next one.”

When that came out a small iron box was visible, and Gaspard worked it
loose.

“Take it with you. It will be hers when I die. There is no one else. But
not until—I have the key—and—but I am not going to die!” with fierce
energy.

“No, no,” soothingly. “Take a little of this cordial.”

But the signs of death were there and Gaspard read them truly. Could he
warn? That was for the priest.

“You are very good.” His voice was much shaken, and shadows seemed to
waver over his eyes. “And I was not good to you, Gaspard Denys, in that
old time. You were but a boy. You had your fortune to make. She loved
you and I meant to wean her away—and—I did not want her to know how I
was—trading. The Count fell in love with her, though when the matter was
most settled he wrung a dowry out of me, curse him! But she was a
Countess. And he should have kept the child. What did he mean by sending
her here?”

He had made many pauses and now lay back exhausted, his face growing
grayer. Gaspard roused the nurse.

“Go up to the church,” he said, “the priest’s house, and bring some one.
Quick! The man is dying.”

It was some time before he roused again.

“Renée,” he murmured, “you will be a great lady in France. Your mother’s
mother was, and fled away because a king loved her. A king!” He laughed
shrilly and a rattle came in his throat. “And you must go back to them,
to your own kind. This wild life is not for you. As for that young
stripling, he is dancing at the Guinolee and singing love songs to
pretty girls. Thou art not the only pretty girl in St. Louis, Renée——”

Then there was a long silence. Once or twice Gaspard thought him dead,
but he started and muttered both French and Indian words. It was near
midnight when the good father came, and he shook his head sadly.

Gaspard roused Antoine a little.

“I fear it is too late,” in a regretful tone, while a look of pity
crossed his face. “Still we must try to the last moment. Antoine
Freneau, it is I, Père Lemoine. Listen! Death is near. Dost thou repent
of thy sins, which have been many, doubtless, hidden from man but not
escaping the eye of God? There may yet be mercy vouchsafed.”

The dying man clutched the blanket and stared dully, yet he seemed to
listen.

“Oh, yes, yes!” he cried suddenly. “At St. Anne’s down the river. Yes,
we both confessed——”

Whether he understood any of the service was doubtful, but the good
priest did his duty according to his conscience and the times. But
before he had ended the last prayer both knew he was dead, and had
passed without a struggle.

“I will stay the rest of the night with you,” said the priest. “And
since you have the child, I suppose you will be the proper person to
take charge. It is supposed the old man had not a little wealth—if the
marauders did not take it all away.”

The woman came in to prepare the body. Round the old man’s neck was a
strong bit of wire like cord, and a key. Gaspard took this. It fitted
the box.

After daylight they took a survey of the place. There were some firearms
stored away, blankets, furs that were motheaten and of little value,
some Indian habiliments; but it was evident the place had been pretty
thoroughly ransacked.

So they buried Antoine Freneau, and for some days it was the sensation
of the little town. Gaspard Denys now took the formal guardianship of
Renée de Longueville. He had the record of her mother’s marriage, her
birth and christening. Some of the goods were worth saving, the others
were distributed among the poorest of the Indians about.

In an old chest of curious workmanship Gaspard found a false bottom. In
this compartment were some laces and embroideries, a wedding veil that
Renée’s grandmother had doubtless worn, the certificate of her marriage
