swallow that, too, hey? Wonder how much more you'll stand. Try that."

And before Mark could raise his arm the other sprang forward and dealt
him a stinging blow upon the face.

Mark stepped back, his whole frame quivering.

"How much?" he repeated, slowly. "Not that."

And then, just as slowly, he took off his coat.

"Fight, hey?" laughed Texas. "Wow! Ready?" he added, flinging his own
jacket on the floor and getting his great long arms into motion.
"Ready?"

"Yes," said Mark. "I am ready."

And in an instant the other leaped forward, just as he had done at Fort
Clinton, except that he omitted the yelling, being indoors with a sentry
nearby.

Physically two fighters were never more evenly matched; no one, to look
at them, could have picked the winner, for both were giants. But there
was a difference apparent before very long. Texas fought in the wild and
savage style of the prairie, nip-and-tuck, go-as-you-please; and he was
wild with anger. He had swept the yearlings at Fort Clinton before him
that way and he thought to do it again. Mark had another style, a style
that Texas had never seen. He learned a good deal about it in a very few
minutes.

Texas started with a rush, striking right and left with all the power of
his arms; and Mark simply stepped to one side and let the wall stop
Texas. That made Texas angrier still, if such a thing can be imagined.
He turned and made another dash, this time aiming a savage blow at his
opponent's head. In it was all the power of the Texan's great right arm,
and it was meant to kill. Mark moved his head to one side and let the
blow pass, stopping the rush with a firm prod in the other's chest; then
he stepped aside and waited for another rush. For he did not want to
hurt his excited roommate if he could help it.

A repetition of this had no effect upon Texas, however, except to
increase his fury, and Mark found that he was fast getting mad himself.
A glancing blow upon the head that brought blood capped the climax, and
Mark gritted his teeth and got to work. Texas made another lunge, which
Mark dodged, and then, before the former could stop, Mark caught him a
crushing blow upon the jaw which made his teeth rattle. Texas staggered
back, and Mark followed him up rapidly, planting blow after blow upon
the body of his wildly striking opponent. And in a few moments Texas,
the invincible Texas, was being rapidly pummeled into submission.

"I'll leave his face alone," thought Mark, as he aimed a blow that half
paralyzed the other's right wrist. "For I don't want the cadets to know
about this."

And just then he landed an extra hard crack upon the other's chest, and
Texas went down in a corner.

"Want any more?" inquired Mark, gravely.

Texas staggered to his feet and made one more rush, only to be promptly
laid out again.

"I guess that's enough," thought Mark, as the other lay still and
gasped. "I guess that's enough for poor Texas."

And so saying, he took out his handkerchief, wiped the blood from his
face, and then opened the door and went out.

"I'm sorry I had to do it," he mused; "sorry as thunder! But he made me.
And anyhow, he won't want to fight very soon again."




CHAPTER IV.

THE EXPLANATION.


Mark had barely reached the head of the stairs before the morning gun
sounded, and five minutes later he was in line at roll call with the
rest of his class. It is needless to say that Texas was absent.

Texas woke up a while later, and staggered to his feet, feeling
carefully of his ribs to make sure they were not really broken. And then
he went out and interviewed a sentry in the hall.

"Look a yere, mister," said he. "Where's this yere place they call the
hospital?"

The sentry directed him to await the proper hour, and Texas spent
the rest of that day, reported by the surgeon as "absent from
duty--sick--contusions." And the whole class wondered why.

Mark noticed that the cadets were looking at him at breakfast; and he
noticed that the members of his own class were rather distant, but he
gritted his teeth and made up his mind to face it out.

"If even Texas called me a coward," he mused, "I can't expect the rest
of 'em to do otherwise."

And so it seemed, for that same morning just after breakfast Corporal
Jasper and Cadet Spencer paid a visit to Mark.

"The class would like, if you please, Mr. Mallory," said the former, "an
explanation of your conduct this morning."

"And I am sorry to say," responded Mark, just as politely, "that I am
unable to give it. All I can say is that my conduct, though it may seem
strange and mysterious, was unavoidable. If you will allow me, I shall
be pleased to meet Mr. Williams to-morrow."

"We cannot allow it," said Jasper, emphatically, "unless you consent to
explain your action and can succeed in doing it satisfactorily, which
you will pardon me for saying I doubt very much, you stand before the
academy branded as a coward."

"Very well," said Mark, "let it be so."

And he turned away, and all through that long, weary morning and the
afternoon, too. Cadet Mallory was in Coventry, and not a soul spoke a
word to him, except Cadet Spencer, at drill. And he was frigid.

Cadet Powers was released from the hospital "cured" that evening after
supper, and he limped upstairs to his room, and sat down to think about
himself, and to philosophize upon the vanities of life and the follies
of ambition. Mark did not come up until "tattoo" sounded, and so Texas
had plenty of time. He felt very meek just then; he wasn't angry any
more, and he'd had plenty of time also to think over what a fool he had
been in not listening to Mark's explanation of his absence. For Texas
had been suddenly convinced that Mark was no coward after all.

While he sat there, a piece of paper sticking out from under the bureau
caught his eye. Texas was getting very neat recently under West Point
discipline; he picked that paper up, and read as follows:

      "I'll be back in time to fight. Explain later. Trust
      me.

      "MARK."

"Oh!" cried Texas, springing up from his chair and wrenching a
dilapidated shoulder. "He told me he did that--and I called him a liar!"

Texas walked up and down, and mused some more. Then it occurred to him
there might be more paper under that bureau to explain things. He got
down, painfully, and fished out another crumpled note. And he read that,
too:

      "DEAR MR. MALLORY: I am in deep trouble, and I need
      your aid at once. You can tell how serious the trouble
      is by the fact that I ask you to come to me
      immediately. If you care to do a generous and helpful
      act pray do not refuse. Sincerely yours,

      "MARY ADAMS."

Mary Adams was a girl well known to many of the cadets.

The letter was roughly scrawled on a pad, and when Texas finished
reading it he flung it on the floor and went and glared at himself in
the mirror.

"You idiot!" he muttered, shaking his fist at himself. "Here them ole
cadets went an' fooled Mark Mallory again, an' you--bah!"

Texas was repentant through and through by that time; he grabbed up his
cap savagely and made for the door, with a reckless disregard for sore
joints. He hobbled downstairs and out of barracks, and caught Mark by
the arm just as Mark was coming in.

"Well, Texas?" inquired Mark, smiling.

"Fust place," said Texas, briefly, "want to thank you fo' lickin' me."

"Welcome," said Mark.

"Second place, do it ag'in if I ever lose my temper."

"Welcome," said Mark.

"Third place, I want to 'pologize."

"What's up? What's happened to convince you?"

"Nothin' much," said Texas, "only I been a' findin' out what a fool I
am. Hones' now, Mark," and as Mark looked into the other's pleading gray
eyes he saw that Texas meant it. "Hones' now, this yere's fust time I
ever 'pologized in my life. I'm sorry."

And Mark took him by the hand. They were friends again from that moment.

"I jist saw that second note from Mary Adams upstairs," explained Texas,
"an' then I knowed them ole cadets had fooled you that way ag'in. Say,
Mark, you're mos' as big a fool as me--mos'."

"That note was genuine," answered Mark. And then as he saw Texas'
amazement, he led him aside and explained. "I'll tell you about it,"
said he, "for I can trust you not to tell. But I can't explain to the
rest of the class, and I won't, either, though they may call me a
coward if they choose.

"A drummer boy came up here last night--or, rather, this morning. He
woke me up and gave me that note, swore it was genuine, too, and I
believed him in the end. As you see, Mary Adams wanted to see me, and
she was in a desperate hurry about it. Well, I debated over it for a
long time; at first I thought I wouldn't, for I was afraid of
court-martial; but then as I thought of her in distress I made up my
mind to risk it, and I went. As it turned out, old man, you'd have been
ashamed of me if I hadn't. There are worse things than being called a
coward, and one of em's being a coward.

"I found her in great trouble, as she said. She has a brother, a fellow
of about twenty-two, I guess. She lives with her widowed mother, and he
takes care of them. I think they are poor. Anyway, this brother had
gotten two or three hundred dollars from his employer to take a trip out
West. He had fallen in with a rather tough crowd down in the village,
and they were busy making him spend it as fast as he could. That was the
situation."

"It was tough," commented Texas.

"The problem was to get him away. The girl hadn't a friend on earth to
call on, and she happened to think of me. She begged me to try to get
him away. And I'll tell you one thing, too, Texas. The cadets say she's
a flirt and all that. She may be. I haven't had a chance to find out,
and I don't propose to; but a girl that thinks as much of her brother as
she does, and does as much for him, is not beyond respect by a good
sight. I was really quite taken with her last night."

"Beware the serpent," put in Texas, laughing. "She's pretty, I'm told.
Go on."

"Well, I found him, after a couple of hours' search, in a tough dive,
with a crowd of loafers hanging on to him. I got him out, but I had to
knock down----"

"Hey!" cried Texas, springing up in excitement. "Had a fight, did ye?
Why didn't you take me 'long?"

"I didn't know I was going to fight," said Mark, laughing.

"And did you lick 'em?"

"I only had to lick two, and then the rest ran."

Texas sighed resignedly, and Mark went on:

"I took him home, as I said, and left him with her. I got home just in
time for reveille."

"Time to have me call you names and to lick me blue, for the same which
I have jest thanked yo," added Texas, his eyes suspiciously moist. "An'
look a yere, ole man"--Texas slung his hand around to his hip pocket and
"pulled" a beautiful silver-mounted revolver, loaded "to the
brim"--"look a yere, Mark. This yere gun, I ain't ever gone out 'thout
it fo' ten year. She's a----"

"You don't mean to say you've had it on up here!"

"Sho'," said Texas, "an' I come near usin' it on you, too. Mark, you
dunno how a Texas man is with a gun. Mos' of 'em 'ud ruther sell their
wives. An' I'm a goin' to give you this to show that--er--that ther'
ain't no hard feelin's, you know."

"And I'll take it," said Mark, getting hold of Texas' other hand at the
same time--"take it, if it's only to keep you from carrying it. And
there aren't any hard feelings."




CHAPTER V.

MARK IN DISGRACE.


"In my excursions into the various fields of knowledge I have never yet
had occasion to investigate the alleged discoveries of phrenological
experimentalists, and yet----"

The speaker paused for a moment, long enough to sigh mournfully. Then he
continued:

"And yet I had, I think, sufficient perception of character as
delineated by the outlines of physiognomy to recognize at once the fact
that the person to whom we refer is in no way a coward."

"I wish I had, Parson," responded his companion, ruefully rubbing a
large lump upon his forehead. "I wish I had."

The thin, learned features of the first speaker found it difficult to
indicate any amusement, and yet there was the trace of a smile about his
mouth as he answered.

"You say he 'licked' you, to use your own rather unclassic phrase?" he
inquired.

"Licked me? Wow! He gave me, sah, the very worst lickin' I ever got in
my life--which is very natural, seeing that when a feller gits licked
down in Texas they bury him afterward. I reckon I'd be a gunnin' fo' him
right now, if 'twarn't seein' it's Mark Mallory. Why, man, a feller
can't stay mad with Mark Mallory long!"

It was just dinner time and Parson and Texas were sitting on the steps
of barracks, waiting for the summons and talking over the events of the
previous day.

"And how did this encounter originate?" inquired the Parson.

"All in my foolishness!" growled Texas. "You see yesterday morning when
he didn't turn up to fight that 'ere yearling fellow Williams, I thought
'twas cause he was scared. An' so I got mad an' when he did turn up I
went fo' him. An' then I went fo' the hospital."

"His conduct did seem unaccountable," rejoined the other. "And yet
somehow I had an instinctive intuition, so to speak, that there was an
adequate reason. And one is apt to find that such impressions are
trustworthy, as, indeed, was most obviously demonstrated and
consistently maintained by the German philosopher, Immanuel Kant. Are
you acquainted with Kant's antinomies?" the Parson added, anxiously.

"No," said Powers. "I ain't. They ain't got to Texas yit. But I wish I'd
had more sense'n to git mad with Mark. I tell you I felt cheap when he
did explain. I kain't tell you the reason yit, but you'll know it before
long. All I kin say is he went down to Cranston's."

"To Cranston's? I thought we weren't allowed off the grounds."

"We ain't. But he took the risk of expulsion."

"And another, too," put in the Parson, "the risk of being called a
coward an' being ostracised by the cadets."

"I dunno 'bout the astercizin' part," said Texas, "but I know they
called him a coward, an' I know they cut him dead. There won't even a
plebe speak to him, 'cept me an' you an' Injun. An' it's what I call
durnation tough now, by Jingo!"

"It don't worry me very much," put in a voice behind them.

The two turned and saw Mark looking at them with an amused expression.

"It don't worry me much," he repeated. "I guess I can stand it if
you'll stand by me. And I think pretty soon I can get another chance at
Williams, and then----"

"If ye do," cried the excitable Texan, springing up, "I'll back you to
murder him in jist about half a minute."

"It won't be so easy," responded Mark, "for Williams is the best man in
his class, and that's saying a great deal. But I'll try it; and in the
meantime we'll face out the disgrace. I can stand it, for really there
isn't much privation when you have three to keep you company."

"I reckon," put in Texas, after a moment's thought, "I reckon we'll have
to put off aformin' o' thet ere new organization we were a-talkin'
'bout. Cuz we kain't git anybody to join ef they won't any of 'em speak
to us."

"I guess we three are enough for the present," said Mark, "at least
while all the cadets leave us alone. And if they try to haze us I think
we can fight about as well as the rest of them. Then there's Indian,
too, you know; I don't think he can fight much, but he's----"

"Now, see here!" cried an indignant voice from the doorway, "now see
here, you fellows! I think that's real mean, now, indeed I do. Didn't I
tell you fellows I was going to learn to fight?" he expostulated.
"Didn't I? Bless my soul, now, what more can a man do?"

Mark winked slyly to his companions, and put on his most solemn air.

"Do?" he growled. "You ask what more can a man do? A man might, if he
were a man, rise up and prove his prowess and win himself a name. He
might gird up his loins and take his sword in his hand and sally forth,
to vindicate his honor and the honor of his sworn friends and allies.
That is what he might do. And instead what does he do? In slothfulness
and cowardice he sits and suffers beneath the rod of tyranny and
oppression!"

Mark finished out of breath and red in the face.

"Bless my soul!" cried Indian.

"Such a course is by no means entirely unprecedented," put in Stanard,
solemnly. "It is common in the mythology of antiquity and in the legends
of mediæval times. Such was the course of Hercules, and thus did Sir
Galahad and the Knights of the Round Table."

Poor Joe Smith was gazing at the two speakers in perplexity. He wasn't
quite sure whether they were serious or not, but he thought they were,
and he was on the verge of promising to go out and kill something,
whether a cadet or a grizzly, at once. The only trouble was that the
tall, sedate-looking officer of the day, in his spotless uniform of
gray and white and gold with a dazzling red sash thrown in, strode out
of the guardhouse just then; a moment later came the cry, "New cadets
turn out!" and Indian drew a breath of relief at being delivered from
his uncomfortable situation.

Saturday afternoon is a holiday at West Point. The luckless plebe,
