later and is richer than it was twenty years ago. But you are taking
some excellent steps along the way."

"Oh, thank you for the praise," said Helen pressing her hand.

If the steps were not in Latin and French she could go bounding along,
she thought. In that respect she did not inherit her father's facility
nor his love for the abstruse and difficult.

"I suppose I am superficial," she said to herself ruefully. "But why
shouldn't one delight in the things one loves best?"

That was one charm about Miss Craven to her. She reveled in poetry. The
other girls were full of nonsense chatter in the spare half hours, but
they two often slipped away under some tree and read and discussed.
There was a fund of romance in each one, though temperament and
surroundings had been so different, the one so afraid to express her
inmost thought, the other so fearless, not even minding being laughed
at.

Every day seemed more crowded with all things.

"I'm glad I don't have to think about a graduation gown, or any gown,"
laughed Helen. "My clothes come ready-made, and all I have to do is to
put them on."

"But wouldn't you like to choose sometimes?" asked one of the girls. "I
shall choose my graduation gown and my wedding gown."

"Oh, no you won't. Graduation gowns have to be pretty much alike, and
wedding gowns must be in the prevailing fashion. In fact, I think there
is very little you do choose in this life. There's someone just in
front always who lays down the law, and though you may think you will
get your own way you find oftener it is the way of someone else."

"If I had my way I wouldn't come back to school."

"If I had my way I would come back to school ten years," exclaimed
Helen.

"You are enough to tire anyone to death with your everlasting study
plans. Thank heaven for vacation, say I."

There were some plans, indeed a great deal of planning about that. Each
girl had a different desire.

Helen had written her monthly letter regularly. Sometimes she had nice
chatty replies from Mrs. Van Dorn; at others, Miss Gage had written.
They had been spending a month at Paris, now they were going to London,
and then to some country houses. And early in June came a letter
disposing of Helen's summer. She would return to Hope and spend the time
between Mrs. Dayton and her uncle. "We do not know what may happen
another year," she wrote; "and you are too young to be going about
anywhere else."

Of course that was what she had expected to do, would be glad to do. She
did want to see all her old friends again. Uncle Jason's letters had
been rather queer and formal, Jenny had written twice all about herself
and Joe.

Daisy came in bright and smiling. She, too, had a letter.

"I've been telling mamma such lots about you, and I asked her to let me
invite you to spend a fortnight with me, and here it is. Just listen."

A very delightful invitation to be sure. Helen's heart beat high for a
moment.

"Well--are you struck speechless?" a gay light dancing in her eyes.

"You are very good, just lovely, but I do not know as I can accept, I am
to go home----"

"Only two weeks out of nine! Surely you can spare that!"

Helen considered. "I will consult Mrs. Aldred before I decide," with
gentle gravity.

"I really do not see what she has to do with it. Your aunt and uncle
would be the ones to decide. Don't you want to do it--to see what sort
of a home I have? It would be just a splendid time. Mamma is half in
love with you. I am almost jealous again."

"Oh, I can't think of anything more delightful," Helen cried eagerly,
and Daisy did not need to doubt the pleasure illumining her face. "But
Mrs. Van Dorn has planned----"

"Oh, write to her and tell her how much you want to come," beseechingly.

"There would hardly be time."

"It would be nicer to take you home with me, but you could come
afterward."

"Why yes. However, I will see what Mrs. Aldred thinks."

"Oh, go at once. I want to write back," exclaimed Daisy impatiently.

Mrs. Aldred looked up from the pile of reports on her table, and said in
a pleasantly inquiring tone, "Well?" then listened, but there was a tint
of perplexity in her face.

"I had a note from Mrs. Van Dorn by the last steamer also. She seems
very well satisfied with your progress, only she is rather exigent
about the French, and I wish you would do all you can at it during
vacation. But she is very explicit about the summer. I think she prefers
that you should spend it in Hope."

She had been rather more than explicit, and said she did not approve of
such young girls visiting about. Mr. Castles would send a trusty person
for Helen and see her safely on the train for Hope.

"Do you not think I might write to her about it for a visit later on?"

"Yes, you could. But Mrs. Van Dorn is certain of her own wishes in any
matter, and generally has good reasons. I do not imagine a visit like
this would do you any harm, but you are young, and I do suppose you
owe your own people some respect. I think I should accept the fiat."

Helen felt bitterly disappointed. She did not dream her girlish
enthusiasm about Daisy Bell had been one of the factors in this command,
as it really was, that Mrs. Van Dorn did not want any girl to gain a
strong influence over Helen, but she need not have felt suspicious, as
the influence was all the other way.

It had come like a sudden vision, and now it was quenched in bitter
regret, with the unappeased want back of it.

"I do object to indiscriminate visiting for such young girls. If Mrs.
Van Dorn were here and could see just the kind of girl Miss Daisy is, it
would be different, but I suppose, if she thought at all, it was about
the generality of girls, who sometimes are quite lawless in their own
homes. Since you have accepted her direction for the next two years, it
is best to do it cheerfully," advised Mrs. Aldred.

"Yes, I do owe her that much," returned Helen in a convinced tone, if
the disappointment had not all gone out of it.

Then Daisy and she had an unpleasant disagreement about it, and Helen
felt sorrier than ever.

Juliet Craven's happening was a comforting one for her. Mrs. Davis had
gone abroad with a clear conscience. Her friend, Mrs. Howard, was to
look after the ward who was neither woman or child.

Then came the rush of examinations, the excitement to know who had
passed, and what the marks were, and the graduation exercises which
began at three in the afternoon and were to end with a lawn party in the
moonlight.

Some of the pupils were secretly mortified at not attaining a higher
rate, a few really did not care, and they were not sufficiently above
the ordinary to make a mark anywhere. Some others were a credit to the
training and culture of Aldred House, and went their way with a grateful
remembrance of their teacher friend and her admirable daughter.

Helen had a part in the singing, there was some excellent playing,
recitations, and essays. The house was crowded, it was one of the summer
events at Westchester. There were congratulations and good wishes, and
an evening of unbounded delight, as many of the young people were
invited, and for this evening the youthful masculines, among them a
number of law students, were welcomed.

Was it only a year ago Helen Grant had recited Herv√© Riel in the old
schoolhouse at Hope Center? Oh, how many things had happened since then.
Why, it was like a fairy story. She could hardly believe it herself.

She recited it again out on a corner of the lawn, and before she was
half through her audience had doubled, and listened with flattering
attention. The young son of Mr. Danforth, just home from college, was
standing near.

"That's enough to inspire one," he said. "I shall take one line back
with me and recall the very ring of your voice:

  "Sirs, believe me, there's a way.'"

Helen flushed with pleasure. She had not given up her old hero, though
there had been new candidates for her favor.

Then followed the partings the next morning. Some would be for life
perhaps. Every graduate counted on coming back to Aldred House some day,
but there were many chances and changes and more than one was never to
see it again, only hold its happy times in remembrance.

"I am glad we are to keep together next year," exclaimed Daisy Bell.
"And I do think I shall be a better student. The year following we
shall graduate together. And all the rest of our lives I hope we shall
be friends, even if we do have tiffs now and then."

Juliet Craven asked rather timidly if she might write to Helen.

"Oh, I should be disappointed if you did not. I count on it as one of my
pleasures," Helen returned warmly. There were other promises, several
of them not kept. And by twos and threes the group dwindled until at
dinner all the remainder were invited to the table of state as guests.

The next morning a thin, rather somber-looking man came with a note from
Mr. Castles. Helen's eyes were swimming in tears as she said good-by to
Mrs. Aldred and Miss Grace.

It was an uneventful journey until they reached New York. They stopped
at Mr. Castles' office, and he questioned Helen about her past year,
took her out to lunch, and then put her aboard her own train with
several papers and a magazine, and wished her a pleasant journey.

And pleasant it was, though she had a seat to herself. She could not
read, hardly look at the tempting array of pictures, there were so many
thoughts crowding in and through her mind. She had been very happy.
Schooldays were delightful. She wanted years and years of them.

Some ten miles before they reached Hope the passengers had to leave the
main line. She made her change without any difficulty, and saw that her
trunk was safely bestowed. Then on and on past farms and a few
straggling villages, when the train began to slow up and the conductor
called out--"North Hope."

Half bewildered, as if it were a strange place, she felt the conductor
take her arm. Then someone else grasped it, a rather tall figure with a
familiar face, and a delighted voice at his side exclaimed:

"Why, Helen Grant! You have grown almost out of recollection!"

"Oh, Mrs. Dayton! Oh, Mr. Warfield!"

That was all she could say at first. Mr. Warfield looked after her
trunk; Mrs. Dayton surveyed her from head to foot.

"You'll have to go in long dresses," she began in an amused tone.

"Oh, I don't want to grow up, Mrs. Dayton. I don't want to be a young
lady. Girls have such a good time, and in my heart and all over me I am
just a girl," she exclaimed vehemently.

"I am glad of that, too. Joanna wondered if you had forgotten how to dry
glass and china, and would be clear spoiled at boarding school. You
haven't changed a bit in looks, and your face isn't a day older, but you
are almost as tall as I. Just now I haven't but two or three boarders,
and I want all of you that I can have for the pure pleasure of the
thing."

Mr. Warfield soon joined them. Here was the library in which she had
taken such pleasure, the street with the stores, the window in which she
had seen her Madonna, and now she knew so much about the old ones and
their painters. A turn in this quiet street and here they were. She
would not have been startled to see Mrs. Van Dorn on the porch. There
were an old lady and an old gentleman, both silver-haired and placid,
she in an almost quakerish garb, but looking very sweet.

"You are tired and dusty, I know, and want a bit of freshening up. Mr.
Warfield is going to stay to dinner, and then you can have your talk.
His school just closed yesterday, and he goes away to-morrow. We have
almost quarreled about you; he hates girls' boarding schools and was
sure you would come back a niminy, priminy Miss with high heels and
trains and all that," laughing gayly.

"He doesn't know anything about Aldred House," Helen replied, amused.

"Here, you are to have a room to yourself, though I expect to-morrow
Uncle Jason will whisk you off. That old couple downstairs, Mr. and
Mrs. White, have Mrs. Van Dorn's room. And she's careering around Europe
like any young thing! She does surprise me. Now when you are ready come
down, for we are just dying to inspect you and see how much you have
changed."

Helen recalled the fact that a year ago she thought this the most
beautiful place imaginable. There was the tall, slim rowan-tree, full of
green berries that would hang out beads of red flame in the autumn, the
tamarack with its sprays of delicate leaves, the big, burly, black
walnut on the corner, the wild clematis and Virginia creeper, the prim
flower-beds.

"There will be plenty of time to look at them through the summer," she
thought, so she bathed her face, brushed her hair, shook out the pretty
pliss√© shirtwaist she had in her satchel, tied a blue ribbon round her
neck and looked as fresh as a just opened flower.




CHAPTER XVI

HOPE THROUGH A WIDER OUTLOOK


She had on nice-fitting button boots with heels only moderately high, a
dark-blue, thin summer-cloth skirt up to her ankles, with several rows
of stitching through the hem, the crumply white pliss√© waist that fell
like drapery about shoulders and arms, her hair was a mass of braids at
the back with a straight parting from forehead to crown, some short
curling ends about the edge of her fair brow, and the blue of her eyes
was many shades deeper than the ribbon around her neck. Mrs. Van Dorn
was no more anxious to have her a young lady than Mr. Warfield.

She was just a bright, intelligent, good-looking girl, who would never
be girlishly pretty, but something better, perhaps a handsome woman at
five-and-twenty, and always attractive from the sort of frank sweetness,
the wholesomeness of the thorough girl.

Mr. Warfield felt rather vexed at being disappointed, yet down in his
heart he was glad she was fulfilling the sort of ideal he had of her,
the girl she might become with proper training, he had often said, even
to Mrs. Dayton. He thought he should know on just what lines to develop
the best and highest in her. He held a very good opinion of a man's
training for certain natures, and hers was one. Then he felt a little
sore at not being able to keep a sort of supervision over her by letter.

But when she came and sat down by him in that unaffected manner and
looked out of such frank eyes; smiled with an every-day cordiality, as
if the smile was in constant use, he was a little nonplused.

"What have you been doing this whole year?" he asked with interest.
"Could you pass an examination for the High School?"

"Oh, do you remember how frightened I was? But some of the questions
would not cause me five minutes' thought now. I've had a magnificent
time with history and literature, and a tough time with Latin. It is one
of the things I have to delve at this summer. It seems to me most of my
life is school life. I can't stop anywhere. Something is thrust at me
all the time."

"You used to love to study," complainingly.

"I love it yet. Botany is delightful, it is so full of live wonders. I
do not care so much for chemistry. And physics----"

"They require close attention. And what accomplishments?" in a
dissatisfied tone.

"French that I am not in love with, but Mrs. Van Dorn insists upon it,
and the piano, drawing, and painting."

"A waste of time most of them," he commented severely.

"Sketching is very fascinating."

"And a camera can give you the picture twice as well."

"Some of the Seniors do beautiful work. One of them goes abroad to study
and perfect herself in art. Miss Gertrude Aldred will go after next
year."

"That may be very well for pastime, or waste-time," with a touch of
sarcasm, "but I don't suppose any of these girls could get their living
at it?"

"I don't know as they will be compelled to."

"But everybody has to be put through the same mill, I suppose?"

"Not exactly. Some studies are elective. Three of the girls go to
college. Of course many of them do not expect to turn their education
to any account. I should like to know just what I am to do with mine,"
and she laughed softly.

"I thought you once looked up to teaching as a sort of glorified
existence."

The touch of irony did not hurt her at all.

"I still think it one of the finest professions. Only--I should like to
have a school of smart, eager children, and go on and on with them. I
think it must be very hard to take up a new dull class every season."

"It is," he returned frankly. "It was one of the drawbacks, like going
down to the foot of your own class."

"So I think I shall have a boarding school and keep the girls year after
year."

"Well, are you deep in metaphysics or transcendentalism?" asked a
cheerful voice, as Mrs. Dayton's ample figure emerged from the door-way.
"You do not seem to be 'sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought.'
That is an old-fashioned quotation and was in the copy books at school
in my day, when to be thin and pale was the mark of a student. And
wasn't midnight oil another? You do not show marks of either, Helen."

"Oh, the lights are out and we have to be in bed at ten. We can rise as
early as we like in the morning, however," laughed Helen.

"Numbers of the old ideas have been exploded. Still, we must admit they
made some good scholars. The students were more in earnest, they were
not so superficial."

"But it takes a long while to learn everything thoroughly. That is where
teachers and professors have the advantage, they can spend their whole
lives over it," exclaimed Helen. "Honestly," and a rather mischievous
light flashed across her face, "I do not think the average girl is a
born student. Perhaps the boy isn't either. But there seem to be so many
things in a girl's life, so many sides to it"--and a thoughtful crease
came in her forehead.

"You have found that out early. But the successes must be able to do
several things well, and to bring knowledge into action, not have a lot
of useless matter stored up in the brain waiting for the time to make it
serviceable, and then it is not fresh, often not useful."

"Like the old clothes you pile up in the garret," interpolated Mrs.
Dayton. "They are out of date and moth-eaten. There are many things it
is not worth while to save up. I have a boarder here who has saved up
