explain everything, and his order as to being left undisturbed was the
more strictly obeyed because it would apparently be impossible to
disturb him with anything less than artillery.

It is a curious fact that when servants have decided that their masters
are eccentric they soon cease to take any notice of their doings,
except to laugh at them now and then when more eccentric than usual. It
being once established that Logotheti was an original he might have
kept his private room full of Bengal tigers for all the servants hall
would have cared, provided the beasts did not get about the house. It
was a 'good place,' for he was generous, and there were perquisites;
therefore he might do anything he pleased, so long as he paid--as
indeed most of us might in this modern world, if we were able and
willing to pay the price.

On this particular evening Logotheti dined at home alone, chiefly on a
very simple Greek pilaff, Turkish preserved rose leaves and cream
cheese, which might strike a Parisian as strange fare, unless he were a
gourmet of the very highest order. Having sipped a couple of small
glasses of very old Samos wine, Logotheti ordered lights and coffee in
his private room, told the servants not to disturb him, went in and
locked the outer door.

Then he gave a sigh of satisfaction and sat down, as if he had reached
the end of a day's journey. He tasted his coffee, and kicked off first
one of his gleaming patent leather slippers and then the other, and
drew up his feet under him on the broad leather seat, and drank more
coffee, and lit a big cigarette; after which he sat almost motionless
for at least half an hour, looking most of the time at a statue which
occupied the principal place in the middle of the room. Now and then he
half closed his eyes, and then opened them again suddenly, with an
evident sense of pleasure. He had the air of a man completely satisfied
with his surroundings, his sensations and his thoughts. There was
something almost Buddha-like in his attitude, in his perfect calm, in
the expression of his quiet almond eyes; even the European clothes he
wore did not greatly hinder the illusion. Just then he did not look at
all the sort of person to do anything sudden or violent, to pitch order
to the dogs and tear the law to pieces, to kill anything that stood in
his way as coolly as he would kill a mosquito, or to lay violent hands
on what he wanted if he was hindered from taking it peacefully. Neither
does a wild-cat look very dangerous when it is dozing.

On the rare occasions when he allowed any one but his servants to enter
that room, he said that the statue was a copy, which he had caused to
be very carefully made after an original found in Lesbos and secretly
carried off by a high Turkish official, who kept it in his house and
never spoke of it. This accounted for its being quite unknown to the
artistic world. He called attention to the fact that it was really a
facsimile, rather than a copy, and he seemed pleased at the perfect
reproduction of the injured points, which were few, and of the stains,
which were faint and not unpleasing. But he never showed it to an
artist or an expert critic.

'A mere copy,' he would say, with a shrug of his shoulders. 'Nothing
that would interest any one who really knows about such things.'

A very perfect copy, a very marvellous copy, surely; one that might
stand in the Vatican, with the Torso, or in the Louvre, beside the
Venus of Milo, or in the British Museum, opposite the Pericles, or in
Olympia itself, facing the Hermes, the greatest of all, and yet never
be taken for anything but the work of a supreme master's own hands. But
Constantine Logotheti shrugged his shoulders and said it was a mere
copy, nothing but a clever facsimile, carved and chipped and stained by
a couple of Italian marble-cutters, whose business it was to
manufacture antiquities for the American market and whom any one could
engage to work in any part of the world for twenty francs a day and
their expenses. Yes, those Italian workmen were clever fellows,
Logotheti admitted. But everything could be counterfeited now, as
everybody knew, and his only merit lay in having ordered this
particular counterfeit instead of having been deceived by it.

As Logotheti sat there in the quiet light, looking at it, the word
'copy' sounded in his memory, as he had often spoken it, and a peaceful
smile played upon his broad Oriental lips. The 'copy' had cost human
lives, and he had almost paid for it with his own, in his haste to have
it for himself, and only for himself.

His eyes were half-closed again, and he saw outlines of strong ragged
men staggering down to a lonely cove at night, with their marble
burden, and he heard the autumn gale howling among the rocks, and the
soft thud of the baled statue as it was laid in the bottom of the
little fishing craft; and then, because the men feared the weather, he
was in the boat himself, shaming them by his courage, loosing the sail,
bending furiously to one of the long sweeps, yelling, cheering,
cursing, promising endless gold, then baling with mad energy as the
water swirled up and poured over the canvas bulwark that Greek boats
carry, and still wildly urging the fishermen to keep her up; and then,
the end, a sweep broken and foul of the next, a rower falling headlong
on the man in front of him, confusion in the dark, the crazy boat
broached to in the breaking sea, filling, fuller, now quite full and
sinking, the raging hell of men fighting for their lives amongst broken
oars, and tangled rigging and floating bottom-boards; one voice less,
two less, a smashing sea and then no voices at all, no boat, no men, no
anything but the howling wind and the driving spray, and he himself,
Logotheti, gripping a spar, one of those long booms the fishermen carry
for running, half-drowned again and again, but gripping still, and
drifting with the storm past the awful death of sharp black rocks and
pounding seas, into the calm lee beyond.

And then, a week later, on a still October night, his great yacht lying
where the boat had sunk, with diver and crane and hoisting gear, and
submarine light; and at last, the thing itself brought up from ten
fathoms deep with noise of chain and steam winch, and swung in on deck,
the water-worn baling dropping from it and soon torn off, to show the
precious marble perfect still. And then--'full speed ahead' and west by
north, straight for the Malta channel.

Logotheti's personal reminiscences were not exactly dull, and the vivid
recollection of struggles and danger and visible death made the peace
of his solitude more profound; the priceless thing he had fought for
was alive in the stillness with the supernatural life of the ever
beautiful; his fingers pressed an ebony key in the table beside him and
the marble turned very slowly and steadily and noiselessly on the low
base, seeming to let her shadowy eyes linger on him as she looked back
over the curve of her shoulder. Again his fingers moved, and the motion
ceased, obedient to the hidden mechanism; and so, as he sat still, the
goddess moved this way and that, facing him at his will, or looking
back, or turning quite away, as if ashamed to meet his gaze, being
clothed only in warm light and dreamy shadows, then once more
confronting him in the pride of a beauty too faultless to fear a man's
bold eyes.

He leaned against his cushions, and sipped his coffee now and then, and
let the thin blue smoke make clouds of lace between him and the very
slowly moving marble, for he knew what little things help great
illusions, or destroy them. Nothing was lacking. The dark blue
pavement, combed like rippling water and shot with silver that cast
back broken reflections, was the sea itself; snowy gauze wrapped
loosely round the base was breaking foam; the tinted walls, the morning
sky of Greece; the goddess, Aphrodite, sea-born, too human to be quite
divine, too heavenly to be only a living woman.

And she was his; his not only for the dangers he had faced to have her,
but his because he was a Greek, because his heart beat with a strain of
the ancient sculptor's blood; because his treasure was the goddess of
his far forefathers, who had made her in the image of the loveliness
they adored; because he worshipped her himself, more than half
heathenly; but doubly his now, because his imagination had found her
likeness in the outer world, clothed, breathing and alive, and created
for him only.

He leaned against his cushions, and lines of the old poetry rose to his
lips, and the words came aloud. He loved the sound when he was alone,
the vital rush of it, and the voluptuous pause and the soft, lingering
cadence before it rose again. In the music of each separate verse there
was the whole episode of man's love and woman's, the illusion and the
image, the image and the maddening, leaping, all-satisfying,
softly-subsiding reality.

It was no wonder that he would not allow anything to disturb him in
that inner sanctuary of rare delight. His bodily nature, his
imagination, his deep knowledge and love of his own Hellenic poets, his
almost adoration of the beautiful, all that was his real self, placed
him far outside the pale that confines the world of common men as the
sheepfold pens in the flock.

It was late in the night when he rose from his seat at last,
extinguished the lights himself and left the room, with a regretful
look on his face; for, after his manner, he had been very happy in his
solitude, if indeed he had been alone where his treasure reigned.

He went downstairs, for the sanctuary was high up in the house, and he
found his man dozing in a chair in the vestibule at the door of his
dressing-room. The valet rose to his feet instantly, took a little
salver from the small table beside him, and held it out to Logotheti.

'A telegram, sir,' he said.

Logotheti carelessly tore the end off the blue cover and glanced at the
contents.

    Can buy moon. Cable offer and limit.

Logotheti looked at his watch and made a short calculation which
convinced him that no time would really be lost in buying the moon if
he did not answer the telegram till the next morning. Then he went to
bed and read himself to sleep with Musurus' Greek translation of
Dante's Inferno.




CHAPTER IX


On the following day Margaret received a note from Schreiermeyer
informing her in the briefest terms and in doubtful French that he had
concluded the arrangements for her to make her début in the part of
Marguerite, in a Belgian city, in exactly a month, and requiring that
she should attend the next rehearsal of Faust at the Opéra in Paris,
where Faust is almost a perpetual performance and yet seems to need
rehearsing from time to time.

She showed the letter to Mrs. Rushmore, who sighed wearily after
reading it, and said nothing. But there was a little more colour in
Margaret's cheek, and her eyes sparkled at the prospect of making a
beginning at last. Mrs. Rushmore took up her newspaper again with an
air of sorrowful disapproval, but presently she started uncomfortably
and looked at Margaret.

'Oh!' she exclaimed, and sighed once more.

'What is it?' asked the young girl.

'It must be true, for it's in the Herald.'

'What?'

Mrs. Rushmore read the following paragraph:--

    We hear on the best authority that a new star is about to dazzle
    the operatic stage. Monsieur Schreiermeyer has announced to a
    select circle of friends that it will be visible in the theatrical
    heaven on the night of June 21, in the character of Marguerite and
    in the person of a surprisingly beautiful young Spanish soprano,
    the Señorita Margarita da Cordova, whose romantic story as daughter
    to a contrabandista of Andalusia and granddaughter to the
    celebrated bullfighter Ramon and----

'Oh, my dear! This is too shameful! I told you so!'

Mrs. Rushmore's elderly cheeks were positively scarlet as she stared at
the print. Margaret observed the unwonted phenomenon with surprise.

'I don't see anything so appallingly improper in that,' she observed.

'You don't see! No, my child, you don't! I trust you never may. Indeed
if I can prevent it, you never shall. Disgusting! Vile!'

And the good lady read the rest of the paragraph to herself, holding up
the paper so as to hide her modest blushes.

'My dear, what a story!' she cried at last. 'It positively makes me
creep!'

'This is very tantalising,' said Margaret. 'I suppose it has to do with
my imaginary ancestry in Andalusia.'

'I should think it had! Where do they get such things, I wonder? A
bishop, my dear--oh no, really! it would make a pirate blush! Can you
tell me what good this kind of thing can do?'

'Advertisement,' Margaret answered coolly. 'It's intended to excite
interest in me before I appear, you know. Don't they do it in America?'

'Never!' cried Mrs. Rushmore with solemn emphasis. 'Apart from its
being all a perfectly gratuitous falsehood.'

'Gratuitous? Perhaps Schreiermeyer paid to have it put in.'

'Then I never wish to see him, Margaret, never! Do you understand! I
think I shall bring an action against him. At all events I shall take
legal advice. This cannot be allowed to go uncontradicted. If I were
you, I would sit down and write to the paper this very minute, and tell
the editor that you are a respectable English girl. You are, I'm sure!'

'I hope so! But what has respectability to do with art?'

'A great deal, my dear,' answered Mrs. Rushmore wisely. 'You may say
what you like, there is a vast difference between being respectable and
disreputable--perfectly vast! It's of no use to deny it, because you
can't.'

'Nobody can.'

'There now, I told you so! I must say, child, you are getting some very
strange ideas from your new acquaintances. If these are the principles
you mean to adopt, I am sorry for you, very sorry!'

Margaret did not seem very sorry for herself, however, for she went off
at this point, singing the 'jewel song' in Faust at the top of her
voice, and wishing with all her heart that she were already behind the
footlights with the orchestra at her feet.

Two days later, Mrs. Rushmore received a cable message from New York
which surprised her almost as much as the paragraph about Margaret had.

    Alvah Moon has sold invention for cash to anonymous New York
    syndicate who offer to compromise suit. Cable instructions naming
    sum you will accept, if disposed to deal.

Now Mrs. Rushmore was a wise woman, as well as a good one, though her
ability to express her thoughts in concise language was insignificant.
She had long known that the issue of the suit she had brought was
doubtful, and that as it was one which could be appealed to the Supreme
Court of the United States, it might drag on for a long time; so that
the possibility of a compromise was very welcome, and she at once
remembered that half a loaf is better than no bread, especially when
the loaf is of hearty dimensions and easily divided. What she could not
understand was that any one should have been willing to pay Alvah Moon
the sum he must have asked, while his interest was still in litigation,
and that, after buying that interest, the purchasers should propose a
compromise when they might have prolonged the suit for some time, with
a fair chance of winning it in the end. But that did not matter. More
than once since Mrs. Rushmore had taken up the case her lawyers had
advised her to drop it and submit to losing what she had already spent
on the suit, and of late her own misgivings had increased. The prospect
of obtaining a considerable sum for Margaret, at the very moment when
the girl had made up her mind to support herself as a singer, was in
itself very tempting; and as it presented itself just when the horrors
of an artistic career had been brought clearly before Mrs. Rushmore's
mind by the newspaper paragraph, she did not hesitate a moment.

Margaret was in Paris that morning, at her first rehearsal, and could
not come back till the afternoon; but after all it would be of no use
to consult her, as she was so infatuated with the idea of singing in
public that she would very probably be almost disappointed by her good
fortune. Mrs. Rushmore read the message three times, and then went out
under the trees to consider her answer, carrying the bit of paper in
her hand as if she did not know by heart the words written on it. For
once, she had no guests, and for the first time she was glad of it. She
walked slowly up and down, and as it was a warm morning, still and
overcast, she fanned herself with the telegram in a very futile way,
and watched the flies skimming over the water of the little pond, and
repeated her inward question to herself many times.

Mrs. Rushmore never thought anything out. When she was in doubt, she
asked herself the same question, 'What had I better do?' or, 'What will
he or she do next?' over and over again, with a frantic determination
to be logical. And suddenly, sooner or later, the answer flashed upon
her in a sort of accidental way as if it were not looking for her, and
so completely outran all power of expression that she could not put it
into words at all, though she could act upon it well enough. The odd
part of it all was that these accidental revelations rarely misled her.
They were like fragments of a former world of excellent common-sense
that had gone to pieces, which she now and then encountered like
meteors in her own orbit.

When she had walked up and down for a quarter of an hour one of these
aeroliths of reason shot across the field of her mental sight, and she
understood that one of two things must have occurred. Either Alvah Moon
had lost confidence in his chances and had sold the invention to some
greenhorn for anything he could get; or else some one else had been so
deeply interested in the affair as to risk a great deal of money in it.
Mrs. Rushmore's gleam of intelligence was a comet; but her comet had
two tails, which was very confusing.

Her meditations were disturbed by the noise of a big motor car,
approaching the house from a distance, and heralding its advance with a
steadily rising whizz and a series of most unearthly toots. Motor cars
often passed the house and ran down the Boulevard St. Antoine at
frightful speed, for the beautiful road is generally clear; but
something, perhaps a small meteor again, warned her that this one was
going to stop at the gate and demand admittance for itself.

Thereupon Mrs. Rushmore looked at her fingers; for she kept up an
extensive correspondence, in the course of which she often inked them.
For forty years she had asked herself why she, who prided herself on
her fastidious neatness, should have been predestined and condemned to
have inky fingers like an untidy school-girl, and she had spent time
and money in search of an ink that would wash off easily and
completely, without the necessity of flaying her hands with pumice
stone and chemicals. When suddenly aware of the approach of an
unexpected visitor, she always looked at her fingers.

The thing came nearer, roared, sputtered, tooted and was silent. In the
silence Mrs. Rushmore heard the tinkle of the gate bell and in a few
moments she saw Logotheti coming towards her across the lawn. She was
not particularly pleased to see him.

'I am afraid,' she said rather stiffly, 'that Miss Donne is out.'

In a not altogether well-spent life Logotheti had seen many things; but
he was not accustomed to American chaperons, whose amazing humility
always takes it for granted that no man under forty can possibly call
upon them except for the sake of seeing the young woman in their
charge. Logotheti looked vaguely surprised.

'Indeed?' he answered, with a little interrogation as though he found
it hard to be astonished, but wished to be obliging. 'That is rather
fortunate,' he continued, 'for I was hoping to find you alone.'

'Me?' Mrs. Rushmore unbent a little and smiled rather grimly.

'Yes. If I had not been so anxious to see you at once, I should have
written or telegraphed to ask for a few minutes alone with you. But I
could not afford to waste time.'

He spoke so gravely that she immediately suspected him of dark designs.
Perhaps he was going to propose to her, since Margaret had refused him.
She remembered instances of adventurers who had actually married widows
of sixty for their money. She compressed her lips. She would be firm
with him; he should have a piece of her mind.

'I am alone,' she said severely, a little as if warning him not to take
liberties.

'My errand concerns a matter in which we have common interests at
stake,' he said.

Mrs. Rushmore sat down on a garden chair, and pointed to the bench, on
which he took his seat.

'I cannot imagine what interests you mean,' she said, with dignity.
'Pray explain. If you refer to Miss Donne, I may as well inform you
with perfect frankness that it is of no use.'

Logotheti smiled and shook his head gently, keeping his eyes on Mrs.
Rushmore's face, all of which she took to mean incredulity on his part.

