When Isabel found herself in the long cool corridor, set thick with
gentle landscapes, and hunting squires, and dames haughty and humble,
she drew a long breath of relief, as if she had escaped from a jungle.
But she felt oddly wounded in her self-love, young and silly. She had
thought herself old in the last three years, tremendously modern. What
did she know? The easy morals of students in France and Germany had
repelled her at first, but she had ended by accepting them as a matter
of course, and had rather plumed herself upon her accumulating grains
and blends of human nature. She felt a rush of contempt for their
crudity. What children they were with their simple unmorality of
artists, as ignorant of the real world as babes in a wood!

When she reached her own room she astonished herself by bursting into a
passion of tears. It was some time before she understood what had
induced it. It was not that the illusions of youth had received a hard
blow, for many of them had disappeared long since in Paris, when she had
supported an American girl of decent family but too much liberty through
the most desperate experience that a young woman, alone and friendless
in a foreign city, well could have. The girl had died cursing all men
and the folly of women, and after Isabel had buried her and the leading
cause of her repentance, she returned to her lonely flat in a state of
disillusion and disgust which seemed to encase her by no means
susceptible heart in a triple panoply. This state of mind had lasted for
at least three months. And there was little of which she had not
abstract knowledge, nor had she lived a quarter of a century to learn
for the first time of the license which the world permits to women so
highly placed that they have come to believe themselves above all laws.

But all her experience and abstract knowledge counted for nothing, and
she had for the first time a sudden and complete appreciation of the
evil of the world and of its odd association with even the higher
virtues; of the fact that in the upper walks of life the balance was
more nearly even than on planes where there existed scantier
opportunities for development. There was no question that Victoria
Gwynne was made on a magnificent plan, as capable of heroism, no doubt,
as any of the salient women of history. She was an ornament in her
world, useful, sympathetic, the author of much good, a devoted and
inspiring mother. And yet there was no more question that this Frenchman
was the last of a long line of favored adorers than that Victoria, for
all her individualities, was but a type of her kind: a kind that was
sufficiently distinct from the hundreds of wholly estimable women that
were proud to know her, or accepted her as a matter of course.

And even these good women? Had they not the same passions, the same
inclinations in the secrecies of their souls? What was the determining
cause of their indisputable virtue? A happy marriage? Too many children?
Timidity? Absence of temptation? Or were they merely orthodox through a
more uneven balancing of their qualities, the animal in abeyance? For
this very reason were they not frequently narrow, unsympathetic,
unuseful--unless, indeed, they were of the few who, with the mighty
temptations of the Victoria Gwynnes, were mightier still in their
fidelity to some inner and cherished ideal. This lofty ideal of
womanhood Isabel had unconsciously set up in her soul, and the sudden
conviction of its imperfection was, after all, the reason of her sudden
despair. For the soul with its immemorial and often incommunicable
knowledge may have its moments of terror while the mind wonders.

And she was disheartened at the sense of insignificance and
mortification inspired by this contact with a side of life, as real and
consequent as motherhood or government, instead of feeling merely
repelled, infinitely superior in her unstained maidenhood. She had no
wish to emulate, but neither did she relish feeling provincial, a chit,
an outsider. Her youthful vanity had its way in a mind too speculative,
intelligent, observant, merely to be shocked. Her memory reverted to
experiences that had made her feel as much older than the ordinary girl
as she now felt at sea. What was she, Isabel Otis, after all? She felt a
mere assortment of fluids, which might or might not crystallize into
some such being as she had dimly apprehended, or into something quite
commonplace; realized with a shock that her own deep personal experience
had left her less definitely moulded than she had imagined.

She rose impatiently and bathed her eyes before ringing for the maid to
lace her for dinner--it was long past tea-time. "Perhaps I had better
marry Lord Hexam and have ten children," she thought. "That sort of
existence has kept more women up to the correct standard than anything
else except poverty."




XIII


"And is this really your first big party?" asked Hexam, wonderingly.

"The first! The first! And I am twenty-five! Just think of it! Of course
I have been to students' balls, and little parties in Rosewater. But a
function--never before."

"This is hardly a function--parties even in the big political
country-houses are more or less informal."

"Informal! The jewels fairly blind my provincial eyes. And this is a
real castle!"

"Oh yes, it is a castle," he said, laughing outright. "I suppose you
have read up its record?" he added, teasingly. "You industrious and
curious Americans know a lot more about us than we know about
ourselves."

"Of course I know the history of this castle. I haven't the least doubt
you know every word of it yourself. I have already learned that the
English are not nearly so vacant-minded as, in their curious pride, they
would have one believe."

She threw back her head, half-closing her eyes in the ecstasy of her new
experience. The dancing was in the picture-gallery, an immense room, in
which there were many dark paintings of the old Italian and Spanish
schools, besides the presentments of innumerable Arcots by the usual
popular masters of the Dutch and English. The ceiling was of stone and
vaulted, but set thick with electric lights, blazing down from their
great height like the crystal stars of the tropics. It had seemed to
Isabel that after entering the castle she had walked for ten minutes
before reaching this room, where as brilliant a company was disporting
itself as she was likely to look upon in England. The Duke of Arcot was
an energetic Conservative and a member of the present cabinet, but his
social attentions were ever directed to the prominent and interesting of
whatever party or creed. As he found a particular zest in being
surrounded by smart, bright and pretty women, the parties at the castle,
and at Arcot House in London, were seldom surpassed in either brilliancy
or interest. And as his rent-roll was abnormal, there was no sign of
dilapidation within the gray walls and towers of the ancient castle, but
much comfort and luxury against a background of countless treasures
accumulated throughout the centuries. He had taken an immediate fancy to
Isabel and promised to show her the lower rooms as soon as she tired of
dancing.

Hexam watched her with an amused indulgence that in no wise tempered his
mounting admiration. She was radiant. Her blue eyes were shining and
almost black, her cheeks flooded with a delicate pink. She wore a gown
of white tulle upon whose floating surface were a few dark-blue lilies.
The masses of her black hair were piled on her head in the fashion of
her Californian grandmothers, and confined by a high Spanish comb of
gold and tortoise-shell. Her only other jewel was a long string of Baja
California pearls that had glistened on warm white necks in many an old
California ballroom before ever an American had crossed the threshold of
Arcot Castle. They had been given by Concha Arg√ºello, when she assumed
the gray habit of the Third Order of the Franciscan nuns, to the wife of
her brother Santiago and so had come down to Isabel.

And to-night this descendant of that powerful clan, unimaginable in her
modern complexities to their simple minds, was receiving homage in the
ballroom of one of the greatest houses in Europe. For there was no
question, even in the minds of the young married women, who carry all
before them in English society, that the American girl had created a
furore among the men. Isabel had confided to the duke, who had lunched
that day at Capheaton, and to Hexam, her haunting fear of being a
wall-flower, and both had vowed that she should have no lack of partners
at her first English ball. But to Hexam's disgust, at least, their
solicitude came to an untimely end, and he was able to secure but two
waltzes and a square dance. The duke had spoken for the cotillon, which
he had no intention of dancing. He was a most estimable person, but he
never ignored an opportunity to talk with a new and interesting woman.

Isabel could hardly have failed to be a belle that night, for her spirit
was pitched to a height of joy and triumph that charged her whole being
with a powerful magnetism. Possibly with a presentiment that it was to
be an isolated experience, she abandoned herself recklessly to the mere
delight of living, her will imperious for the fulness of one of the
dearest of girlhood's ideals. She was one of those women, cast, as she
well knew, for tragic and dramatic contacts with life, but Nature in
compensation had granted her a certain wildness of spirit that sprang
spontaneously to meet the pleasure, trifling or great, of the mere
present; no matter for how long a period, or how hard, its wings had
been smitten.

So she danced, and talked far more than was her wont, surpassing herself
in every way, and no more interested in poor Hexam than in twenty
others. He took her in to supper, however, and after three hours of
dancing she was glad to rest and be sheltered by his determined bulk,
planted squarely before her corner. She knew that she had a coronet very
close to her footstool, and that this brilliant night might be but the
prologue to a lifetime of the only society in the world worth while, but
she was not conscious of any desire beyond the brimming cup of the
moment. Moreover, she had never so thoroughly enjoyed being a girl, and
love-making would have bored her grievously.

The duke claimed her, and after a desultory tour of the great
reception-rooms and an infinite number of little cabinets, containing
some of the most valuable of the Japanese and Indian treasures, he led
her to the library, a luxurious room conducive to rapid friendship.

With that amiable desire, peculiar to the kindly Englishman, to gratify
the ingenuous curiosity of the American, he produced a huge leather
volume containing the various patents of nobility that marked the upward
evolution of his house from a barony in some remote period of the
world's history to the present dukedom, and the royal letters that had
accompanied them. It was something he never would have dreamed of doing
for a stranger of his own country, or of any state in Europe, but the
English humor Americans that please them much as they would engaging
children; and Isabel's eyes sparkled with so lively an intelligence that
the duke fancied she had literary intentions and might one day find
such information useful. He even showed her his complicated
coat-of-arms, which included a bend sinister, for he had royal blood in
his veins; and this slanting rod interested Isabel as deeply as the moat
under the window. She was even more interested in the duke's attitude;
it was evident that he felt no more vanity in his royal descent than
deprecation of its irregular cause and enduring emblem. It was, and that
was the end of it; but he had quite enough imagination to appreciate the
effect of so picturesque an incident in family history upon the mind of
the young republican.

"The best we can do is to descend irrelevantly from Washington,
Hamilton, or Jefferson," said Isabel. "Only we have not yet reached the
stage where we dare to acknowledge it on our coat-of-arms. The illusions
of the American youth must be preserved. Even the fact that one of our
Presidents was a son of Aaron Burr is still to be read only in the great
volume of unwritten history. My father was a sort of walking edition of
that work."

"That is new to me!" The duke was quite famous as a student of history,
and took a personal interest in America, having been over twice in
search of big game. He asked her many questions; but his interest in the
general subject was as nothing to the enthusiasm she aroused by a chance
allusion to the chicken-ranch. The duke was agricultural above all
things; he had a model estate bristling with scientific improvement. He
was enchanted at Isabel's picture of her wire-enclosed "runs" and yards
containing industrious chickens of all ages, engaged, however
innocently, in the pursuit of wealth. Isabel, when she chose, could
invest any subject with glamour, and her account, delivered in tones
notably accelerated, of the snow-white, red-crowned flocks, their
aristocratic little white mansions, the luxurious nurseries for the
"chicks," and the astonishing and costly banquets with which they were
daily regaled, was so lively that the duke vowed he would raise Leghorns
forthwith. He asked her so many practical questions, taking copious
notes, and inevitably embracing California ranch life in its entirety,
in his thirst for knowledge, that Isabel had no more dancing that night;
but she made an enduring impression upon the eminently practical mind of
her host.

It was quite two hours after supper, and Isabel was beginning to reflect
with some humor upon the brevity of all illusions, when Hexam and Miss
Thangue appeared simultaneously and announced that the Capheaton guests
were leaving. Hexam looked sulky and suspicious. Flora was smiling.

"For the first time--" she murmured.

Isabel and the duke laughed outright, and then shook hands warmly.

"When I go home we can correspond," she said to him, "and I will tell
you all the new kinks. We are always improving."

"The duke looked positively rejuvenated," said Hexam, spitefully, as
they walked down the corridor. "Have you discovered the elixir of life
in California, and promised him the prescription."

"No," said Isabel, demurely. "I have merely been initiating him into the
mysteries of raising Leghorns."

Hexam looked stupefied, but Miss Thangue burst into a merry peal of
laughter.

"Isabel!" she exclaimed. "I begin to suspect you are a minx!"

And Isabel laughed, too, in sheer excess of animal spirits and gratified
vanity. She had excellent cause to remember the ebullition, for it was
some time before she laughed again.

The duchess, with her light sweet smile, her old-fashioned
Book-of-Beauty style, a certain affectation of shabbiness in her
black-and-silver gown, looked a more indispensable part of the picture
than any of her guests, as she stood in the middle of the great
drawing-room with a group of her more intimate friends. Among them was
Lady Victoria, more normal of mood this evening, sufficiently gracious,
superbly indifferent, although she had held her court as usual.

She tapped Isabel lightly on the cheek with her fan. "You were quite the
rage," she said. "I never should have forgiven you if you had not been."
And Isabel had not the slightest doubt of her sincerity.

The duchess, in the immensity of her castle, did not pretend to keep an
eye on any one, and would have been the last to suspect that Miss Otis
had inspired her husband with a sudden passion for chickens. She shook
hands approvingly with the young American and asked her to come over
informally to luncheon on the morrow.

"Is your head turning?" asked Miss Thangue, as they drove home. "You
must reap the results of your success; it would be a pity not to. After
a few weeks here with Vicky you must go on a round of visits and then
have a season in London."

"It would be glorious!" exclaimed Isabel, in whom problems were
moribund. "I certainly believe I shall."

She was in the second of the carriages to reach Capheaton, and Gwynne,
who was still standing on the steps, helped her down, and asked her
pleasantly if she had enjoyed herself.

"I had such a good time I know I sha'n't sleep a wink for twenty-four
hours. I believe I'll go to the library and get a book of yours I began
on Sunday--only--" She hesitated. A talk with this enigmatical cousin
would be a proper climax to the triumphs of the night. She raised her
eyes, full of flattering appeal. "There are one or two points I did not
quite understand--I have hesitated to go on--"

He too was wakeful, and rose to the bait promptly. "Suppose you give me
an hour by the empty hearth. Will you? Well, go on ahead and I'll follow
in a moment--after I see that the men have all they want in the
smoking-room."

In the depths of the most independent woman's soul is a lingering taint
of servility to the lordly male, and in Isabel it warmed into subtle
life under the flattering response of this illustrious specimen. She
fairly sailed towards the library, wondering if any of the famous
old-time California belles, Concha Arg√ºello, Chonita Iturbe y Moncada,
with their caballeros flinging gold and silver at their feet, Nina
Randolph and Chonita Hathaway and Helena Belmont, with their pugnacious
"courts," had ever felt as exultant as she. That last moment, as she
stepped lightly over the threshold of the library, was a sort of climax
to the intoxication of youth.

And then she stopped short, stifling a cry of terror. The library,
except for the wandering moonshine, was unlit, but a ray fell directly
across a shadowy figure in the depths of a chair, half-way down the
room. It was a relaxed figure, the head fallen on the chest; the arms
were hanging limply over the sides of the chair, the hands ghastly in
the moonlight. At the rustle of skirts the figure slowly raised its
head, and the eyes of a man, haunted rather than haunting, looked out of
a drawn and livid face. But the movement was not followed by speech, and
Isabel stood, stiff with horror, convinced that she was in the presence
of the Capheaton ghost. Of course, like all old manor-houses, it had
one, and she was too imaginative not to accept with her nerves if not
with her intelligence this ugly proof of a restless domain beyond the
grave. But her petrifaction was mercifully brief. There was a quick step
behind her, and then an exclamation of horror as Gwynne shot past and
caught the lugubrious visitant by the shoulder.

"Good God, Zeal!" he cried, and his voice shook. "What is it, old man?
You look--you look--"

The man in the chair rose slowly and drew a long breath, which seemed to
infuse him with life again.

"I probably look much as I feel," he said, grimly. "I'm about to go on a
journey, and if you can give me a few minutes--"

He paused and looked with cold politeness at Isabel. She waited for no
further formalities, but shaken with the sure foreboding of calamity,
turned and fled the room.




XIV


That night had also been one of triumph for Elton Gwynne. He had dined
at the castle, and--his Julia having flitted to another
country-house--spent the greater part of the evening in the smoking-room
with half a score of the most eminent men in political England; and
others whose recognition was not to be despised.

As there were many guests at the castle the dinner took place in the
banquet-hall, but at six or eight round tables, and Gwynne had found
himself distinguished above all the other young men present by being
seated at that of the duchess. The prime-minister, the chancellor of the
exchequer, two other members of the cabinet, and an ambassador were his
companions. All the women were of exalted station, but for this fact
Gwynne cared nothing, being entirely free of that snobbery which so
often agitates even the best-born of the world; indeed, would have been
resentful of the ripe age of the ladies--accumulated with their
political values--had it not been for the tremendous compliment paid to
his personal achievement.

He could not sit beside her grace in that nest of titles, but at the
suggestion of the duke he had been placed as nearly opposite her as the
round table permitted, and he soon forgot the broken circle of
immemorial bosoms in the manifest disapproval of the Conservative
premier towards himself, and in the attitude of the other men, which,
whether hostile or friendly, evinced a recognition of the rising star
and a tolerance of his ideas.

There is always a glamour about a very young man who has given
cumulative evidence of genius and compelled the attention of the world,
always distrustful of youth. His enemies had long since--and he was but
thirty--admitted his gift for letters, fiercely as they might scoff at
his conclusions; and his rewards for bravery in the field had aroused no
adverse comment. But while his most persistent critics had never
discovered him truthless and corruptible, his political sincerity had
been called into question even by his colleagues, and almost unanimously
by the opposition. His principles were by no means so rigidly outlined
as those of the great Whig families, nor of the men who belonged to the
Liberal party as a natural result of their more modest station and
protesting spirit. He was strong on the fundamental principles of the
party, and far more energetic in his advocacy of the rights and needs of
the working-man than any Liberal of his own class, but he rarely, if
ever, alluded to the question of Home Rule; a question somnolent but by
no means dead; and the omission savored of Unionism, in spite of his
avowed scorn of all compromises.

These facts, taken in connection with the pride and arrogance of the
young scion of the house of Strathland and Zeal, generated the suspicion
that he had allied himself with the Liberal party for two reasons only:
its weakness in first-class men, and his passion for self-advertising.
No one disputed his pre-eminence in this branch of industrial art, for
although he never descended to commonplace methods, and the interviewer,
far from being sought, rather dreaded him than otherwise, there was no
man in England who was such a mine for "copy," nor of a perennially
greener growth in the select front lawn of "news." When he attacked the
government he was eminently quotable, and this endeared him to both
