Certainly not in our day.

Some may be curious to know how Mrs. Eddy finds out that a member is
practicing hypnotism, since no one is allowed to come before her throne
and accuse him. She has explained this in Christian Science History,
first and second editions, page 16:

“I possess a spiritual sense of what the malicious mental practitioner
is mentally arguing which cannot be deceived; I can discern in the human
mind thoughts, motives, and purposes, and neither mental arguments nor
psychic power can affect this spiritual insight.”

A marvelous woman; with a hunger for power such as has never been seen
in the world before. No thing, little or big, that contains any seed or
suggestion of power escapes her avaricious eye; and when once she gets
that eye on it, her remorseless grip follows. There isn’t a Christian
Scientist who isn’t ecclesiastically as much her property as if she had
bought him and paid for him, and copyrighted him and got a charter.
She cannot be satisfied when she has handcuffed a member, and put a
leg-chain and ball on him and plugged his ears and removed his thinker,
she goes on wrapping needless chains round and round him, just as a
spider would. For she trusts no one, believes in no one’s honesty,
judges every one by herself. Although we have seen that she has absolute
and irresponsible command over her spectral Boards and over every
official and servant of her Church, at home and abroad, over every
minute detail of her Church’s government, present and future, and can
purge her membership of guilty or suspected persons by various plausible
formalities and whenever she will, she is still not content, but must
set her queer mind to work and invent a way by which she can take a
member--any member--by neck and crop and fling him out without anything
resembling a formality at all.

She is sole accuser and sole witness, and her testimony is final and
carries uncompromising and irremediable doom with it.

The Sole-Witness Court! It should make the Council of Ten and the
Council of Three turn in their graves for shame, to see how little they
knew about satanic concentrations of irresponsible power. Here we have
one Accuser, one Witness, one Judge, one Headsman--and all four bunched
together in Mrs. Eddy, the Inspired of God, His Latest Thought to His
People, New Member of the Holy Family, the Equal of Jesus.

When a Member is not satisfactory to Mrs. Eddy, and yet is blameless in
his life and faultless in his membership and in his Christian Science
walk and conversation, shall he hold up his head and tilt his hat over
one ear and imagine himself safe because of these perfections? Why,
in that very moment Mrs. Eddy will cast that spiritual X-ray of hers
through his dungarees and say:

“I see his hypnotism working, among his insides--remove him to the
block!”

What shall it profit him to know it isn’t so? Nothing. His testimony is
of no value. No one wants it, no one will ask for it. He is not present
to offer it (he does not know he has been accused), and if he were there
to offer it, it would not be listened to.

It was out of powers approaching Mrs. Eddy’s--though not equalling
them--that the Inquisition and the devastations of the Interdict grew.
She will transmit hers. The man born two centuries from now will think
he has arrived in hell; and all in good time he will think he knows it.
Vast concentrations of irresponsible power have never in any age been
used mercifully, and there is nothing to suggest that the Christian
Science Papacy is going to spend money on novelties.

Several Christian Scientists have asked me to refrain from prophecy.
There is no prophecy in our day but history. But history is a
trustworthy prophet. History is always repeating itself, because
conditions are always repeating themselves. Out of duplicated conditions
history always gets a duplicate product.




READING LETTERS AT MEETINGS

I wonder if there is anything a Member can do that will not raise Mrs.
Eddy’s jealousy? The By-laws seem to hunt him from pillar to post all
the time, and turn all his thoughts and acts and words into sins against
the meek and lowly new deity of his worship. Apparently her jealousy
never sleeps. Apparently any trifle can offend it, and but one penalty
appease it--excommunication. The By-laws might properly and reasonably
be entitled Laws for the Coddling and Comforting of Our Mother’s Petty
Jealousies. The By-law named at the head of this paragraph reads its
transgressor out of the Church if he shall carry a letter from Mrs. Eddy
to the congregation and forget to read it or fail to read the whole of
it.




HONESTY REQUISITE

Dishonest members are to be admonished; if they continue in dishonest
practices, excommunication follows. Considering who it is that draughted
this law, there is a certain amount of humor in it.




FURTHER APPLICATIONS OF THE AXE

Here follow the titles of some more By-laws whose infringement is
punishable by excommunication:


Silence Enjoined. Misteaching. Departure from Tenets. Violation of
Christian Fellowship. Moral Offences. Illegal Adoption. Broken By-laws.
Violation of By-laws. (What is the difference?) Formulas Forbidden.
Official Advice. (Forbids Tom, Dick, and Harry’s clack.) Unworthy of
Membership. Final Excommunication. Organizing Churches.

This looks as if Mrs. Eddy had devoted a large share of her time and
talent to inventing ways to get rid of her Church members. Yet in
another place she seems to invite membership. Not in any urgent way,
it is true, still she throws out a bait to such as like notice and
distinction (in other words, the Human Race). Page 82:

“It is important that these seemingly strict conditions be complied
with, as the names of the Members of the Mother-Church will be recorded
in the history of the Church and become a part thereof.”

We all want to be historical.




MORE SELF-PROTECTIONS

The Hymnal. There is a Christian Science Hymnal. Entrance to it was
closed in 1898. Christian Science students who make hymns nowadays may
possibly get them sung in the Mother-Church, “but not unless approved by
the Pastor Emeritus.” Art. XXVII, Sec. 2.

Solo Singers. Mrs. Eddy has contributed the words of three of the hymns
in the Hymnal. Two of them appear in it six times altogether, each of
them being set to three original forms of musical anguish. Mrs. Eddy,
always thoughtful, has promulgated a By-law requiring the singing of one
of her three hymns in the Mother Church “as often as once each month.”
 It is a good idea. A congregation could get tired of even Mrs. Eddy’s
muse in the course of time, without the cordializing incentive of
compulsion. We all know how wearisome the sweetest and touchingest
things can become, through rep-rep-repetition, and still
rep-rep-repetition, and more rep-rep-repetition-like “the sweet
by-and-by, in the sweet by-and-by,” for instance, and “Tah-rah-rah
boom-de-aye”; and surely it is not likely that Mrs. Eddy’s machine has
turned out goods that could outwear those great heart-stirrers, without
the assistance of the lash. “O’er Waiting Harpstrings of the Mind” is
pretty good, quite fair to middling--the whole seven of the stanzas--but
repetition would be certain to take the excitement out of it in the
course of time, even if there were fourteen, and then it would sound
like the multiplication table, and would cease to save. The congregation
would be perfectly sure to get tired; in fact, did get tired--hence the
compulsory By-law. It is a measure born of experience, not foresight.

The By-laws say that “if a solo singer shall neglect or refuse to sing
alone” one of those three hymns as often as once a month, and oftener if
so directed by the Board of Directors--which is Mrs. Eddy--the singer’s
salary shall be stopped. It is circumstantial evidence that some
soloists neglected this sacrament and others refused it. At least that
is the charitable view to take of it. There is only one other view to
take: that Mrs. Eddy did really foresee that there would be singers
who would some day get tired of doing her hymns and proclaiming the
authorship, unless persuaded by a Bylaw, with a penalty attached. The
idea could of course occur to her wise head, for she would know that a
seven-stanza break might well be a calamitous strain upon a soloist, and
that he might therefore avoid it if unwatched. He could not curtail it,
for the whole of anything that Mrs. Eddy does is sacred, and cannot be
cut.




BOARD OF EDUCATION

It consists of four members, one of whom is President of it. Its members
are elected annually. Subject to Mrs. Eddy’s approval. Art. XXX., Sec.
2.

She owns the Board--is the Board.

Mrs. Eddy is President of the Metaphysical College. If at any time she
shall vacate that office, the Directors of the College (that is to say,
Mrs. Eddy) “shall” elect to the vacancy the President of the Board of
Education (which is merely re-electing herself).

It is another case of “Pastor Emeritus.” She gives up the shadow of
authority, but keeps a good firm hold on the substance.




PUBLIC TEACHERS

Applicants for admission to this industry must pass a thorough three
days’ examination before the Board of Education “in Science and Health,
chapter on ‘Recapitulation’; the Platform of Christian Science; page 403
of Christian Science Practice, from line second to the second paragraph
of page 405; and page 488, second and third paragraphs.”




BOARD OF LECTURESHIP

The lecturers are exceedingly important servants of Mrs. Eddy, and she
chooses them with great care. Each of them has an appointed territory
in which to perform his duties--in the North, the South, the East, the
West, in Canada, in Great Britain, and so on--and each must stick to
his own territory and not forage beyond its boundaries. I think it goes
without saying--from what we have seen of Mrs. Eddy--that no lecture is
delivered until she has examined and approved it, and that the lecturer
is not allowed to change it afterwards.

The members of the Board of Lectureship are elected annually--

“Subject to the approval of Rev. Mary Baker G. Eddy.”




MISSIONARIES

There are but four. They are elected--like the rest of the
domestics--annually. So far as I can discover, not a single servant of
the Sacred Household has a steady job except Mrs. Eddy. It is plain that
she trusts no human being but herself.




THE BY-LAWS

The branch Churches are strictly forbidden to use them.

So far as I can see, they could not do it if they wanted to. The By-laws
are merely the voice of the master issuing commands to the servants.
There is nothing and nobody for the servants to re-utter them to.

That useless edict is repeated in the little book, a few pages farther
on. There are several other repetitions of prohibitions in the book that
could be spared-they only take up room for nothing.




THE CREED It is copyrighted. I do not know why, but I suppose it is to
keep adventurers from some day claiming that they invented it, and
not Mrs. Eddy and that “strange Providence” that has suggested so many
clever things to her.

No Change. It is forbidden to change the Creed. That is important, at
any rate.



COPYRIGHT

I can understand why Mrs. Eddy copyrighted the early editions
and revisions of Science and Health, and why she had a mania for
copyrighting every scrap of every sort that came from her pen in those
jejune days when to be in print probably seemed a wonderful distinction
to her in her provincial obscurity, but why she should continue this
delirium in these days of her godship and her far-spread fame, I cannot
explain to myself. And particularly as regards Science and Health. She
knows, now, that that Annex is going to live for many centuries; and so,
what good is a fleeting forty-two-year copyright going to do it?

Now a perpetual copyright would be quite another matter. I would like to
give her a hint. Let her strike for a perpetual copyright on that book.
There is precedent for it. There is one book in the world which bears
the charmed life of perpetual copyright (a fact not known to twenty
people in the world). By a hardy perversion of privilege on the part of
the lawmaking power the Bible has perpetual copyright in Great Britain.
There is no justification for it in fairness, and no explanation of it
except that the Church is strong enough there to have its way, right
or wrong. The recent Revised Version enjoys perpetual copyright, too--a
stronger precedent, even, than the other one.

Now, then, what is the Annex but a Revised Version itself? Which of
course it is--Lord’s Prayer and all. With that pair of formidable
British precedents to proceed upon, what Congress of ours--

But how short-sighted I am. Mrs. Eddy has thought of it long ago. She
thinks of everything. She knows she has only to keep her copyright of
1902 alive through its first stage of twenty-eight years, and perpetuity
is assured. A Christian Science Congress will reign in the Capitol then.
She probably attaches small value to the first edition (1875). Although
it was a Revelation from on high, it was slim, lank, incomplete, padded
with bales of refuse rags, and puffs from lassoed celebrities to fill
it out, an uncreditable book, a book easily sparable, a book not to
be mentioned in the same year with the sleek, fat, concise, compact,
compressed, and competent Annex of to-day, in its dainty flexible
covers, gilt--edges, rounded corners, twin screw, spiral twist,
compensation balance, Testament-counterfeit, and all that; a book just
born to curl up on the hymn-book-shelf in church and look just too sweet
and holy for anything. Yes, I see now what she was copyrighting that
child for.




CHRISTIAN SCIENCE PUBLISHING ASSOCIATION

It is true in matters of business Mrs. Eddy thinks of everything. She
thought of an organ, to disseminate the Truth as it was in Mrs. Eddy.
Straightway she started one--the Christian Science Journal.

It is true--in matters of business Mrs. Eddy thinks of everything. As
soon as she had got the Christian Science Journal sufficiently in debt
to make its presence on the premises disagreeable to her, it occurred
to her to make somebody a present of it. Which she did, along with
its debts. It was in the summer of 1889. The victim selected was
her Church--called, in those days, The National Christian Scientist
Association.

She delivered this sorrow to those lambs as a “gift” in consideration of
their “loyalty to our great cause.”

Also--still thinking of everything--she told them to retain Mr. Bailey
in the editorship and make Mr. Nixon publisher. We do not know what it
was she had against those men; neither do we know whether she scored on
Bailey or not, we only know that God protected Nixon, and for that I am
sincerely glad, although I do not know Nixon and have never even seen
him.

Nixon took the Journal and the rest of the Publishing Society’s
liabilities, and demonstrated over them during three years, then brought
in his report:

“On assuming my duties as publisher, there was not a dollar in the
treasury; but on the contrary the Society owed unpaid printing and
paper bills to the amount of several hundred dollars, not to mention
a contingent liability of many more hundreds”--represented by
advance--subscriptions paid for the Journal and the “Series,” the which
goods Mrs. Eddy had not delivered. And couldn’t, very well, perhaps, on
a Metaphysical College income of but a few thousand dollars a day, or a
week, or whatever it was in those magnificently flourishing times. The
struggling Journal had swallowed up those advance-payments, but its
“claim” was a severe one and they had failed to cure it. But Nixon cured
it in his diligent three years, and joyously reported the news that he
had cleared off all the debts and now had a fat six thousand dollars in
the bank.

It made Mrs. Eddy’s mouth water.

At the time that Mrs. Eddy had unloaded that dismal gift on to her
National Association, she had followed her inveterate custom: she had
tied a string to its hind leg, and kept one end of it hitched to her
belt. We have seen her do that in the case of the Boston Mosque. When
she deeds property, she puts in that string-clause. It provides that
under certain conditions she can pull the string and land the property
in the cherished home of its happy youth. In the present case she
believed that she had made provision that if at any time the National
Christian Science Association should dissolve itself by a formal vote,
she could pull.

A year after Nixon’s handsome report, she writes the Association that
she has a “unique request to lay before it.” It has dissolved, and she
is not quite sure that the Christian Science Journal has “already fallen
into her hands” by that act, though it “seems” to her to have met with
that accident; so she would like to have the matter decided by a formal
vote. But whether there is a doubt or not, “I see the wisdom,” she says,
“of again owning this Christian Science waif.”

I think that that is unassailable evidence that the waif was making
money, hands down.

She pulled her gift in. A few years later she donated the Publishing
Society, along with its real estate, its buildings, its plant, its
publications, and its money--the whole worth twenty--two thousand
dollars, and free of debt--to--Well, to the Mother-Church!

That is to say, to herself. There is an account of it in the Christian
Science Journal, and of how she had already made some other handsome
gifts--to her Church--and others to--to her Cause besides “an almost
countless number of private charities” of cloudy amount and otherwise
indefinite. This landslide of generosities overwhelmed one of her
literary domestics. While he was in that condition he tried to express
what he felt:

“Let us endeavor to lift up our hearts in thankfulness to... our Mother
in Israel for these evidences of generosity and self-sacrifice that
appeal to our deepest sense of gratitude, even while surpassing our
comprehension.”

A year or two later, Mrs. Eddy promulgated some By-laws of a
self-sacrificing sort which assuaged him, perhaps, and perhaps enabled
his surpassed comprehension to make a sprint and catch up. These are to
be found in Art. XII., entitled.




THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE PUBLISHING SOCIETY

This Article puts the whole publishing business into the hands of a
publishing Board--special. Mrs. Eddy appoints to its vacancies.

The profits go semi-annually to the Treasurer of the Mother-Church. Mrs.
