much for what he finds agreeable—all this ease and relaxation.... I wish
I were different.  I wish I could arouse him; I’d do it.  I’d do it
somehow—I’d do it now if I could——"

She caught her breath, stood perfectly motionless a moment, then
Silvette felt her tremble slightly.

After a while she lifted her head from her sister’s shoulder.

"I am going to do what I can for him," she said excitedly.  "I am
going to see what can be done to arouse the man in him.  All he needs is
the initial shock—a—a stinging one."

"What do you mean?  If there was anything in him, the shock of the
firm’s failure would have brought it out."

"It was not enough.  It was only the loss of money!  There are worse
things——"

"Di!  What are you going to do?"

Suddenly the girl’s face grew radiant.

"I know now," she said breathlessly.

"What?"

But Diana only kissed her sister, laughing, flushed, excited, and,
extending her arm, turned off the light, plunging the room and her
brilliant cheeks in darkness.




                             *CHAPTER VII*

                             *FLOS VENERIS*


Edgerton and Christine, ensconced in the corners of a window seat, and
partly visible through the leaded panes, were too deeply absorbed in
each other to be aware of the curious glances shot toward them from the
tennis court outside, where Silvette, Colonel Curmew, Mrs. Lorrimore,
and Jack Rivett were playing, while Diana, perched aloft with her
knitting in the umpire’s seat, resolutely ignored the spectacle in the
window, which was plainer to her than to anybody else.

Perfectly oblivious to any extraneous interest they aroused, sitting
almost nose to nose and knee to knee in the deep recess, Christine and
Edgerton remained in close consultation, preoccupied, possibly
indifferent, to view or comment.  Christine bent forward, and drew a
carnation through his buttonhole, saying:

"Anyway, you are a perfect dear, Jim Edgerton.  Somehow or other, I
haven’t any blushes for what I’ve taken so many weeks to tell you.  I
never thought I could know anybody well enough to say such a thing to,
but you are different; there’s nobody like you, Jim.  Do you wonder I
adore you?"

"You sweet little thing, I’ve a mind to kiss you for that!"

"I may let you at the psychological moment.  Do you think me
absolutely shameless?—but I’ve asked you that before about a dozen
times....  You don’t think so, do you?"

"If other women displayed the common honesty and common sense that you
display, there’d be a good deal less unhappiness in the world."

"But how can other women, when there is only one Jim Edgerton!  Oh, I
liked you so much—as soon as I saw you; and before I had known you a
week, I was ready to tell you anything—and now I’ve done it!"

"It took several weeks before you came to the point," he said, laughing.

"I know, but, oh! it was such a terrible thing to do!—I don’t even now
understand how I ever came to tell you."

"You didn’t; I extracted it, seeing that you were in pain."

She blushed.

"Yes, it was pain....  Not one of my own family suspected it.  Father
doesn’t dream of such a thing; Jack doesn’t, of course.  As for dear
little mother, you know what she thinks about you and me."

Edgerton smiled almost tenderly.

"She is very nice to me," he said.  "I almost wish I could verify her
charming theory."

"Concerning us?"

"Certainly....  As it is, I believe I’m more than half in love with you,
anyway, Christine."

She blushed again, looking at him with her pretty, frank, brown eyes;
and they both laughed happily.

"It’s the first time in all my life that I’ve been of any use in the
world," he said.

"You did ask father?" she inquired, still charmingly flushed; "didn’t
you?"

"I certainly did.  He said: ’Is young Inwood such a particular friend of
yours?’  I said: ’He is!’  He said: ’All right; ask my wife.’  So I
asked your mother, and she said: ’Oh, please, Mr. Edgerton, invite
anybody you wish to.’  So I wrote Billy Inwood, and your bully little
mother inclosed my letter in the sweetest note of her own; and now he
has telegraphed——"

"Telegraphed?"

"I’ve just received the message."

He fished it out of his coat pocket, and handed it to her, and she read:


"On my way!

"BILL."


"Is that all?" she asked, half laughing, half excited.

"He telegraphed your mother the substance of a moderate-sized letter.
She’s probably in her room now, reading it.  She showed it to me in
amazement, but I didn’t have time to follow all his polite and grateful
meanderings."

"I wish to see it!" said the girl excitedly.

"Go ahead; your mother has it.  I was anxious to let you know how
matters had turned out, first."

"You’re a dear!" she repeated, and her voice was not any too steady.  "I
am happy; I am happier than I’ve been for—"  She checked herself, and
bent her head for a moment; he pretended to reread the telegram.

"It will be all right now," he observed.

"I wish I knew," she said under her breath.

"Don’t you?"

She lifted her honest eyes to his. "How can I know, Jim?  I don’t know
how men are.  It all happened over a year ago.... I was no wiser than a
schoolgirl.  What experience had I—with such episodes—such conditions—or
with anything?"

"You did act like a schoolgirl—to send him about his business," said
Edgerton with a shrug.

"I wouldn’t have if I hadn’t—hadn’t——"

"Cared for him?"

"Loved him," she said steadily.

"You’re a corker, Christine!" he said in genuine admiration.

"Am I?  Thank you, Jim."

"Yes, you are; and so is Billy Inwood—the real Billy.  Young men like to
chase about with married women.  They love to delude themselves into the
pleasing belief that they are sad dogs——"

"There was more to it than that," said the girl; "he went to Keno to see
her.  That is what confounded me."

"While she was getting her divorce?"

"Yes."

"Then you can bet that there was nothing in it, you little goose....
Who was she, anyway?"

"A Mrs. Atherstane.  Do you know her?"

"No," said Edgerton; "and you certainly did act like a schoolgirl."

"I know I did, and I was twenty....  I asked him to come, to Hot
Springs; she requested him to go to Keno.  He took his choice; he had a
perfect right to....  And then I wrote him that letter, dismissing him."

"Ought never to have done it, sweetness," said Edgerton gravely.  "There
are no fetters to hold a man like absolute freedom.  He was probably
bound to her in various ways, innocently enough, of course; but she was
probably lonely and in trouble—and—noblesse oblige.  I tell you a young
man has to pay for sympathizing with an unhappily married woman! And she
usually sees that he does."

Christine sat back, nursing her knees, eyes downcast.

"He was right," she said.  "She was his friend."

"Perhaps he was more right than you realize, Christine.  When a man’s
man friend is battered and used up, the man still clings to him—anyway,
until he borrows money; but when his woman friend becomes slightly the
worse for wear, he is inclined to discard her as naïvely as he would a
worn-out coat.  That is the rule—romance to the contrary.... Inwood
proved the exception, that’s all."

"Yes," said the girl in a low voice.

"He proved the exception to me, too," said Edgerton, smiling.

"To you, Jim?"

"Certainly; wanted to lend me money when I arrived in town on my
uppers."

The girl smiled.

"Oh, he’s all right," said Edgerton; "I’ve known him since he was six
and I twelve."

"He—is—all—right," repeated Christine slowly; "but—am I, Jim?"

"You know you are—kleine Fischerin!"

"But I wrote him that wretched letter.  If it hurt him as it hurt me—"
She ceased abruptly, and turned her face toward the window.

"You were years younger, then."

"One year," tremulously.

"Years, sweetness....  Do you think your father will ever stand for
him?"

"He scarcely knows him.  He did not understand why Mr. Inwood never came
to Hot Springs, or why I never again saw him. Probably he supposes I
lost interest."

"So your father believes that you are all over that affair, doesn’t he?"

"Yes; but he probably remembers that Mr. Inwood was to have come to Hot
Springs, and didn’t.  Fathers usually remember such things, and
sometimes ask why."

"Well, Christine," he said, smiling, "you’ll have to fix it with your
father; and I think you can."

"Why do you think so?"

"Because there is much of your father in you—steel under the velvet skin
of that pretty figure, or I miss my guess."

The girl said thoughtfully: "I am, perhaps, more like father than Jack
is....  That is not really what concerns me....  Has Mr. Inwood
changed—in appearance?"

"Within a year?  No!  Nor otherwise, I’ll wager."

"Do you—think——"

"I don’t know; I don’t know, little girl. Men are protean creatures; God
knows what incarnation they’ll assume next! ... But if a woman really
cares for a man, and if he isn’t in love with anybody else, it ought
to be a cinch—even if he had as many incarnations as Albert Chevallier!"

"Jim!"

"Well, I know my sex," he said; "the cleverest of them are boobs in the
hands of yours——"

"Jim!  You are becoming horrid!"

"That means I’m becoming truthful.  Hooray! I see Bill’s happy finish."
He picked up her soft little hand and kissed it.  "Velvet and steel," he
said—"the hand that rocks the world!  Yes?  No?  Good-by, you little
wretch!  I’m going canoeing with my cousin Diana."

"Did you say that mother has that telegram?" she asked naïvely, sliding
from the window-sill to the floor.

"Yes; and it’s a mile long—a bally serial, Christine—to be continued
this evening, I expect."

They clasped hands at the threshold; then she ran upstairs, and he
sauntered out to the tennis court, where Diana still sat on her high
perch knitting the silken tie, although below her the game had ended and
the players had gone to the terrace for iced tea.

"Well, of all pretty monuments!" he exclaimed.  "You have the other one
on the Madison Square tower beaten to a froth!"

"Beware of my arrows," she said, smiling, as the wind blew her scarf
into a silvery arc from her shoulders.

"Arrows?  No, I’m wrong; you look like the Angel of the Central Park
Fountain."

"I feel like the dickens," she said, folding her knitting and descending
the steps.

"Headache?"

"No; I merely sat up too late, and I’m sleepy.  It’s perfectly horrid
that you can’t stop when you’re winning....  What did you wish me to do,
Jim—canoe with you?"

"I thought you wanted to."

"Is that why you asked me?"

"I wanted to, also.  Why do you always put me in wrong, Diana?"

"Jim, do I put you in wrong, as you call it?"

"Sometimes."

"Well, it’s horrid of me.  Forgive me.  I do try to be such good friends
with you, and somehow I don’t succeed."

"You—we are good friends," he said; "you know perfectly well how I
feel about you."

They had walked as far as the river’s edge, where several green-hulled
canvas canoes lay on the grass.

"Suppose we walk," she said; "shall we? I’m too lazy to paddle.  I’m
sleepy, Jim.  A walk ought to wake me up."

"I know a ledge where you can take a cat nap," he said.  "Accept forty
winks from me, and we’ll paddle afterwards."

So they strolled along the river path, fragrant with mint and vine and
blossom; and presently the cool green of the woods enveloped them, and
their feet pressed the moist, springy leaves of a forest path that led
over little brooks and up a slope of young growth, all checkered with
sun spots, to a vast overhanging ledge of rocks.

"Just look at that moss!" exclaimed Diana. "I believe I’ll sit down on
it this minute.  Jim, do sit down.  It’s like velvet, and there’s miles
of it; and here is the most enchanting silver birch tree for my back to
rest on, and some wood lilies to look at....  Isn’t this heavenly!"

"Out of sight," he said lazily, stretching himself at her feet and
glancing up at her. "Go ahead with your cat nap.  I’ll time you half an
hour."

After a moment he laughed, and her eyebrows went up in a silent
question.

He said: "I never noticed it before.  It’s odd."

"Noticed what?"

"How funny they are in outline—your eyes, I mean."

"Thank you, Jim."

"Oh, they’re most engaging eyes, Diana."

"More thanks, thank you!"

"I mean that they tip up a trifle—just a trifle, Japonette."

"They don’t!"

"They do.  Like a pretty Japanese girl’s. Only yours are blue....
They’re very blue—unusually—like the sky—that sort of blue."

"Young man," she said with mock seriousness, "don’t you know what comes
of speculating in ladies’ eyes?"

"Bankruptcy of the heart," he nodded.

"Then choose some safer and preferred stock, please."

He lay smiling up at her, watching the shades of expression varying in
her youthful face—watching the delicate shape of her mouth, which had
always fascinated him with its unspoiled purity.

"Do you know," he said, partly to himself, "that when I first set eyes
on you, Japonette, I knew I had never seen anything half as beautiful."

"You didn’t think so long," she returned, laughing.  "Christine is
goddess of beauty just now."

"I have always thought so," he repeated.

"Then—why don’t you ever say it to me?"

His smile changed a little.

"What would be the use of my telling you that you are beautiful?"

"Use?"

"What good would it do for me to become sentimental over your beauty?"

"Lots of good—to me, Jim.  You can’t tell a girl too often that she is
pretty—when you really think so....  And I almost believe you do think
so."  She glanced at him sideways, laughed a little, then her blue eyes
wandered and she leaned back, pensive, twisting a green oak leaf between
idle fingers.

