your charge when he was ordered to the west with his regiment."

"Yes." He seemed to study a few moments. "Then came the word of the
skirmish with the Indians when he was wounded in the leg which proved so
much worse than he first thought and she decided to go out to him and
take one of the babies. He had gone fairly wild over the birth of the
little girls; they had so longed for a daughter. Marguerite, if you
remember, was a strong, robust baby, laughing if you so much as smiled
at her. A beautiful baby, I thought, looking much like her mother.
Zaidee was smaller and more delicate, though never ill that I can
recall. She decided to take Marguerite and the wet nurse who was very
proud of her charge and fond of Mrs. Crawford. When we heard of the
frightful disaster you may remember that I went out at once. It was a
most dreary place, just a sort of freight station where the tracks
crossed the through road. It could not be called a town, though now it
is a thriving city and the freighting road runs miles below. When I
reached the place most of the wreckage had been cleared away, the dead
buried, the wounded sent to friends or hospitals at a distance. I found
about half a dozen remaining, four of them almost well enough to resume
their journey. Two were thought hopeless, one of them being Mrs.
Crawford. Fifteen years ago there were not so many conveniences as there
are now, and as the fire broke out afterward the baggage was mostly lost
and it was quite difficult to find the names of the passengers at first.
The nurse and the baby had been killed outright. There was one other
baby on the train and that had been taken farther West with its mother."

Miss Arran and the housekeeper exchanged glances.

"Mrs. Crawford had sustained some injury to the brain and for the first
few days they had thought her dead half a dozen times. The people where
she had been taken were very kind. She was in a comatose state most of
the time, and when she roused seemed quite ignorant of what had
happened. There was some injury to the back that rendered her limbs
useless. As soon as I could make arrangements I had her removed to
Indianapolis to a fine hospital where we found, on an exhaustive
examination, the spine had been injured, the ligatures strained and
muscles actually torn apart. When the Major was well enough to
travel--and he came very near losing his leg, it seemed, he joined us,
and we journeyed on to New York. Meanwhile the Major's brother had died,
a queer, penurious old fellow who had never given up his rights in the
estate and now it all came to the Major, besides a large amount of
money. He resigned from the army and they came home. Mrs. Crawford had
kept her mind through all this and had been most brave, recovering very
slowly as you know and when she could manage to get about on crutches it
appeared as if the last stage of recovery had been attained; but now it
seems nothing short of a miracle. And there was the beautiful little
golden haired fairy to gladden their hearts--"

"But the nurse and the child?" interrupted Miss Arran.

"The child was crushed beyond recognition. They placed it in the coffin
with the nurse and buried it temporarily. The Major meant to have it
brought home, but it was so long before they could get about it, and it
seemed like living the heart-breaking episode over, so he concluded to
have it permanently interred in a burying ground a few miles distant,
which is now a really beautiful spot. Mrs. Crawford was ill so long that
it seems like a dream to her."

"And did no one ever hear of the other child?"

"What was there to hear? The mother claimed it."

"The woman dying in yonder room claimed the child first, ignorantly,
then believing the mother dead, took it in the place of her poor
murdered child."

"No!" The doctor sprang up and began to pace the floor. "Why, then, that
young girl--"

"Miss Arran will you tell the other side of the story. Why it seems to
me there can be no mistake," said Mrs. Barrington.

"Well--this is most marvelous. Does the girl know--"

"Oh, she protests. I think she has no idea. But the mother fancies we
may find some relative, a father perhaps, for she truly believes the
mother dead."

"But this confession--would she repeat it again?"

"I think she spoke of having it written out somewhere."

"It must be well authenticated, you know. And--what steps have you
considered?"

"None. Tomorrow will be Sunday--they will all go to church to give
thanks; then on Christmas day they are to have a small family dinner.
You and Mrs. Kendricks and myself, two or three dear old friends, and it
would be hardly wise to mar the sacredness of the occasion. We may see
our way more clearly, I would not like to have Miss Boyd disturbed on
uncertainties."

"I will take a further look at her," said the doctor. "I have known
cases like hers to last weeks, even when strength seemed to be almost
gone."

He wanted also to see Miss Boyd again. He had not noticed her
critically. Mrs. Barrington had spoken of the likeness that had puzzled
her in the beginning, the elusive resemblance to Mrs. Crawford in her
girlhood, as for two years she had been at school. He paused at the
door. She was standing by the window her profile distinctly outlined. It
was classic, from the broad, shapely forehead, the down-dropped eyelids
with their dark fringe, the straight nose with the fine, flexible
nostrils, the rounded chin, the lips that seemed to shut in sadness and
longing, but it was the poise of the head, the arching neck, the
shoulders proud enough for a statue. It needed more real youthfulness
for sixteen, but one could trace resemblances.

Did she feel the scrutiny? She turned. The front view was more girlish.

"Oh," she exclaimed, "mother is sleeping. Is it a bad sign for her to
sleep so much?"

"It gives her rest and saves the wear on her nerves. You are a watchful
nurse. Where did you learn so much?"

"I think it comes to you when one has done so much for you," she
answered quietly.

"Did you always live in that western country town?" he asked, just to
make talk.

Lilian colored and hesitated. "When I was a baby mother went out to
Wisconsin to her brother's, I don't remember anything of that. Yes,
afterward we lived in Laconia until we came here; but, do you think she
can--mend?" and she approached the bed.

Dr. Kendricks made a slow movement in the negative. "She has very little
strength. Was she ill before she came here?"

"Long ago she had a fever, but I think now she has been weakly for a
year or more. I was so anxious to keep in school. Oh, I ought to have
helped more," and the tears stood in her eyes. "For we were poor."

She uttered the fact with a kind of prideful dignity. "She did
everything for me and I had planned when I began to earn money that we
would have a home--"

"Yes, you have been a good daughter," and all this while she might have
been living in a delightful manner in her father's house, loving and
beloved, the comfort of her mother! For she would have been a devoted
daughter in that beautiful home. He hardened his heart against the dying
woman, and walked quietly out of the room.

"The story must be true," he admitted to Mrs. Barrington. "But I cannot
tell what step to take first. Would you mind if I saw Mr. Ledwith? He
has been the Crawford lawyer and was the brother's executor. I am quite
mystified and perhaps not capable of judging."

"Why, I think that would be an excellent plan. Yes. He can tell better
what steps to take. But Lilian will not leave the poor woman. I am not
sure she believes the story. She does not count on any change but is
glad to stay here with me and fit herself for earning a living. She has
a very loyal nature."

Mrs. Boyd roused and ate her dinner, then Lilian read her to sleep
again. She begged not to be sent out to walk and Mrs. Barrington
yielded.

At five Mr. Ledwith called, full of interest in the strange story and
begged to see Mrs. Boyd, wondering if she would repeat it. Lilian was
summoned.

"Oh, it would seem cruel to disturb her," she cried with passionate
tenderness, "and she suffered so in telling it the other evening. It
cannot make much difference to me, since my own mother was killed, and
my father may have been dead before that. I shall always hold her in my
memory as my mother."

"But the woman who was killed may not have been your mother."

Lilian started in surprise.

"There seems to be a reason why we should be certain in this. Trust me,
I will not torment her needlessly."

"My dear child it is best;" said Mrs. Barrington. "Can you not trust
me?"

Lilian was not convinced but she led the way.

"Oh, where have you been so long?" cried the invalid. "You said you
would stay--has some one come to take you away? Oh, you will not go. You
promised. It will be only a little while."

She fell into a pitiable terror. Lilian soothed. Mr. Ledwith tried to
explain that they might possibly find the young girl's father who was
now a prosperous man.

But Mrs. Boyd would not be persuaded. She began to talk incoherently,
and suddenly raising her head and leaning on one elbow said--"send them
away. It is all true as I told you. You are not my own child, but I have
loved you all these years, oh, you will stay with me! I can feel that
it will not be for long. It is there in the drawer--I wrote it out. It
took so long and I was so tired, so tired! Give it to them and send
them away. Oh, Lilian, he is not your father. Promise me you will not go
with him."

Lilian opened the drawer. There lay quite a big packet, with the
superscription,--"For my daughter Lilian when I am dead."

She simply handed it to Mr. Ledwith. He and Mrs. Barrington left the
room. Mrs. Boyd gave way to a wild fit of weeping and Lilian had much
ado to comfort her, but presently she soothed her to slumber.

"Who heard this story or confession?" he asked as they entered the
library.

"Mrs. Dane and Miss Arran."

"Will they come and listen? They can tell whether the two will agree and
point out any discrepancy."

It was written in a shaky hand and evidently at intervals, many words
misspelled and phrases repeated, but with a passionate sincerity and an
overwhelming love for the child whose mother she thought dead, and she
fancied the baby might be thrown on the charity of the world, but she
knew even then it was not her baby but the longing for the child was
pitiful. Mrs. Barrington was reading it and now and then her voice
faltered.

"Oh," said Miss Arran, "they are alike except that this seems more
pathetic. There is no doubt of the truth in my mind. Of course she saw
the difference as Miss Lilian grew older and she was afraid she might
have defrauded her of some better fortune. Oh, I pity the poor woman
profoundly. She had a hard life. Mrs. Barrington, this must have seemed
a haven of rest to her. Providence must have guided you."

"It is certainly remarkable," subjoined Mr. Ledwith. "I will see Dr.
Kendricks this evening, but I think we had better wait until after
Christmas so as not to mar the happy reunion of that day. Then we must
see how the Major will take it. It is one of the things he almost never
refers to, and he was afraid of intensifying the loss by having the body
brought here for burial. Truly there are many strange happenings in this
world. I am requested to look up another child that was given out for
adoption, and now has a fortune coming to it after twenty years."




CHAPTER X

UNRAVELING TANGLED THREADS


Sunday morning was glorious. There had been a light fall of snow and
every tree and shrub was in feathery whiteness, while the sky was as
blue as June. The sun came up through the long levels of yellow light
more golden than ever until every branch and twig shimmered in
iridescent hues.

Lilian bathed and dressed herself, now and then leaning over her mother
who seemed to breathe regularly, but the face was thin and pallid, and
the soft hair seemed to have whitened in these few days. She bent over
and kissed the cool forehead.

Miss Arran looked in.

"Oh, is it all right? I left you at two; there really was no need of
watches as I was just across the hall, but I think you confine yourself
too closely. Now you must go down and take a walk on the porch. The
morning air has a positive balminess in it. It really should be
Christmas morning with the angels singing for very joy."

Lilian looked undecided. Yet the very thought of sunshine and fresh air
was reviving.

"I will call you the moment she wakes," said Miss Arran, and the girl
went.

Oh, how delightful it was! She drew in long breaths and gave a great,
fervent thanksgiving. Yes, it was good to live, to be able to work, to
have a purpose in life and see the way to attain it.

She went in presently. Her mother had just wakened. She bathed her face
and hands with fragrant water, brushed her hair and put on a pretty
dressing sacque of her own. Then she had some breakfast which she
appeared to enjoy.

"I feel so drowsy," she said. "I am so comfortable and at ease."

That was much to be thankful for.

"Lilian will you do me a favor this morning," began Mrs. Barrington in
her most persuasive voice. "I want you to go to church with me. The
Crawford family will be there to give thanks. And we have learned that
your mother was in the same fearful accident and her escape was a
marvel. All these years Mrs. Crawford has been an invalid but she has
borne her suffering with exemplary patience. Dr. Kendricks went out at
once but there was scarcely any hope of her living then. Your mother
spoke of a beautiful woman they thought dying or dead--do you
remember?"

"Oh, yes. A woman with such lovely golden hair. Miss Zaidee's is
exquisite, too. Yes, I will go. I should like to see her. How strange it
all is! And my own mother, it seems, was among the killed."

"It was terrible. Of course your mother going away so soon did not hear
all of it. Yes, I want you to go with me."

Dr. Kendricks made his visit and saw there was little change. Several of
the girls were going and they started early. Mrs. Barrington kept two
pews on one side of the church, which was all in Christmas attire with
wreaths of holly here and there, and clusters of golden flowers dried in
their natural colors. The altar was fragrant with real blossoms and to
Lilian there came a deeper emotion than reverence; something she had
never experienced before. She who had no joy of her very own must
rejoice in that of others and search out the blessings of the spirit,
find a way into the other kingdom, where the things one hungers and
longs for are laid up against the time one is fitted for the pure and
high enjoyment of them. The strength of the steadfast waiting, the lives
that touched with near or remote sympathy and held God's promise for
today, for all time. There was something kept for those who wearied
not, that was bestowed when the soul had come to understand the true
source of beneficent living.

She had been listening to the beautiful music and now there was a sudden
hush while several of the congregation entered. There were Major and
Mrs. Crawford, and certainly curious eyes might be pardoned as she
walked up the aisle with a graceful step. Oh, yes, she was a lovely
woman, as in sweet humility and reverence she bowed her head.

Then followed Zay and the fine looking midshipman who showed his pride
in every line. What it must be to have a brother like that! Yet there
was no envy in Lilian's soul, since all these joys and privileges were
far beyond her. But she had a quick, responsive nature when anything
really touched her, and she joyed sincerely in this other's joy.

The service was gracious and comforting even to her. Hundreds of years
ago ignorant shepherds sat watching their flocks all the long starlight
night, and then the song of the angels, the great promise, the new era,
the blessedness for the whole world that each might take his share.

And the reverent prayer of this, Thy servant, delivered from her bodily
illness who desired to return thanks in the presence of all Thy people
touched her heart to tears, and she joined in it fervently.

The class did not stay for the whole service. Lilian hurried home, glad
to escape the chatter of the curious. Her mother had just roused.

"It was such a sweet, comforting service. I wish you could have heard
it, and--" would she understand about Mrs. Crawford--her "beautiful
woman?"

"I'm afraid when you leave me. Don't go away again," and the thin lips
quivered.

"But you have slept all the time, and you do feel better."

"If I could move about--" fretfully.

"Can I help?"

"Oh, no. I want to do it myself, but my limbs won't stir. Is it spring,
that the sun shines so?"

"No, dear. Tomorrow will be Christmas."

"Do you remember Sally? She had a party you know and you wouldn't go--"

"But I was only a little girl, a school girl, and they were young
ladies."

"Lilian do you mean never to have a lover? It is the happiest time for a
girl. He takes you out and buys you pretty little things. He gave me
that work box on Christmas, and a ring afterward. I don't see how God
could have let him get killed--we were so happy. He wasn't your father.
Both his babies died. Do you suppose he found them in heaven?"

Mrs. Boyd began to cry. Her mind wandered considerably now. Lilian tried
to read to her but she broke in with irrelevant snatches that had been
pleasures to her long ago until she dropped off to sleep again.

There was a rather joyous time in the morning. Mrs. Barrington
remembered her household and the girls who had been compelled to stay.

Lilian gave thanks for two beautiful volumes of poetry. Miss Arran
remembered her with a box of very nice stationery, Mrs. Dane with some
handkerchiefs, Mrs. Barrington went to the dinner at Crawford House, but
the girls complained of the dullness. Lilian was so used to being
sufficient for herself, so fond of reading that the day passed even if
it had no Christmas joys.

It was very happy at Crawford House. Vincent had arrived in the morning
and added to their joy. Zay was bright and animated and the three
planned many delights for the future.

"There ought to be some young people," said the mother, "but we couldn't
have both and yours will come later on. I wanted these dear old friends
who have been such a comfort in my hard and trying years and then I
shall begin over with you and be young again."

"And I was proud enough when I found I was put on the list for a three
years' cruise," declared Willard, "and now the thought quite unmans me.
But we may stop at some place where you can all take a flying trip."

"It can't be next summer," said Vincent. "I have engaged them for my
grand occasion. Next June I shall be a full fledged soldier and there
will be the ball in which Zay will shine a star of the first magnitude."

