A slight yet exquisite shock went clean through me as I realized that
even to the instant of her avowal I had not been absolutely convinced of
her identity with the picture.

"And I wish to tell you," she went on, her smile changing, "that when
the photograph—which unhappily has become so notorious—was taken, I
never dreamed that it would be stolen, reproduced in thousands, and sold
in every city of Europe!"

"Stolen!"

"Certainly!  Do you imagine that I would have permitted its publicity
and sale?  Never has such an exasperating incident occurred in my life!
And I am helpless.  I can’t prevent it."

"Who stole it?"

"I haven’t the slightest idea.  It was this way, Michael; it happened in
my own home on the island of Naxos, and my sister Clelia and I were
amusing ourselves with our cameras, dressing each other up and posing
each other.

"And she dressed me—or rather almost un-dressed me—that way—isn’t it
enough to make a saint swear—for when I had developed the plate and had
started to print, somebody stole the plate from the sill of the open
window.  And the next thing we knew about it was when all Europe was
flooded with my picture under which was printed that dubious
caption—’The Laughing Girl.’  Can you imagine my astonishment and rage?
Could anything more utterly horrid happen to a girl?  Had I at least
been fully dressed—but no: there I was in every shop window among
actresses, queens, demi-mondaines, and dissipated dukes just as Clelia
had posed me in the intimacy of our own rooms, all over jewels, some of
me mercifully veiled in a silk scarf, audaciously at ease in my apparent
effrontery—oh, Michael, it nearly killed me!"

"Didn’t you do anything about it?"

"Indeed I did!  But where these photographs were being printed we never
could find out.  All we were able to do was to forbid their importation
into Italy."

"How did you manage that?" I asked curiously.

She hesitated, then carelessly: "We had some slight influence at
court——"

"Influence?"

"Possibly it amounted to that," she said indifferently.

"You are known at court, Thusis?"

She shrugged: "We are not, I believe, completely unknown."  She walked
on beside me in silence for a few moments, then:

"I do not wish to convey to you that I am persona grata in Italian
court circles."

"But if you are known at court, dear Thusis, how can you be otherwise
than welcome there?"

"I am not welcome there."

"That is impossible."

"You adorable boy," she laughed, "I must beg of you to occupy yourself
with your own affairs and not continue to occupy yourself with mine."

"That’s a heartless snub, Thusis."

"I don’t mean it so," she said, her hand tightening impulsively on my
arm.  "But, Michael dear, I don’t wish you to speculate about my
affairs.  It does no good.  Besides, the situation in which I find
myself is fearfully complex, and you couldn’t help me out of it."

"Perhaps I can, Thusis."

She laughed: "You are delightfully romantic. You almost resemble one of
the old time cloak-and-sword lovers of that dear Romance which died so
long ago on the printed page as well as in human hearts."

"It is not dead in my breast, Thusis."

"It is dead in every breast.  Only its frail ghost haunts our hearts at
moments."

"When I offered you my heart, Thusis, did you suppose it empty save for
a trace of selfish passion?"

"Men are men....  I do not understand their hearts."

"Take mine; tear it apart, look into it,—even if I die of it.  Will
you?"

Her laugh became less genuine and there was no gaiety in it.

"Tell me what I should find in your heart if I dissected it?"

"Love—and a sword!"

"You—you offer me your life, Michael?"

"This life—and the next."

She made no answer, walking slowly on beside me, her arm linked in mine,
the starlight glimmering on her bent head.  Down the road beyond us the
illuminated windows of my house glimmered.  As we moved toward them
along the stony highroad, I said:

"Thusis dear, I know nothing about you or about your affairs.  I do not
even guess your identity. But that you and your sister are here for the
purpose of taking these miserable kings across the frontier into France,
by violence, I do know.

"And this, also, I have learned, that, if you attempt to execute this
coup-de-main, my friend Shandon Smith will do all he can to prevent
it."

The girl stopped as though I had struck her and stared at me in the
silvery lustre of the stars.

"What?" she said slowly.

"I have told you what Smith told me.  He said that he didn’t care
whether or not I informed you. He added that, in case I chose to inform
you, I should also repeat to you the following couplet:

    ’Grecian gift and Spanish fig
    Help the Fool his grave to dig.’"


A bright flush stained her face yet she seemed to be more astounded than
angry.

"Is it possible," she said, "that your friend Mr. Smith—this Norwegian
promoter—repeated that couplet to you?"

"He certainly did repeat it to me, Thusis."

"Did he—did he tell you what it meant?  Did he tell you anything more?"

"He mentioned a secret society called the Ægean League."

"This is amazing," she murmured, looking up the road at the lights of
the house.

"Of all people," she added, "that man Smith, the last person on earth we
could suspect."  She passed her hand across her eyes—a gesture of
perplexity and consternation:

"I wish to find Mr. Smith, Michael.  I desire to see him immediately.
Please let us walk faster."

We fell into a quick pace and she released my arm as the light from the
windows fell on us.

"He was sitting by the fountain," I began.

"He is there now, with Clelia," she exclaimed, and walked directly
toward him where he was seated near Clelia on the stone rim of the pool.

They looked up as we approached, and Smith rose.

"Mr. Smith," said Thusis with a trace of excitement in her voice, "have
you any knowledge concerning my identity?"

If the blunt question were a shock to him he did not show it.  He
answered in his pleasant, even voice:

"I don’t know who you are, Thusis."

"Have you any idea?"

"None."

"How can that be," she asked, flushing, "when you send me such a
couplet?"

"I’ve told you the truth," he said simply; "I don’t know who you are,
Thusis.  I don’t even suspect."  He turned and looked at Clelia who had
risen from her seat on the fountain’s edge.

"You do not like me, Clelia, and now you are going to like me less.  You
resented it when I preached at you concerning proper behavior for a
young girl.  And now that you learn I am going to interfere in your
political and military maneuvers, I suppose you hate me."

Nobody moved or spoke for a moment.  Then Clelia took a step toward
Smith, and I saw her face had become deadly pale.

"No," she said, "I don’t hate you.  On the contrary I am beginning to
like you.  Because it takes a real man to tell the woman he loves that
he means to ruin her."

"Clelia, you and Thusis are ruined only if I hold my hand."

"We are done for unless you hold your hand!" she said.  She stepped
nearer.

"Mr. Smith?" she said sweetly, "you think you are on your honor.  You
are not.  He who has sent you here to thwart us is deceiving you."

"He who sent you here, Clelia,—and you, Thusis, is deceiving you,"
he rejoined very quietly.

Thusis said: "You know who sent us, and yet you don’t know who we are!
How can this be, Monsieur?"

"It’s true.  I do know who sent you here.  But you don’t!"

Clelia, still very pale, bent her gaze on him.

"Mr. Smith?"

"Yes, I hear you, Clelia."

"Suppose—suppose—I prove kinder to you."

"No," he said, grim and flushed.

Thusis turned sharply on her sister: "Have you given him your heart?"

Clelia answered, her eyes still fixed on Smith:

"I gave it to him from the first—even when I thought him a pious dolt.
And was ashamed.  And now that I know him for a man I’m not ashamed. Let
him know it.  I do care for him."

Smith stood rigid.  Thusis, looking intently at Clelia, went to her and
passed one arm around her waist.

"This can’t be," she said.  Clelia laughed.  "But it is, sister.  It
isn’t orthodox, it isn’t credible, it is quite unthinkable that I should
care for him.  But I do; and I’ve told him so.  Now he can ruin us if he
wishes."  And she flung a sweet, fearless glance at Smith which made him
tremble very slightly.

Thusis turned to me an almost frightened face as though in appeal, then
she caught her sister’s hands.

"Listen!" she cried, "I also gave my heart as you gave yours, sister!  I
couldn’t help it.  I found myself in love—"  She looked at me—"I was
doomed to love him.

"But for God’s sake listen, sister.  It is my heart I give.  My mind
and my destiny remain my own."

"My destiny is in God’s hands," said Clelia simply.  "My mind and heart
I give—"  She looked at Smith—"and all else that is myself ... if you
want me, Shan."

"You cannot do it!" exclaimed Thusis in a voice strangled with emotion.
"You can do it no more than can I!  You have no more right than have I
to give yourself merely because you care!  Your heart—yes! There is no
choice when love comes; you can not avoid it.  But you can proudly
choose what to do about it!"

"I have chosen," said Clelia, "if he wants me."

Thusis clenched her hands and stood there twisting them, dumb, excited,
laboring evidently under the most intense emotion.

And what all this business was about I had not the remotest notion.

Suddenly Thusis turned fiercely on her sister with a gesture that left
her outflung arm rigid.

"Do you wish to find the irresponsible political level of those two
Bolsheviki in there?" she said with breathless passion.  "Are you really
the iconoclast you say you are?  I did not believe it!  I can’t.  The
world moves only through decent procedure, or it disintegrates.  Where
is your reason, your logic, your pride?"

"Pride?"  Clelia smiled and looked at Smith: "In him, I think....  Since
he has become my master."

"He is not our master!" retorted Thusis.  "If what we came here to do is
now impossible—thanks to a meddling and misled gentleman in Rome—is
there not a sharper blow to strike at this treacherous Greek King and
his Prussian wife and that vile, Imperial Hun who pulls the strings that
move them?"

Clelia looked at Smith: "Do you know what my sister means?"

"Yes."

"Will you stop us even there?"

"I must."

Thusis, white with passion, confronted him:

"It is not you who are bound in honor to check and thwart us," she said
unsteadily, "but your duped block-head of a master who exasperates me!
Does he know from whom I take my orders?"

"Yes."

"I take them from the greatest, wisest, most fearless, most generous
patriot in the world.  I take my orders from Monsieur Venizelos!"

I started, but Smith said coolly: "Is that what you suppose, Thusis?"

"Suppose?  What do you mean?" she demanded haughtily.

"I mean that you are mistaken if you and Clelia believe that your orders
come from Monsieur Venizelos."

"From whom, then, do you imagine they come?" retorted Thusis.

"From Tino!"

"You dare——"

"Yes, I dare tell you, Thusis, how you have been deceived.  Tino himself
plotted this.  Your orders are forgeries.  Monsieur Venizelos never
dreamed of inciting you to the activities in which you are now
concerned——"

"That is incredible," said Thusis hotly.  "I know who sent you here to
check us and spoil it all—as though we were two silly, headstrong
children! Tell me honestly, now; did not that—that gentleman in Rome
give you some such impression of us?—that we were two turbulent and
mischievous children?"

"I was not told who you were."

"But you were told that we are irresponsible and headstrong?  Is it not
true?"

"Yes."

"And you were sent here to see that we didn’t get into mischief.  Is it
true?"

"Yes."

Thusis made a gesture of anger and despair:

"For lack of courage," she said tremulously, "a timid King refuses the
service we try to render!  We offer to stake our lives cheerfully; it
frightens him. We escape his well meant authority and supervision and
make our way into Switzerland to do him and Italy a service in spite of
his timorous fears and objections.  He has us followed by—who are you
anyway, Mr. Smith?"

"I happen to be," he said pleasantly, "an officer in a certain branch of
the Italian Army."

"Military Intelligence!" exclaimed Clelia.  "And we were warned by
Monsieur Venizelos!"

Thusis flung out her arms in a passionate gesture: "We offer the King of
Italy two royal scoundrels! And he refuses.  We offer the King of Italy
two islands?  And you tell us he refuses.  When we were in Rome he
laughed at us, teased us as though we had been two school-girls bringing
him some crazy plan to end the war.  And now when we are practically
ready to prove our plan possible—ready to consummate the affair and give
him the two most dangerous royal rascals in Europe—restore to Italy two
islands stolen from her centuries ago—the King of Italy turns timid and
sends a gentleman to ruin everything!"

"Because," said Smith pleasantly, "although King Constantine and Queen
Sophia have been deposed, yet, were you to seize them and carry them
across this frontier into France, Greece would resent it. So also would
Switzerland.  And the Allies would merely make two enemies out of an
Allied country and a neutral one for the sake of a few odd kings and
queens.

"And, moreover, if you should proceed, as you had planned, to the
Cyclades; and if you succeed in fomenting a revolution in Naxos and
Tenedos, and induce these two islands to declare themselves part of
Italy, because seven hundred years ago a Venetian conquered them, then
you turn Greece into a bitter enemy of Italy and of the Allies.  And
that is what you accomplish in exchange for a couple of little islands
in the Ægean which Italy does not want."

"Then," retorted Thusis violently, "why did Monsieur Venizelos suggest
that we attempt these things? Is the greatest patriot on earth a traitor
or a fool?"

"No, but Constantine of Greece is.  And the boche is his tutor.  Oh,
Thusis—Thusis!  Can’t you see you have been tricked?  Can’t you
understand that Venizelos had no knowledge of these things you are
attempting in all sincerity?—that you have been deluded by the treachery
of the hun—that those who counseled you to this came secretly from Tino
and the Kaiser, not from Venizelos?"

Thusis gazed at him bewildered.  Clelia, too, seemed almost stunned.

"Do—do you mean to tell me," stammered Thusis, "that these kings know
that Clelia and I are here to try to kidnap them?"

"No," said Smith coolly, "because I censored their mail in Berne.  Their
agents in Rome had warned them, in detail, by letter."

"Had those agents penetrated our identity?"

"They seemed to have no notion of it.  But they described you both
minutely."
