  from our nature. Domestic slavery is not, in my judgment, to be set
  down as an immoral or irreligious relation. The slaves of this
  country are better clothed and fed than the peasantry of some of the
  most prosperous states of Europe.

He was answered by Mr. Mitchell, of Tennessee, in these words:

  Sir, I do not go the length of the gentleman from Massachusetts, and
  hold that the existence of slavery in this country is almost a
  blessing. On the contrary, I am firmly settled in the opinion that
  it is a great curse,—one of the greatest that could have been
  interwoven in our system. I, Mr. Chairman, am one of those whom
  these poor wretches call masters. I do not task them; I feed and
  clothe them well; but yet, alas! they are slaves, and slavery is a
  curse in any shape. It is no doubt true that there are persons in
  Europe far more degraded than our slaves,—worse fed, worse clothed,
  &c., but, sir, this is far from proving that negroes ought to be
  slaves.

The celebrated John Randolph, of Roanoke, said in Congress, on one
occasion:

  Sir, I envy neither the heart nor the head of that man from the
  North who rises here to defend slavery on principle.

The following lines from the will of this eccentric man show that this
clear sense of justice, which is a gift of superior natures, at last
produced some appropriate fruits in practice:

  I give to my slaves their freedom, to which my conscience tells me
  they are justly entitled. It has a long time been a matter of the
  deepest regret to me, that the circumstances under which I inherited
  them, and the obstacles thrown in the way by the laws of the land,
  have prevented my emancipating them in my lifetime, which it is my
  full intention to do in case I can accomplish it.

The influence on such minds as these of that kind of theological
teaching which prevails in the majority of pulpits at the South, and
which justifies slavery directly from the Bible, cannot be sufficiently
regretted. Such men are shocked to find their spiritual teachers less
conscientious than themselves; and if the Biblical argument succeeds in
bewildering them, it produces scepticism with regard to the Bible
itself. Professor Stowe states that, during his residence in Ohio, he
visited at the house of a gentleman who had once been a Virginian
planter, and during the first years of his life was an avowed sceptic.
He stated that his scepticism was entirely referable to this one
cause,—that his minister had constructed a scriptural argument in
defence of slavery which he was unable to answer, and that his moral
sense was so shocked by the idea that the Bible defended such an
atrocious system, that he became an entire unbeliever, and so continued
until he came under the ministration of a clergyman in Ohio, who
succeeded in presenting to him the true scriptural view of the subject.
He immediately threw aside his scepticism, and became a member of a
Christian church.

So we hear the Baltimore Sun, a paper in a slave state, and no way
suspected of leaning towards abolitionism, thus scornfully disposing of
the scriptural argument:

  Messrs. Burgess, Taylor & Co., Sun Iron Building, send us a copy of
  a work of imposing exterior, a handsome work of nearly six hundred
  pages, from the pen of Rev. Josiah Priest, A.M., and published by
  Rev. W. S. Brown, M.D., at Glasgow, Kentucky, the copy before us
  conveying the assurance that it is the “fifth edition—stereotyped.”
  And we have no doubt it is; and the fiftieth edition may be
  published; but it will amount to nothing, for there is nothing in
  it. The book comprises the usually quoted facts associated with the
  history of slavery as recorded in the Scriptures, accompanied by the
  opinions and arguments of another man in relation thereto. And
  this sort of thing may go on to the end of time. It can accomplish
  nothing towards the perpetuation of slavery. The book is called
  “Bible Defence of Slavery; and Origin, Fortunes, and History, of the
  Negro Race.” Bible defence of slavery! There is no such thing as a
  Bible defence of slavery at the present day. Slavery in the United
  States is a social institution, originating in the convenience and
  cupidity of our ancestors, existing by state laws and recognized to
  a certain extent—for the recovery of slave property—by the
  constitution. And nobody would pretend that, if it were inexpedient
  and unprofitable for any man or any state to continue to hold
  slaves, they would be bound to do so, on the ground of a “Bible
  defence” of it. Slavery is recorded in the Bible, and approved, with
  many degrading characteristics. War is recorded in the Bible, and
  approved, under what seems to us the extreme of cruelty. But are
  slavery and war to endure forever, because we find them in the
  Bible? Or, are they to cease at once and forever, because the
  Bible inculcates peace and brotherhood?

  The book before us exhibits great research, but is obnoxious to
  severe criticism, on account of its gratuitous assumptions. The
  writer is constantly assuming this, that, and the other. In a work
  of this sort, a “doubtless” this, and “no doubt” the other, and
  “such is our belief,” with respect to important premises, will not
  be acceptable to the intelligent reader. Many of the positions
  assumed are ludicrous; and the fancy of the writer runs to
  exuberance in putting words and speeches into the mouths of the
  ancients, predicated upon the brief record of Scripture history. The
  argument from the curse of Ham is not worth the paper it is
  written upon. It is just equivalent to that of Blackwood’s
  Magazine, we remember examining some years since, in reference to
  the admission of Rothschild to Parliament. The writer maintained the
  religious obligation of the Christian public to perpetuate the
  political disabilities of the Jews, because it would be resisting
  the Divine will to remove them, in view of the “curse” which the
  aforesaid Christian Pharisee understood to be levelled against the
  sons of Abraham. Admitting that God has cursed both the Jewish race
  and the descendants of Ham, He is able to fulfil His purpose, though
  the “rest of mankind” should in all things act up to the benevolent
  precepts of the “Divine law.” Man may very safely cultivate the
  highest principles of the Christian dispensation, and leave God to
  work out the fulfilment of His curse.

  According to the same book and the same logic, all mankind being
  under a “curse,” none of us ought to work out any alleviation for
  ourselves, and we are sinning heinously in harnessing steam to the
  performance of manual labor, cutting wheat by McCormick’s
  diablerie, and laying hold of the lightning to carry our messages
  for us, instead of footing it ourselves as our father Adam did. With
  a little more common sense, and much less of the uncommon sort, we
  should better understand Scripture, the institutions under which we
  live, the several rights of our fellow-citizens in all sections of
  the country, and the good, sound, practical, social relations, which
  ought to contribute infinitely more than they do to the happiness of
  mankind.

If the reader wishes to know what kind of preaching it is that St. Clare
alludes to, when he says he can learn what is quite as much to the
purpose from the Picayune, and that such scriptural expositions of
their peculiar relations don’t edify him much, he is referred to the
following extract from a sermon preached in New Orleans, by the Rev.
Theophilus Clapp. Let our reader now imagine that he sees St. Clare
seated in the front slip, waggishly taking notes of the following
specimen of ethics and humanity.

  Let all Christian teachers show our servants the importance of being
  submissive, obedient, industrious, honest and faithful to the
  interests of their masters. Let their minds be filled with sweet
  anticipations of rest eternal beyond the grave. Let them be trained
  to direct their views to that fascinating and glorious futurity,
  where the sins, sorrows, and troubles of earth, will be contemplated
  under the aspect of means indispensable to our everlasting progress
  in knowledge, virtue and happiness. I would say to every slave in
  the United States, “You should realize that a wise, kind, and
  merciful Providence has appointed for you your condition in life;
  and, all things considered, you could not be more eligibly situated.
  The burden of your care, toils and responsibilities, is much lighter
  than that which God has imposed on your master. The most enlightened
  philanthropists, with unlimited resources, could not place you in a
  situation more favorable to your present and everlasting welfare
  than that which you now occupy. You have your troubles. So have all.
  Remember how evanescent are the pleasures and joys of human life.”

But, as Mr. Clapp will not, perhaps, be accepted as a representation of
orthodoxy, let him be supposed to listen to the following declarations
of the Rev. James Smylie, a clergyman of great influence in the
Presbyterian church, in a tract upon slavery, which he states in the
introduction to have been written with particular reference to removing
the conscientious scruples of religious people in Mississippi and
Louisiana, with regard to its propriety.

  If I believed, or was of opinion, that it was the legitimate
