river."

Tim dropped his oar, and was turning round to get a view of the object,
when Frank checked him. So strict was the discipline of the club, that,
notwithstanding the excitement which the coxswain's announcement tended
to create, not another boy ceased rowing, or even missed his stroke.

"Keep your seat," said Frank to Tim. "Take your oar."

"I want to see what's going on," replied Tim.

"Keep your seat," repeated Frank, authoritatively.

Tim concluded to obey; and without a word resumed his place, and
commenced pulling again.

"Tony is after them; if you obey orders we may get there in season to
render some assistance," continued Frank. "Don't balk us now, Tim."

"I won't, Frank; I will obey all your orders. I didn't think when I got
up," replied Tim, with earnestness, and withal in such a tone that
Frank's hopes ran high.

"Will you cross the rocks, Frank?" asked Charles Hardy.

"Certainly."

"But you know your father told us never to go into the river."

"Circumstances alter cases."

"But it will be disobedience under any circumstances."

"We won't argue the point now," answered the bold coxswain, quickening
the movements of his body, till the crew pulled with their utmost
strength and speed, and the Zephyr flew like a rocket over the water.

"I don't like to go, Frank, and though I will obey orders, I now protest
against this act of disobedience," replied Charles, who was sure this
time that Captain Sedley would commend and approve his inflexible love
of obedience.

"Pull steady, and mind your stroke," added Frank, whose eye was fixed
upon the chaise in the water.

"We may strike upon the rocks and be dashed to pieces," suggested
Charles.

"If you are afraid--"

"O, no! I'm not afraid; I was thinking of the boat."

"If it is dashed to pieces in a good cause, let it be so."

"Good!" ejaculated Fred Harper. "That's the talk for me!"

"The water in the lake is very high, and I know exactly where the rocks
lie. Keep steady; I will put you through in safety."

"Where is the Butterfly now, Frank?" asked William Bright.

"Wait a minute.--There she goes! Hurrah! she has passed the reefs
safely. They pull like heroes. There! Up go her oars--they are in-board.
There are a man and a woman in the water, struggling for life. The man
is trying to save the woman. The chaise seems to hang upon a rock, and
the horse is kicking and plunging to clear himself. Steady--pull
steady."

"Tony will save them all," said Fred.

"Hurrah! there he goes overboard, with half a dozen of his fellows after
him! There are six left in the boat, and they are working her along
towards the man and woman. They have them--they are safe. Now they pull
the lady in--hah--all right! I was afraid they would upset the boat.
They have got her in, and the man is holding on at the stern. Tony has
got a rope round the horse's neck, and the fellows are clearing him from
the chaise."

The Zephyr was now approaching the dangerous rocks, and Frank was
obliged to turn his attention to the steering of the boat through the
perilous passage.

"Steady," said he, "and pull strong. All right; we are through. We are
too late to do anything. They have landed the man and woman, and now
they are towing the horse ashore. Tony's a glorious fellow! He is worth
his weight in solid gold!"

"Can't we save the chaise?" asked Tim Bunker.

"We can try."

"Hurrah for the chaise then!"

"Bowman, get the long painter ahead," continued Frank.

"Ay, ay."

The coxswain of the Zephyr steered her towards the vehicle, which still
hung to the rock, and, by a skilful maneuver, contrived to make fast the
line to one of the shafts of the chaise.

"Ready--pull!" said Frank, as he passed the line over one of the
thwarts.

The crew pulled with a will, and the jerk disengaged the chaise, and
they succeeded in hauling it safely to the shore, and placing it high
and dry upon the rocks.




CHAPTER VI.

HURRAH FOR TONY!


Tony and his six companions, who had been with him in the river, stood
on the rocks shivering with cold, when the Zephyr's crew landed. The
rest of her boys had been sent to conduct the lady and gentleman to the
nearest house, and render them such assistance as they might require.

"You are a brave fellow, Tony!" said Frank, warmly, as he grasped the
wet hand of his friend.

"I am very wet and cold, whatever else I may be," replied Tony, trying
to laugh, while his teeth chattered so that he could hardly speak.

"You had better go home; you will catch cold," continued Frank.

"We must wait for the fellows."

"No, you shall take six of the Zephyr's crew, and pull home as fast as
you can, and we will wait for the rest."

"We can do no more good here; so we may as well go. Thank you for your
offer, Frank, and I will accept it. If you like I will take Fred Harper
to steer down, for I should like to pull an oar myself to warm up with."

"Certainly;" and Frank detailed six of his club, including Fred, who
seated themselves in the Butterfly.

"I don't know about those rocks, Tony," said Fred, as he grasped the
tiller ropes.

"The water is so high, that there is no danger, I will have an eye to
the passage when we get to it," replied Tony, as he took his old place
at the bow oar.

The Butterfly pushed off, and in a few moments after passed the
dangerous rocks in safety. Her crew pulled with energy, and it is quite
likely that they got warm before they reached the boat-house.

It was some time before the rest of the Butterfly's crew returned to the
rocks where they had landed.

"Where's Tony?" asked one of them, a boy of fourteen, but so small in
stature that his companions had nicknamed him "Little Paul," of whom we
shall have more to say by and by.

"They have gone home; we sent six of our fellows with them. They were
