saw that, even without her, the convivial circle had its attractions,
and that he could leave her to join it, she sighed, she scarce knew why.
"Surely," she said, "I am not so selfish as to wish to rob him of
pleasure because I cannot enjoy it with him. But yet, once he told me
there was no pleasure where I was not. Alas! is it true, what I have so
often heard, that such feelings cannot always last?"

Poor Augusta! she knew not how deep reason she had to fear. She saw not
the temptations that surrounded her husband in the circles where to all
the stimulus of wit and intellect was often added the zest of wine,
used far too freely for safety.

Already had Edward become familiar with a degree of physical excitement
which touches the very verge of intoxication; yet, strong in
self-confidence, and deluded by the customs of society, he dreamed not
of danger. The traveller who has passed above the rapids of Niagara may
have noticed the spot where the first white sparkling ripple announces
the downward tendency of the waters. All here is brilliancy and beauty;
and as the waters ripple and dance in the sunbeam, they seem only as if
inspired by a spirit of new life, and not as hastening to a dreadful
fall. So the first approach to intemperance, that ruins both body and
soul, seems only like the buoyancy and exulting freshness of a new life,
and the unconscious voyager feels his bark undulating with a thrill of
delight, ignorant of the inexorable hurry, the tremendous sweep, with
which the laughing waters urge him on beyond the reach of hope or
recovery.

It was at this period in the life of Edward that one judicious and manly
friend, who would have had the courage to point out to him the danger
that every one else perceived, might have saved him. But among the
circle of his acquaintances there was none such. "Let every man mind
his own business" was their universal maxim. True, heads were gravely
shaken, and Mr. A. regretted to Mr. B. that so promising a young man
seemed about to ruin himself. But one was "no relation," of Edward's,
and the other "felt a delicacy in speaking on such a subject," and
therefore, according to a very ancient precedent, they "passed by on the
other side." Yet it was at Mr. A.'s sideboard, always sparkling with the
choicest wine, that he had felt the first excitement of extra stimulus;
it was at Mr. B.'s house that the convivial club began to hold their
meetings, which, after a time, found a more appropriate place in a
public hotel. It is thus that the sober, the regular, and the discreet,
whose constitution saves them from liabilities to excess, will accompany
the ardent and excitable to the very verge of danger, and then wonder at
their want of self-control.

It was a cold winter evening, and the wind whistled drearily around the
closed shutters of the parlor in which Augusta was sitting. Every thing
around her bore the marks of elegance and comfort.

Splendid books and engravings lay about in every direction. Vases of
rare and costly flowers exhaled perfume, and magnificent mirrors
multiplied every object. All spoke of luxury and repose, save the
anxious and sad countenance of its mistress.

It was late, and she had watched anxiously for her husband for many long
hours. She drew out her gold and diamond repeater, and looked at it. It
was long past midnight. She sighed as she remembered the pleasant
evenings they had passed together, as her eye fell on the books they had
read together, and on her piano and harp, now silent, and thought of all
he had said and looked in those days when each was all to the other.

She was aroused from this melancholy revery by a loud knocking at the
street door. She hastened to open it, but started back at the sight it
disclosed--her husband borne by four men.

"Dead! is he dead?" she screamed, in agony.

"No, ma'am," said one of the men, "but he might as well be dead as in
such a fix as this."

The whole truth, in all its degradation, flashed on the mind of Augusta.
Without a question or comment, she motioned to the sofa in the parlor,
and her husband was laid there. She locked the street door, and when the
last retreating footstep had died away, she turned to the sofa, and
stood gazing in fixed and almost stupefied silence on the face of her
senseless husband.

At once she realized the whole of her fearful lot. She saw before her
the blight of her own affections, the ruin of her helpless children, the
disgrace and misery of her husband. She looked around her in helpless
despair, for she well knew the power of the vice whose deadly seal was
set upon her husband. As one who is struggling and sinking in the waters
casts a last dizzy glance at the green sunny banks and distant trees
which seem sliding from his view, so did all the scenes of her happy
days pass in a moment before her, and she groaned aloud in bitterness of
spirit. "Great God! help me, help me," she prayed. "Save him--O, save my
husband."

Augusta was a woman of no common energy of spirit, and when the first
wild burst of anguish was over, she resolved not to be wanting to her
husband and children in a crisis so dreadful.

"When he awakes," she mentally exclaimed, "I will warn and implore; I
will pour out my whole soul to save him. My poor husband, you have been
misled--betrayed. But you are too good, too generous, too noble to be
sacrificed without a struggle."

It was late the next morning before the stupor in which Edward was
plunged began to pass off. He slowly opened his eyes, started up wildly,
gazed hurriedly around the room, till his eye met the fixed and
sorrowful gaze of his wife. The past instantly flashed upon him, and a
deep flush passed over his countenance. There was a dead, a solemn
silence, until Augusta, yielding to her agony, threw herself into his
arms, and wept.

"Then you do not hate me, Augusta?" said he, sorrowfully.

"Hate you--never! But, O Edward, Edward, what has beguiled you?"

"My wife--you once promised to be my guardian in virtue--such you are,
and will be. O Augusta! you have looked on what you shall never see
again--never--never--so help me God!" said he, looking up with solemn
earnestness.

And Augusta, as she gazed on the noble face, the ardent expression of
sincerity and remorse, could not doubt that her husband was saved. But
Edward's plan of reformation had one grand defect. It was merely
modification and retrenchment, and not entire abandonment. He could
not feel it necessary to cut himself off entirely from the scenes and
associations where temptation had met him. He considered not that, when
the temperate flow of the blood and the even balance of the nerves have
once been destroyed, there is, ever after, a double and fourfold
liability, which often makes a man the sport of the first untoward
chance.

He still contrived to stimulate sufficiently to prevent the return of a
calm and healthy state of the mind and body, and to make constant
self-control and watchfulness necessary.

It is a great mistake to call nothing intemperance but that degree of
physical excitement which completely overthrows the mental powers. There
is a state of nervous excitability, resulting from what is often called
moderate stimulation, which often long precedes this, and is, in regard
to it, like the premonitory warnings of the fatal cholera--an
unsuspected draught on the vital powers, from which, at any moment, they
may sink into irremediable collapse.

It is in this state, often, that the spirit of gambling or of wild
speculation is induced by the morbid cravings of an over-stimulated
system. Unsatisfied with the healthy and regular routine of business,
and the laws of gradual and solid prosperity, the excited and unsteady
imagination leads its subjects to daring risks, with the alternative of
unbounded gain on the one side, or of utter ruin on the other. And when,
as is too often the case, that ruin comes, unrestrained and desperate
intemperance is the wretched resort to allay the ravings of
disappointment and despair.

Such was the case with Edward. He had lost his interest in his regular
business, and he embarked the bulk of his property in a brilliant scheme
then in vogue; and when he found a crisis coming, threatening ruin and
beggary, he had recourse to the fatal stimulus, which, alas! he had
never wholly abandoned.

At this time he spent some months in a distant city, separated from his
wife and family, while the insidious power of temptation daily
increased, as he kept up, by artificial stimulus, the flagging vigor of
his mind and nervous system.

It came at last--the blow which shattered alike his brilliant dreams and
his real prosperity. The large fortune brought by his wife vanished in a
