without any fear of disappointment. You have an obstinacy of
perseverance, under that calm face of yours, that will be more
than a match for all obstacles in your way; indeed obstacles
only make the rush of the stream the greater, if once it get
by them; the very things which this minute threatened to check
it, the next are but trophies in the foaming triumph of its
onward course. You can do what you will; and you will aim
high. Aim at the highest.

"I am aiming as hard as I can, and so fast that I can't see
whether my arrows hit. Not at the capture of any pretty face,
-- though there are a few here that would be prizes worth
capturing; but really I am not skilled in that kind of archery
and on the whole am not quite ready for it. An archer needs to
be better equipped, to enter those lists with any chance of
success, than alas! I am at present. I am aiming hard at the
dressing up of my mind, in the sincere hope that the dressing
up of my person may have some place in the after-piece. In
other words, I am so busy that I don't know what I am doing.
Asphodel was a miserable place (though I am very glad you are
in it) -- my chances of success at Little River are much
better. Indeed I am very much to my mind here; were I, as I
said, a little better equipped outwardly, and if my aunt
Landholm only had mamma's recipe for making pumpkin pies; or,
as an alternative, had the pumpkin crop this season but
failed. But alas! the huge number of the copper-coloured tribe
that lurked among the corn forests a few weeks ago, forbid me
to hope for any respite till St. Nicholas jogs my aunt L.'s
elbow.

"I have left myself no room to say with how much delight I
received your letter, nor with what satisfaction I think of
you as having fairly started in the race. You have entered
your plough, now, Governor, -- quick, quick, for the other
side.

"Thine in the dearest rivalry,

"Will. Rufus Landholm


"All manner of love to mamma, papa, and the little ones, from
Will."


In another corner, -- "I am sorry Mr. Haye makes so little stay
at Asphodel at this time -- you will not see anything of him,
nor of his place."

"I can bear that," thought Winthrop.

He was much too busy to see men or places. One fortnight was
given to the diligent study of Algebra; two other little
fortnights to Latin; and then his father came and took him
home, sooner than he expected. But he had "entered his
plough."

Yet it was hard to leave it there just entered; and the ride
home was rather a thoughtful one. Little his father knew what
he had been about. He thought his son had been "getting a
little schooling;" he had no notion he had begun to fit
himself for College!

Just as they reached the river, at a little hamlet under the
hill at the foot of the north bay, where the road branched off
to skirt the face of the tableland towards the home
promontory, the wagon was stopped by Mr. Underhill. He came
forward and unceremoniously rested both arms upon the tire of
the fore wheel.

"Mornin'. Where' you been?"

"A little way back. 'Been to Asphodel, to fetch my son
Winthrop home."

"Asphodel? -- that's a good way back, ain't it?"

"Well, a dozen miles or so," said Mr. Landholm laughing.

"Has he been to the 'cademy too?"

"Yes -- for a little while back, he has."

"What are you going to make of your sons, neighbour Landholm?"

"Ah! -- I don't know," said Mr. Landholm, touching his whip
gently first on one side and then on the other side of his off
horse; -- "I can't make much of 'em -- they've got to make
themselves."

Neighbour Underhill gave a sharp glance at Winthrop and then
came back again.

"What do you reckon's the use of all this edication, farmer?"

"O -- I guess it has its uses," said Mr. Landholm, smiling a
little bit.

"Well, do you s'pose these boys are goin' to be smarter men
than you and I be?"

"I hope so."

"You do! Well, drive on! --" said he, taking his arms from the
top of the wheel. But then replacing them before the wagon had
time to move --

"Where's Will?"

"Will? he's at Little River --doing well, as I hear."

"Doing what? getting himself ready for College yet?"

"Yes -- he isn't ready yet."

"I say, neighbour, -- it takes a power of time to get these
fellows ready to begin, don't it?"

"Yes," said Mr. Landholm with a sigh.

"After they're gone you calculate to do all the work yourself,
I s'pose?"

"O I've only lost one yet," said Mr. Landholm shaking the
reins; "and he'll help take care of me by and by, I expect. --
Come!"

Again the other's hands slipped off the wheel, and again were
put back.

"We're goin' to do without larnin' here," said he. "Lost our
schoolmaster."

"That fellow Dolts gone?"

"Last week."

"What's the matter?"

"The place and him didn't fit somewheres, I s'pose; at least I
don't know what 'twas if 'twa'n't that."

"What are you going to do?"

"Play marbles, I guess, -- till some one comes along."

"Well, my hands 'll be too cold to play marbles, if I sit here
much longer," said Mr. Landholm laughing. "Good day to ye!"

And the wheel unclogged, they drove on.


CHAPTER VI.


To be a well-favoured man is the gift of fortune; but to write
and read comes by nature.
MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING.


