head-gear, and thereby getting the reputation of leading the
fashion.

Notwithstanding Mrs. Claudine's efforts to keep the matter a secret,
and thus be able to create a surprise when she appeared at church on
the next Sunday, the fact that she had received the bonnet leaked
out, and there was some excitement about it. Among those who heard
of the new bonnet, was a Mrs. Ballman, who had written to a friend
to get for her the very article obtained first by Mrs. Claudine.
From some cause or other a delay had occurred, and to her chagrin
she learned that a rival had the new fashion, and would get the
eclat that she so much coveted. The disappointment, to one whose
pleasures in life are so circumscribed as those of a real
fashionable lady, was severe indeed. She did not sleep more than a
few hours on the night after she received the mortifying
intelligence.

The year before, Mrs. Claudine had led the fashion in some article
of dress, and to see her carry off the palm in bonnets on this
occasion, when she had striven so hard to be in advance, was more
than Mrs. Bellman could endure. The result of a night's thinking on
the subject was a determination to pursue a very extraordinary
course, the nature of which will be seen. By telegraph Mrs. Bellman
communicated with her friend in New York, desiring her to send on by
the evening of the next day, which was Saturday, the bonnet she had
ordered, if four prices had to be paid as an inducement to get the
milliner to use extra exertions in getting it up. In due time,
notice came back that the bonnet would be sent on by express on
Saturday, much to the joy of Mrs. Ballman, who from the interest she
felt in carrying out her intentions, had entirely recovered from the
painful disappointment at first experienced.

Saturday brought the bonnet, and a beautiful one it was. A few
natural sighs were expended over the elegant affair, and then other
feelings came in to chase away regrets at not having been first to
secure the article.

On the day previous, Friday, Mrs. Ballman called upon a fashionable
milliner, and held with her the following conversation.

"You have heard of Mrs. Claudine's new bonnet, I presume?"

"Yes, madam," replied the milliner.

"Do you think it will take?" asked Mrs. Ballman.

"I do."

"You have not the pattern?"

"Oh, yes. I received one a week ago."

"You did!"

"Yes. But some one must introduce it. As Mrs. Claudine is about
doing this there is little doubt of its becoming the fashion, for
the style is striking as well as tasteful."

Mrs. Ballman mused for some moments. There she drew the milliner
aside, and said, in a low confidential tone.

"Do you think you could get up a bonnet a handsome as that, and in
just as good taste?"

"I know I could. In my last received London and Paris fashions are
several bonnets a handsome as the one that is about being adopted in
New York, and here also without doubt."

"I am not so sure of its being adopted here," said the lady.

"If Mrs. Claudine introduces it, as I understand she intends doing
on Sunday, it will certainly be approved and the style followed."

"I very much doubt it. But we will see. Where are the bonnets you
spoke of just now?"

The milliner brought forth a number of pattern cards and plates, and
pointed out two bonnets, either of which, in her judgment, was more
beautiful than the one Mrs. Claudine had received.

"Far handsomer," was the brief remark with which Mrs. Ballman
approved the milliner's judgment. "And now," she added, "can you get
me up one of these by Sunday?"

"I will try."

"Try won't do," said the lady, with some excitement in her manner.
"I must have the bonnet. Can you make it?"

"Yes."

"Very well. Then make it. And let it be done in your very best
manner. Why I wish to have this bonnet I need hardly explain to you.
I believed that I would have received the bonnet, about to be
adopted in New York, first. I had written to a friend to procure it;
but, by some means, Mrs. Claudine has obtained hers in advance of
me. Mine will be here to-morrow, but I don't mean to wear it. I wish
to lead."

"If you were both to appear in this bonnet, the fashion would be
decided," said the milliner.

"I know. But I have no wish to share the honor with Mrs. Claudine.
Make me the bonnet I have selected, and I will see that it puts
hers down."

"You will remember," said the milliner, "that hers has been
already adopted in New York. This will be almost sure to give it the
preference. It would be better that you did not attempt a rivalry,
than that you should be beaten."

"But I don't mean to be beaten," replied the lady. "I have taken
measures to prevent that. After Sunday you will hear no more of the
New York bonnet. Mine will go, and this, I need not tell you, will
be a feather in your cap, and dollars in your pocket; as I will
refer to you as the only one who can get it up. So do your best, and
improve the pattern we have selected, if it will bear improvement."

The milliner promised to do her "prettiest," and Mrs. Ballman
returned home in a state of considerable elation at the prospect of
carrying off the palm, and humiliating her rival at the same time.

Mrs. Claudine, though a little vain, and fond of excelling, was a
woman of kind feelings, and entirely superior to the petty
jealousies that annoyed Mrs. Ballman, and soured her towards all who
succeeded in rivalling her in matters of taste and fashion. Of what
was passing in the mind of the lady who had been so troubled at her
reception of a new style of bonnet from New York, she was entirely
ignorant. She was not even aware that Mrs. Ballman had ordered the
same article, nor that she had suffered a disappointment.

Saturday came. Mrs. Claudine was busy over some little article of
dress that was to add to her appearance on the next day, when an
Irish girl, who had formerly lived with her, entered her room.

"Ah! Kitty!" said the lady pleasantly. "How do you do?"

"I'm right well, mum, thankee," replied Kitty, with a courtesy.

"Where do you live now, Kitty?" inquired Mrs. Claudine.

"I'm living with Mrs. Ballman," said the girl.

"A very good place, I have no doubt."

"Oh, yes, mum. It is a good place. I hain't much to do, barrin'
going out with the children on good days, and seein' after them in
the house; and I get good wages."

"I'm very glad to hear it, Kitty; and hope you will not give up so
good a home."

"No, indeed, mum; and I won't do that. But Mrs. Claudine--"

Kitty's face flushed, and she stammered in her speech.

"What do you wish to say?" inquired the lady, seeing that Kitty
hesitated to speak of what was on her mind.

"Indade, mum," said Kitty, evincing much perplexity, "I hardly know
