            Mother of the Lord!
            Blessed gate of Heaven,
            Take our heart's devotion!

            Virgin one and only,
            Meekest 'mid them all,
            From our sins set free,
            Make us pure like thee,
            Freed from passion's thrall!

            Grant that in pure living,
            Through safe paths below,
            Forever seeing Jesus,
            Rejoicing we may go!

As the monk sung, Agnes soon appeared at the door.

"Ah, my little bird, you are there!" he said looking up.

"Yes," said Agnes, coming forward, and looking over his shoulder at his
work.

"Did you find that young sculptor?" she asked.

"That I did,--a brave boy, too, who will row down the coast and dig us
marble from an old heathen temple, which we will baptize into the name
of Christ and his Mother."

"Pietro was always a good boy," said Agnes.

"Stay," said the monk, stepping into his little sleeping room; "he sent
you this lily; see, I have kept it in water all night."

"Poor Pietro, that was good of him!" said Agnes. "I would thank him, if
I could. But, uncle," she added, in a hesitating voice, "did you see
anything of that--other one?"

"That I did, child,--and talked long with him."

"Ah, uncle, is there any hope for him?"

"Yes, there is hope,--great hope. In fact, he has promised to receive
me again, and I have hopes of leading him to the sacrament of
confession, and after that"--

"And then the Pope will forgive him!" said Agnes, joyfully.

The face of the monk suddenly fell; he was silent, and went on
retouching his drawing.

"Do you not think he will?" said Agnes, earnestly. "You said the Church
was ever ready to receive the repentant."

"The True Church will receive him," said the monk, evasively; "yes, my
little one, there is no doubt of it."

"And it is not true that he is captain of a band of robbers in the
mountains?" said Agnes. "May I tell Father Francesco that it is not so?"

"Child, this young man hath suffered a grievous wrong and injustice;
for he is lord of an ancient and noble estate, out of which he hath
been driven by the cruel injustice of a most wicked and abominable man,
the Duke di Valentinos,[8] who hath caused the death of his brothers
and sisters, and ravaged the country around with fire and sword, so
that he hath been driven with his retainers to a fortress in the
mountains."

    [8] Cæsar Borgia was created Duc de Valentinois by Louis XII.
        of France.

"But," said Agnes, with flushed cheeks, "why does not our blessed
Father excommunicate this wicked duke? Surely this knight hath erred;
instead of taking refuge in the mountains, he ought to have fled with
his followers to Rome, where the dear Father of the Church hath a
house for all the oppressed. It must be so lovely to be the father of
all men, and to take in and comfort all those who are distressed and
sorrowful, and to right the wrongs of all that are oppressed, as our
dear Father at Rome doth!"

The monk looked up at Agnes's clear glowing face with a sort of
wondering pity.

"Dear little child," he said, "there is a Jerusalem above which is
mother of us all, and these things are done there.

        'Cœlestis urbs Jerusalem,
        Beata pacis visio,
        Quæ celsa de viventibus
        Saxis ad astra tolleris
        Sponsæque ritu cingeris
        Mille angelorum millibus!'"

The face of the monk glowed as he repeated this ancient hymn of the
Church,[9] as if the remembrance of that general assembly and church of
the first-born gave him comfort in his depression.

    [9] This very ancient hymn is the fountain-head from which
        through various languages have trickled the various hymns
        of the Celestial City such as--

                "Jerusalem, my happy home!"

        and Quarles's--

                "O mother dear, Jerusalem!"

Agnes felt perplexed, and looked earnestly at her uncle as he stooped
over his drawing, and saw that there were deep lines of anxiety on his
usually clear, placid face,--a look as of one who struggles mentally
with some untold trouble.

"Uncle," she said, hesitatingly, "may I tell Father Francesco what you
have been telling me of this young man?"

"No, my little one,--it were not best. In fact, dear child, there be
many things in his case impossible to explain, even to you;--but he is
not so altogether hopeless as you thought; in truth, I have great hopes
of him. I have admonished him to come here no more, but I shall see him
again this evening."

Agnes wondered at the heaviness of her own little heart, as her kind
old uncle spoke of his coming there no more. Awhile ago she dreaded his
visits as a most fearful temptation, and thought perhaps he might come
at any hour; now she was sure he would not, and it was astonishing what
a weight fell upon her.

"Why am I not thankful?" she asked herself. "Why am I not joyful? Why
should I wish to see him again, when I should only he tempted to sinful
thoughts, and when my dear uncle, who can do so much for him, has his
soul in charge? And what is this which is so strange in his case? There
is some mystery, after all,--something, perhaps, which I ought not to
wish to know. Ah, how little can we know of this great wicked world,
and of the reasons which our superiors give for their conduct! It is
ours humbly to obey, without a question or a doubt. Holy Mother, may I
not sin through a vain curiosity or self-will! May I ever say, as thou
didst, 'Behold the handmaid of the Lord! be it unto me according to His
word!'"

And Agnes went about her morning devotions with fervent zeal, and did
not see the monk as he dropped the pencil, and, covering his face with
his robe, seemed to wrestle in some agony of prayer.

"Shepherd of Israel," he said, "why hast Thou forgotten this vine of
Thy planting? The boar out of the wood doth waste it, the wild beast
of the field doth devour it. Dogs have encompassed Thy beloved; the
assembly of the violent have surrounded him. How long, O Lord, holy and
true, dost Thou not judge and avenge?"

"Now, really, brother," said Elsie, coming towards him, and
interrupting his meditations in her bustling, business way, yet
speaking in a low tone that Agnes should not hear, "I want you to
help me with this child in a good common-sense fashion: none of your
high-flying notions about saints and angels, but a little good common
talk for every-day people that have their bread and salt to look after.
The fact is, brother, this girl must be married. I went last night to
talk with Antonio's mother, and the way is all open as well as any
living girl could desire. Antonio is a trifle slow, and the high-flying
hussies call him stupid; but his mother says a better son never
breathed, and he is as obedient to all her orders now as when he was
three years old. And she has laid up plenty of household stuff for him,
