Brockridge. The principal sent for him, and every boy in school
supposed he was under censure for the deficiency.

On Sunday night, when the boys were permitted to walk, Masters told
Richard that Bailey wished to see him on particular business near the
Grove shed, as the building was called. Richard promised to meet him at
the place assigned. He waited there some time, but as Bailey did not
come, he returned to the parlor of the Institute. He met Bailey there,
and asked if he wished to see him.

"Yes; I wanted to show you something in the shed, but it will do just
as well in the morning," replied Bailey, somewhat to the astonishment
of Richard, who, of course, understood what all these things were for.

"What was it?" asked the intended victim.

"It was a piece of your exercise book; and I didn't know but the piece
might enable you to find the whole."

While they were talking the alarm of fire was given; but before they
could reach the spot, some ready hands had extinguished the flames. In
accordance with the programme laid down upon the island, pieces of
Richard's exercise book, some of them half burned, were found in and
near the shed. Several cards of matches, and half the printed paper
that had enclosed the original bunch, were also picked up near the
building which had been devoted to destruction.

An investigation was immediately commenced. The boys were ordered to
the school room. The pieces of Richard's exercise book were examined. A
dozen boys had seen its owner standing near the shed before the fire
originated. The teachers were sent to examine the closets for further
evidence. Not only were several cards of matches found in Richard's
closet, but also part of the printed envelope that had enclosed them.
This piece of paper was a portion of the wrapper, of which the other
part had been found in the shed.

These facts were duly announced to the boys, and it seemed as clear as
noonday that Richard Grant was the incendiary. He was ordered to report
forthwith at the office, and the boys were dismissed for the night.

"We have fixed him this time," said Nevers, in a whisper, as he and
Redman left the room.

"He is under arrest, and to-morrow he will be sent home in disgrace,"
replied Redman, rubbing his hands. "Nevers, you will be the next
captain of Company D."

"We have broken the fellows' idol, at any rate. Grant will spend the
night in the guard house," added Nevers.

Nevers was slightly mistaken; for Richard, though he did not appear in
Barrack B that night, occupied the guest chamber of Colonel
Brockridge's private residence. His friends, especially Bailey, were
gloomy and sad. The more lukewarm ones were sure, and always had been,
that Grant was a bad boy.

On Monday morning, when the boys had assembled in the school room,
Colonel Brockridge appeared, followed by Richard. The students
understood that the incendiary case was to be settled, and a breathless
silence pervaded the hall.

"Grant stands before you accused of a very grave offence," the
principal began. "We cannot permit a boy who sets fire to a building to
remain in the Institute. If guilty, he must be expelled. But Grant
assures me this is a conspiracy to injure him. He declares that there
is a secret organization in the Institute called the Regulators, who
have determined to drive him away from the school. Some of us have
heard of such an institution before, but its existence has never been
clearly proved. Redman, do you know any thing of such an association."

"I never heard of it before, sir," replied Redman.

"Do you, Nevers?"

"No, sir."

"Grant charges you both with being connected with the Regulators."

"Let him prove it," said Nevers, in defiant tones.

"Who is Dobbin?" asked the principal.

"I never heard the name before," answered Nevers. "I think it is very
hard to be accused without evidence. I hope you will make Grant prove
what he says, sir."

"I will, my chief," said Richard, at a nod from the colonel; and,
without giving the source of his information, he told all he knew about
the Regulators.

"How many officers have the Regulators?" asked Mr. Gault, rising from
his chair, at the farther end of the room.

"One, whom all obey," replied Richard, repeating what he had heard on
the island.

"Who is he?"

"Nevers."

"Are there traitors among us?" continued Mr. Gault.

"Not a traitor."

"What shall be done to him who discloses the secrets of the
Regulators?" asked the teacher.

"He shall be pounded till he is black and blue, and, as man and boy,
be despised till the end of his life," replied Richard, repeating
the words of the Regulators as nearly as he could remember them.

"What do you think of this, Nevers?" asked the colonel.

"I don't know what it all means, sir," answered he, with a
well-counterfeited look of astonishment.

There were a great many pale faces, beating hearts, and quivering lips
in the seats, for it was certain that the daylight had been shining in
upon the dark doings of the Regulators. Who was the traitor? who had
betrayed the secrets of the fraternity? Confusion and trembling
overwhelmed the Regulators.

"Before we proceed any farther," continued the principal, "if there are
any of this secret band present who wish to acknowledge their guilt,
and are willing to be forgiven, they may stand."

The silence was intense and deep. Nevers and Redman did not move a
muscle, but some of the mutineers glanced at each other, and seemed to
be in doubt.

"Now is the only time for confession," added the colonel.

Half a dozen boys rose; then one after another followed their example,
till it seemed as if the whole band intended to absolve themselves from
their vows. Those who rose were ordered to the rear of the room. Only
ten of the band decided to abide the issue. They were called out by
name.

"Here are the rest of the Regulators," said the colonel, when the
obdurate ones had taken their places upon the platform.

Mr. Gault told his story, and Richard told his. The evidence was
complete and overwhelming. Two of the teachers had been concealed in
the shed, and had seen Redman set it on fire, and scatter the pieces of
the exercise book in the vicinity. Another had seen Masters place the
matches in Richard's closet. The colonel, knowing the details of the
plot beforehand, had arranged every thing so as to insure the
conviction of the conspirators.

"Boys," said Colonel Brockridge, "I am happy to inform you that Grant
is entirely innocent."

Those in their seats received this announcement with a storm of
applause.

"I knew he was innocent from the beginning."

Another burst of applause.

The principal detailed with great minuteness the particulars of the
