"Do you think it matters really whether I call her one thing or
another? If it were Mrs. Amos, I should not have the least difficulty.
I could call her sister Amos. What does it matter?"

"Why can't you use a Christian form of address with her as well as with
me?"

"Do you consider it a matter of principle?"

"Only as it regards the feelings of the individual, in either case."
Mr. Rhys's mouth was looking very comical.

"Would she care, Rowland?"

"I should like to have you try," he said, getting up and arranging his
papers to leave. And Eleanor saw he was not going to tell her any more.

"What is the opportunity you spoke of, Rowland?"

"This is our evening for being together--it has hardly been a Class
before this, we were so few; but we met to talk and think together, and
usually considered some given subject. To-night it is, the 'glory to be
revealed.'"

"That is what Mr. Amos and I used to do on board the schooner; and we
had that subject too, just after we left Tonga. So we shall be ready."

"We ought to go there to tea; but I have to go over first to Nawaile;
it will keep me till after tea-time. Do not wait for me, unless you
choose."

Eleanor chose, and told him so. While he was gone she sat at the door
of the house watching and thinking; thinking of him especially, and of
things that his talk that afternoon had brought up. It was a pleasant
hour or two. The sea-breeze fresh from the sea; the waving broad banana
leaves; the sweet perfume of flowers, which were rarely profuse and
beautiful in their garden; the beautiful southern sky of night, with
the stars which Eleanor had learned to know as strangers coming over in
the ship, and now loved as the companions of her new home. Stillness,
and flapping of leaves, and sweet thoughts; until it was time to be
expecting Mr. Rhys back again, and Eleanor made the tea, that he might
at least not miss so much refreshment. She knew his step rods off, and
long before she could see him; his cup was all ready for him when he
stepped in. He drank it, looking at Eleanor over it; would stop for
nothing else, and carried her off.

"I had a happy time," he said as they went through the plantations. "I
have been to see an old man who lies there dying, or very near it. He
has been a Christian two years. He is very glad to see me when I come,
and ready to talk; but he will not talk with his neighbours. He says he
wants to keep his thoughts fixed on God; and if he listened to these
people they would talk to him of village affairs, and turn his mind
off."

"Then, if you had a happy time, I suppose he is happy?"

"He is happy. How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that
bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace! Think of old Caesar,
going to glory from the darkness of Fiji. He said to me to-night--'I am
weak, and I am old; my time is come, but I am not afraid to die;
through Jesus I feel courageous for death. Jesus is my Chief, and I
wish to obey him: if he says I am yet to lie here, I will praise him;
and if he says I am to go above to him, I will praise him. I do not
wish to eat; his word is my food; I think on it, and lean entirely on
Jesus.'--Do you know how good it is to be a missionary, Eleanor?"

They exchanged looks; that was all; they were at the door, and went in.
The party there were expecting and waiting for them, and it was more
than a common welcome, Eleanor saw, that was given to them. She did not
wonder at it. After exchanging warm greetings all round, she sat down;
but Mr. Rhys began walking the floor. The rest were silent. There was a
somewhat dim light from a lamp in the room; the windows and doors were
open; the air, sweet with flowers and fresh from the sea, came in
gently; the soft sounds of leaves and insects could be heard through
the fall of Mr. Rhys's steps upon the matted floor. The hour had a
strange charm to Eleanor.

Silence lasted, until Mr. Rhys interrupted it with kneeling down for
prayer. Then followed one of those prayers, in which it always seemed
to Eleanor as if somebody had taken her hand, who was leading her where
she could almost look in at the gates of that city which Bunyan called
the Celestial. Somewhere above earth it took her, and rapt her up as
Milton's angel is said to have descended, upon a sunbeam. One came to
earth again at the end of the prayer; but not without a remembrance of
where one had been.

"Sister Balliol," said Mr. Rhys, "will you put us in mind concerning
our subject this evening?"

"It is the glory to be revealed; and I find that it is a glory to be
revealed in us," Mrs. Balliol made answer. "Sufferings come first. It
is a glory that goes along with sufferings in the present life; but it
is so much greater than the sufferings, that no comparison can be made
of them. For my part, I do not think the glory would be half so much
glory, if it were not for the sufferings going before."

"To suffer with Christ, and for him, that is glory now," said Mr. Rhys;
"to have been so honoured will always be part of our joy. If any man
suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but rather let him
glorify God on this behalf. Those be tears that Christ's own hand will
wipe off; and what glory will that be!"

"The word of God fails to express it," said Mr. Amos, "and calls it
'riches of glory.' Riches of glory, to be poured into vessels prepared
to receive it. Surely, being such heirs, none of us has a right to call
himself poor? we are heirs of an inheritance incorruptible, and
undefiled, and not subject to decadence or failure. We may well be
content with our penny earnest in this life, who have such an estate
coming in."

"I feel poor very often," said gentle Mrs. Amos; "and I suppose that
must be my own fault; for the word says, 'Riches and honour are with
me; yea, durable riches, and righteousness.'"

"Those are riches that none but the poor come into possession of," said
Mr. Rhys. "The poor in spirit inherit the kingdom, and nobody else. It
is our very emptiness, that fits us for receiving those unsearchable
riches. But having those, sister Amos, it is no deprivation of this
world's good things that would make you feel poor?"

"O no, indeed!" said Mrs. Amos. "I did not mean that sort of poor."

"The rich he will send empty away"--Mr. Rhys went on.

"So in the matter of suffering," said Mr. Balliol taking up the word.
"If we are partakers of Christ's sufferings now, we are told to
rejoice. For when his glory is revealed, the word is, that we shall be
glad also, and with exceeding joy. When his glory is revealed here, a
little, now, we are glad; our joy seems to be exceeding, now, brother
Rhys. I wonder what it will be when God calls it exceeding joy!"

There was a pause; and then Mrs. Amos, for the sake simply of starting
Eleanor, whose voice she knew in it, began softly the song, "Burst, ye
emerald gates!" She had her success, for Eleanor with the others took
up the words, and carried it--Mrs. Amos thought--where Mr. Rhys's
prayer had been. When the song ceased, there was silence; till Mr. Rhys
said, "Eleanor!"--It was her turn to speak.

"I do not believe," she said speaking low and slowly,--"that either
sufferings, or premises, or duties, will bring the hope of glory into
the heart; until Jesus himself brings it there. And if he brings it, it
hardly seems to me that sufferings will enhance it--except in so far as
they lead to greater knowledge of him or are the immediate fruit of
love to him; and then, as Mr. Rhys says, they are honour themselves
already. The riches of the glory of this mystery, is Christ in you,
the hope of glory."

Mr. Rhys was standing at the back of Eleanor's chair, leaning upon it.
He bent his head and whispered to her to tell her story that she had
told him. At that whisper, Eleanor would have steadily gone through the
fire if necessary; this was not quite as hard; and though not for her
own sake caring to do it, she told the story and told it freely and
well. She told it so that every head there was bowed. And then there
was silence again; till Mr. Rhys began, or rather went on with what she
had been saying; in a voice that seemed to come from every heart.

"'Whom having not seen, ye love; in whom, though now ye see him not,
yet believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory.'

"Friends, we have the present honour, of being Christ's ambassadors. Do
