with you."

"Never mind that; we are going to do what's right, and we will not say a
word about the blame. Now come with me," she continued, leading the way
to the cabin.

"I am willing to do anything that is right, wherever the blame falls."

"We must save the vessel, for the mate says she is in great danger.
There is a storm coming, and Mr. Lincoln don't know where we are. Father
hasn't taken an observation for four days."

"Well, are you going to take one?" asked Noddy, who was rather
bewildered by Mollie's statement of the perils of the vessel.

"No; but I intend that father shall to-morrow."

"What are you going to do?"

She opened the pantry door, and took from the shelf a bottle of gin.

"Take this, Noddy, and throw it overboard," said she, handing him the
bottle.

"I'll do that;" and he went to the bull's eye, in Molli's state-room,
and dropped it into the sea.

"That's only a part of the work," said she, as she opened one of the
lockers in the cabin, which was stowed full of liquors.

She passed them out, two at a time, and Noddy dropped them all into the
ocean. Captain McClintock was lying in his state-room, in a helpless
state of intoxication, so that there was no fear of interruption from
him. Every bottle of wine, ale, and liquor which the cabin contained was
thrown overboard. Noddy thought that the sharks, which swallow
everything that falls overboard, would all get "tight;" but he hoped
they would break the bottles before they swallowed them. The work was
done, and everything which could intoxicate was gone; at least
everything which Mollie and the cabin-boy could find. They did not tell
Mr. Lincoln what they had done, for they did not wish to make him a
party to the transaction.

They were satisfied with their work. The vessel would be saved if the
storm held off twelve hours longer. The captain rose early the next
morning, and Noddy, from his berth, saw him go to the pantry for his
morning dram. There was no bottle there. He went to the locker; there
was none there. He searched, without success, in all the lockers and
berths of the cabin. While he was engaged in the search, Mollie, who had
heard him, came out of her room.

The captain's hand shook, and his whole frame trembled from the effects
of his long-inebriation. His nerves were shattered, and nothing but
liquor could quiet them. Mollie could not help crying when she saw to
what a state her father had been reduced. He was pale and haggard; and
when he tried to raise a glass of water to his lips his trembling hand
refused its office, and he spilled it on the floor.

"Where is all the liquor, Mollie?" he asked, in shaken, hollow tones.

"I have thrown it all overboard," she replied, firmly.

He was too weak to be angry with her; and she proceeded to tell him what
must be the fate of the vessel, and of all on board, if he did not
attend to his duty. He listened, and promised not to drink another drop;
for he knew then, even when his shattered reason held but partial sway,
that he would be the murderer of his daughter and of his crew, if the
vessel was wrecked by his neglect. He meant to keep his promise; but the
gnawing appetite, which he had fostered and cherished until it became a
demon, would not let him do so. In the forenoon, goaded by the insatiate
thirst that beset him, he went into the hold, which could be entered
from the cabin, and opened a case of liquors, forming part of the cargo.
He drank long and deep, and lay down upon the merchandise, that he might
be near this demon.

Twelve o'clock came, and no observation could be taken. Mollie looked
for her father, and with Noddy's help she found him in the hold,
senseless in his inebriation. Mr. Lincoln was called down, and he was
conveyed to his berth. The liquor was thrown overboard, but it was too
late; before dark the gale broke upon the Roebuck, and fear and
trembling were again in the vessel.




CHAPTER XVI.

NIGHT AND STORM.


Sudden and severe was the gale which came down upon the Roebuck, while
her captain was besotted and helpless in his berth. Mr. Lincoln did all
that a skilful seaman could do, and while the wind and the waves were
the only perils against which the schooner had to contend, there was no
serious alarm for her safety. The night had come, and the time had
passed by when even Captain McClintock could do anything more than the
mate.

Mr. Lincoln had kept the "dead reckoning" as well as he could without
any knowledge of the currents; and it was evident that the vessel was in
a perilous situation, and not far distant from the region of islands and
coral reefs. The first hours of the stormy night wore gloomily away, for
none knew at what moment the schooner might be dashed to pieces upon
some hidden rock.

When the captain revived a little from the stupor of intoxication, he
seemed not to heed the situation of the vessel. Taking the cabin
lantern, he went into the hold again. His only thought seemed to be of
the liquor on which he lived. All the cases that Mollie and Noddy could
find had been thrown overboard; but the drunkard overhauled the cargo
till he found what he wanted, and taking a bottle of gin to his
state-room, he was soon as senseless as the fiery fluid could make him.

Mollie did all that she could do under these trying circumstances; she
prayed that the good Father who had saved them before, would be with
them now; and she knew that the strong arm of Omnipotence could move far
from them the perils with which they were surrounded. She felt better
every time she prayed. But the storm increased in fury, and she knew not
the purposes of the Infinite in regard to them.

"I am afraid we shall never see the light of another day, Noddy," said
she, as the great seas struck with stunning force against the side of
the vessel.

"Why not? We have been out in a worse gale than this," replied Noddy,
who felt that it was his peculiar office to keep hope alive in the
heart of his gentle companion.

"But we may be in the midst of the rocks and shoals."

"We shall do very well, Mollie. Don't give it up."

"I don't give it up; but I am ready for anything. I want to be resigned
to my fate whenever it comes."

"Don't be so blue about it, Mollie. It will be all right with us in the
morning."

"You heard what Mr. Lincoln said, and you know we are in great danger."

"Perhaps we are."

"You know we are, Noddy."

"Well, we are; but for all that, the vessel will ride out the gale, and
to-morrow you will laugh to think how scared you were."

"I am not scared; I am ready to die. Promise me one thing, Noddy."

"Anything," answered he, promptly.

"You will not blame my father if the vessel is lost. He is insane; he
can't help what he does. He never did so before, and I know he don't
mean to do wrong."

"I suppose he don't, and I won't blame him, whatever happens," replied
he, willing to comfort the poor girl in any way he could.

"I should not care so much if it didn't look as though it was all
father's fault."

