
“You really think he would?” said Dick.

“Oh, yes; and you’ll tell her to carry me back, won’t you?”

“No, he won’t tell me any such thing,” said Peg, gruffly; “and if he
did, I wouldn’t do it; so you might as well give up all thoughts of that
first as last. You’re going to stay here; so take off that bonnet of
yours, and say no more about it.”

Ida made no motion towards obeying this mandate.

“Then I’ll do it for you,” said Peg.

She roughly untied the bonnet, Ida struggling vainly in opposition,
and taking this with the shawl, carried them to a closet, in which she
placed them, and then, locking the door, deliberately put the key in her
pocket.

“There,” said she, “I guess you’re safe for the present.”

“Ain’t you ever going to carry me back?” asked Ida, wishing to know the
worst.

“Some years hence,” said the woman, coolly. “We want you here for the
present. Besides, you’re not sure that they want to see you back again.”

“Not glad to see me?”

“No; how do you know but your father and mother sent you off on purpose?
They’ve been troubled with you long enough, and now they’ve bound you
apprentice to me till you’re eighteen.”

“It’s a lie,” said Ida, firmly. “They didn’t send me off, and you’re a
wicked woman to keep me here.”

“Hoity-toity!” said the woman, pausing and looking menacingly at the
child. “Have you anything more to say before I whip you?”

“Yes,” said Ida, goaded to desperation; “I shall complain of you to the
police, and they will put you in jail, and send me home. That is what I
will do.”

The nurse seized Ida by the arm, and striding with her to the closet
already spoken of, unlocked it, and rudely pushing her in, locked the
door after her.

“She’s a spunky ‘un,” remarked Dick, taking the pipe from his mouth.

“Yes,” said the woman, “she makes more fuss than I thought she would.”

“How did you manage to come it over her family?” asked Dick.

His wife, gave substantially, the same account with which the reader is
already familiar.

“Pretty well done, old woman!” exclaimed Dick, approvingly. “I always
said you was a deep ‘un. I always say if Peg can’t find out a way to do
a thing it can’t be done, no how.”

“How about the counterfeit coin?” asked his wife, abruptly.

“They’re to supply us with all we can get off, and we are to have one
half of all we succeed in passing.”

“That is good,” said the woman, thoughtfully. “When this girl Ida gets a
little tamed down, we’ll give her some business to do.”

“Won’t she betray us if she gets caught?”

“We’ll manage that, or at least I will. I’ll work on her fears so that
she won’t any more dare to say a word about us than to cut her own head
off.”

Ida sank down on the floor of the closet into which she had been thrust.
Utter darkness was around her, and a darkness as black seemed to hang
over all her prospects of future happiness. She had been snatched in
a moment from parents, or those whom she regarded as such, and from a
comfortable and happy though humble home, to this dismal place. In place
of the kindness and indulgence to which she had been accustomed, she
was now treated with harshness and cruelty. What wonder that her heart
desponded, and her tears of childish sorrow flowed freely?



CHAPTER XI. SUSPENSE.



“It doesn’t somehow seem natural,” said Mr. Crump, as he took his seat
at the tea-table, “to sit down without Ida. It seems as if half of the
family were gone.”

“Just what I’ve said twenty times to-day,” remarked his wife. “Nobody
knows how much a child is to them till they lose it.”

“Not lose it, mother,” said Jack, who had been sitting in a silence
unusual for him.

“I didn’t mean to say that,” said Mrs. Crump. “I meant till they were
gone away for a time.”

“When you spoke of losing,” said Jack, “it made me feel just as Ida
wasn’t coming back.”

“I don’t know how it is,” said his mother, thoughtfully, “but that’s
just the feeling I’ve had several times to-day. I’ve felt just as if
something or other would happen so that Ida wouldn’t come back.”

“That is only because she has never been away before,” said the cooper,
cheerfully. “It isn’t best to borrow trouble; we shall have enough of it
without.”

“You never said a truer word, brother,” said Rachel, lugubriously. “‘Man
is born to trouble as the sparks fly upward.’ This world is a vale of
tears. Folks may try and try to be happy, but that isn’t what they’re
sent here for.”

“Now that’s where I differ from you,” said the cooper, good-humoredly,
“just as there are many more pleasant than stormy days, so I believe
that there is much more of brightness than shadow in this life of ours,
if we would only see it.”

“I can’t see it,” said Rachel, shaking her head very decidedly.

“Perhaps you could if you tried.”

“So I do.”

“It seems to me, Rachel, you take more pains to look at the clouds than
the sun.”

“Yes,” chimed in Jack; “I’ve noticed whenever Aunt Rachel takes up the
newspaper, she always looks first at the (sic) death’s, and next at the
fatal accidents and steamboat explosions.”

“It’s said,” said Aunt Rachel, with severe emphasis, “if you should ever
be on board a steamboat when it exploded you wouldn’t find much to laugh
at.”

“Yes, I should,” said Jack. “I should laugh----”

“What!” said Aunt Rachel, horrified.

“On the other side of my mouth,” concluded Jack. “You didn’t wait till I
had got through the sentence.”

“I don’t think it proper to make light of such matters.”

“Nor I, Aunt Rachel,” said Jack, drawing down the corners of his mouth.
“I am willing to confess that this is a serious matter. I should feel as
they said the cow did, that was thrown three hundred feet into the air.”

“How was that?” inquired his mother.

“A little discouraged,” replied Jack.

All laughed except Aunt Rachel, who preserved the same severe composure,
and continued to eat the pie upon her plate with the air of one gulping
down medicine.
