reflections.

“Suppose I should be that person. I should, of course, lose my present
client; but, on the other hand, I might get another, who would prove ten
times as profitable to me. In fact, he could not very well help
rewarding me handsomely, knowing that I had been the means of gaining
him a fortune. Besides, this Ford is a mere infant in matters of
business. Of course he would need somebody to manage his money concerns
for him, or he would be fleeced on every hand. It would only be an act
of common humanity to come to his assistance. Egad!” exclaimed the
lawyer, warming with the thoughts of what might be done should the
scheme succeed; “the thing’s worth trying, and I’ll be——, I mean I’ll
try it.”

Having arrived at this praiseworthy decision, Mr. Sharp tossed the
remains of his cigar into the grate, and carefully adjusting his
invariable white hat, sallied into the street on a tour of observation.

The object of his quest was the residence of his client. A look into the
directory guided him to the residence on Fifth Avenue, which has been
already described. He observed that the shutters were closed, as
befitted a dwelling in which there was sickness. From the sidewalk he
could read the name upon the door-plate. There could be no mistake, for
this name was Rand.

“So far so good,” he thought, and having now obtained all the
information he at present needed, he wended his way back to the office,
and began to meditate what step next to take, when he caught the sound
of a timid knock at his office door.

“Come in!” said Mr. Sharp, wondering if by some very extraordinary freak
of fortune it might be a second client.

The door was opened, and Helen stole timidly in.

She looked very sad and despondent. The length of time which must elapse
before she could at best release her father’s treasured machine, and
furnish him the wonted occupation which had so long engrossed his time
and thoughts, and upon which he founded such high hopes of fame and
fortune, naturally weighed upon her mind. She had come to acquaint Mr.
Sharp with what had happened, rather because such was her father’s
desire than because she entertained any great hopes of his assistance.

“Miss Ford,” exclaimed Mr. Sharp, jumping from his seat and, with a wave
of the hand, politely tendering it to Helen, “This is a most unexpected
pleasure. I am delighted to see you, my dear young lady; pray, sit down,
if you will do such an honor to my humble apartment.”

“I couldn’t stop, sir, thank you,” said Helen. “I came to let you know,
sir, at my father’s desire, that his,—I mean the work he was engaged
upon,—has been seized for debt.”

“Bless my soul!” ejaculated Mr. Sharp, in the greatest apparent
amazement; “how did it happen?”

“What!” exclaimed the lawyer in a tone of virtuous indignation, “is it
possible that Blunt has had the unparalleled effrontery to disturb my
esteemed friend, your father, against my express stipulation? That man
little knows that he has aimed a blow at science and the world’s
progress, and endangered the successful prosecution of the greatest
discovery of modern times. And all for the sake of a little paltry
money!” ejaculated Mr. Sharp, with disdain. “And shall this be
permitted? No, it shall not be! It must not be!”

Here Mr. Sharp brought down his fist energetically upon the table.

“My dear young lady, rest assured that your father shall be righted,
even though—yes, even though it strip me of my entire property.”

It may be remarked that the lawyer’s entire property, which he was ready
to sacrifice so heroically in the service of his friend, made but a
small show on the tax-gatherer’s book.

Nevertheless Helen, who gave him credit for perfect sincerity, began to
think she had judged very harshly of Mr. Sharp, and the delightful hope
that through his means would once more be restored to her father the
employment so necessary to his happiness, filled her with the liveliest
emotions of gratitude.

“O sir,” said she, earnestly, “we will both pray for and bless you.”

“My dear Miss Ford,” said the lawyer, in his emotion brushing away an
imaginary tear, “say no more. Although you will, I know, acquit me of
having had anything to do directly in bringing about your father’s
misfortune, it was, I am painfully conscious, the result of my
entrusting the note to that villain Blunt, who has acted in a manner
unworthy of a gentleman,—in a manner which will compel me to break off
all business relations with him in future; I feel that it is my duty to
do what I can to repair the results of my indiscretion.”

Mr. Sharp rose rapidly in Helen’s estimation. The respect with which he
spoke of her father, and the warmth with which he espoused his
interests, impressed the unsuspecting child most favorably. She began to
wonder how she could ever have thought of him otherwise than as a
friend. She even felt a degree of compunction and self-reproach for
having harbored suspicions of so excellent a man.

“You can return home quite at ease, my dear Miss Ford,” resumed Mr.
Sharp. “Within two hours at most I will take care that your father’s
property shall be restored to him.”

“Will you, sir?” said Helen, her eyes lighting up with gratitude. “Oh, I
shall feel so relieved. We shall be very much indebted to you.”

“Do not thank me, my dear Miss Ford. I feel that I am, in some respects,
unsuited to my profession. A lawyer should be made of sterner stuff. I
rejoice that your father should have sent to me immediately. It is a
proof of his confidence, which I value. He will always find in me a true
friend, and I trust he will not fail to call upon me for assistance
whenever any trouble shall befall him. Your father, my dear Miss Ford,
is a man of genius; but, as you perhaps have observed, is not so well
versed in the ways of the world as those who possess not a tithe of his
inventive talent and intellectual ability.”

Helen was quite ready to acknowledge a deficiency which no one knew
better than herself.

“Mind, my dear young lady,” continued Mr. Sharp, “I do not speak of this
as in any way derogatory to your father or at all detracting from his
scientific eminence. I would not have him other than he is. No one can
be great in all things, as Cicero so eloquently observes. What if your
father is a little deficient in worldly sagacity? Was not this the case
with all who have distinguished themselves in the higher departments of
science and literature? Why, the great Sir Isaac Newton himself was
noted for his absence of mind, and some very curious stories are told of
this trait. Milton, too, knew so little how to drive a bargain, that he
actually sold his great poem for five pounds. So I consider your
father’s want of practical talent one of the most convincing proofs of
his superior mental endowments.”

Whatever may be thought of Mr. Sharp’s reasoning, it was enough for
Helen that he spoke in praise of her father, whom she revered. No praise
of herself could so effectually have won her entire confidence. With
light heart she left the lawyer’s office, and hastened home to impart to
her father the glad tidings.

“I have crossed the Rubicon,” said Mr. Sharp, thoughtfully. “I must now
arrange the details of my coup d’etat.”




                             CHAPTER XXVI.
                            A SHORT CHAPTER.


Mr. Sharp had now taken the first step towards betraying his client, and
was determined not to turn back. Having so far committed himself, he
felt that policy dictated expedition. Should Mr. Rand suddenly die
before he could bring about an interview between him and Mr. Ford, all
would be lost. That interview must take place with the least possible
delay.

Mr. Sharp, accordingly, set out at once for Mr. Ford’s dwelling.

A moderate walk brought him to the modest lodging of the inventor.

He paused a moment to compose his face to the proper expression of
sympathetic regret, and then entering, grasped the hand of Mr. Ford.

