
"I told you I should do my duty; and I shall, to the end. If you will
return, all right; if not, I shall take you back."

"No, you won't."

"I think I will," added the third lieutenant, quietly. "Stand by to give
way!" he continued, to the coxswain.

"Two can play at that game," said Wilton, as he gave the same order to
his crew.

"Give way!" shouted the coxswain of the first cutter, with energy.

"Give way!" repeated Wilton, in the barge.

The rope straightened, Shuffles stood up in the stern-sheets of the
cutter, to prevent the line from being cast off, and the contest began,
to ascertain which should drag the other. It was rather ludicrous, in
spite of the serious question of discipline involved in the affair, and
the boys in the cutter were intensely amused, as well as excited. Both
crews struggled with all their might, and each leader urged his
followers to renewed exertions.

The discipline of the first cutter was on the point of carrying the
contest in favor of law and order, when Monroe, seeing that his friend
was nearly worsted, backed the third cutter up to the bow of the barge,
and took her painter on board, which he made fast at the stern. Resuming
his oar, he ordered his crew to give way together. Then law and order
appealed to be at a discount, for the eight oarsmen in the first cutter
were not a match, even in the cause of discipline, against the fourteen
in the barge and third cutter.

Shuffles did not give it up, notwithstanding the great odds against
him. Letting out the stern line far enough to allow space for a new
manoeuvre, he directed the starboard oarsmen to lay on their oars, while
those on the port side pulled the boat round. Then all gave way
together, and the barge was dragged round sideways, until her oars
fouled with those of Monroe's boat. At this stage of the exciting
proceedings the second cutter came up with the principal.

Mr. Fluxion sat in the stern-sheets, shaking his sides with laughter at
the singular contest which was going on; but Mr. Lowington, though
evidently amused, maintained his gravity, and was as dignified as usual.
The appearance of the principal ended the struggle. A glance from him
was quite sufficient to take all the stiffening out of the runaways, and
even Wilton, though he talked valiantly behind Mr. Lowington's back, and
neglected even to give him the simple title of "mister," had not the
courage to resist the strong arm of his authority. As the second cutter
backed up to the barge, the principal stepped on board of her, and took
a seat in the stern-sheets.

"Young gentlemen, you will return to the ship," said Mr. Lowington,
sternly, as he took the tiller-ropes in his hands. "Give way!"

The malcontents had no thought of further resistance. The presence of
the principal was sufficient to overcome all insubordination; they did
not dare to disobey him. Mechanically they bent to their oars, and
without a word pulled back to the ship.

Mr. Fluxion, by direction of Mr. Lowington, had taken his place in
Monroe's boat, and followed the barge, the two cutters bringing up the
rear. This was the first instance of flagrant insubordination which had
occurred since the organization of the ship's company, and the students
were not a little anxious to learn how it would be treated. It was
singular that Shuffles, who on shore had always been the ringleader in
enterprises of mischief, had been the means of defeating the scheme of
the runaways.

The boats were hoisted up at the davits, and the boatswain was ordered
to pipe all hands on deck. The principal looked calm, but stern, as he
took the position on the hatch which he usually occupied when he
addressed the students.

"Wilton and Monroe," said he.

The culprits came forward, hanging their heads with shame.

"I learn that you are the ringleaders in this movement. Is it so?"

"I suppose we are," replied Wilton.

"Who proposed the plan?"

"Wilton first spoke to me about it," answered Monroe.

"And you induced the others to join you?"

"Yes, sir."

"As the ringleaders, Wilton and Monroe will lose twenty marks each, and
remain in their mess rooms to-morrow. The other twelve lose ten marks
each," continued Mr. Lowington. "Young gentlemen, those who have engaged
in this scheme are not to be trusted. I have nothing further to say."

The crew were dismissed, and all the students were disposed to laugh at
the mildness of the punishment, compared with the enormity of the
offence.

"Mr. Shuffles," said the principal, as he stepped down from the hatch,
"I am very much obliged to you for the zeal and energy which you have
exhibited in the discharge of your duty. Not only was your disposition
to do your duty highly commendable, but your plans displayed skill and
forethought."

"Thank you, sir," replied the third lieutenant; "I am very glad to have
pleased you."

Mr. Lowington bowed, and descended to the cabin to finish his supper,
which had been interrupted by the event described. What the professors
said about the affair was not known to the boys; but Shuffles was warmly
praised for the moderate but skilful measures he had used in the capture
of the rebels.

At sundown, a shore boat came alongside with an abundant supply of
fireworks, which had been ordered by Mr. Lowington. They were hoisted on
board, and deposited in a safe place. At the usual hour, the boys turned
in to dream of the good time which these squibs and crackers suggested
to them--all but Monroe and Wilton, who had something else to think
about. The latter was disappointed and surly, while the former
congratulated himself upon getting out of the scrape so easily. Wilton
was very angry with Shuffles, who might have permitted him to land, if
he had been so disposed; and he determined to take what he considered an
ample vengeance upon the traitor. As soon as he had an opportunity to
speak to Mr. Lowington, he intended to tell him all about the plan for a
mutiny, and he was fully satisfied that Shuffles would be sent in
disgrace from his pleasant position in the after cabin, to take up his
abode in the steerage again.

On the morning of the ever-glorious Fourth, all hands were mustered on
the deck of the Young America at four o'clock. Crackers were served out,
and for two hours there was a tremendous racket from stern to stern,
among the younger boys. At six o'clock, the port watch were piped to
breakfast, and all the crackers having been burned, the decks were
swept, and everything put in perfect order, by the starboard watch. A
band of music, engaged for the day, came off, and the enlivening strains
of the national airs sounded through the ship.

At seven o'clock, when all hands had breakfasted, an hour earlier than
usual, the crew were piped to muster, wondering, as they always did,
what was going to be done.

"All hands, up anchor ahoy!" shouted the boatswain prompted by the first
lieutenant; but this order was so common in the every-day practice of
the crew, that no one supposed it had any unusual significance; and some
of the boys even began to grumble at being compelled to go through the
routine of ship's work on the Fourth of July.

"Bring to on the cable, and unbitt!" continued the officer in command.
"Ship the capstan bars, and swifter them! Heave in the cable to a short
stay!"

These orders were duly executed, under the direction of the various
officers at their stations.

"Avast heaving!" called the first master. "Anchor apeak, sir," he
reported to the first lieutenant.

"Pawl the capstan, stopper the cable, and unship the bars!" added the
executive officers, all of which was done, and duly reported.
