trapper, as Ethan was taking aim. "There ain't no more 'n six on 'em in
the water, and we kin afford to wait till they git a little nearer. We
kin fire shots enough to kill the whole on 'em without loadin' up."

"Who be they?" asked Ethan, trying to be as cool as the hardy trapper.

"I dunno."

"Be they Lean B'ar's men?"

"I reckon they ain't."

"I was afeerd the redskins that kim down to keep us safe had turned
agin us."

"I reckon they hain't. They'd be afeerd we'd shoot the boy."

The half dozen savages in the water were wading across the river
towards the bateau, evidently in the belief that the party had deserted
her. They continued to hoot and yell, while they advanced, as though
they intended to storm a garrisoned fortress, instead of capturing a
deserted bateau.

"I reckon thet'll do now," said Rattleshag, as he raised his long rifle
to his shoulder, and aimed at one of the savages. "Don't you fire,
Ethan, till I've done."

He discharged his piece, and fully sustained his reputation as a dead
shot, for the foremost of the Indians dropped, and was carried down the
stream by the current.




CHAPTER XX.

CONCLUSION.


"Don't you fire, Ethan," repeated the trapper, as the enthusiastic boy
raised his gun. "No need o' killin' no more on 'em."

The remaining Indians in the water had discovered their mistake, and
were making towards the opposite shore with all possible haste. They
had not expected such a reception, and appeared to be glad to escape
with no greater loss.

"Ho, ho, ho!" shouted other Indians on the shore.

"We are gittin' into a bad scrape," said Ethan, dissatisfied because
Rattleshag had prevented him from firing at the savages. "There's more
'n a million on 'em over thar."

"Them's Lean B'ar's Injins that's yellin'. Don't you see 'em? They was
nigh enough to hear the shootin' and the yellin', and they've kim back
to keep them redskins from hurtin' on us--don't you see?" added
Rattleshag, pointing over at the three mounted savages who had just
dashed up to the bank on the other side of the stream.

"So they be; and hyer kims the rest on 'em."

At this instant the other three of the escort galloped wildly over the
prairie, and before the voyagers could reach the boat the Indians
intercepted them. Like those on the other side, they uttered wild
yells, and seemed to be as much excited as though they had been
actually engaged in battle.

The exiles had not intended to hold any communication with their
escort, dreading the treacherous nature of the savages; and when the
three Indians approached, Ethan promptly placed himself in a defensive
attitude. Though the escort continued to yell, they did not offer to
attack the voyagers. They stopped on the bank of the river, where the
bateau lay. One of them dismounted, and leaped into the boat. With his
scalping-knife he cut the bonds of Wahena, and taking the boy in his
arms, bounded to the shore again.

Ethan's heart sank within him, when he saw that the captive, upon whose
presence he had relied for the safety of the party, was wrested from
them. Rushing forward with his rifle, he took aim at Wahena,
disregarding the earnest remonstrances of Rattleshag.

"No shoot! no shoot!" exclaimed one of the savages--the one who had
before acted as Lean Bear's messenger. "No kill, no hurt."

"Don't fire," pleaded Fanny. "If you should kill Wahena, they would
butcher us all."

The Indian boy saw her as she stepped forward, and immediately began to
talk in the most earnest manner to the savage who held him.

"No hurt!" shouted the spokesman of the Indians. "You go--no kill; no
kill, no hurt."

Wahena, after struggling for some time with the brawny savage who held
him, escaped from his grasp, and, to the surprise of the voyagers,
rushed over to the spot where Fanny stood. Seizing her hand, he shook
it warmly, and then began a series of violent gesticulations, which
were at first unintelligible. He dropped on his knees, clasped his
hands, looked up to the sky, and then beat his breast. He pointed to
the boat, intimating by his signs that she was to go on board. She
obeyed, and was followed by Ethan and the trapper. The party stepped on
board, and to the astonishment of all, Wahena followed them, and took
the seat he had occupied during the voyage.

Ethan and Rattleshag pushed off, and when the bateau began to move down
the river, Wahena shouted to the Indians, and pointed down the river,
indicating that they were to follow, as they had done before. The
Indian boy's signs on shore were now interpreted to be an expression of
his gratitude to Fanny for her kindness to him, and a prayer to the
Great Spirit for her safety.

If the party in the boat were surprised at the singular conduct of
Wahena, the Indians on shore were still more astonished; but he spoke a
language which they could understand, and they sullenly resumed their
march down the river.

The captive was now treated as a friend. Though he could not have known
what the contract between his father and the voyagers had been, except
so far as he had learned it from the subsequent events, he had
voluntarily surrendered himself, and insisted upon seeing Fanny
conveyed to a place of safety. Almost every day while they had been on
the island, she had sung her sweet songs to Wahena, and he had listened
to them with rapt attention. As the boat slowly went its way, he begged
her by signs to sing, and she complied. He expressed his pleasure,
which was shared by Ethan and Rattleshag, by the most eloquent signs.

During the day, Ethan and Rattleshag slept, while Fanny steered the
boat. Wahena, no longer in bonds, kept close to her. He intimated in
his dumb language that he wanted to take the helm, and gently took the
tiller from her. He was soon proficient in steering, for there was now
nothing to do but keep the boat in the middle of the river, and
occasionally to trim the sail.

At night Fanny and Wahena went to sleep again, and the management of
the boat was divided between Ethan and the trapper. The next morning
the bateau had entered the Big Woods, and the sail was nearly useless,
for the forest obstructed the wind, and the voyagers were mainly
dependent upon the current of the river for the little progress they
made; but on the afternoon of the third day of the journey, they came
in sight of a town, which Rattleshag said was not more than twelve
miles from Mankato. The Indian escort then hailed the boat.

"No go more," said the spokesman.

"I reckon 'twon't be safe for 'em to go any further," added Rattleshag.

Fanny ran the boat up to the shore, and Ethan, always dreading the
treachery of the savages, kept his gun and revolver in readiness for
immediate use. The time had come for Wahena to take leave of the party.
He was profoundly affected at the thought of bidding adieu to Fanny; he
did not appear to like Ethan or the trapper. He pressed her hand,
looked very sad, and made his demonstrative gestures. She kissed him on
the cheek, pointed up to the sky, and laid her hands upon his head. If
she could have spoken to him, she would have expressed the wish that he
would abandon the savage life of his people, and become a true man; and
she would have been glad to teach him the religion of the Saviour, now
so dear to her, and to show him how to hope and have.

Wahena turned slowly and sadly away from her, and walked to the Indians
who were waiting for him. A stout fellow lifted him on the horse in
