always come from him.”

“He is better, I hope?” asked both sisters with real sympathy, making
their young faces womanly and sweet.

“Yes, and has hopes of entire recovery. At least, they tell him so,
though Dr. Ashley said there was no chance of it.”

“Dear, dear, how sad! Shall we see him, Tavia?”

“Certainly; he is able to be with us now in the evening, and enjoys
society as much as ever. But please take no notice of his infirmity, and
make no inquiries beyond the usual ‘How do you do.’ He is sensitive, and
hates to be considered an invalid more than ever.”

“How charming it must be to take care of him, he is so accomplished and
delightful. I quite envy you,” said Blanche pensively.

“Sir Jasper told us that the General and Mrs. Snowdon were coming. I
hope they will, for I’ve a most intense curiosity to see her--”
 began Rose.

“Hush, she is here with Mamma! Why curious? What is the mystery? For you
look as if there was one,” questioned Octavia under her breath.

The three charming heads bent toward one another as Rose replied in a
whisper, “If I knew, I shouldn’t be inquisitive. There was a rumor that
she married the old general in a fit of pique, and now repents. I asked
Mamma once, but she said such matters were not for young girls to hear,
and not a word more would she say. N’importe, I have wits of my
own, and I can satisfy myself. The gentlemen are coming! Am I all right,
dear?” And the three glanced at one another with a swift scrutiny that
nothing could escape, then grouped themselves prettily, and waited, with
a little flutter of expectation in each young heart.

In came the gentlemen, and instantly a new atmosphere seemed to pervade
the drawing room, for with the first words uttered, several romances
began. Sir Jasper was taken possession of by Rose, Blanche intended to
devote herself to Maurice Treherne, but Annon intercepted her, and
Octavia was spared any effort at politeness by this unexpected move on
the part of her lover.

“He is angry, and wishes to pique me by devoting himself to Blanche. I
wish he would, with all my heart, and leave me in peace. Poor Maurice,
he expects me, and I long to go to him, but must obey Mamma.” And
Octavia went to join the group formed by my lady, Mrs. Snowdon, the
general, and the major.

The two young couples flirted in different parts of the room, and
Treherne sat alone, watching them all with eyes that pierced below the
surface, reading the hidden wishes, hopes, and fears that ruled them. A
singular expression sat on his face as he turned from Octavia’s clear
countenance to Mrs. Snowdon’s gloomy one. He leaned his head upon his
hand and fell into deep thought, for he was passing through one of those
fateful moments which come to us all, and which may make or mar a life.
Such moments come when least looked for: an unexpected meeting, a
peculiar mood, some trivial circumstance, or careless word produces it,
and often it is gone before we realize its presence, leaving
aftereffects to show us what we have gained or lost. Treherne was
conscious that the present hour, and the acts that filled it, possessed
unusual interest, and would exert an unusual influence on his life.
Before him was the good and evil genius of his nature in the guise of
those two women. Edith Snowdon had already tried her power, and accident
only had saved him. Octavia, all unconscious as she was, never failed to
rouse and stimulate the noblest attributes of mind and heart. A year
spent in her society had done much for him, and he loved her with a
strange mingling of passion, reverence, and gratitude. He knew why Edith
Snowdon came, he felt that the old fascination had not lost its charm,
and though fear was unknown to him, he was ill pleased at the sight of
the beautiful, dangerous woman. On the other hand, he saw that Lady
Treherne desired her daughter to shun him and smile on Annon; he
acknowledged that he had no right to win the young creature, crippled
and poor as he was, and a pang of jealous pain wrung his heart as he
watched her.

Then a sense of power came to him, for helpless, poor, and seemingly an
object of pity, he yet felt that he held the honor, peace, and happiness
of nearly every person present in his hands. It was a strong temptation
to this man, so full of repressed passion and power, so set apart and
shut out from the more stirring duties and pleasures of life. A few
words from his lips, and the pity all felt for him would be turned to
fear, respect, and admiration. Why not utter them, and enjoy all that
was possible? He owed the Trehernes nothing; why suffer injustice,
dependence, and the compassion that wounds a proud man deepest? Wealth,
love, pleasure might be his with a breath. Why not secure them now?

His pale face flushed, his eye kindled, and his thin hand lay clenched
like a vise as these thoughts passed rapidly through his mind. A look, a
word at that moment would sway him; he felt it, and leaned forward,
waiting in secret suspense for the glance, the speech which should
decide him for good or ill. Who shall say what subtle instinct caused
Octavia to turn and smile at him with a wistful, friendly look that
warmed his heart? He met it with an answering glance, which thrilled her
strangely, for love, gratitude, and some mysterious intelligence met and
mingled in the brilliant yet soft expression which swiftly shone and
faded in her face. What it was she could not tell; she only felt that it
filled her with an indescribable emotion never experienced before. In an
instant it all passed, Lady Treherne spoke to her, and Blanche Talbot
addressed Maurice, wondering, as she did so, if the enchanting smile he
wore was meant for her.

“Mr. Annon having mercifully set me free, I came to try to cheer your
solitude; but you look as if solitude made you happier than society does
the rest of us,” she said without her usual affectation, for his manner
impressed her.

“You are very kind and very welcome. I do find pleasures to beguile my
loneliness, which gayer people would not enjoy, and it is well that I
can, else I should turn morose and tyrannical, and doom some unfortunate
to entertain me all day long.” He answered with a gentle courtesy which
was his chief attraction to womankind.

“Pray tell me some of your devices, I’m often alone in spirit, if not so
in the flesh, for Rose, though a dear girl, is not congenial, and I find
no kindred soul.”

A humorous glimmer came to Treherne’s eyes, as the sentimental damsel
beamed a soft sigh and drooped her long lashes effectively. Ignoring the
topic of “kindred souls,” he answered coldly, “My favorite amusement is
studying the people around me. It may be rude, but tied to my corner, I
cannot help watching the figures around me, and discovering their little
plots and plans. I’m getting very expert, and really surprise myself
sometimes by the depth of my researches.”

“I can believe it; your eyes look as if they possessed that gift.
Pray don’t study me.” And the girl shrank away with an air of
genuine alarm.

Treherne smiled involuntarily, for he had read the secret of that
shallow heart long ago, and was too generous to use the knowledge,
however flattering it might be to him. In a reassuring tone he said,
turning away the keen eyes she feared, “I give you my word I never will,
charming as it might be to study the white pages of a maidenly heart. I
find plenty of others to read, so rest tranquil, Miss Blanche.”

“Who interests you most just now?” asked the girl, coloring with
pleasure at his words. “Mrs. Snowdon looks like one who has a romance to
be read, if you have the skill.”

“I have read it. My lady is my study just now. I thought I knew her
well, but of late she puzzles me. Human minds are more full of
mysteries than any written book and more changeable than the cloud
shapes in the air.”

“A fine old lady, but I fear her so intensely I should never dare to try
to read her, as you say.” Blanche looked toward the object of discussion
as she spoke, and added, “Poor Tavia, how forlorn she seems. Let me ask
her to join us, may I?”

“With all my heart” was the quick reply.

Blanche glided away but did not return, for my lady kept her as well as
her daughter.

“That test satisfies me; well, I submit for a time, but I think I can
conquer my aunt yet.” And with a patient sigh Treherne turned to observe
Mrs. Snowdon.

She now stood by the fire talking with Sir Jasper, a handsome, reckless,
generous-hearted young gentleman, who very plainly showed his great
