deserve," replied Mr. Parasyte, wiping his brow, as he was wont to do
when excited.

"My son is one of them," added Mr. Hale, with a smile.

"Not one of the ringleaders, sir--by no means. Thornton, Rush, and
Vallington are the leaders in this enterprise."

"No more than myself, father. I have done as much as they have, and I
am willing to bear my share of the blame," said Bob.

The boys clapped their hands at this interposition. Bob was not a
fellow to shirk when the time of settlement came.

"My boy behaves like a man, and I honor him for that," replied Mr.
Hale, proudly; "but he shall be punished if the others are. Mr.
Parasyte, things seem to be at rather loose ends in the Institute just
now."

"Yes, sir; I am sorry to say they are. One bad boy can stir up a
whirlwind of mischief," answered Mr. Parasyte, looking at me.

"These boys seem to be pretty well agreed in this matter."

"But this trouble has all been made by one boy--and that one is Ernest
Thornton. I expelled him once; but out of regard for his uncle, to
whom I am under great obligations, I reversed my sentence, and
endeavored to reduce him to proper subjection."

"Have you seen this paper, Mr. Parasyte?" continued the visitor,
handing him the circular. "It seems to be signed by nearly all the
students in the Institute."

Mr. Parasyte took the printed document, and proceeded to read it. When
he had gone far enough to comprehend the nature of the paper, he
turned red; and when he came to the long array of signatures, he
became very pale.

"May I inquire the object of this paper?" demanded the principal, with
quivering lips.

"I'm sure I don't know. I never saw or heard of it till I entered
this room," replied Mr. Hale "I see that it is addressed to the
parents of the students."

"I need not say that the statements contained in this circular are,
without a single exception, infamous falsehoods and slanders. I think
you know me well enough, Mr. Hale, to understand that justice and
fairness have always characterized my dealings with my pupils."

Mr. Hale did not so understand it. He knew that the reverse of this
statement was the truth. Mr. Parasyte then insisted on relating the
facts connected with the "breaking away." He told the story of my
misconduct, as he termed it, and embellished it with sundry flourishes
about his own impartiality and magnanimity. He said that after it had
been fairly proved that I had assaulted my schoolmate, in
consideration of my previous good conduct, he had only required that I
should apologize in private to the one I had injured. Forbearance
could extend no farther than this; but I had even refused to make this
slight reparation for the offence I had committed. Then I had openly
disobeyed and insulted him in the presence of the whole school.

"Of course, after this," continued Mr. Parasyte, "I could do nothing
more for him. My gentleness was not appreciated; my leniency was
despised. My mistake was in treating him too kindly--in not resorting
to the strong arm in the beginning. Then, as I might have expected of
such an obdurate boy, I was subjected to a personal assault."

"But all the boys seemed to be on his side," said the matter-of-fact
Mr. Hale.

"Very true. Thornton keeps a boat, and almost any boy may be bought or
sold with a boat. He has sailed them on the lake, and won them by his
arts."

"Isn't it possible that there was some mistake in the matter of the
quarrel between Thornton and Poodles?"

"It is quite impossible that there should have been any mistake,"
replied Mr. Parasyte, with a look of injured innocence. "I
investigated the matter very carefully and impartially."

"I should really like to hear what the boys have to say about it,"
added Mr. Hale.

"It would be useless for you to talk with them, and it would be an
insult to me for you to do so. Do you doubt my word, Mr. Hale? Do you
think I have not told you the truth?" said the principal, rather
warmly.

"But there may be some mistake."

"I have said that it was quite impossible there should be any
mistake."

"Have you any objections to my asking the boys a few questions, Mr.
Parasyte?"

"Certainly I have. I am not willing to be arraigned and tried before
my own school."

"O, very well!" exclaimed Mr. Hale, nodding his head significantly;
and without saying anything more, he left the school-room.

The students felt that they had a friend in Mr. Hale, and even did not
fear a prosecution for running away with the steamer. We judged that
the captain of the Adieno would have to bear all the blame of that
occurrence.

"What are these circulars for?" demanded Mr. Parasyte, when the
visitor had departed. "Vallington, as the ringleader in this
conspiracy, I call upon you for an answer."

"Those whose names are signed to the paper intend to send them to
their parents."

"They do--do they?" exclaimed the principal, with compressed lips.
"Are you aware that published slanders of this kind subject those who
utter them to a severe penalty?"

"We can prove all we assert, and should be glad of an opportunity to
do so," replied Vallington, firmly.

"There is not a word of truth in the paper," added Mr. Parasyte,
wiping his brow.

He walked up and down the platform two or three times in silence. With
him the case was desperate. He knew not what to do. He had learned
that the students would not be browbeaten or bullied.

"Scholars," said he, at last, "I think we are all too much fatigued
and excited to consider this difficult problem this afternoon. In
spite of the ill treatment I have received at your hands, I am still
your friend, as I have always been. By and by you will see that you
have done wrong. To-morrow morning, if you will meet at the usual
hour in the school-room, I shall have a proposition to make, which I
am confident will restore peace to the Parkville Liberal Institute.
You are dismissed now, for the day."

Mr. Parasyte left the hall, and we held a meeting there on our own
account. If the principal did not know what to do, we were no better
off, and we finally separated without any fixed plans. We agreed to
meet in the school-room in the morning, though we all doubted whether
Mr. Parasyte would have any proposition to submit. The students
decided not to send the circulars to their parents until the next day.

We wanted advice, and our hope was with Mr. Hale. At Vallington's
suggestion, half a dozen of us were appointed a committee to wait upon
him. He had expressed a desire to hear "the other side" of the case.
We went to Mr. Hale's house, and found there Mr. Hardy, the assistant
teacher, who had been discharged. We told our story, and related the
facts as they occurred. Mr. Hardy said nothing in our presence, and we
left him with Mr. Hale, who, we afterwards learned, had sent for him.

Bob invited me to spend the night with him, and having no home now, I
was glad to accept. After supper, I was called into the library, and
questioned at great length by Mr. Hale and Mr. Hardy in regard to the
affairs of the Institute. While we were thus engaged, Bob was sent to
deliver several notes to prominent and wealthy men in the place. At
seven o'clock there were not less than half a dozen of the "heavy men"
