transferring the battle-ground to the open air, for Tom's legs were
longer than mine, though probably he had not practised running so much
as I had. Taking the path near the bank of the lake, I ran with all my
speed, till I came to the brook which flowed round the hill in the rear
of the cottage and discharged itself into the lake. For some distance
above the outlet the stream was from ten to fifteen feet wide. There was
a rude foot-bridge, consisting of a single wide plank, across it, for my
uncle's domain extended a short distance beyond it.

I crossed this bridge. Tom was only a few rods behind me, and a
brilliant strategic idea flashed into my mind as I stepped upon the
plank. As it is considered good policy for a retreating army to destroy
the bridges behind it, I adopted the suggestion, and as soon as I had
reached the other side of the brook, I lifted the end of the plank, and
pulled it over after me. Tom rushed up to the other side just as I had
completed the job. The stream was a good ten feet wide, and its banks
were rather soft and slippery.

From the movements he made, I thought, at first, that he intended to
leap over the brook; and I placed myself in such a position as to insure
his falling into the water, if he attempted such a piece of gymnastics.
Tom wore nice clothes, and he did not run the risk of soiling them by a
possible accident. He paused on the brink of the stream, and feared to
cross the Rubicon.

"How are you, Tom Thornton?" I exclaimed, after he had looked about him
for the means of bettering his situation, and of continuing the chase.

The exertions he had made to catch me had evidently cooled him off in
some measure. He was out of breath, and was apparently becoming
"demoralized." He looked at me, and scowled most unamiably.

"Follow the brook up to the road, and you can get across there," I
added, as he again looked about him for the means of overcoming his
difficulty.

"None of your impudence, you puppy!" replied he; but his invective was
tame compared with what it had been.

"If I am a puppy, Tom Thornton, perhaps you would like my bark to cross
the brook with," I answered.

"The time to settle up all this business will soon come," said he,
shaking his head.

"Mr. Tom Thornton, if you think you can scare me with any bugbears, you
are mistaken. I know you better than you think I do."

"What do you know?" demanded he, surprised out of his malignity by my
remark.

"What I know I keep to myself. When you go back to Mrs. Loraine, I wish
you would tell her from me that it won't sound well when it is told she
kept that poor girl shut up in her room for a week or ten days, with the
blinds nailed so that she could not open them, just because she took
long stitches, or trod on a flower. If I were in your place I shouldn't
like to marry a woman like that."

Tom looked uneasy, and played with his watch chain. I thought he wanted
to say something conciliatory; that he desired to extend to me the olive
branch of peace, the better to get me into his power. I was quite
willing to listen to any overtures of this kind, for I wanted to return
to the cottage, obtain the will and the money, and then bid a final
adieu to Parkville until I had solved the problem of my existence. I was
fearfully anxious lest my uncle should discover the loss of the
valuable document I had taken, and it should be found where I had
concealed it.

"Ernest, you are getting yourself into trouble," said Tom, after a
while, in milder tones than he had yet used.

"For which, no doubt, you are very sorry," I added.

"I'm sure I don't want to quarrel with you."

"You have been very mild and gentle to me."

"Well, I was mad, Ernest," said he, with something like a smile. "If you
will tell me where my horse is, we will call it all square."

"I told uncle Amos where he is. I left him down in Welch's Lane."

"Where is that?"

"Your father knows where it is. His horse is harnessed, and he will
drive you down there," I replied, hoping they would adopt my plan, and
thus enable me to enter my chamber and reclaim the valuables I had left
there.

"Very well; I will do so. I will help you put the plank across the brook
before I go," he replied.

"No, I thank you. I can put it across myself when I get ready to do so,"
I answered, cautiously.

"What are you afraid of?"

"I'm not afraid of anything; but I'm not going to put my head in the
wildcat's mouth."

"I won't touch you."

"I don't intend you shall. Go and get your horse, and I will take care
of myself."

"Well, I will."

He turned, and walked up the path towards the cottage. Of course I had
no faith in his word, and I determined to keep at a respectful distance
from him. When he had disappeared in the grove beyond the brook, I
raised the plank on one end, and then dropped it across the stream,
restoring the bridge to its original position. I crossed the brook, and
walked towards the house. When I came in sight of it, the buggy was
leaving the yard. I concluded Tom and his father had really adopted my
suggestion, and were going to Welch's Lane for the horse and chaise. But
I was too wary to advance without reconnoitring the ground.

"Your breakfast is all ready, Ernest," said old Betsey, the housekeeper,
as I approached the back door.

"Where are my uncle and the gentleman?" I asked.

"They told me they were going down to Parkville, and I need not wait
breakfast for them."

I went into the dining-room and sat down at the table, as much for the
purpose of getting something for Kate as to eat myself. I was scarcely
seated, when I was thrown over backwards, chair and all, and found
myself lying on the floor, held down by Tom Thornton.




CHAPTER X.

IN WHICH ERNEST STRIKES A HEAVY BLOW FOR LIBERTY.


"DEAR me! Good gracious! Why!" screamed Betsey, when Tom Thornton threw
me upon the floor. "I thought you'd gone off with Mr. Thornton. What in
the world are you going to do? Let the poor boy alone!"

Betsey did not think I was having fair play, and old and stiff as she
was, she rushed up to Tom, apparently with the intention of interfering.

"Out of the way, old woman!" growled Tom. "Go and get me a rope."

"A rope! I won't get you any rope! And if you don't let the poor boy
alone, I'll go out and call the neighbors," replied Betsey, bustling
about the room as though she intended to do some desperate thing.

For my own part, I felt that it would be useless for me to resist. Tom
was strong, and I was wholly in his power--taken by surprise, and at a
disadvantage which I could not overcome. I lay still, therefore, and
thus saved some hard knocks.

"What are you going to do with the poor boy? He shan't be treated so!"
persisted Betsey, who had not talked so much before for ten years.

"Be still, old woman! He's a bad boy. He stole my horse, and ran away
