the boles of the trees and under their hanging branches I
could see the glittering waters of the lake and a bit of its
distant shore. I did not go into a brown study, however, not
wishing to give occasion to Mr. De Saussure's good offices. I
thought he had quite enough enjoyed his charge during the
business before luncheon. To my disappointment, after the meal
papa declared himself tired and went to lie down.

"We have forgotten our agreement," said Mr. De Saussure. "At
luncheon, we were all to tell, Mrs. Randolph, what we think
the worthiest thing to live for."

"Were we?" said mamma. "That sounds like one of Daisy's
problems."

"It is not hers, however," he rejoined; "any further than that
I am mainly curious to know what she will say about it."

"You ought to be equally anxious about my opinion, it seems to
me," mamma said.

"Do I not know it already? Pour la patrie, - does anything go
before that in your mind? Honestly, Mrs. Randolph, - is it not
in your opinion the worthiest thing anybody can do, to fight,
or to die - still better, - for the independence of the
South?"

"You do not think so," said mamma, "or you would be there."

"I am selfish, and have selfish hopes and fears. But you think
so?"

"Let us hear what you consider the worthiest object of life,"
said mamma.

"It is not my turn. Miss Randolph, your mother has spoken -
the next honour belongs to you."

"The worthiest object of life?" I said. "Is that the
question?"

"It will not be a question, when you have answered it," De
Saussure said gallantly.

"You will not like my answer," I said. "I should think it
would be, To please God."

"But that is not an answer, pardon me. Of course, the Supreme
Being is pleased to see people following the worthiest object;
and the question is, What is the worthiest?"

I did not like to hear Mr. De Saussure's tongue touch themes
where it was not at home. The conversation was too serious for
light handling; but I could not get out of it.

"You will find that my answer includes all," I said. "It is
impossible to lay down a rule, as to particulars, that will
fit all cases. It is the best thing one man can do, to lay
down his life for his country; the best thing another man can
do is to stay at home and devote himself to the care of an
infirm mother or father; but in either case, for God."

"I do not understand -" said Mr. Marshall.

"Suppose the one goes to the battlefield for his own glory,
and the other stays at home for his own ease?"

"Don't you think glory is a thing to live for?" said Ransom,
with an indignant expression that reminded me painfully of our
childish days.

"Yes," I said slowly, - "I do; but not the praise of men,
which is so often mistaken. The glory that comes from God, -
that is worth living for."

"What an incomprehensible girl you are!" Ransom answered
impatiently.

"She'll mend -" said mamma.

"But, Miss Randolph," said Mr. Marshall, "the care of infirm
relatives, a father or a mother, can anything make that
unworthy?"

"Not in itself," I said; "but suppose a man's duty calls him
away? It might. You can suppose such a case."

"I see what I have to expect," mamma said with a laugh. "Daisy
will take care of me, until some duty calls her away. I will
not count upon you, Daisy, any longer than that. De Saussure,
what is your estimate of life's objects? On honour, now!"

"I can think of nothing better than to live for somebody that
one loves," he said.

"I knew you would say that," she rejoined. "Hugh, what do you
say?"

"I need to go to school, Mrs. Randolph."

"Well, go to school to Daisy," said mamma with another light
laugh. "And come, let us walk, or we shall not have time.
EugÂŠne Sue, is it, that we are going to see?"

"Only his house, madam. Miss Randolph, I am charged, you know,
with your studies to-day."

I was not in the mood of accepting Mr. De Saussure's arm, but
just then it was the only thing to do. My mother and Ransom
and Hugh Marshall were presently some little distance behind,
an interval separating us; and Mr. De Saussure and I followed
the shores of the lake, taking such counsel together as our
somewhat diverse moods made possible. I was thinking, what a
life of hard work the two prophets Elijah must have known in
their time; he who was first of the name, and his greater
successor, John the Baptist. Each of them worked alone,
against a universal tide of adverse evil that flooded the
land. If I found it so sorrowful to be alone in my family and
society, what must they have felt with the whole world against
them. And Elijah's spirit did once give out, brave as he was:
"It is enough, O Lord; take away my life." I thought I could
understand it. To be all alone; to have no sympathy in what is
dearest to you; to face opposition and scorn and ridicule and
contumely while trying to do people good and bring them to
good; to have only God on your side, with the bitter
consciousness that those whom you love best are arrayed
against him; your family and country; - I suppose nobody can
tell how hard that is to endure, but he who has tasted it. My
taste of it was light indeed; but a half hour with Miss
Cardigan would have been inexpressibly good to me that day. So
I thought, as I walked along the bank of the lake with Mr. De
Saussure; and then I remembered "my hiding-place and my
shield."

"You are very silent to-day, Miss Randolph," said my companion
at length. I may remark, in passing, that he had not been.

"It is enough to look, and to think," I answered, "with such a
sight before one's eyes."

"Do you know," said he, "such independence of all the exterior
world, - of mortals, I mean, - is very tantalising to those
disregarded mortals?"

"Do you find it so? It is fair then to presume, in a place
like this, that what takes up my attention has not so much
charm for you."

"That is severe!" he said. "Do you think I do not see all this
beauty before us? But pardon me, - have you seen it?"

"I have tasted it every step of the way, Mr. De Saussure."

"I am rebuked," he said. "You must excuse me - I had counted
upon the pleasure of seeing you enjoy it."

"One's enjoyment is not always heightened by giving it
expression," I said.

"No, I know that is your theory - or practice," he said. "My
