people, and everything."

"Where are the stables? and where are we going?"

"Here  just here  a little way off. They are just in a dell
over here  the other side of the house, where the quarters
are."

"Quarters"? I repeated.

"Yes. Oh, you don't know anything down here, but you'll learn.
The stables and quarters are in this dell we are coming to;
nicely out of sight. Magnolia is one of the prettiest places
on the river."

We had passed through the grove of oaks on the further side of
the house, and then found the beginning of a dell which, like
the one by which we had come up a few hours before, sloped
gently down to the river. In its course it widened out to a
little low sheltered open ground, where a number of buildings
stood.

"So the house is between two dells," I said.

"Yes; and on that height up there, beyond the quarters, is the
cemetery; and from there you can see a great many fields and
the river and have a beautiful view. And there are capital
rides all about the place, Daisy."

When we came to the stables, Preston sent a boy in search of
"Darius." Darius, he told me, was the coachman, and chief in
charge of the stable department. Darius came presently. He was
a grey-headed, fine-looking, most respectable black man. He
had driven my mother and my mother's mother; and being a
trusted and important man on the place, and for other reasons,
he had a manner and bearing that were a model of dignified
propriety. Very grave "uncle Darry" was; stately and almost
courtly in his respectful courtesy; but he gave me a pleasant
smile when Preston presented him.

"We's happy to see Miss Daisy at her own home. Hope de Lord
bress her."

My heart warmed at these words like the ice-bound earth in a
spring day. They were not carelessly spoken, nor was the
welcome. My feet trod the greensward more firmly. Then all
other thoughts were for the moment put to flight by Preston's
calling for the pony and asking Darius what he thought of him,
and Darry's answer.

"Very far, massa; very far. Him no good for not'ing."

While I pondered what this judgment might amount to, the pony
was brought out. He was larger than Loupe, and had not Loupe's
peculiar symmetry of mane and tail; he was a fat dumpy little
fellow, sleek and short, dapple grey, with a good long tail
and a mild eye. Preston declared he had no shape at all and
was a poor concern of a pony; but to my eyes he was beautiful.
He took one or two sugarplums from my hand with as much
amenity as if we had been old acquaintances. Then a boy was
put on him, who rode him up and down with a halter.

"He'll do, Darius," said Preston.

"For little missis? Just big enough, massa. Got no tricks at
all, only he no like work. Not much spring in him."

"Daisy must take the whip, then. Come and let us go look at
some of the country where you will ride. Are you tired,
Daisy?"

"Oh, no," I said. "But wait a minute, Preston. Who lives in
all those houses?"

"The people. The hands. They are away in the fields at work
now."

"Does Darius live there?"

"Of course. They all live here."

"I should like to go nearer, and see the houses."

"Daisy, it is nothing on earth to see. They are all just
alike; and you see them from here."

"I want to look in,"  I said, moving down the slope.

"Daisy," said Preston, you are just as fond of having your own
way as "

"As what? I do not think I am, Preston."

"I suppose nobody thinks he is," grumbled Preston, following
me,  "except the fellows who can't get it."

I had by this time almost forgotten Miss Pinshon. I had almost
come to think that Magnolia might be a pleasant place. In the
intervals, when the pony was out of sight, I had improved my
knowledge of the old coachman; and every look added to my
liking. There was something I could not read that more and
more drew me to him. A simplicity in his good manners, a
placid expression in his gravity, a staid reserve in his
humility, were all there; and more yet. Also the scene in the
dell was charming to me. The ground about the negro cottages
was kept neat; they were neatly built of stone and stood round
the sides of a quadrangle; while on each side and below the
wooded slopes of ground closed in the picture. Sunlight was
streaming through and brightening up the cottages and resting
on uncle Darry's swarth face. Down through the sunlight I went
to the cottages. The first door stood open, and I looked in.
At the next I was about to knock, but Preston pushed open the
door for me; and so he did for a third and a fourth. Nobody
was in them. I was a good deal disappointed. They were empty,
bare, dirty, and seemed to me very forlorn. What a set of
people my mother's hands must be, I thought. Presently I came
upon a ring of girls, a little larger than I was, huddled
together behind one of the cottages. There was no manners
about them. They were giggling and grinning, hopping on one
foot, and going into other awkward antics; not the less that
most of them had their arms filled with little black babies. I
had got enough for that day, and turning about left the dell
with Preston.

At the head of the dell, Preston led off in a new direction,
along a wide avenue that ran through the woods. Perfectly
level and smooth, with the woods closing in on both sides and
making long vistas through their boles and under their boughs.
By and by we took another path that led off from this one,
wide enough for two horses to go abreast. The pine trees were
sweet overhead and on each hand, making the light soft and the
air fragrant. Preston and I wandered on in delightful roaming;
leaving the house and all that it contained at an unremembered
distance. Suddenly we came out upon a cleared field. It was
many acres large; in the distance a number of people were at
work. We turned back again.

"Preston," I said, after a silence of a few minutes,  "there
seemed to be no women in those cottages. I did not see any."

"I suppose not," said Preston; "because there were not any to
see."

"But had all those little babies no mothers?"

"Yes, of course, Daisy; but they were in the field."

"The mothers of those little babies?"

"Yes. What about it? Look here  are you getting tired?"

I said no; and he put his arm round me fondly, so as to hold
me up a little; and we wandered gently on, back to the avenue,
then down its smooth course further yet from the house, then
off by another wood path through the pines on the other side.
This was a narrower path, amidst sweeping pine branches and
hanging creepers, some of them prickly, which threw themselves
all across the way. It was not easy getting along. I remarked
that nobody seemed to come there much.

