


CHAPTER XV.

ANOTHER LITTLE PLAN.


When The Starry Flag returned from her pleasant excursion to the
eastward, Mr. Fairfield had so far recovered from the effects of his
fall as to be out, and to be making his preparations again to catch
dog-fish. It seemed to him to be absolutely necessary that he should
make some more money. He felt like a poor man, and his stocks and
bonds, notes and mortgages, afforded him but little comfort. His heart
seemed to have been lost with the four thousand in gold.

When the yacht made her moorings, the old man was at the landing-place,
getting ready to go dog-fishing the next day. His bones still ached,
and nothing but bitter necessity could have induced one so feeble as he
was to think of going off in a dory, miles from the shore, braving the
perils of ocean and storm. He believed that poverty and want stared him
in the face, and that he must go to the poorhouse if he did not make an
effort to retrieve his great misfortune.

Dock Vincent was never far off when a vessel came into port; and,
though he was very busy in making the preparations for his departure,
he hastened down to the Point when The Starry Flag hove in sight.

"That's Levi's vessel, Squire Fairfield," said he.

"I s'pose 'tis," replied the old man, casting an indifferent glance to
seaward.

"I sold my house to-day, Squire Fairfield," continued Dock, seating
himself by the shore.

"Did ye? What d'ye git for 't?"

"Fifteen hundred dollars. It was worth two thousand; but, as I'm going
to Australia right off, I couldn't afford to hold it for a better
price."

"You'll have a good deal of money to kerry off with you."

"Not much. I paid six thousand for that vessel, and she's dog-cheap at
that; but I shall make my fortune in her, carrying passengers."

"I hope you will, for you've done well by me, though you didn't find my
money;" and the old man sighed heavily. "I reckon I shall never see
nothin' more on't."

"I'm afraid you never will, Squire Fairfield. That nigger lied so like
all possessed that Levi got clear, and then we couldn't do anything.
I'm afraid it's too late to do anything more. I calculate that nigger
and Levi understand one another pretty well. They fixed things between
them, and I'm just as sure as I can be that your money went off in that
vessel."

"In the yack?"

"Yes, in the yacht," replied Dock, warmly. "It was stowed away
somewhere in her; but I suppose they have got rid of it by this time."

"You think I shan't never see it again," groaned the old man, with a
piteous expression on his thin face.

"I'm sorry to say I don't think you ever will, Squire Fairfield."

"Then I'm a ruined man! I can't afford to lose four thousand dollars.
It was e'enamost all I had, and I don't see but I must go to the
poorhouse."

Dock Vincent took off his hat, rubbed his head, gazed upon the ground,
and seemed to be in deep thought for several minutes. So was the miser
in deep thought--brooding over his lost treasure.

"Squire Fairfield, when I begin to do a thing I always do it, sooner or
later," said Dock, glancing doubtfully at the old man.

"You didn't find my money," added Mr. Fairfield.

"No; but I'm going to find it, or some more just like it. Squire
Fairfield, I can put you in the way of making twenty thousand dollars
just as easy as you lost that four thousand."

"You don't say!" exclaimed the old man, his sunken eyes glowing at the
suggestion.

"I can; there isn't any doubt about it."

"You don't mean to steal it--do you?"

"Steal it! You don't think I'd steal--do you? If you do, I won't say
anything more about my little plan."

Another little plan!

"Well, no; I never knowed you to steal nothin'."

"Twenty thousand dollars is a good deal of money, Squire Fairfield."

"So 'tis--more 'n I ever expect to see."

"But you shall see it, and have it, if you will take hold of my little
plan."

"What is't?" asked the old man, curiously and eagerly.

"It's something we must keep still about. I'm going to make my fortune
out of it, and yours too."

"What do you want to keep still for, ef you ain't go'n' to steal it?"

"I see it's no use to talk with you," said Dock, petulantly. "If you
think I'd steal, I can't depend upon you, or you upon me. So there's an
end of it."

Dock rose from his seat, looked at The Starry Flag, which was just
coming to anchor, and then began to walk up the Point; but he expected
to be called back, and he was not disappointed.

"Why don't you tell me on't, so I can know what you're go'n' to do?"
demanded the miser.

"I shall not say anything to you. I don't think I can trust you. The
business isn't all regular; but it isn't stealing," protested Dock.

"You can trust me, Cap'n Vincent, jest as long as you can trust
anybody. You know I never says nothin' to nobody about business. I
allers keeps things to myself," whined Mr. Fairfield.

"Will you keep this to yourself?"

"Sartin, I will."

"'Pon honor?" added Dock, earnestly.

"Yes; 'pon honor. Nobody ever knowed me to say nothin' about business.
I never trust nobody, not even my wife, with business matters."

"Sit down, squire, and we'll talk it over between us," replied Dock,
apparently satisfied with the old man's promise.

Mr. Fairfield, with some difficulty, seated himself on the rock, and
with glaring eyes--so interested was he in a project which was to put
twenty thousand dollars in his pocket--he listened to the rather prolix
explanations of his companion. For twenty thousand dollars he would
have sold his soul; but he was timid.

"I never fail in doing a thing without wanting to try it over again,"
Dock began. "I always put things through when I begin upon them."

The old man was not quite sure of this, but he did not interrupt the
speaker.

"Three years ago twenty thousand dollars slipped through my fingers
just as easy as though the money had been greased," continued Dock.

"I didn't know on't."

