In this crisis, with Lord Byron refusing the separation, with
Lushington expressing a wish to aid in a reconciliation, and Lady Noel
not expressing any aversion to it, the whole strain of the dreadful
responsibility comes upon the wife.

She resolves to ask counsel of her lawyer, in view of a statement of
the whole case.

Lady Byron is spoken of by Lord Byron (letter 233) as being in town
with her father on the 29th of February; viz., fifteen days after the
date of the last letter to Mrs. Leigh. It must have been about this
time, then, that she laid her whole case before Lushington; and he gave
it a thorough examination.

The result was, that Lushington expressed in the most decided terms his
conviction that reconciliation was impossible. The language he uses is
very striking:--

 'When you came to town in about a fortnight, or perhaps more, after my
 first interview with Lady Noel, I was, for the first time, informed
 by you of facts utterly unknown, as I have no doubt, to Sir Ralph and
 Lady Noel. On receiving this additional information, my opinion was
 entirely changed. I considered a reconciliation impossible. I declared
 my opinion, and added, that, if such an idea should be entertained, I
 could not, either professionally or otherwise, take any part towards
 effecting it.'

It does not appear in this note what effect the lawyer's examination
of the case had on Lady Byron's mind. By the expressions he uses, we
should infer that she may still have been hesitating as to whether a
reconciliation might not be her duty.

This hesitancy he does away with most decisively, saying, 'A
reconciliation is impossible;' and, supposing Lady Byron or her
friends desirous of one, he declares positively that he cannot, either
professionally as a lawyer or privately as a friend, have anything to
do with effecting it.

The lawyer, it appears, has drawn, from the facts of the case,
inferences deeper and stronger than those which presented themselves to
the mind of the young woman; and he instructs her in the most absolute
terms.

Fourteen years after, in 1830, for the first time the world was
astonished by this declaration from Dr. Lushington, in language so
pronounced and positive that there could be no mistake.

Lady Byron had stood all these fourteen years slandered by her husband,
and misunderstood by his friends, when, had she so chosen, this opinion
of Dr. Lushington's could have been at once made public, which fully
justified her conduct.

If, as the 'Blackwood' of July insinuates, the story told to Lushington
was a malignant slander, meant to injure Lord Byron, why did she
suppress the judgment of her counsel at a time when all the world
was on her side, and this decision would have been the decisive blow
against her husband? Why, by sealing the lips of counsel, and of all
whom she could influence, did she deprive herself finally of the very
advantage for which it has been assumed she fabricated the story?




CHAPTER IV.

THE CHARACTER OF THE TWO WITNESSES COMPARED.


It will be observed, that, in this controversy, we are confronting two
opposing stories,--one of Lord and the other of Lady Byron; and the
statements from each are in point-blank contradiction.

Lord Byron states that his wife deserted him. Lady Byron states that he
expelled her, and reminds him, in her letter to Augusta Leigh, that the
expulsion was a deliberate one, and that he had purposed it from the
beginning of their marriage.

Lord Byron always stated that he was ignorant why his wife left him,
and was desirous of her return. Lady Byron states that he told her that
he would force her to leave him, and to leave him in such a way that
the whole blame of the separation should always rest on her, and not on
him.

To say nothing of any deeper or darker accusations on either side,
here, in the very outworks of the story, the two meet point-blank.

In considering two opposing stories, we always, as a matter of fact,
take into account the character of the witnesses.

If a person be literal and exact in his usual modes of speech,
reserved, careful, conscientious, and in the habit of observing
minutely the minor details of time, place, and circumstances, we give
weight to his testimony from these considerations. But if a person
be proved to have singular and exceptional principles with regard to
truth; if he be universally held by society to be so in the habit of
mystification, that large allowances must be made for his statements;
if his assertions at one time contradict those made at another; and if
his statements, also, sometimes come in collision with those of his
best friends, so that, when his language is reported, difficulties
follow, and explanations are made necessary,--all this certainly
disqualifies him from being considered a trustworthy witness.

All these disqualifications belong in a remarkable degree to Lord
Byron, on the oft-repeated testimony of his best friends.

We shall first cite the following testimony, given in an article from
'Under the Crown,' which is written by an early friend and ardent
admirer of Lord Byron:--

 'Byron had one pre-eminent fault,--a fault which must be considered as
 deeply criminal by everyone who does not, as I do, believe it to have
 resulted from monomania. He had a morbid love of a bad reputation.
 There was hardly an offence of which he would not, with perfect
 indifference, accuse himself. An old schoolfellow who met him on the
 Continent told me that he would continually write paragraphs against
 himself in the foreign journals, and delight in their republication
 by the English newspapers as in the success of a practical joke.
 Whenever anybody has related anything discreditable of Byron, assuring
 me that it must be true, for he heard it from himself, I always felt
 that he could not have spoken upon worse authority; and that, in all
 probability, the tale was a pure invention. If I could remember,
 and were willing to repeat, the various misdoings which I have from
 time to time heard him attribute to himself, I could fill a volume.
 But I never believed them. I very soon became aware of this strange
 idiosyncrasy: it puzzled me to account for it; but there it was, a
 sort of diseased and distorted vanity. The same eccentric spirit
 would induce him to report things which were false with regard to his
 family, which anybody else would have concealed, though true. He told
 me more than once that his father was insane, and killed himself. I
 shall never forget the manner in which he first told me this. While
 washing his hands, and singing a gay Neapolitan air, he stopped,
 looked round at me, and said, "There always was madness in the
 family." Then, after continuing his washing and his song, he added, as
 if speaking of a matter of the slightest indifference, "My father cut
 his throat." The contrast between the tenour of the subject and the
 levity of the expression was fearfully painful: it was like a stanza
 of "Don Juan." In this instance, I had no doubt that the fact was as
 he related it; but in speaking of it, only a few years since, to an
 old lady in whom I had perfect confidence, she assured me that it was
 not so. Mr. Byron, who was her cousin, had been extremely wild, but
 was quite sane, and had died very quietly in his bed. What Byron's
 reason could have been for thus calumniating not only himself but
 the blood which was flowing in his veins, who can divine? But, for
 some reason or other, it seemed to be his determined purpose to keep
 himself unknown to the great body of his fellow-creatures; to present
 himself to their view in moral masquerade.'

Certainly the character of Lord Byron here given by his friend is
not the kind to make him a trustworthy witness in any case: on the
contrary, it seems to show either a subtle delight in falsehood for
falsehood's sake, or else the wary artifices of a man who, having a
deadly secret to conceal, employs many turnings and windings to throw
the world off the scent. What intriguer, having a crime to cover, could
devise a more artful course than to send half a dozen absurd stories to
the press, which should, after a while, be traced back to himself, till
the public should gradually look on all it heard from him as the result
of this eccentric humour?

The easy, trifling air with which Lord Byron made to this friend a
false statement in regard to his father would lead naturally to the
