of the house, at least until eight o’clock, about which time the
glories of the new day usually penetrate very tightly-closed lids. As to
dew--there isn’t a drop upon grass or blossom. And, by the same token,
we shall have a storm within twenty-four hours.”

“Is that true? That is a meteorological presage I never heard of until
now.”

“There is a moral in it, which I leave you to study out for yourself,
while I arrange the roses I--and not the gardener--gathered.”

In a whisper, she subjoined--“Let me go! Some one is coming!” and in a
second more was at the sideboard, hurrying the flowers into the antique
china bowl, destined to grace the centre of the breakfast table.

“Good-morning, Miss Rosa. You are just in season to enjoy the society of
your sister,” Frederic said, lightly, pointing to the billows of mingled
white and red, tossing under Mabel’s fingers.

The new-comer approached the sideboard, leaned languidly upon her elbow,
and picked up a half-blown bud at random from the pile.

“They are scentless!” she complained.

“Because dewless!” replied Mabel, with profound gravity. “It is the
tearful heart that gives out the sweetest fragrance.”

“I have more faith in sunshine,” interrupted Rosa, a tinge of contempt
in her smile and accent. “Or--to drop metaphors, at which I always
bungle--it is my belief that it is easy for happy people to be good.
All this talk about the sweetness of crushed blossoms, throwing their
fragrance from the wounded part, and the riven sandal-tree, and the
blessed uses of adversity, is outrageous balderdash, according to my
doctrine. A buried thing is but one degree better than a dead one. What
it is the fashion of poets and sentimentalists to call perfume, is the
odor of incipient decay.”

“You are illustrating your position by means of my poor oriental pearl,”
 remonstrated Mabel, playfully, wresting the hand that was beating
the life and whiteness out of the floweret upon the marble top of the
beaufet. “Take this hardy geant de batailles, instead. My bouquet must
have a cluster of pearls for a heart.”

“What a fierce crimson!” Frederic remarked upon the widely-opened rose
Miss Tazewell received in place of the delicate bud. “That must be the
‘hue angry, yet brave,’ which, Mr. George Herbert asserts, ‘bids the
rash gazer wipe his eye.’”

“More poetical nonsense!” said Rosa, deliberately tearing the bold
“geant” to pieces down to the bare stem, “unless he meant to be comic,
and intimate that the gazer was so rash as to come too near the bush,
and ran a thorn into the pupil.”

No one answered, except by the indulgent smile that usually greeted her
sallies, however absurd, among those accustomed to the spoiled child’s
vagaries.

Mabel was making some leisurely additions to her bouquet in the shape
of ribbon grass and pendent ivy sprays, coaxing these with persuasive
touches to trail over the edge and entwine the pedestal of the salver on
which her bowl was elevated; her head set slightly on one side, her
lips apart in a smile of enjoyment in her work and in herself. It was
a picture the lover studied fondly--one that hung forever thereafter in
his gallery of mental portraits. Beyond a pair of fine gray eyes, the
pliant grace of her figure and the buoyant carriage of youth, health,
and a glad heart, Mabel’s pretensions to beauty were comparatively few,
said the world. Frederic Chilton had, nevertheless, fallen in love
with her at sight, and considered her, now, the handsomest woman of his
acquaintance. Her dress was a simple lawn--a sheer white fabric, with
bunches of purple grass bound up with yellow wheat, scattered over it;
her hair was lustrous and abundant, and her face, besides being happy,
was frank and intelligent, with wonderful mobility of expression. In
temperament and sentiment; in capacity for, and in demonstration of
affection, she suited Frederic to the finest fibre of his mind and
heart. He, for one, did not carp at Aunt Rachel’s declaration that they
were intended to spend time and eternity together.

Still, Mabel Aylett was not a belle, and Rosa Tazewell was. Callow
collegians and enterprising young merchants from the city; sunbrowned
owners of spreading acres and hosts of laborers; students and
practitioners of law and medicine, and an occasional theologue, had
broken their hearts for perhaps a month at a time, for love of her,
since she was a school-girl in short dresses. Yet there had been a date
very far back in the acquaintanceship of each of these with the charmer,
when he had marvelled at the infatuation which had blinded her previous
adorers. She was “a neat little thing,” with her round waist, her tiny
hands and feet and roguish eye--but there was nothing else remarkable
about her features, and in coloring, the picture was too dark for his
taste. Why, she might be mistaken for a creole! And each critic held
fast to his expressed opinion until the roguish eyes met his directly
and with meaning, and he found himself diving into the bright,
shimmering wells, and drowning--still ecstatically--before he reached
the bottom whence streamed the light of passionate feeling, striking
upward through the surface. What her glances did not effect was done by
her dazzling smile and musical voice.

As one of her victims swore, “It was a dearer delight to be rejected by
her than to be accepted by a dozen other girls--she did the thing up so
handsomely! And yet, do you know, sir, I could have shot myself for a
barbarous brute when I saw the pitying tears standing upon her lashes,
and heard the tremor in her sweet tones, as she begged me to forgive her
for not loving me!”

Those she had once captivated never quite rid themselves of the glamour
of her arts; remained her trusty squires, ready to serve, or to defend
her always afterward.

Aunt Rachel, intent, during the short pause, upon the movements of the
servant who was setting the smoking breakfast upon the table, glanced
around when all was properly arranged, to summon the two to their
places--but something in Rosa’s attitude and countenance held her
momentarily speechless. Mabel still bent over her roses, in smiling
interest, and Frederic Chilton was watching her--but not as the third
person of the group about the beaufet watched them both between her
half-closed lids, her black brows close together, and the glittering
teeth visible under the curling upper lip.

“She looked like a panther lying in wait for her prey!” Mrs. Sutton said
to her niece, many months later, in attempting to describe the scene.
“Or like a bright-eyed snake coiled for a spring. The sight of her sent
shivers all down my spine.”

Her interruption of the tableau sounded oddly abrupt to ears used to her
pleasant accents.

“Come, young people! how long are you going to keep me waiting?
Breakfast is cooling fast!”

“I beg your pardon, Auntie! I did not notice that it had been brought
in,” apologized Mabel, drawing back, that Frederic might lift the loaded
salver carefully to its place upon the board.

As they were closing about this, they were joined by Messrs. Barksdale
and Branch, Miss Tabb delaying her appearance until the repast was
nearly over, and meeting the raillery of the party upon her late
rising with the sweet, soft smile her cousin-betrothed admired as the
indication of unadulterated amiability. The breakfast-hour, always
pleasant, was to-day particularly merry. Rosa led off in the laughing
debates, the play of repartee, friendly jest, and anecdote that incited
all to mirth and speech and tempted them to linger around the table long
after the business of the meal was concluded.

“This is the perfection of country life!” said Frederic Chilton, when,
at last, there was a movement to end the sitting. “But it spoils one
fearfully for the everyday practicalities of the city--a Northern city,
especially.”

“Better stay where you are, then, instead of deserting our ranks
to-morrow,” suggested Rosa, gliding by his side out upon the long
portico at the end of the house. “What does your nature crave that
Ridgeley cannot supply?”

“Work, and a career!”

“You still feel the need of these?” significantly.

“Otherwise I were no man!”

“You are right!”

