
"I'm glad you are prosperous, Mr. Martin."

"Maybe you'll be more willing to own the relationship now."

"I'm glad for your sake only," said Rufus. "I can take care of Rose well
enough alone. But I must be going."

"All right! I'll go along with you."

"I am in a hurry," said Rufus, uneasily.

"I can walk as fast as you," said Martin, maliciously. "Seein' you're my
step-son, I'd like to know what sort of a place you've got."

The street being free to all, Rufus could not shake off his unwelcome
companion, nor could he evade him, as it was necessary for him to go
back to the office at once. He consoled himself, however, by the
reflection that at any rate Martin wouldn't find out his boarding-place,
of which he was chiefly afraid, as it might affect the safety of Rose.

"What have you got in that box?" asked Martin.

"I don't care to tell," said Rufus.

"I know well enough. It's money and bonds. You're in a broker's office,
aint you?"

"I can't stop to answer questions," said Rufus, coldly. "I'm in a
hurry."

"I'll find out in spite of you," said Martin. "You can't dodge me as
easy as last time. I aint so poor as I was. Do you see that?"

As he spoke he drew out a roll of bills (they were counterfeit, but
Rufus, of course, was not aware of that), and displayed them.

Our hero was certainly astonished at this display of wealth on the part
of his step-father, and was puzzled to understand how in the brief
interval since he last saw him he could have become so favored by
fortune, but his conjectures were interrupted by his arrival at the
office.

"TURNER!" repeated Martin to himself, observing the sign. "So this is
where my dootiful step-son is employed. Well, I'm glad to know it. It'll
come handy some day."

So saying, he lighted a fresh cigar, and sauntered away with the air of
a man of independent means, who had come down to Wall Street to look
after his investments.




CHAPTER XV.

THE TIN BOX.


"I met my dootiful son this mornin'," remarked Martin to his employer,
at their next interview.

"Did you?" said Smith, carelessly, for he felt little interest in
Martin's relations.

"Yes; he's in business in Wall Street."

"How's that?" asked Smith, his attention arrested by this statement.

"He's with Turner, the banker. He was going to the bank, with a tin box
under his arm. I'd like to have the money there was in it."

"Did he tell you there was money in it?"

"No; but I'll bet there was enough in it to make a poor man rich."

"Perhaps so," said Smith, thoughtfully.

"How old is your son?" he inquired, after a pause.

"Fifteen or sixteen, I've forgotten which. You see he isn't my own son;
I married his mother, who was a widder with two children; that's the way
of it."

"I suppose he doesn't live with you."

"No; he's an undootiful boy. He haint no gratitude for all I've done for
him. He wouldn't care if I starved in the street."

"That shows a bad disposition," said Smith, who seemed disposed to
protract the conversation for some purposes of his own.

"Yes," said Martin, wiping his eyes pathetically with a red
handkerchief; "he's an ungrateful young scamp. He's set my little
daughter Rose ag'inst me,--she that set everything by me till he made
her believe all sorts of lies about me."

"Why don't you come up with him?"

"I don't know how."

"I suppose you would have no objections if I should tell you."

"No," said Martin, hesitating; "that is, if it aint dangerous. If I
should give him a lickin' in the street, he'd call the police, and swear
I wasn't his father."

"That isn't what I mean. I'll think it over, and tell you by and by. Now
we'll talk about business."

It was not until the next day that Smith unfolded to Martin his plan of
"coming up with" Rufus. It was of so bold a character that Martin was
startled, and at first refused to have any part in it, not from any
conscientious scruples,--for Martin's conscience was both tough and
elastic,--but solely because he was a coward, and had a wholesome dread
of the law. But Smith set before him the advantages which would accrue
to him personally, in so attractive a manner, that at length he
consented, and the two began at once to concoct arrangements for
successfully carrying out the little plan agreed upon.

Not to keep the reader in suspense, it was no less than forcibly
depriving Rufus of the tin box, some morning on his way home from the
bank. This might bring Rufus into trouble, while Martin and Smith were
to share the contents, which, judging from the wealth of Mr. Turner,
were likely to be of considerable value.

"There may be enough to make your fortune," suggested Smith.

"If I don't get nabbed."

"Oh, there'll be no danger, if you will manage things as I direct you."

"I'll have all the danger, and you'll share the profits," grumbled
Martin.

"Isn't the idea mine?" retorted Smith. "Is it the soldiers who get all
the credit for a victory, or doesn't the general who plans the campaign
receive his share? Besides, I may have to manage converting the
securities into cash. There isn't one chance in a hundred of your
getting into trouble if you do as I tell you; but if you do, remember
your oath."

With this Martin was forced to be contented. He was only a common
rascal, while Smith was one of a higher order, and used him as a tool.
In the present instance, despite his assurances, Smith acknowledged to
himself that the plan he had proposed was really attended with
considerable danger, but this he ingloriously managed that Martin should
incur, while he lay back, and was ready to profit by it if it should
prove successful.

Meanwhile Rufus was at work as usual, quite unconscious of the danger
which menaced him. His encounter with Martin gave him a little
uneasiness, for he feared that the latter might renew his attempts to
gain possession of Rose. Farther than this he had no fears. He wondered
at the sudden improvement in Martin's fortunes, and could not conjecture
what business he could have engaged in which would give him a hundred
dollars a month. He might have doubted his assertion, but that his
unusually respectable appearance, and the roll of bills which he had
displayed, seemed to corroborate his statement. He was glad that his
step-father was doing well, having no spite against him, provided he
