Walsh was naturally indisposed. She sighed as she thought of the years
when she could stay quietly at home, and send out Tom to beg or earn
money for her. She would like, since Tom was not likely to return, to
adopt some boy or girl of suitable age, upon whom she could throw the
burden of the common support. But such were not easy to be met with, and
Mrs. Walsh was dimly aware that no sane child would voluntarily select
her as a guardian.

So granny, in rather low spirits, sought her elevated room, and threw
herself upon the bed to sleep off her fatigue.

On awaking, granny seated herself at the window, and picked up
mechanically the advertising sheet of the “Herald,” in which a loaf of
bread had been wrapped that had been given to her the day previous. It
was seldom that Mrs. Walsh indulged in reading, not possessing very
marked literary tastes; but to-day she was seized with an idle impulse,
which she obeyed, without anticipating that she would see anything that
concerned her.

In glancing through the advertisements under the head “PERSONAL,” her
attention was drawn to the following:—

/# “If Margaret Walsh, who left Philadelphia in the year 1855, will call
at No. — Wall Street, Room 8, she will hear of something to her
advantage.” #/

“Why, that’s me!” exclaimed granny, letting the paper fall from her lap
in surprise. “It’s my name, and I left Philadelphy that year. I wonder
what it’s about. Maybe it’s about Tom.”

There were circumstances which led Mrs. Walsh to think it by no means
improbable that the inquiries to be made were about Tom, and this made
her regret more keenly that she had lost her.

“If it is,” she soliloquized, “I’ll get hold of her somehow.”

There was one part of the advertisement which particularly interested
granny,—that in which it was suggested that she would hear something to
her advantage. If there was any money to be made, granny was entirely
willing to make it. Considering the unpromising state of her prospects,
she felt that it was a piece of extraordinary good luck.

Looking at the date of the paper, she found that it was a fortnight old,
and was troubled by the thought that it might be too late. At any rate
no time was to be lost. So, in spite of the fatigue of her morning
expedition, she put on her old cloak and bonnet, and, descending the
stairs, sallied out into the street. She made her way down Nassau Street
to Wall, and, carefully looking about her, found without difficulty the
number mentioned in the advertisement. It was a large building,
containing a considerable number of offices. No. 8 was on the third
floor. On the door was a tin sign bearing the name:—

                            “EUGENE SELDEN,
                      Attorney and Counsellor.”

Mrs. Walsh knocked at the door; but there was no response. She knocked
again, after a while, and then tried the door. But it was locked.

“The office closes at three, ma’am,” said a young man, passing by. “You
will have to wait till to-morrow.”

Mrs. Walsh was disappointed, being very anxious to ascertain what
advantage she was likely to receive. She presented herself the next
morning at nine, only to find herself too early. At last she found the
lawyer in. He looked up from his desk as she entered.

“Have you business with me?” he asked.

“Are you the man that advertised for Margaret Walsh?” asked granny.

“Yes,” said Mr. Selden, laying down his pen, and regarding her with
interest. “Are you she?”

“Yes, your honor,” said granny, thinking her extra politeness might
increase the advantage promised.

“Did you ever live in Philadelphia?”

“Yes, your honor.”

“Were you in service?”

Mrs. Walsh answered in the affirmative.

“In what family?”

“In the family of Mrs. Lindsay.”

“What made you leave her?” asked the lawyer, fixing his eyes searchingly
upon Margaret.

Granny looked a little uneasy.

“I got tired of staying there,” she said.

“When you left Philadelphia, did you come to New York?”

“Yes, your honor.”

“Did you know that Mrs. Lindsay’s only child disappeared at the time you
left the house?” inquired the lawyer.

“If I tell the truth will it harm me?” asked granny, uneasily.

“No; but if you conceal the truth it may.”

“Then I took the child with me.”

“What motive had you for doing this wicked thing? Do you know that Mrs.
Lindsay nearly broke her heart at the loss of the child?”

“I was mad with her,” said granny, “that’s one reason.”

“Then there was another reason?”

“Yes, your honor.”

“What was it?”

“Young Mr. Lindsay hired me to do it. He offered me a thousand dollars.”

“Are you ready to swear this?”

“Yes,” said granny. “I hope you’ll pay me handsome for tellin’,” she
added. “I’m a poor—woman,” she was on the point of saying “widder with
five small children;” but it occurred to her that this would injure her
in the present instance.

“You shall receive a suitable reward when the child is restored. It is
living, I suppose?”

“Yes,” said granny.

“With you?”

“No, your honor. She ran away two months ago; but I saw her this
morning.”

“Why should she run away? Didn’t you treat her well?”

“Like as if she was my own child,” said granny. “I’ve often and often
gone without anything to eat, so that Tom might have enough. I took
great care of her, your honor, and would have brought her up as a leddy
if I hadn’t been so poor.”

“I thought it was a girl.”

“So it was, your honor.”

“Then why do you call her Tom?”

“’Cause she was more like a boy than a gal,—as sassy a child as I ever
see.”

“So you have lost her?”

“Yes, your honor. She ran away from me two months since.”

“But you said you saw her yesterday. Why did you not take her back?”

