most noble virtues growing up, even in these children, from the straits
to which they are put. And as to poor Pat himself, he comes out of his
demon-baptism penitent and humble, and more anxious to please than ever.
It is really affecting to see with what zeal he serves me, when I have
brought him through a 'drunk.' And yet I know that it will have to be
gone over, and over, and over again. Sometimes it seems to me he is like
the earth after a thunder-shower--fresher and clearer than he was
before. And I am quite of Mrs. Molloy's mind--there is too much good in
Pat to have him swept off into the gutter for the bad; and so, as God
gives her grace to suffer, let her suffer. And if I can bear one little
end of her cross, I will. If she does not save him in this life, she'll
save him from sinking lower in demonism. She may only keep his head
above water till he gets past the gates of death, and then, perhaps, in
the next life, he will appear to be saved by just that much which she
has done in keeping him up."

Bolton spoke with an intense earnestness, and a sad and solemn tone, as
if he were shaken and almost convulsed by some deep, internal feeling.
For some moments there was a silence between us,--the silence of a great
unuttered emotion. At last, he drew a long breath, and said, "Well, Hal,
what was it you wanted to talk about?"

"Oh," said I, "I have a letter from a friend of mine that I wanted to
show you, to see whether you could do anything"--and I gave him
Caroline's letter.

He sat down under the gas-light to read it. The sight of the
hand-writing seemed to affect him at once. His large, dark eyes flashed
over the letter, and he turned it quickly, and looked at the signature;
a most unutterable expression passed over his face, like that of a man
who is in danger of giving away to some violent emotion; and then,
apparently by a great effort of self-constraint, he set himself
carefully to reading the letter. He read it over two or three times,
folded it up, and handed it back to me without any remark, and then sat
leaning forward on the table with his face shaded with his hand.

"My cousin is a most uncommon character," I said; "and, as you will
observe by this letter, has a good deal of ability as a writer."

"I am acquainted with her," he said, briefly, making a sudden movement
with his hand.

"Indeed? Where did you know her?"

"Years ago," he said, briefly. "I taught the academy in her village, and
she was one of my scholars. I know the character of her mind."

There was a dry brevity in all this, of a man who is afraid that he
shall express more than he means to.

Said I, "I showed this letter to you because I thought you had more
influence in the press than I have; and if you are acquainted with her,
so much the better, as you can judge whether she can gain any employment
here which would make it worth her while to come and try. I have always
had an impression that she had very fine mental powers."

"There is no doubt about that," he said, hurriedly. "She is an
exceptional woman."

He rose up, and took the letter from me. "If you will allow me to retain
this a while," he said, "I will see what I can do; but just now I have
some writing to finish. I will speak to you about it to-morrow."

That evening, I introduced the subject to my friend, Ida Van Arsdel, and
gave her a sketch of Caroline's life-history. She entered into it with
the warmest interest, and was enthusiastic in her desire that the plan
might succeed.

"I hope that she will come to New York," she said, "so that we can make
her acquaintance. Don't, pray, fail to let me know, Mr. Henderson, if
she should be here, that I may call on her."




CHAPTER XXVII.

EASTER LILIES.


The next afternoon Jim and I kept our appointment with the Van Arsdel's.
We found one of the parlors transformed to a perfect bower of floral
decorations. Stars and wreaths and crosses and crowns were either just
finished or in process of rapid construction under fairy fingers. When I
came in, Eva and Alice were busy on a gigantic cross, to be made
entirely of lilies of the valley, of which some bushels were lying
around on the carpet. Ida had joined the service, and was kneeling on
the floor tying up the flowers in bunches to offer them to Eva.

"You see, Mr. Henderson, the difference between modern religion and the
primitive Christians," she said. "Their cross was rough wood and hard
nails; ours is lilies and roses made up in fashionable drawing-rooms."

"I'm afraid," said Eva, "our crown may prove much of the same
material!"

"I sometimes wonder," said Ida, "whether all the money spent for flowers
at Easter could not better be spent in some mode of relieving the poor."

"Well," said Eva, "I am sorry to bring up such a parallel, but isn't
that just the same kind of remark that Judas made about the alabaster
vase of ointment?"

"Yes," said I; "what could be more apparently useless than a mere
perfume, losing itself in the air, and vanishing entirely? And yet the
Saviour justified that lavish expenditure when it was the expression of
a heart-feeling."

"But," said Ida, "don't you think it very difficult to mark the line
where these services and offerings to religious worship become
excessive?"

"Of course it is," said I; "but no more difficult on this subject than
any other."

"That's the great trouble in this life," said Eva. "The line between
right and wrong seems always so indefinite, like the line between any
two colors of the prism--it is hard to say just where one ends and
another begins."

"It is the office of common sense," I said, "to get the exact right in
all such matters--there is a sort of instinct in it."

"Well, all I have to say about it is," said Eva, "since we do spend
lavishly and without stint in our houses and in our dress for adornment,
we ought to do at least as much for our religion. I like to see the
adornment of a church generous, overflowing, as if we gave our very
best. As to these lilies, I ordered them of an honest gardener, and it
goes to help support a family that would be poor if it were not for
these flowers. It is better to support one or two families honestly, by
buying their flowers for churches than it is to give the money away. So
I look on it."

"Oh, well," said Alice, "there is no end to anything. Everything you do
tends to something else; and everything leads to something; and there is
never any knowing about anything; and so I think it is best just to have
as good a time as you can, and do everything that is agreeable, and make
everything just as pretty as it can be. And I think it is fun to trim up
the church for Easter. There now! And it don't do any harm. And I just
like to go to the sunrise service, if it does make one sleepy all day.
What do you say, Mr. Fellows? Do you think you could go through with the
whole of it?"

"Miss Alice, if you only go you will find me inspired with the spirit of
a primitive Christian in this respect," said Jim. "I shall follow
wherever you lead the way, if it's ever so late at night, or ever so
early in the morning."

"And Mr. Henderson," said she, "may we depend on you, too?"

"By all means," said I, as I sat industriously gathering up the lilies
into bunches and tying them.

"Mr. Henderson is in a hopeful way," said Eva. "I think we may have him
in the true church some of these times."

"I am afraid," said Ida, "that Mr. Henderson, having seen you only in
Lent, won't be able to keep track of you when the Easter rejoicings
begin, and the parties recommence."

