as she lived. Slowly Matilda pulled off hood and gloves and moccasins,
and went to the window. It was her own window! The hills and the
country in view from it were hers to look at whenever she pleased. Mrs.
Candy's bell could not sound there to break in upon anything. The child
was so happy that she was almost afraid; it seemed too good to be
really true and lasting. Gradually, as she stood there by the window,
looking at what seemed to her "the treasures of the snow," it came to
her mind what she had been thinking about that; the myriads of
wonderfully fashioned, exquisite crystal stars, for every one of which
God took care. Then she remembered, "the hairs of your head are all
numbered;" and if so, of course no event that happened to any of God's
children could be without meaning or carelessly sent. And also, if he
was so rich in the beauty and perfectness of the snow supply for the
earth, he was rich toward his children too, and would and could give
them what were the best things for them. But then came the question; if
he had brought a child like her into these new circumstances, into such
a new home, what did he mean her to do with it? what use should she
make of it? what effect was it intended to have upon her and upon her
life? This seemed a very great question to Matilda. She softly shut her
door and took out her Bible and kneeled down beside it. She would study
and pray till she found out.

It happened well that Mrs. Laval's man of business kept her a good
while. All that while Matilda kept up her study and search.
Nevertheless she was puzzled. It was a question too large for her. All
she could make out amounted to this; that she must be careful not to
forget whose child she was; that before Mrs. Laval she owed love and
obedience to her Saviour; that she must be on the watch for
opportunities; and not allow her new circumstances to distract or
divert her from them or make her unfitted for them when they came.

"I think I must watch," was Matilda's conclusion. "I might forget.
Norton will want me to do things,--and Mrs. Laval will want me to do
other things,--perhaps other people yet. If I keep to Mr. Richmond's
rule--'Whether ye eat or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the Lord
Jesus,'--I shall be sure to be right; and He will teach me."

Some very earnest prayer ended in this conclusion. Then the question
came up in Matilda's mind, what opportunities were likely to spring out
of her new, changed circumstances? She could not tell; she found she
could do nothing with that question; she could only leave it, and
watch, and wait.

She opened her door then, to be ready for Mrs. Laval's coming; and
presently the soft step and gentle rustle of drapery reminded Matilda
anew that she had done for ever with Mrs. Candy's plump footfall and
buckram skirts.

"My darling," said Mrs. Laval, "you have been all this time alone!" She
took Matilda in her arms and sat down with her, looking at her as one
examines a new, precious possession.

"You smile, as if being alone was nothing very dreadful," she went on.

"I don't think it is," said Matilda.

"I do! But you and I will not be alone any more, darling, will we?
Norton is a boy; he must go and come; but you are my own--my little
daughter!--yes, now and always."

She clasped Matilda in her arms and kissed her with lips that trembled
very much; trembled so much that Matilda was afraid she would break
into a passion of tears again; but that was restrained. After a little
she sat back, and stroking Matilda's hair from her brow, asked softly,--

"And what do you say to it, Matilda?"

Matilda tried to find words and could not; trembled; was very near
crying for her own part; finally answered in the only way. In her turn
she threw her arms round Mrs. Laval's neck; in her turn kissed cheeks
and lips, giving herself up for the first time to the feeling of the
new relationship between them. The lady did not let her go, but sat
still with her arms locked around Matilda and Matilda's head in her
neck and both of them motionless, for a good while.

"Will you call me mamma, some day?" she whispered. "Not now;--when you
feel like it. I do not ask it till you feel like it."

"Yes,"--Matilda whispered in answer.

Presently Mrs. Laval began to tell her about the ship fever, and the
nursing, and Miss Redwood; and how she and Miss Redwood had been alone
with everything to do. Then she wanted to hear how Matilda had spent
the weeks at the parsonage; and she was very much amused.

"I believe I'll get you to teach me some day," she said. "It's bad to
be so helpless. But I have learned something in these weeks. Now,
darling, is there anything you would like, that I can give you?
anything that would be a pleasure to you? Speak and tell me, before we
go down to lunch."

The colour started into Matilda's face.

"If I could," she said,--"I would like, if you liked it,--if Norton
could go with me again,--I would like very much, to go and see Maria."

"Maria!" said Mrs. Laval. "At Poughkeepsie. Certainly. You shall
go--let me see, this is Monday,--Norton shall take you Thursday. You
must try and find something to take to Maria that she would like. What
would she like?"

Mrs. Laval was drawing out her purse. Matilda, in a flush of delight,
could not think what Maria would like; so Mrs. Laval gave her five
dollars and bade her come to her for more if she needed it.

Five dollars to buy Maria a present! Matilda went down to luncheon with
her head and her heart so full that she could hardly eat What should
the present be? and what a beginning of beautiful and delightful things
was this. She was as still as a mouse, and eat about as much. Mrs.
Laval and Norton were full of business.

"How soon do we go to town, mamma?"

"As soon as possible! You ought to be going to school. But--what day is
it to-day?"

"Monday, mamma."

"No, no; I mean what day of the month. It is the middle of November,
and past. I can't go till the beginning of next month."

"Soon enough," said Norton. "Mamma, is Pink to go to school?"

Mrs. Laval looked at Matilda, smiled, but made no answer.

"Mamma, let me teach her."

"You?" said Mrs. Laval. "We will see."

"There's another thing. Mamma, is she to have an allowance?"

"Certainly."

"How much, mamma?"

"As much as you have."

"Then she'll be rich," said Norton. "She hasn't got boots to buy. My
boots eat up my money."

"I am afraid Matilda's boots will be quite as troublesome to her. Don't
you think she will want boots?"

"Girls' boots don't cost so much, do they?"

"It depends on where you get them."

"Mamma, Pink will not get her boots where you get yours, unless you
give her the direction very carefully. She will think she must save the
money for Lilac lane. You must take care of her, mamma; or she will
think she ought to take a whole district on her hands, and a special
block of old women."

Mrs. Laval again looked fondly at Matilda, and put a delicate bit on
her plate, observing that she was not eating anything.

"You are to take her to Poughkeepsie Thursday, Norton, to see her
sister."

"That's jolly," said Norton. "I want to be in Poughkeepsie, to see
