the earth, to its perfect shape, when, sixty or seventy feet in height,
it rears its fan crown high in air. The oldest trees may be known by a
perfectly smooth trunk; all traces of the scaly formation by which it
has built itself up in ring after ring of leaves being obliterated. But
younger trees, thirty or forty feet in height, often show a trunk which
seems to present a regular criss-cross of basket-work,--the remaining
scales from whence the old leaves have decayed and dropped away. These
scaly trunks are often full of ferns, wild flowers, and vines, which
hang in fantastic draperies down their sides, and form leafy and flowery
pillars. The palmetto-hammocks, as they are called, are often miles in
extent along the banks of the rivers. The tops of the palms rise up
round in the distance as so many hay-cocks, and seeming to rise one
above another far as the eye can reach.

We have never been so fortunate as to be able to explore one of these
palmetto-groves. The boat sails with a provoking quickness by many a
scene that one longs to dwell upon, study, and investigate. We have been
told, however, by hunters, that they afford admirable camping-ground,
being generally high and dry, with a flooring of clean white sand. Their
broad leaves are a perfect protection from rain and dew; and the effect
of the glare of the campfires and torch-lights on the tall pillars, and
waving, fan-like canopy overhead, is said to be perfectly magical. The
most unromantic and least impressible speak of it with enthusiasm.

In going up the river, darkness overtook us shortly after leaving
Pilatka. We sat in a golden twilight, and saw the shores every moment
becoming more beautiful; but when the twilight faded, and there was no
moon, we sought the repose of our cabin. It was sultry as August,
although only the first part of May; and our younger and sprightlier
members, who were on the less breezy side of the boat, after fruitlessly
trying to sleep, arose and dressed themselves, and sat all night on
deck.

By this means they saw a sight worth seeing, and one which we should
have watched all night to see. The boat's course at night is through
narrows of the river, where we could hear the crashing and crackling of
bushes and trees, and sometimes a violent thud, as the boat, in turning
a winding, struck against the bank. On the forward part two great
braziers were kept filled with blazing, resinous light-wood, to guide
the pilot in the path of the boat. The effect of this glare of red light
as the steamer passed through the palmetto hummocks and moss-hung
grottoes of the forest was something that must have been indescribably
weird and beautiful; and our young friends made us suitably regret that
our more airy sleeping-accommodations had lost us this experience.

In the morning we woke at Enterprise, having come through all the most
beautiful and characteristic part of the way by night. Enterprise is
some hundred and thirty miles south of our dwelling-place in Mandarin;
and, of course, that much nearer the tropical regions. We had planned
excursions, explorations, picnics in the woods, and a visit to the
beautiful spring in the neighborhood; but learned with chagrin that the
boat made so short a stay, that none of these things were possible. The
only thing that appears to the naked eye of a steamboat traveller in
Enterprise is a large hotel down upon the landing, said by those who
have tested it to be one of the best kept hotels in Florida. The aspect
of the shore just there is no way picturesque or inviting, but has more
that forlorn, ragged, desolate air that new settlements on the river
are apt to have. The wild, untouched banks are beautiful; but the new
settlements generally succeed in destroying all Nature's beauty, and
give you only leafless, girdled trees, blackened stumps, and naked white
sand, in return.

Turning our boat homeward, we sailed in clear morning light back through
the charming scenery which we had slept through the night before. It is
the most wild, dream-like, enchanting sail conceivable. The river
sometimes narrows so that the boat brushes under overhanging branches,
and then widens into beautiful lakes dotted with wooded islands.
Palmetto-hammocks, live-oak groves, cypress, pine, bay, and magnolia
form an interchanging picture; vines hang festooned from tree to tree;
wild flowers tempt the eye on the near banks; and one is constantly
longing for the boat to delay here or there: but on goes her steady
course, the pictured scene around constantly changing. Every now and
then the woods break away for a little space, and one sees orange and
banana orchards, and houses evidently newly built. At many points the
boat landed, and put off kegs of nails, hoes, ploughs, provisions,
groceries. Some few old plantations were passed, whose name and history
seemed familiar to Madam Rose; but by far the greater number were new
settlements, with orchards of quite young trees, which will require
three or four more years to bring into bearing.

The greater number of fruit-orchards and settlements were on the eastern
shore of the river, which, for the reasons we have spoken of, is better
adapted to the culture of fruit.

One annoyance on board the boat was the constant and pertinacious firing
kept up by that class of men who think that the chief end of man is to
shoot something. Now, we can put up with good earnest hunting or fishing
done for the purpose of procuring for man food, or even the fur and
feathers that hit his fancy and taste.

But we detest indiscriminate and purposeless maiming and killing of
happy animals, who have but one life to live, and for whom the agony of
broken bones or torn flesh is a helpless, hopeless pain, unrelieved by
any of the resources which enable us to endure. A parcel of hulking
fellows sit on the deck of a boat, and pass through the sweetest
paradise God ever made, without one idea of its loveliness, one gentle,
sympathizing thought of the animal happiness with which the Creator has
filled these recesses. All the way along is a constant fusillade upon
every living thing that shows itself on the bank. Now a bird is hit, and
hangs, head downward, with a broken wing; and a coarse laugh choruses
the deed. Now an alligator is struck; and the applause is greater. We
once saw a harmless young alligator, whose dying struggles, as he threw
out his poor little black paws piteously like human hands, seemed to be
vastly diverting to these cultivated individuals. They wanted nothing of
him except to see how he would act when he was hit, dying agonies are so
very amusing!

Now and then these sons of Nimrod in their zeal put in peril the nerves,
if not lives, of passengers. One such actually fired at an alligator
right across a crowd of ladies, many of them invalids; and persisted in
so firing a second time, after having been requested to desist. If the
object were merely to show the skill of the marksman, why not practise
upon inanimate objects? An old log looks much like an alligator: why not
practise on an old log? It requires as much skill to hit a branch, as
the bird singing on it: why not practise on the branch? But no: it must
be something that enjoys and can suffer; something that loves life,
and must lose it. Certainly this is an inherent savagery difficult to
account for. Killing for killing's sake belongs not even to the tiger.
The tiger kills for food; man, for amusement.

At evening we were again at Pilatka; when the great question was
discussed, Would we, or would we not, take the tour up the Okalewaha to
see the enchanted wonders of the Silver Spring! The Okalewaha boat lay
at the landing; and we went to look at it. The Okalewaha is a deep,
narrow stream, by the by, emptying into the St. John's, with a course as
crooked as Apollo's ram's horn; and a boat has been constructed for the
express purpose of this passage.

The aspect of this same boat on a hot night was not inspiriting. It was
low, long, and narrow; its sides were rubbed glassy smooth, or torn and
creased by the friction of the bushes and trees it had pushed through.
It was without glass windows,--which would be of no use in such
navigation,--and, in place thereof, furnished with strong shutters to
close the air-holes. We looked at this same thing as it lay like a
gigantic coffin in the twilight, and thought even the Silver Spring
would not pay for being immured there, and turned away.

A more inviting project was to step into a sail-boat, and be taken in
the golden twilight over to Col. Harte's orange-grove, which is
said--with reason, we believe--to be the finest in Florida.

We landed in the twilight in this grove of six hundred beautiful
orange-trees in as high condition as the best culture could make them.
The well-fed orange-tree is known by the glossy, deep green of its
foliage, as a declining tree is by the yellow tinge of its leaves. These
trees looked as if each leaf, if broken, would spurt with juice. Piles
of fish-guano and shell banks, prepared as top-dress for the orchard,
were lying everywhere about, mingling not agreeably with the odor of
orange-blossoms. We thought to ourselves, that, if the orange-orchard
must be fed upon putrefying fish, we should prefer not to have a house
in it. The employee who has charge of the orchard lives in a
densely-shaded cottage in the edge of it. A large fruit-house has
recently been built there; and the experiments of Col. Harte seem to
demonstrate, that, even if there occur severe frosts in the early
winter, there is no sort of need, therefore, of losing the orange-crop.
His agent showed us oranges round and fair that had been kept three
months in moss in this fruit-house, and looking as fresh and glossy as
those upon the trees. This, if proved by experience, always possible,
does away with the only uncertainty relating to the orange-crop.
Undoubtedly the fruit is far better to continue all winter on the trees,
