“I am surprised that she consented.”

“At first she did refuse; but when I told her that the Professor was
going, she said that under those circumstances, as we might expect much
valuable information on the way, she would give her consent.”

“And the Professor?”

“Oh, I asked him, of course; he is the most good-natured old gentleman
in the world; I can always make him do any thing I please. But poor Miss
Sharp--how Aunt Di has been talking to her this morning! ‘How you, at
your age,’ was part of it.”

A week later we were taken to see the old Buckingham Smith place, now
the property of a Northern gentleman, who has built a modern winter
residence on the site of the old house.

“This is her creek, Aunt Di,” I said, as the avenue leading to the house
crossed a small muddy ditch.

“Whose, Niece Martha?”

“Maria Sanchez, of course. Don’t you remember the mysterious watery
heroine who navigated these marshes several centuries ago? She perfectly
haunts me! Talk about Huguenots arising and glaring at you, Sara; they
are nothing to this Maria. The question is, Who was she?”

“I know,” answered Iris. “She is my old friend of the Dismal Swamp.
‘They made her a grave too cold and damp,’ you know, and she refused to
stay in it. ‘Her fire-fly lamp I soon shall see, her paddle I soon shall
hear--’”

“Well, if you do, let me know,” I said. “She must be a very muddy sort
of a ghost; there isn’t more than a spoonful of water in her creek as
far down as I can see.”

“But no doubt it was a deep tide-water stream in its day, Miss Martha,”
said John Hoffman; “deep enough for either romance or drowning.”

Beyond the house opened out the long orange-tree aisles--beautiful walks
arched in glossy green foliage--half a mile of dense leafy shade.

“This is the sour orange,” said our guide, “a tree extensively
cultivated in the old days for its hardy growth and pleasant shade. It
is supposed to be an exotic run wild, for the orange is not indigenous
here. When Florida was ceded to England in exchange for Cuba, most of
the Spanish residents left, and their gardens were then found well
stocked with oranges and lemons, figs, guavas, and pomegranates.”

“Poor Florida! nobody wanted her,” said John. “The English only kept her
twenty years, and then bartered her away again to Spain for the Bahamas,
and in 1819 Spain was glad to sell her to the United States. The latter
government, too, may have had its own thoughts as to the value of the
purchase, which, although cheap at five millions in the first place,
soon demanded nineteen more millions for its own little quarrel with
that ancient people, the Seminoles.”

“Headed, do not forget to mention, by Osceola,” added Sara.

“Beautiful fruit, at least in appearance,” I said, picking up one of the
large oranges that lay by the hundreds on the ground. “Are they of no
use?”

“The juice is occasionally sold in small quantities,” replied our guide.
“At one time it commanded a price of a dollar per gallon, and was used
in place of vinegar in the British navy. It makes a delicious acid drink
when fresh--better than lemonade.”

We lingered in the beautiful orange aisles, and heard the story of the
old place: how it had descended from father to son, and finally, upon
the death of the owner who was childless, it came into the possession of
a nephew. But among other papers was found one containing the owner’s
purpose to bequeath his property to the poor colored people of St.
Augustine. This will, if it could so be called, without witnesses, and
in other ways informal, was of no value in the eyes of the law. The
owner had died suddenly away from home, and there was no testimony to
prove that the paper expressed even a cherished intention. Nevertheless,
the heir at law, with rare disinterestedness, carried out the vague
wish; the place was sold, and all the proceeds invested for the benefit
of the colored people, the charity taking the form of a Home for their
aged and infirm, which is supported by the income from this money, the
building itself having been generously given for the purpose by another
prominent citizen of St. Augustine.

“You must see old Uncle Jack,” concluded the speaker. “Before the war
his master sent him several times to Boston with large sums of money,
and intrusted him with important business, which he never failed to
execute properly. By the terms of the will he has a certain portion of
the land for his lifetime. That is his old cabin. Let us go over there.”

Close down under the walls of the grand new mansion stood a low cabin,
shaded by the long drooping leaves of the banana; hens and chickens
walked in and out the open door, and most of the household furniture
seemed to be outside, in the comfortable Southern fashion. Uncle Jack
came to meet us--a venerable old man, with white hair, whose years
counted nearly a full century.

“The present owner of the place has ordered a new house built for Jack,
a picturesque porter’s lodge, near the entrance,” said our guide, “but
I doubt whether the old man will be as comfortable there as in this old
cabin where he has lived so long. The negroes, especially the old
people, have the strongest dislike to any elevation like a door-step or
a piazza; they like to be right on the ground; they like to cook when
they are hungry, and sleep when they are tired, and enjoy their pipes in
peace. Rules kill them, and they can not change: we must leave them
alone, and educate the younger generation.”



Returning down the arched walks, we crossed over into a modern
sweet-orange grove, the most beautiful in St. Augustine or its vicinity.
Some of the trees were loaded with blossoms, some studded with the full
closed buds which we of the North are accustomed to associate with the
satin of bridal robes, some had still their golden fruit, and others had
all three at once, after the perplexing fashion of the tropics.

“There are about eight hundred trees here,” said our guide, “and some of
them yield annually five thousand oranges each. There is a story extant,
one of the legends of St. Augustine, that formerly orange-trees covered
the Plaza, and that one of them yielded annually twelve thousand
oranges.”

“What an appalling mass of sweetness!” said Sara. “I am glad that tree
died; it was too good to live, like the phenomenal children of
Sunday-school literature.”



“In the old Spanish days,” said John, “this neighborhood was one vast
orange grove; ships loaded with the fruit sailed out of the harbor, and
the grandees of Spain preferred the St. Augustine orange to any other.
In Spain the trees live to a great age; some of them are said to be six
hundred years old, having been planted by the Moors, but here an
unexpected frost has several times destroyed all the groves, so that
the crop is by no means a sure one.”

“So the frost does come here,” I said. “We have seen nothing of it; the
thermometer has ranged from sixty-eight to seventy-eight ever since we
arrived.”

“They had snow in New York last week,” said Aunt Di.

“It has melted, I think,” said John. “At least I saw this item last
evening in a New York paper: ‘If the red sleigher thinks that he sleighs
to-day, he is mistaken!’”

“Shades of Emerson and Brahma, defend us!” said Sara.

Then we all began to eat oranges, and make dripping spectacles of
ourselves generally. I defy any one to be graceful, or even dainty, with
an orange; it is a great, rich, generous, pulpy fruit, and you have got
to eat it in a great, rich, generous, pulpy way. How we did enjoy those
oranges under the glossy green and fragrant blossoms of the trees
themselves! We gave it up then and there, and said openly that no bought
Northern oranges could compare with them.

“I don’t feel politically so much disturbed now about the cost of that
sea-wall,” said Sara, “if it keeps this orange grove from washing away.
It is doing a sweet and noble duty in life, and herein is cause
sufficient for its stony existence.”
