
"Is their removal attended with danger?" he asked.

"None," replied Dr. Hillhouse.

"Have you ever taken a tumor from the neck?"

"Yes. I have operated in cases of this kind often."

"Were you always successful?"

"Yes; in every instance."

Mr. Carlton breathed more freely. After a pause, he said, his lips
growing white as he spoke:

"There will have to be an operation in this case?"

"It cannot, I fear, be avoided," replied the doctor.

"There is one comfort," said Mr. Carlton, rallying and speaking in a
more cheerful voice. "The tumor is small and superficial in
character. The knife will not have to go very deep among the veins
and arteries."

Doctor Hillhouse did not correct his error.

"How long will it take?" queried the anxious husband, to whom the
thought of cutting down into the tender flesh of his wife was so
painful that it completely unmanned him.

"Not very long," answered the doctor.

"Ten minutes?"

"Yes, or maybe a little longer."

"She will feel no pain?"

"None."

"Nor be conscious of what you are doing?"

"She will be as much in oblivion as a sleeping infant," replied the
doctor.

Mr. Carlton turned from Dr. Hillhouse and walked the whole length of
the parlor twice, then stood still, and said, with painful
impressiveness:

"Doctor, I place her in your hands. She is ready for anything we may
decide upon as best."

He stopped and turned partly away to hide his feelings. But
recovering himself, and forcing a smile to his lips, he said:

"To your professional eyes I show unmanly weakness. But you must
bear in mind how very dear she is to me. It makes me shiver in every
nerve to think of the knife going down into her tender flesh. You
might cut me to pieces, doctor, if that would save her."

"Your fears exaggerate everything," returned Doctor Hillhouse, in an
assuring voice. "She will go into a tranquil sleep, and while
dreaming pleasant dreams we will quickly dissect out the tumor, and
leave the freed organs to continue their healthy action under the
old laws of unobstructed life."

"When ought it to be done?" asked Mr. Carlton the tremor coming back
into his voice.

"The sooner, the better, after an operation is decided upon,"
answered the doctor. "I will make another examination in about two
weeks. The changes that take place in that time will help me to a
clearer decision than it is possible to arrive at now."

After a lapse of two weeks Doctor Hillhouse, in company with another
surgeon, made a second examination. What his conclusions were will
appear in the following conversation held with Dr. Angier.

"The tumor is not of a malignant character," Doctor Hillhouse
replied, in answer to his assistant's inquiry. "But it is larger
than I at first suspected and is growing very rapidly. From a slight
suffusion of Mrs. Carlton's face which I did not observe at any
previous visit, it is evident that the tumor is beginning to press
upon the carotids. Serious displacements of blood-vessels, nerves,
glands and muscles must soon occur if this growth goes on."

"Then her life is in danger?" said Dr. Angier.

"It is assuredly, and nothing but a successful operation can save
her."

"What does Doctor Kline think of the case?"

"He agrees with me as to the character of the tumor, but thinks it
larger than an orange, deeply cast among the great blood-vessels,
and probably so attached to their sheaths as to make its extirpation
not only difficult, but dangerous."

"Will he assist you in the operation?"

"Yes."

Dr. Hillhouse became thoughtful and silent. His countenance wore a
serious, almost troubled aspect.

"Never before," he said, after a long pause, "have I looked forward
to an operation with such a feeling of concern as I look forward to
this. Three or four months ago, when there was only a little sack
there, it could have been removed without risk. But I greatly fear
that in its rapid growth it has become largely attached to the
blood-vessels and the sheaths of nerves, and you know how difficult
this will make the operation, and that the risk will be largely
increased. The fact is, doctor, I am free to say that it would be
more agreeable to me if some other surgeon had the responsibility of
this case."

"Dr. Kline would, no doubt, be very ready to take it off of your
hands."

"If the family were satisfied, I would cheerfully delegate the work
to him," said Doctor Hillhouse.

"He's a younger man, and his recent brilliant operations have
brought him quite prominently before, the public."

As he spoke Doctor Hillhouse, who was past sixty-five and beginning
to feel the effects of over forty years of earnest professional
labor, lifted his small hand, the texture of which, was as fine as
that of a woman's, and holding it up, looked at it steadily for some
moments. It trembled just a little.

"Not quite so firm as it was twenty years ago," he remarked, with a
slight depression in his voice.

"But the sight is clearer and the skill greater," said Doctor
Angier.

"I don't know about the sight." returned Doctor Hillhouse. "I'm
afraid that is no truer than the hand."

"The inner sight, I mean, the perception that comes from
long-applied skill," said Doctor Angier. "That is something in which
you have the advantage of younger men."

Doctor Hillhouse made no reply to this, but sat like one in deep
and, perplexed thought for a considerable time.

"I must see Doctor Kline and go over the case with him more
carefully," he remarked at length. "I shall then be able to see with
more clearness what is best. The fact that I feel so averse to
operating myself comes almost as a warning; and if no change should
occur in my feelings, I shall, with the consent of the family,
transfer the knife to Doctor Kline."






