
"You are a literalist. How can 'the trees of the field clap their
hands'?"

"Does the Bible say they do?"

"It says they will. And it says 'Let the floods clap their hands; let
the hills be joyful together before the Lord; for He cometh!'--"

"But that is very strange too," said Flora. "'He cometh to judge the
earth;' I know the chant; but it seems solemn and dreadful, and it is
sung in the minor key."

"I know," said Mr. Murray. "The composer did not understand the
rejoicing either."

"But how can any one, Mr. Murray?"

"Those 'that love His appearing,' Miss Flora?"

"I suppose I am very bad, Mr. Murray; but I tell you just how I feel.
That seems to me the most awful of times, and nothing but awful."

"Perfectly correct, Miss Flora, and just as it is described in the
Bible. When the kings and the great men and the rich men will say to the
mountains and to the rocks, 'Fall on us, and hide us!'--"

"But you talk of being glad?" said Flora, looking a good deal troubled.

"Ay, but I was thinking of the other party," said Mr. Murray
gravely,--"from whom will go up a very different cry, a shout of
gladness--'Lo, this is our God! we have waited for Him, and He will save
us.'"

"Save them from what?"

"From all the oppressions and miseries inflicted upon them by the rulers
of this world; and more, from all the evils under which humanity has
been groaning ever since the fall. Then will strike the hour of the
world's freedom. That will be the time when the bridegroom cometh, and
they that are ready will go in with him to the marriage. Don't you think
they will be glad, who have been waiting in darkness and weariness for
so long? Then comes the marriage supper, and the everlasting union
between Christ and His Church. Should not the Church be glad!"

"You said, 'they that are ready.'"

"Yes."

"Who are they?"

"Do you remember the parable of the marriage supper? Don't you
recollect, one man had not on a wedding garment?"

"But what is the wedding-garment?" said Flora, who looked as if she
had some difficulty to keep her composure.

"Shall I answer you in the words of one of old time?--'I will greatly
rejoice in the Lord, my soul shall be joyful in my God; for He hath
clothed me with the garments of salvation, He hath covered me with the
robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decketh himself with ornaments,
and as a bride adorneth herself with her jewels.'"

"Then it is something given," said Flora slowly.

"Given, by the King to the guests; a free gift, Miss Flora, to all who
accept the King's invitation."

Flora asked no more, but lay still on her couch of pine branches,
looking out on the calm and glorified hills. Nobody else broke the
silence; I think Fenton was gone to sleep; and the others were quiet.

"The shadows are going the wrong way," said Flora at last. "I wish this
day would last longer!"

"'A thing of beauty is a joy for ever,'" said Meredith.

"Don't quote such a dreadfully hackneyed sentiment!" said his sister.
"How comes it, Mr. Murray, that beautiful things in nature never grow
hackneyed?"

"They are always fresh. No two days in one's experience are just like
each other."

"There never was a day in my experience like this one," said Flora.
"Ditto, aren't you going to read some more?"

"It will be a variety, if I do."

"We are made to like variety--as Mr. Murray has just reminded you."

Meredith guessed that his sister cared more about putting off the hour
of departure than about the reading in the abstract; and he opened his
book again, for nobody else made any objection to Flora's proposal.

"I shall read you," said he, "the story of a pastor and a farmer."

"Those are the people your stories are generally about," said Flora. "I
hope the variety will lie in the treatment. Go on. I don't care what you
read."

"'In a certain country, that I am not going to name, there is a parish
village. In the parsonage lives a pastor; it is not I, however. This
pastor faithfully serves our beloved church with the Word of God, which
he preaches in truth, and with the holy sacraments, which he administers
as he ought. And wherever this is done, the fruit will not be wanting;
for God has promised it, and He keeps His word still, although among
men there is little truth or faith any longer to be found.

"'With temporal goods, however, this pastor is not specially well
provided; and were it not that he has a living God in the heavens, he
must many a time grow anxious and dispirited; which in truth he does not
always escape, as he himself humbly confesses. For if you have a small
benefice, a large family, and a couple of children at school to boot,
sometimes that gives even a believer the headache; though indeed there
is no need for that, were faith but strong and prayer simple enough. Now
there are cultivated fields belonging to the living; but as the pastor
cannot drive the plough spiritual and the plough agricultural both at
once, he hires out his ground; that he may give himself the more
diligently to the cultivation of hearts. From these hired-out acres
comes not a small part of his scanty means, and therefore it becomes a
very desirable thing that he should dispose of his ground suitably. With
most of his fields, indeed, this is not difficult, for they are fruitful
and favourably situated and easy to get a good tenant for them. But one
of his pieces of ground, and a pretty large one, lies on the slope of a
hill which is wooded at the top; this field nobody will take, because in
great rains loose earth and stones come rolling down over the slope from
the hill above, and in this way the whole crop may easily be destroyed.
It comes to my mind that the fault probably lies at the door of the
beloved Enclosings. In the course of them it might well happen that too
much wood has been cleared from the hill and sold. By that means the
soil has been laid bare and the rain floods can wash it off anywhere
they come. At any rate, nobody wants the field; and it always gives the
pastor a stab in the heart when he comes past it; and he does not
content himself with thinking, but he prays too, and promises that he
will give to the Lord Jesus, for the mission, a portion of the hire of
the field, if only a tenant may be found for it.

"'And He in the heavens has heard the pastor's prayer. Not long after,
there comes a man of the parish, who is not in possession of ground
enough to make his farming suffice for the wants of his family, and who
therefore would willingly hire some more acres. He offers to take the
neglected field off the pastor's hands. The upright pastor does not hide
from him the reason why the field has hitherto found no tenant. But this
man, who loves the Lord Jesus, and who therefore is a hearty friend of
his pastor, declares that he has already quietly considered all that;
and he has thought among other things that it must be very important to
the pastor to let out this field, for to be sure the boys cost money;
and it is very desirable for himself to hire a field, since he also has
a great many mouths to feed. So both of them would be the better off.
The Lord must have the care of the thing, and that He is well able for;
he himself also would pray the Lord faithfully to this end, and he would
make it the one stipulation with his beloved pastor, that he would stand
by him and help him in faithful prayer. The two men gave each other the
hand upon that. The man hiring the ground had also told the Lord that he
would give Him a portion of the produce of the field for the conversion
of the heathen, and that all the same whether the produce were much or
little. But the man had said nothing about this to his pastor, and he
again on the other side had said nothing to the man about his own
contract with the Lord; so that each of them had thus kept in his heart
