  ——
  Clam Chowder.
  Baked Pickerel.      Veal Scallop.
  Mashed Potatoes, Browned.      Green Peas.
  ——
  Strawberry Shortcake.
  Tea.
  ——


CLAM CHOWDER.

  100 clams.
  1 sliced onion.
  12 butter or other small crackers, that can be split.
  12 tomatoes, peeled and chopped.
  1 tablespoonful minced parsley and half the quantity of mixed
          thyme, summer savory and sweet marjoram.
  A large pinch of mace and the same of cayenne pepper.
  1 cup of milk—hot—for soaking the crackers, and butter for
          spreading them.
  3 tablespoonfuls butter for chowder.
  Salt.

Put a layer of clams in the bottom of a soup-pot, next one of sliced
tomatoes and onion. Sprinkle with seasoning, and drop bits of butter
upon them. More clams, more tomato, etc., until all are in. Pour on the
liquor—there should be at least three pints—cover, heat slowly for half
an hour, then boil quite briskly for twenty minutes. Meanwhile, soak
the split crackers—covered—in the boiling milk. When soft all through,
butter thickly, and keep warm over boiling water until the soup is
ready. Then line a hot tureen with them, and pour in the chowder. Pass
sliced lemon with it.


BAKED PICKEREL.

Select a couple of large, fresh fish; score the back-bones with a sharp
knife, and lay them in a baking-pan. Pour a cupful of boiling water
over them, cover, and bake slowly, basting with butter and water,
at least six times. The fish should be tender, yet firm when done.
Transfer them carefully to a hot-water dish. Have ready a cupful of
rich, drawn butter; strain the gravy from the dripping-pan into it,
with a little minced parsley. Heat almost to a boil and pour over the
fish. There is no better way of cooking large pickerel than this.


VEAL SCALLOP.

Chop the remains of your fillet fine, and season with pepper and salt.
Put a layer of dry crumbs in a buttered bake-dish; stick bits of butter
over it; cover with the meat and wet this with gravy and warm milk.
Repeat this order of strata until your dish is full, covering deep with
crumbs. Fit a tin cover on the top and bake half an hour; remove the
lid and brown nicely. Serve in the bake-dish.


MASHED POTATOES—BROWNED.

Mash soft with milk and butter; whip up to a cream; season, and make
into a four-sided pyramid upon a greased pie-dish. Brown in a good oven
and slip to a warm dish. Pass with the fish.


GREEN PEAS.

Please see receipt given on Sunday of this week.


STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE.

Please see receipt given on Friday of Fourth Week in May. The
strawberry season is so short that you can hardly give this popular
dessert often enough to weary your family while the scarlet, flavorous
beauties last.


TEA,

Hot and strong, will be the better for a little cream borrowed from the
supply meant for your shortcake.



  First Week.      Saturday.
  ——
  Marlowe Soup.
  Beefs Tongue (Langue du Bœuf).      Squeezed Potatoes.
  French Beans, Sautés.      Young Beets.
  ——
  Cherry Pie.
  ——


MARLOWE SOUP.

  2 lbs. of lean veal and the same of lean beef.
  1 lb. of lean ham.
  2 onions.
  1 carrot.
  1 turnip.
  ¼ of a head of cabbage, chopped and parboiled.
  Bunch of sweet herbs.
  6 tomatoes, peeled and sliced.
  ½ cup of rice.
  Pepper and salt.
  5 quarts of cold water.

Cut up meat and vegetables fine, and put with the water into the
soup-kettle. Cook slowly four hours. Strain the soup, rubbing the
vegetables through the colander. Divide the liquor into two parts. Put
with the meat—all highly seasoned—into a stoneware vessel and set by
in the refrigerator. Let the other portion cool; take off the fat;
season; put over the fire; boil and skim for a few minutes, and put in
the rice. Simmer very gently half an hour, or until the rice is very
soft.


BEEF’S TONGUE—(LANGUE DU BŒUF).

Wash a large, perfectly fresh tongue in three waters. Then cover well
with boiling water, a little salt—plenty of it—and cook about twelve
minutes to the pound. Strip off the skin; dish, when you have trimmed
away the root, and pour over it the following sauce: Strain a cup of
the liquor in which the tongue was boiled; set over the fire, and stir
in two tablespoonfuls of butter cut up in flour, pepper to taste;
the juice of a lemon, and when this has thickened, two small pickled
cucumbers, chopped. This is a dish whose merits deserve to be better
known. (Save the liquor.)


SQUEEZED POTATOES.

Put on in cold water, and bring quickly to a boil. When soft enough
to be pierced by a fork, turn off the water; throw in a little salt,
and dry on the range. Tear off the skins quickly, and as soon as each
is bare, envelop it in the corner of a dry, hot towel and twist the
same tightly around it for a second, but not quite breaking it. Pile
within a napkin-lined dish, and send up hot.


FRENCH BEANS—SAUTÉS.

Top, tail, and “string” with care. Cut into short pieces. Cook in
boiling water, a little salt, until tender—say thirty minutes, if they
are full-grown. Drain well; return to the saucepan with two great
spoonfuls of butter, salt, pepper, and a teaspoonful of vinegar. Toss
until very hot, and turn into a hot, deep dish.


YOUNG BEETS.

Boil in hot, salt water one hour. When done, rub off the skins; split
the beets lengthwise and lay upon a hot dish. Have ready a great
spoonful of melted butter, mixed with two of vinegar, a little salt
and pepper, heated to boiling, and pour over the beets. Be careful not
to break the skin of raw beets, or they will lose their color in the
hot water while cooking.


