half the winter with what wiser heads than mine have said about capital
and labor,--Mill and Brassey and Howell, and our own men, with soft,
sweet bits of Ruskin, and savage bits of Carlyle. I don't know but
Carlyle was right when he said, 'The beginning and the end of what is
the matter with us, in these days, is, that we have forgotten God.'
Cameron said it another way,--honor and honesty. Because, certainly,
honor appeals to all that is noblest in human nature,--to chivalry, and
tenderness and thought for others; and nothing ever prospered, in the
long-run, that did not have a substratum of truth."

"Well, according to Bristow, we came back to him this winter--not I,
Darcy, I don't make any pretence,"--and he shook his head with slow
gravity. "But I was interested in the revival on psychological grounds.
I had never been so inside of one before. Bristow is a good man, no
doubt; but it is just the one chosen way with him,--strong crying and
praying, and believing yourself a sinner above all men, and then a
sudden peace and happiness, and a courage to endure,--a blind,
unreasoning courage to take the present as it is, because God sent it,
and it must be for the best. Boyd and Whitlow and Kenny were the great
lights. They went about from house to house; they exhorted and prayed.
Whitlow was one of the old bank-directors. Strange to say, he did not
lose a penny. His money was in government-bonds; and now he has
persuaded Yerbury that if his advice had been taken there would have
been no trouble. Whitlow discharged his man this winter, and took in his
place a half-grown boy. Mrs. Whitlow sets a good example to her class by
discharging one handmaid and making the other do double duty. Yet, so
far as I can find, Whitlow is a richer man than he was three years ago.
Kenny keeps his factory open, and gives the men three days' work in the
week, and pays them in poor shoes, as much as possible; and takes out a
good deal in high rent. Boyd, who has the name of being the greatest
saint of all,--does what? Opens that miserable row of houses, that he
couldn't let on any terms, and takes in tenants who are willing to work
out the rent. He gets good prices, too. Is he losing on them? Faugh! the
very term of charity makes me sick. And this winter he purchased a good
deal of the stock of the relief-store. Wretched flour; miserable,
adulterated stuff of tea; pork, some of it that wasn't fit to eat; and
cheap butter, that every one would have been ten times better without. I
went to him one day, red-hot, in a sanitary view of the business; and he
preached religion to me,--his kind. 'Boyd,' said I, 'there's Keppler's
saloon, your own property, paying you a good income, no doubt, in these
hard times, adding to the want and misery of Yerbury faster than your
whole church can save. If you are in earnest, go break up that den of
iniquity!'"

Jack laughed. "What did he say to that?"

"Meekly, that Keppler had a lease for five years, and was going on the
second. The man is so honorable, he cannot break faith with his
fellow-man, forsooth; but he breaks faith with God, in a serene,
untroubled manner." And Maverick's lip curled scornfully under the
fringe of moustache.

"But there must be some gold, or the counterfeit would not be so
successfully received. We have had so much false money everywhere, that,
since we can make that pass, we do not trouble ourselves. And yet,
Maverick, there is something in it that you and I don't see clearly
yet; but we cannot teach it acceptably until we can show better fruit.
And, when leaders of all kinds, in high places, show that self only is
at the bottom of every thing they do, it seems hopeless to demand that
the class below, watching them, and suffering from their wrongdoing,
shall attain a higher moral status. How can they help following coarsely
in the footsteps of their betters?"

"Darcy, suppose you turn parson!" and Maverick laughed half quizzically.
"See here: the world wants a very old sermon preached again to it,
hammered into every fibre, put up over every doorway,--the essence of
all knowledge, all religion, briefly comprehended in this, 'Love thy
neighbor as thyself.' You won't need gown or bands for that work. Not
to have one code of morals for the rich, and one for the poor; one creed
for Sunday, and quite another belief for Monday; to have no lofty,
impossible theories and exalted moods, but truthful, honest living; not
to push away the miserable, ignorant souls, but take them by the hand in
hearty co-operation. Maybe Cameron has the right clew. Why should we let
human love be shamed by such things as an Oneida community or a Mormon
city?"

The strong, earnest voice stirred Jack like martial music. All these
years he had been struggling with a great, blind, confused
something,--perhaps it was not a silver-mine or a railroad, but a work
just here in the town of his boyhood, where he was known, where he had
played and worked.

"Seventeenthly, and lastly," and Maverick looked at his watch, "I cannot
idle any more time upon you, and must cut short with a 'To be
continued.' We will talk it over again and again; and, if we cannot get
it into shape, there is still Florida left. So, while you are dreaming
it out by this great silent mill, whose prisoned spirits should prate of
prosperity instead of desolation, I'll run my course around Yerbury, and
we'll compare notes over our cigars. Addio," waving his hand.

Jack watched the compact figure as it moved briskly away; then he
sauntered round the mill, down one street and up another, strolled out
to Lovers' Lane, and returned by Larch Avenue. The Barry house began to
show signs of life, for old Mat was clearing up the grounds. This was
the one oasis that had not been bitten by speculation. He thought of
winsome little Sylvie, and one summer evening when Irene Lawrence
stepped into that pretty, cosey room with the grace and beauty of a
Juno. Where was she now? And what was Fred doing? Making a great leap
into name and fame, doubtless, now that he was put upon his mettle. The
old boyish freaks came back to his mind, the enthusiastic unreasoning
adoration, the last tender parting. An intense and subtile sympathy
filled his soul; and, though he smiled a little, the memory was very
sacred.

The texture of Jack's mind was not of the quick, brilliant, or sanguine
order. He went over his books again; he ruminated as he cleaned the
garden-paths, spaded the beds, trimmed the trees and shrubbery, and
attended to the odds and ends known only to a careful householder.
Cousin Jane was in her element out here; and they two discoursed of
farming and gardening, and industry, she in a sharp, trenchant way.

She had remarked incidentally that her visit was near its end. Now that
Jack was home, cousin Ellen would not need her.

"I don't see why you should not make your home here, cousin Jane,"
replied Mrs. Darcy. "Grandmother grows feebler all the time, and you
have quite spoiled me by your strength and cheeriness. You have no
nearer tie; and if you could content yourself with us--Jack was
speaking about it a few evenings since. We should like so to keep you,
cousin Jane."

Jane Morgan studied the beseeching eyes a while, then dropped her own,
and thought.

"Very well," she answered, "if you like to have it so. While I am well
and strong I think I ought to do enough somewhere to earn my living, and
not use up the little laid by for a rainy day. If you and Jack are
agreed, we'll consider it a bargain for a year. I like to be settled
about what I'm going to do: there's nothing so uncomfortable as hanging
on tenterhooks. When my visit's through I like to go, if I'm going; not
stand an hour or two with the door-knob in my hand."

Jack was delighted. They could spare him now and then of an evening to
stroll down to Maverick's office, where they discussed pretty nearly
every thing under the sun. It was so in the beginning,--"the earth was
without form, and void." Then the Barrys returned; Sylvie changed in
some indescribable way as to a kind of delicate outside manner, but the
same fresh, earnest girl in heart and soul, taking up her friendship
with Jack just where she had laid it down. Yet they had both grown
broader and richer in nature and experience, and there was something of
the subtile flavor of new acquaintanceship.

Yerbury cleaned house, even to the tidying-up of streets and
carting-away of rubbish. It was pitiful to see the attempts of some of
the poor women, who washed their worn white curtains, scrubbed the
shutters and hall-door, and set out a few ragged geraniums in the front
yard, or made a little bed of lettuce and onions.

Yerbury Savings Bank was in the hands of a receiver. Some sold out their
small accounts for a trifle: it was agreed there could not be much in
the way of dividends. Here was a great mortgage on the Downer farm,
that the Eastmans had partly cut into city lots. And, though Downer had
received a large price, he was a poor man to-day, with no business, and
several sons tramping the highways for work. Farms had not been
profitable, but had the wealth and extravagance produced any better
result? These places around would be sold presently for any sum they
would bring.

"Speculation did look so tempting, though," said Jack with a humorous
smile. "But for grandmother I might have been in the midst of it."
