order; when the door of the room opened softly and Mrs. Busby came in. 
Rotha divined immediately that it was her aunt; the lady wore still the 
bonnet and the shawl in which she had been abroad, and had the air of the 
mistress, indefinable but well to be recognized. Softly she shut the door 
behind her and came towards the fire. Rotha did not dislike her 
appearance. The features were good, the eyes keen, the manner quiet 

"And this is my niece Rotha," she said with a not unkindly smile. "How do 
you do?" She took her hand and kissed her. Alas! the kiss was smooth ice. 
Rotha remembered the last kiss that had touched her lips; how warm and 
soft and firm too it had been; it meant something. This means nothing but 
civility, thought Rotha to herself. 

"You are all alone?" Mrs. Busby went on. "Antoinette had to go out. Shall 
we go up stairs, to my room? We never sit here in the morning." 

Rotha followed her aunt up stairs, where Mrs. Busby laid off hat and 
shawl and made herself comfortable, calling a maid to take them and to 
brighten up the fire. 

"I'll have luncheon up here, Lesbia," she said by the way. "Now Rotha, 
tell me all about yourself and your mother. I have heard nothing for a 
long while, unless from some third person." 

"Mother was ill a long time," said Rotha, uncertain how to render 
obedience to this command. 

"Yes, I know. When did you come to New York?" 

"It is--two years now." 

"Two years!" Mrs. Busby started up in her chair a little, and a faint 
colour rose in her cheeks; then it faded and her lips took a hard set. 
"Ill all that time?" 

"No. She was not ill for the first year." 

"Say, 'No ma'am,' my dear. That is the proper way. Do you know what 
induced her to move to New York, Rotha?" 

"Yes, ma'am," said Rotha colouring. 

"May I know?" 

"Didn't you know we were very poor?" said Rotha in a lower voice. 

"How was that the reason?" 

"We couldn't--I mean--she couldn't, get work at Medwayville." 

"Get work!" Mrs. Busby was silent. Perhaps that was an unfruitful, and 
would prove an unrefreshing, field of inquiry. She would leave it 
unexplored for the present. She paused a little. 

"So since then you have been living in New York?" 

"Yes." 

A longer pause followed. Mrs. Busby looked at the fire and raised one 
eyebrow. 

"Under whose care have you been living, my dear, since you lost your 
mother's?" 

Rotha hesitated. Great soreness of heart combined now with another 
feeling to make her words difficult. She did not at all want to answer. 
Nevertheless the girl's temper was to be frank, and she saw no way of 
evasion here. 

"I have had nobody but Mr. Digby," she said. 

"Mr. Digby! Mr. Southwode, you mean? That is his name, my dear; don't 
speak of him as 'Mr. Digby.'" 

Rotha's mouth opened, and closed. She was forming herself with all her 
might on Mr. Digby's model; and besides that, she was trying to obey his 
injunctions about pleasant behaviour. 

"Where have you lived all this time?" a little shorter than the former 
questions had been put. 

"Since we came to New York?" 

"No, no; since you have been under this gentleman's care? Where have you 
been?" 

"In a pleasant place near the river. I do not know the name of the 
street." 

"Who took care of you there, Rotha?" 

Rotha lifted her eyes. "Mr. Digby--Mr. Southwode." 

"Mr. Southwode! Did he live there himself?" 

"Yes, at that time; not always." 

"Near the river, and in New York?" said Mrs. Busby, mystified. 

"I did not say in New York. It was out of the city." 

"I was out of town," said Mrs. Busby musingly. "I wish I had come home 
earlier, that I might have received you at once. But I am glad I have got 
you now, my dear. Now you will have the pleasure of going to school with 
Antoinette. You will like that, won't you?" 

"I do not know, ma'am. I think so." 

"Why you want to learn, don't you? You don't want to be ignorant; and the 
only way is to go to school and study hard. Have you ever been to school 
at all?" 

"No, ma'am." 

"You will have a great deal to do. And the very first thing for me to do 
is to see to your wardrobe, that you may begin at once. Your box has 
come; I found it down stairs when I came in, and I had it taken right up 
to your room. Have you the key?" 

"Yes, ma'am." 

"Then go up, my dear, immediately; and bring down all your best dresses. 
Then I can see what is to be done." 

As Rotha went out, enter Antoinette. 

"O mamma, here you are! I'm glad, I'm sure. I don't want that young lady 
on my hands any more." 

"How do you like her, Antoinette?" 

"Mamma, did you ever see such a figure? You won't let her go down stairs 
till she is decently dressed, will you? I should be ashamed for even 
Lesbia to see her." 

"Lesbia has got to see her and make the best of it." 

"O but servants always make the worst of it. And company--she couldn't  
be seen by company, mamma. Why she looks as if she had come out of the  
year one. To have such a creature supposed to belong to us!" 

"Mr. Southwode brought her?" 

"Yes, mamma; and you should have seen the parting. I declare, it was 
rather striking! He kissed her, mamma, fancy! a real smacking kiss; and 
Rotha coloured up as if she was delighted. Did you ever hear anything 
like it?" 

"She has done with him now," said Mrs. Busby drily. 

"How'll you manage, mamma, if he comes and asks for her?" 

"Get your things off, Antoinette, and make yourself ready for dinner. Ah, 
here comes Rotha." 

Rotha's arms were full of muslin and lawn dresses, which she deposited on 
the table. Antoinette forgot or disregarded the order she had received 
and came to take part in the inspection. With a face of curiosity and 
business at once, Mrs. Busby unfolded, examined, refolded, one after 
another. 
