and evidence of the seditions and helpless state of the colony. The
narration of the captivity is consistent as it stands, and wholly
inconsistent with the Pocahontas episode.

We extract from the narrative after Smith’s departure from Apocant, the
highest town inhabited, between thirty and forty miles up the river, and
below Orapaks, one of Powhatan’s seats, which also appears on his map.
He writes:

“Ten miles higher I discovered with the barge; in the midway a great
tree hindered my passage, which I cut in two: heere the river became
narrower, 8, 9 or 10 foote at a high water, and 6 or 7 at a lowe: the
stream exceeding swift, and the bottom hard channell, the ground most
part a low plaine, sandy soyle, this occasioned me to suppose it might
issue from some lake or some broad ford, for it could not be far to the
head, but rather then I would endanger the barge, yet to have beene able
to resolve this doubt, and to discharge the imputating malicious tungs,
that halfe suspected I durst not for so long delaying, some of the
company, as desirous as myself, we resolved to hier a canow, and returne
with the barge to Apocant, there to leave the barge secure, and put
ourselves upon the adventure: the country onely a vast and wilde
wilderness, and but only that Towne: within three or foure mile we hired
a canow, and 2 Indians to row us ye next day a fowling: having made such
provision for the barge as was needfull, I left her there to ride, with
expresse charge not any to go ashore til my returne. Though some wise
men may condemn this too bould attempt of too much indiscretion, yet if
they well consider the friendship of the Indians, in conducting me,
the desolatenes of the country, the probabilitie of some lacke, and the
malicious judges of my actions at home, as also to have some matters of
worth to incourage our adventurers in england, might well have caused
any honest minde to have done the like, as wel for his own discharge
as for the publike good: having 2 Indians for my guide and 2 of our own
company, I set forward, leaving 7 in the barge; having discovered 20
miles further in this desart, the river stil kept his depth and bredth,
but much more combred with trees; here we went ashore (being some 12
miles higher than ye barge had bene) to refresh our selves, during the
boyling of our vituals: one of the Indians I tooke with me, to see the
nature of the soile, and to cross the boughts of the river, the other
Indian I left with M. Robbinson and Thomas Emry, with their matches
light and order to discharge a peece, for my retreat at the first sight
of any Indian, but within a quarter of an houre I heard a loud cry, and
a hollowing of Indians, but no warning peece, supposing them surprised,
and that the Indians had betraid us, presently I seazed him and bound
his arme fast to my hand in a garter, with my pistoll ready bent to be
revenged on him: he advised me to fly and seemed ignorant of what was
done, but as we went discoursing, I was struck with an arrow on the
right thigh, but without harme: upon this occasion I espied 2 Indians
drawing their bowes, which I prevented in discharging a french pistoll:
by that I had charged again 3 or 4 more did the ‘like, for the first
fell downe and fled: at my discharge they did the like, my hinde I made
my barricade, who offered not to strive, 20 or 30 arrowes were shot at
me but short, 3 or 4 times I had discharged my pistoll ere the king of
Pamauck called Opeckakenough with 200 men, environed me, each drawing
their bowe, which done they laid them upon the ground, yet without
shot, my hinde treated betwixt them and me of conditions of peace, he
discovered me to be the captaine, my request was to retire to ye boate,
they demanded my armes, the rest they saide were slaine, onely me they
would reserve: the Indian importuned me not to shoot. In retiring being
in the midst of a low quagmire, and minding them more than my steps, I
stept fast into the quagmire, and also the Indian in drawing me forth:
thus surprised, I resolved to trie their mercies, my armes I caste from
me, till which none durst approch me: being ceazed on me, they drew
me out and led me to the King, I presented him with a compasse diall,
describing by my best meanes the use thereof, whereat he so amazedly
admired, as he suffered me to proceed in a discourse of the roundnes of
the earth, the course of the sunne, moone, starres and plannets, with
kinde speeches and bread he requited me, conducting me where the canow
lay and John Robinson slaine, with 20 or 30 arrowes in him. Emry I saw
not, I perceived by the abundance of fires all over the woods, at each
place I expected when they would execute me, yet they used me with what
kindnes they could: approaching their Towne which was within 6 miles
where I was taken, onely made as arbors and covered with mats, which
they remove as occasion requires: all the women and children, being
advertised of this accident came forth to meet, the King well guarded
with 20 bow men 5 flanck and rear and each flanck before him a sword and
a peece, and after him the like, then a bowman, then I on each hand a
boweman, the rest in file in the reare, which reare led forth amongst
the trees in a bishion, eache his bowe and a handfull of arrowes, a
quiver at his back grimly painted: on eache flanck a sargeant, the one
running alwaiss towards the front the other towards the reare, each a
true pace and in exceeding good order, this being a good time continued,
they caste themselves in a ring with a daunce, and so eache man departed
to his lodging, the captain conducting me to his lodging, a quarter of
Venison and some ten pound of bread I had for supper, what I left was
reserved for me, and sent with me to my lodging: each morning three
women presented me three great platters of fine bread, more venison than
ten men could devour I had, my gowne, points and garters, my compas and
a tablet they gave me again, though 8 ordinarily guarded me, I
wanted not what they could devise to content me: and still our longer
acquaintance increased our better affection: much they threatened to
assault our forte as they were solicited by the King of Paspahegh, who
shewed at our fort great signs of sorrow for this mischance: the King
took great delight in understanding the manner of our ships and sayling
the seas, the earth and skies and of our God: what he knew of the
dominions he spared not to acquaint me with, as of certaine men cloathed
at a place called Ocanahonun, cloathed like me, the course of our river,
and that within 4 or 5 daies journey of the falles, was a great turning
of salt water: I desired he would send a messenger to Paspahegh, with a
letter I would write, by which they should understand, how kindly they
used me, and that I was well, lest they should revenge my death; this
he granted and sent three men, in such weather, as in reason were
unpossible, by any naked to be indured: their cruell mindes towards the
fort I had deverted, in describing the ordinance and the mines in the
fields, as also the revenge Captain Newport would take of them at his
returne, their intent, I incerted the fort, the people of Ocanahomm
and the back sea, this report they after found divers Indians that
confirmed: the next day after my letter, came a salvage to my lodging,
with his sword to have slaine me, but being by my guard intercepted,
with a bowe and arrow he offred to have effected his purpose: the cause
I knew not, till the King understanding thereof came and told me of a
man a dying wounded with my pistoll: he tould me also of another I had
slayne, yet the most concealed they had any hurte: this was the father
of him I had slayne, whose fury to prevent, the King presently conducted
me to another kingdome, upon the top of the next northerly river, called
Youghtanan, having feasted me, he further led me to another branch of
the river called Mattapament, to two other hunting townes they led
me, and to each of these Countries, a house of the great Emperor of
Pewhakan, whom as yet I supposed to be at the Fals, to him I tolde him
I must goe, and so returne to Paspahegh, after this foure or five dayes
march we returned to Rasawrack, the first towne they brought me too,
where binding the mats in bundles, they marched two dayes journey and
crossed the River of Youghtanan, where it was as broad as Thames: so
conducting me too a place called Menapacute in Pamunke, where ye King
inhabited; the next day another King of that nation called Kekataugh,
having received some kindness of me at the Fort, kindly invited me to
feast at his house, the people from all places flocked to see me, each
shewing to content me. By this the great King hath foure or five houses,
each containing fourscore or an hundred foote in length, pleasantly
seated upon an high sandy hill, from whence you may see westerly a
goodly low country, the river before the which his crooked course
causeth many great Marshes of exceeding good ground. An hundred houses,
and many large plaines are here together inhabited, more abundance of
fish and fowle, and a pleasanter seat cannot be imagined: the King with
fortie bowmen to guard me, intreated me to discharge my Pistoll, which
they there presented me with a mark at six score to strike therewith
but to spoil the practice I broke the cocke, whereat they were much
discontented though a chaunce supposed. From hence this kind King
conducted me to a place called Topahanocke, a kingdome upon another
river northward; the cause of this was, that the yeare before, a shippe
had beene in the River of Pamunke, who having been kindly entertained by
Powhatan their Emperour, they returned thence, and discovered the River
of Topahanocke, where being received with like kindnesse, yet he slue
the King, and tooke of his people, and they supposed I were bee, but the
people reported him a great man that was Captaine, and using mee kindly,
the next day we departed. This River of Topahanock, seemeth in breadth
not much lesse than that we dwell upon. At the mouth of the River is
a Countrey called Cuttata women, upwards is Marraugh tacum Tapohanock,
Apparnatuck, and Nantaugs tacum, at Topmanahocks, the head issuing from
many Mountains, the next night I lodged at a hunting town of Powhatam’s,
and the next day arrived at Waranacomoco upon the river of Parnauncke,
where the great king is resident: by the way we passed by the top of
another little river, which is betwixt the two called Payankatank. The
most of this country though Desert, yet exceeding fertil, good timber,
most hils and in dales, in each valley a cristall spring.

“Arriving at Weramacomoco, their Emperour, proudly lying upon a Bedstead
a foote high upon tenne or twelve Mattes, richly hung with manie Chaynes
of great Pearles about his necke, and covered with a great covering of
Rahaughcums: At heade sat a woman, at his feete another, on each side
sitting upon a Matte upon the ground were raunged his chiefe men on each
