
"You are taking an entirely wrong view of the matter, Captain
Garningham," protested Cornwood. "I shall be able to prove in due time
that you are utterly mistaken."

"Two thousand dollars were found on you, and the same on Nick."

"I grant that this fact has a suspicious look about it; and I can not
greatly blame you for your course, though the brutality exercised upon
me was entirely unnecessary. Now I will explain the whole matter to you
just as it was; and you will see that you were greatly mistaken."

"I am ready to hear anything you have to say," I replied.

"That four thousand dollars is a rather annoying coincidence," he
began.

"I should think it might be," I added.

"You quite mistake my meaning. I am willing to admit that I have told
professional lies in the interest of my clients. I am Buckner's
counsel, though I told you to the contrary. He admitted his guilt to
me."

"Did he, indeed? Did he tell you what he did with the package of bills
after he took it from the counter?"

"He did: he acknowledged that he was guilty, and told me how it was
done," replied Cornwood, with easy assurance, of which I had seen a
great deal on his part. "Buckner's wife was at the door of the saloon,
and he gave the package to her as he rushed out. She had it under her
shawl before Nick got half way to the door. She went home; and my
client considers it a successful affair. He offered me five hundred
dollars to get him out of the scrape, and that is the fee for which I
am working just now, in part."

"And he gave you the money, did he?" I asked, hardly able to keep from
laughing in the face of the guileless Floridian.

"Not he, for his wife started for Kentucky, or some other state, as
soon as she got the money. This is where the unlucky coincidence comes
in. My first business in Key West was to see that Nick did not return
home, as I feared you would compel him to do when you found him on
board of the Islander. My second was to pay four thousand dollars,
which I drew from the First National Bank of Florida Friday morning
before I started for Cedar Keys."

"O, I see! That was where the four thousand dollars came from," I
exclaimed.

"Precisely so. I was to pay it into the Marine Court, pending a suit in
which I was interested, against a salvage company."

"But you did not pay it in."

"How could I when it was Sunday? I intended to do so the next day. When
I found that Nick did not mean to stop in Key West, I directed Captain
Blastblow to get up his anchor and hurry to New Orleans before the
Sylvania came in. I could not get ashore myself when I had induced Nick
to continue the voyage. The four thousand dollars was a burden to me,
and I asked Nick to take part of it from me to keep till we got to our
destination. The loss of it would ruin me, and I thought it would be
safer in the care of two persons than one. That's the substance of it,
and you can see that it explains the whole affair."

"I see it does: it makes it all as clear as Mississippi mud," I
replied, laughing heartily.

"You evidently do not believe the statement I have made," said the
Floridian, looking very much wounded in his feelings.

"Whether I do or not, Cornwood, we will not quarrel about it," I added,
as good-naturedly as I could.

"I will show you some documents I have in my valise which will make it
all as clear as the pure waters of Green Cove Springs."

"I think I will not look at them at present. Has Nick learned this
story by heart?" I inquired. "He used to be a very bungling liar when
we were small boys together; and I don't know whether he has improved
any or not."

"I think it is rather cruel of you, Captain Garningham, to sport with
my feelings when I have been subjected to such inconvenience and
discomfort by you."

"I must be candid with you, Cornwood. If I take your statement for the
truth, I judge that you are liable to the state prison, or whatever you
call it in Florida, for what you have done. You know that Buckner is
guilty, but you are engaged in a conspiracy to keep the principal
witness out of court, which makes you virtually an accomplice to the
crime."

"You forget the duty I owe my client, who has entrusted his sacred
liberty in my keeping."

"Most of the lawyers I ever knew were honest men, and I don't believe
one of them would resort to such a trick to clear his client. What's
all that?" I exclaimed, as I saw a gathering on the levee of the right
bank of the river.

"A crevasse in the levee," said the pilot. "It's a bad one, too."

A steamboat was backing her wheels near the opening, evidently to
prevent being sucked into the breach by the furious current that poured
through it. Quite a number of men were assembled on the levee, but they
seemed to be incapable of doing anything to stop the flow of the water.
When we came abreast of the crevasse, we could see through it to the
country beyond. It was covered with water, which was pouring in through
the breach at a frightful rate.

"That was done by the crawfish that burrow into the levees, for I see
some of their houses on the top, where they go when it is high-water,"
said the pilot.

Just then a row-boat came to the crevasse, and fearlessly headed into
the opening. In an instant it was swamped, and the two men it had
contained were struggling in the mad current. They held on to their
oars, and were swept rapidly inland.

"There will be a hundred lives lost by that break," added the pilot.
"There are several plantations on that knoll, and the water is lifting
the houses on it."

I could see the houses toppling over, half a mile from the levee.




CHAPTER XXV.

SAILING ACROSS THE FIELDS.


I was appalled at the terrible sight. It was an open country, and there
were few trees to be seen, except around the houses at the plantations.
It looked like an inland sea. I saw the two men struggling in the water
at some distance from the levee. They were evidently trying to touch
bottom with their feet, but the water was over their heads.

"How deep is the water on that flat, Mr. Pilot?" I asked, not a little
excited at the idea of witnessing such a loss of life as he had
predicted.

"I should say it was from eight to ten feet deep all the way to those
plantations," he replied.

"Why don't one of the steamers waiting here go over to the assistance
of those poor people?" I inquired.

"They can't get through, and they would be swamped if they should try
it. The breach is not more than thirty feet wide, and these boats would
stick till they were torn to pieces. They are so low in the water that
it would put their fires out when they went through and fill their
holds."

I looked about the decks of both our steamers, and found that all the
passengers were on board of the Islander. I told Ben Bowman, who was on
duty in the engine-room, to put on all the steam she could safely
carry. He assured me he had enough for anything.
