
"You must judge for yourself how many people the hall ought to hold; for
I have no clearer idea of the matter than you have, and I have no plan
for the winter entertainments," answered Captain Gildrock. "If there are
any exhibitions at all, they will be given at your request, and not at
my desire."

"Are we to decide now whether we will have exhibitions or not?" Steve
Baxter wanted to know.

"You are to decide for yourselves whether or not a large hall is likely
to be needed. I have nothing more to say on this subject. I have now
given you the essential points in the new building. In the matter of
halls, corridors, entrances, I shall say nothing. You need not confine
yourselves to the essentials I have mentioned. If you can add any
apartments that are worth having, you are at liberty to do so, and the
value of any such additions or improvements will be carried to your
credit on the total fitness of the plan. I hold the comfort and
recreation of the pupils of the school to be entitled to consideration
as well as usefulness in the narrower sense. I have said all I have to
say in regard to the boat-house, and after this I shall answer no
questions."

"Are the dressing-rooms to be on the lower story or the upper?" inquired
Matt Randolph.

"They will be just where you choose to put them," answered the
principal. "That is a question of convenience which each must decide for
himself."

"But we have the two docks for the boats, the forty dressing-rooms, the
four store-rooms, and the corridors and entries to put on the lower
story, with nothing but the hall on the second floor," persisted Matt.

"I did not stipulate that any of the apartments you mention should be on
the lower floor," said the principal, laughing. "If you think it best to
put the two docks for the barges on the second floor, of course you have
a perfect right to do so."

"A boat is a good thing to have, but it isn't particularly valuable on
the top of a mountain for sailing purposes, and I should rather have it
where there is a body of water," persisted Matt. "The docks will take up
about fifteen hundred square feet, and that is space enough for a hall
that will hold one hundred and fifty or two hundred people. It seems to
me that the parts don't balance well."

"It is for you to balance them, then. I have given you the essentials of
the boat-house, and I leave all the rest of it to you," replied Captain
Gildrock. "If you please, Randolph, we will not argue the matter, for
you are giving your associates points that I wish them to study out for
themselves. Now we will consider the location and the engineering work."

"I don't see why these are put together," said Oscar Chester.

"Because they are very closely connected," answered Captain Gildrock.
"If one of you decides that the boat-house ought to be built in the
middle of the lake, he ought to tell us how the foundation is to be
laid, and how we are to reach it."

"I see; and I understand it now," added Oscar.

"The location of the building, and of the wharf for the steamer or other
craft we may have, are included in the offer. The same student may
compete for both prizes, and plan both the building and the location. If
you locate the wharf where it cannot be conveniently reached by the
Sylph or the Goldwing, the site selected would have to be rejected."

"But perhaps the plan of the fellow who wins the prize for the
boat-house may not fit the location that gets the prize," suggested
Oscar Chester, who seemed to be taking the deepest interest in the
subject, though he had been the hardest boy in the whole before his
admission to the school.

"I have considered that difficulty, and the two plans which are the best
on the whole will be modified to adapt them to each other. Now, we will
see the map, Mr. Jepson," said the principal. The instructor in drawing
unrolled a chart on the wall behind the principal, and it proved to be
Beech Hill Lake, drawn after the manner of the chart of Lake Champlain,
with the compass, soundings, and character of the bottom upon it.

"This chart will be available for the inspection of all the students. It
shows Beech Hill Lake, which is about eighty rods long by forty wide. It
is simply an enlargement or basin of Meadow Creek. I own the land on
both sides of it down to Lake Champlain, and therefore we can do what we
please with it, even if we fill it up. When you locate the wharf you
must indicate how it is to be built, and how it is to be reached both on
the land and the water side."

"I suppose there is only one way to build a wharf, and that is by
driving piles," said Harry Franklin.

"The wharf may be of wood or of stone. If you look at the chart,
Franklin, you will see that the bottom on this side of the lake is
composed of rocks, into which no piles can be driven. Our present wharf
was built like a log house, by piling logs one upon another, and filling
in with earth. But the timbers are rotting, and it will soon need to be
rebuilt, and I don't care to have another of that kind. On the other
side of the lake the bottom is mud, brought in by the creek. That is all
we need say about the wharf and location."

But half a dozen of the boys who had ideas on the subject before the
school proceeded to ask questions, which the principal declined to
answer.

"The season is advancing, and I wish to have this building up and
covered in before the cold weather comes, and we want these plans at
once," continued the principal, after he had quieted the inquirers.
"After consultation with the instructors, I have decided to give you
three days vacation, at the end of which time the prizes will be
awarded. These three days are given you to study the subject and draw
the plans."

"That is a short time," said Matt Randolph.

"But it is just as much for one as for another. You must do the best you
can in that time. Fifty dollars is a considerable sum for a boy to have;
and I must say now that the winner will not be allowed to fool it away.
If they have no immediate use for it, the money will be placed to their
credit in the Genverres Savings Bank; but it may be used at once for any
proper purpose."

The students wondered, as they left the schoolroom, if the vacation had
not been given on account of the rebellion. But all of them hastened to
the lake to look for a site for the boat-house.




CHAPTER XI.

DORY DORNWOOD CONFRONTS THE TOPOVERS.


Several groups of the students had formed on the banks of Beech Hill
Lake, and were discussing the plans when the school-bell rang. They
obeyed the summons, and began to think this was a queer sort of a
vacation, when the principal informed them that he had forgotten
something. Seeing them talking together at the lake had reminded him of
the omission.

"I must exact a promise from each student that the plan he offers is
wholly his own work," said Captain Gildrock. "There must be no
conversation, conference, or comparison among you, and no student must
show his plan to another, or tell another what it is. All of you who
assent to this, and make this promise, will signify it by standing."

All the boys rose and remained standing. Some of them asked a lot of
questions as usual, but in a few minutes the whole matter was perfectly
understood.

"Under these conditions we shall have to stay in our rooms all the
time," said Dave Windsor; and the remark created a laugh, for it looked
as though the competitors for the prizes were to be prisoners as well as
the rebels.

"You can do your work where you please. The schoolroom, the workshop,
the grove, are open to you, as well as your rooms," replied the
principal. "I consider that each pupil is put on honor not to look at
the work of another. Before the prizes are awarded I shall ask each one
if the plan is wholly his own idea, and I shall be willing to take his
