aid of manufactories, steamships, railways and telegraphs, has merely
served to lessen the embarrassments which compressed the activity of
man; and the sole advantage which society has reaped by their aid is
that the force heretofore expended in actual labor is now free for the
play of the intellect, and serves to hasten the evolution of the world.
This result, Hartmann remarks, while of importance to general progress,
in no wise affects the happiness of the individual.

This last statement of his will perhaps be better understood if it be
taken into consideration that the increased production of food which
will necessarily follow on a more intelligent culture of the soil will
greatly augment the population. An increase of population will multiply
the number of those who are always on the verge of starvation, of which
there are already millions. But an advance of this kind, while a step
backward one way, must yet be a step forward in another; for the wealth
which it will bring in its train will necessarily aid in diminishing
suffering.

Politically considered, the outlook does not seem to be much more
assured. An ideal government can do nothing more than permit man to
live without fear of unjust aggressions, and enable him to prepare the
ground on which he may construct, if he can, the edifice of his own
happiness. Socially, the result will be about the same: through
solidarity, association, and other means, men will learn how to make
the struggle of the individual with want less severe; yet, in all this,
his burdens will be merely lightened, and positive happiness will
remain unobtained.

Such are the outlines of Hartmann's conception of what future progress
will amount to. If the ideal is realized, man will be gradually raised
out of the misery in which he is plunged, and little by little approach
a state of indifference in every sphere of his activity. But it should
be remembered that the ideal is ever intangible; man may approach, but
he can never reach it, and consequently will remain always in a state
of suffering.

In this manner, but with a profusion of argument, which, if not always
convincing, is yet highly instructive, Hartmann has shown in brief that
the people that dwell nearest to nature are happier than the civilized
nations, that the poor are more contented than the rich, the poor in
spirit more blessed than the intelligent, and that in general that man
is the happiest whose sensibilities are the most obtuse, because
pleasure is then less dominated by pain, and illusions are more
steadfast and complete; moreover, that the progress of humanity
develops not only wealth and its needs, and consequently discontent,
but also the aptitudes and culture of the intellect, which in turn
awaken man to the consciousness of the misery of life, and in so doing
heighten the sentiment of general misfortune.

The dream that another golden age is to visit the earth is, therefore,
puerile in the extreme. As the wayfarer's burden grows heavier with the
miles, so do humanity's suffering and the consciousness of its misery
continually increase. The child lives in the moment, the adolescent
dreams of a transcendent ideal; man aspires to glory, then to wealth or
practical wisdom; lastly, old age, recognizing the vanity of all
things, holds but to peace, and bends a tired head to rest. "And so it
is with civilization,--nations rise, strengthen, and disappear.
Humanity, by unmistakable signs, shows that it is on the wane, and that
having employed its strength in maturity, age is now overtaking it. In
time it will be content to live on the accumulated wisdom of the
centuries, and, inured to thought, it will review the collective
agitations of its past life, and recognize the vanity of the goal
hitherto pursued.... Humanity, in its decline, will leave no heir to
profit by its accumulated wealth. It will have neither children nor
grandchildren to trouble the rigor of its judgment through the
illusions of parental love. It will sink finally into that melancholy
which is the appanage of great minds; it will in a measure float above
its own body like a spirit freed from matter; or, as Œdipus at
Colonna, it will in anticipation taste the calm of chaos, and assist
with compassionate self-pity at the spectacle of its own suffering.
Passions that have vanished into the depths of reason will be resolved
into ideas by the white light of thought. Illusions will have faded and
hope be done with, for what is there left to hope? Its highest aim can
be but the absence of pain, for it can no longer dream of happiness;
still weak and fragile, working to live, and yet not knowing why it
does so, it will ask but one gift, the rest of an endless sleep that
shall calm its weariness and immense ennui. It is then that humanity
will have passed through the three periods of illusion, and in
recognizing the nothingness of its former hopes will aspire only to
absolute insensibility and the chaos of Nirvâna."

It remains but to inquire what is to become of disillusionized
humanity, and to what goal evolution is tending. The foregoing account
of Hartmann's theory should have shown that this goal cannot be
happiness, for at no period has it ever been reached, and, moreover,
that with the progress of the world man is gaining a clearer perception
of his misery. On the other hand, it would be illogical to suppose that
evolution is to continue with no other aim than that of the discharge
of the successive moments that compose it; for if each of these moments
is valueless, evolution itself would be meaningless; but Hartmann, it
may be remembered, has recognized in the Unconscious a principle of
absolute wisdom, and the answer must be looked for elsewhere, but
preferably in that direction which most noticeably points to some
determined and progressive perfection. No such sign, however, is to be
met with anywhere save in the development of consciousness; here
progress has been clearly and uninterruptedly at work, from the
appearance of the first globule to contemporaneous humanity, and in all
probability will continue to advance so long as the world subsists.
All things aid in its production and development, while to its
assistance there come not only the perfecting of the nervous system,
but also such personal incentives as the desire for wealth, which in
increasing general welfare disfranchises the intellect; then, too,
there are the stimulants to intellectual activity, vanity and ambition,
and also sexual love, which heightens its aptitudes; in short, every
instinct which is valuable to the species, and which costs the
individual more pain than pleasure, is converted into an unalloyed and
increasing gain for consciousness.

In spite of all this, however, the development of consciousness is but
the means to an end, and cannot therefore be considered as an absolute
goal; "for consciousness," Hartmann says, "is born of pain, and exists
and expands with suffering, and yet what manner of consolation does it
offer? Merely a vain self-mirroring. Of course, if the world were good
and beautiful, this would not be without its advantage; but a world
which is absolutely miserable, a world which must curse its own
existence the moment it is able to judge it, can never regard its
apparent and purely ideal reflection as a reasonable goal and
termination of its existence. Is there not suffering enough in reality?
Is it necessary to reproduce it in a magic lantern? No; consciousness
cannot be the supreme goal of a world whose evolution is directed by
supreme wisdom.... Some other end must be sought for, then, to which
the development of consciousness shall be but the means."

But, however the question is regarded, from whatever standpoint the
matter is viewed, there seems to be but one possible goal, and that is
happiness. Everything that exists tends thereto, and it is the
principle on which rests each of the diverse forms of practical
philosophy; moreover, the pursuit of happiness is the essence of Will
seeking its own pacification. But happiness has been shown to be an
illusion; still there must be some key to the riddle. The solution is
at once simple and unexpected. There can be no positive happiness, and
yet happiness of some kind is necessary; the supreme aim of universal
progress, of which consciousness is but the instrument, is then the
realization of the highest possible felicity, which is nothing else
than the freedom from all pain, and, in consequence, the cessation of
all life; or, in other words, total annihilation.

This climax is the only one which Hartmann will consent to consider;
from any other point of view evolution would be a tireless progressus
which some day might be blindly arrested by chance, while life in the
mean time would remain in the utter desolation of an issueless
purgatory.

The path, however, through which the great deliverance is to be
effected is as tortuously perplexing as the irrational duality of the
Unconscious. Many generations of pessimists are needed before the world
will be fully ripe for its great leap into the night of time; even
then, though Hartmann does not appear to suspect it, there will
probably be quite a number of pantheists who, drunk on Nature, will
stupidly refuse the great bare bodkin, which will have thus been
carefully prepared for their viaticum.

It should not be supposed that in all this there is any question of the
suicide of the individual: Hartmann is far too dramatic to suggest a
final tableau so tame and humdrum as that; besides, it has been seen
that the death of the individual does not drag with it the
disappearance of the species, and in no wise disturbs the heedless calm
of Nature. It is not the momentary and ephemeral existence that is to
be destroyed, for, after its destruction, the repairing and reproducing
force would still survive; it is the principle of existence itself
