
“Why is it,” she queried, “why is it that marriage ever was invented?
Why cannot a girl accept help from a man without becoming his wife?”

Mr. Incoul was about to reply that many do, but he felt that such a
reply would be misplaced, and he called a platitude to his rescue.
“There are wives and wives,” he said.

“That is it,” the girl returned, the color mounting to her cheeks; “if
I could but be to you one of the latter.”

He stared at her wonderingly, almost hopefully. “What do you mean?” he
asked.

“Did you ever read ‘Eugénie Grandet’?”

“No,” he answered, “I never have.”

“Well, I read it years ago. It is, I believe, the only one of Balzac’s
novels that young girls are supposed to read. It is tiresome indeed; I
had almost forgotten it, but yesterday I remembered enough of the story
to help me to come to some decision. In thinking the matter over and
over again as I have done ever since I last saw you it has seemed that
I could not become your wife unless you were willing to make the same
agreement with me that Eugénie Grandet’s husband made with her.”

“What was the nature of that agreement?”

“It was that, though married, they were to live as though they were not
married--as might brother and sister.”

“Always?”

“Yes.”

“No,” Mr. Incoul answered, “to such an agreement I could not consent.
Did I do so, I would be untrue to myself, unmanly to you. But if you
will give me the right to aid you and yours, I will--according to my
lights--leave nothing undone to make you contented; and if I succeed in
so doing, if you are happy, then the agreement which you have suggested
would fall of itself. Would it not?” he continued. “Would it not be
baseless? See--” he added, and he made a vague gesture, but before he
could finish the phrase, the girl’s hands were before her face and he
knew that she was weeping.

Mr. Incoul was not tender-hearted. He felt toward Miss Barhyte as were
she some poem in flesh that it would be pleasant to make his own. In
her carriage as in her looks, he had seen that stamp of breeding which
is coercive even to the dissolute. In her eyes he had discerned that
promise of delight which it is said the lost goddesses could convey;
and at whose conveyance, the legend says, the minds of men were
enraptured. It was in this wise that he felt to her. Such exhilaration
as she may have brought him was of the spirit, and being cold by
nature and undemonstrative, her tears annoyed him. He would have had
her impassive, as befitted her beauty. Beside, he was annoyed at his
own attitude. Why should there be sorrow where he had sought to bring
smiles? But he had barely time to formulate his annoyance into a thing
even as volatile as thought--the girl had risen and was leaving the
room.

As she moved to the door Mr. Incoul hastened to open it for her, but
she reached it before him and passed out unassisted.

When she had gone he noticed that the sun was setting and that the
room was even more hideous than before. He went again to the window
wondering how to act. The entire scene was a surprise to him. He had
come knowing nothing of the girl’s circumstances, and suddenly he
learned that she was in indigence, unable perhaps to pay her board
bills and worried by small tradesmen. He had come prepared to be
refused and she had almost accepted him. But what an acceptance! In the
nature of it his thoughts roamed curiously: he was to be a little more
than kin, a little less than kind. She would accept him as a husband
for out-of-door purposes, for the world’s sake she would bear his
name--at arm’s length. According to the terms of her proposition were
she ever really his wife it would be tantamount to a seduction. He was
to be with her, and yet, until she so willed it, unable to call her his
own. And did he refuse these terms, she was off, no one knew whither.
But he had not refused, he told himself, he had indeed not refused, he
had merely suggested an amendment which turned an impossibility into an
allurement. What pleasanter thing could there be than the winning of
one’s own wife? The idea was so novel it delighted him. For the moment
he preferred it to any other; beside it his former experience seemed
humdrum indeed. But why had she wept? Her reasons, however, he had then
no chance to elucidate. Miss Barhyte returned as abruptly as she had
departed.

“Forgive me,” she said, advancing to where he stood, “it was stupid of
me to act as I did. I am sorry--are we still friends?” Her eyes were
clear as had she never wept, but there were circles about them, and her
face was colorless.

“Friends,” he answered, “yes, and more--” He hesitated a moment, and
then hastily added, “It is agreed, then, is it not, you will be my
wife?”

“I will be your wife?”

“As Balzac’s heroine was to her husband?”

“You have said it.”

“But not always. If there come a time when you care for me, then I may
ask you to give me your heart as to-day I have asked for your hand?”

“When that day comes, believe me,” she said, and her delicious face
took on a richer hue, “when that day comes there will be neither asking
nor giving, we shall have come into our own.”

With this assurance Mr. Incoul was fain to be content, and, after
another word or two, he took his leave.

For some time after his departure, Miss Barhyte stood thinking. It had
grown quite dark. Before the window a street lamp burned with a small,
steady flame, but beyond, the azure of the electric light pervaded the
adjacent square with a suggestion of absinthe and vice. One by one the
opposite houses took on some form of interior illumination. A newsboy
passed, hawking an extra with a noisy, aggressive ferocity as though he
were angry with the neighborhood, and dared it come out and wrestle
with him for his wares. There was a thin broken stream of shop-girls
passing eastward; at intervals, men in evening dress sauntered
leisurely to their dinners, to restaurants, or to clubland, and over
the rough pavement there was a ceaseless rattle of traps and of wagons;
the air was alive with the indefinable murmurs of a great city.

Miss Barhyte noticed none of these things. She had taken her former
seat on the sofa and sat, her elbow on her crossed knee, her chin
resting in her hand, while the fingers touched and barely separated her
lips. The light from without was just strong enough to reach her feet
and make visible the gold clock on her silk stocking, but her face was
in the shadow as were her thoughts.

Presently she rose and rang the bell. “Archibald,” she said, when the
man came, and who at once busied himself with lighting the gas, “I want
to send a note; can’t you take it? It’s only across the square.”

“I’ll have to be mighty spry about it, miss. The old lady do carry on
most unreasonable if I go for anybody but herself. She has laws that
strict they’d knock the Swedes and Prussians silly. Why, you wouldn’t
believe if I told you how--”

And Archibald ran on with an unbelievable tale of recent adventure with
the landlady. But the girl feigned no interest. She had taken a card
from her case. On it she wrote, Viens ce soir, and after running the
pencil through her name, she wrote on the other side, Lenox Leigh,
esq., Athenæum Club.

“There,” she said, interrupting the negro in the very climax of his
story, “it’s for Mr. Leigh; you are sure to find him, so wait for an
answer.”

A fraction of an hour later, when Miss Barhyte took her seat at the
dinner table, she found beside her plate a note that contained a single
line: “Will be with you at nine. I kiss your lips. L. L.”




CHAPTER III.

AFTER DARKNESS.
