"You mean in disposing of the cargo?"

"Precisely. I am in no position to haggle about prices. I'll offer it at
a bargain to some large dealer. He will naturally think I'm a country
gentleman, and clinch the bargain at once. Do you see?"

"Yes, Brown. You've got the right idea."

"Of course I have," said Brown, complacently. "It takes a long head to
outwit me. Got another cigar, Minton?"

Minton drew out one and handed to his confederate, and presently took
his turn at the rudder.

So time passed, the boat making good progress, and about three o'clock
in the afternoon the boat reached an obscure pier in the lower part of
St. Louis.

There were some interested persons watching its arrival. Among them were
Bob and his friend Clip, and a small squad of policemen. Not suspecting
anything, Brown and Minton busied themselves in bringing the boat to
anchor. Meanwhile Bob, without being observed, stepped aboard.

"Good afternoon, Mr. Brown! I hope you had a pleasant trip," he said,
quietly.

Brown felt as if he had been struck by lightning. Wheeling around
suddenly, he saw Bob's eyes fixed upon him. He was absolutely speechless
with amazement and consternation.

"Who are you?" he finally ejaculated, quickly resolving to brazen it
out, and deny Bob's claim to ownership.

"I think you know me, Mr. Brown!" replied Bob. "I have only to thank you
for taking charge of my boat and bringing it safe to St. Louis."

"Look here, young feller!" said Brown, roughly, "you must be crazy. I
never saw you before in my life, and here you come on board my boat and
claim it as your own. If you don't clear out I'll have you arrested."

"There will be no difficulty about that, Mr. Brown. Here are policemen
close at hand."

Mr. Brown's face grew pale as he saw three stalwart policemen marching
on board the boat.

"I guess it's all up, Minton!" he said, and made a dash for liberty; but
he was not quick enough. He and Minton were quickly secured and marched
off, with handcuffs on their wrists. As we are now to bid these
gentlemen farewell, it may be said briefly that they pleaded guilty in
hopes of a lighter sentence, and were sent to prison for seven years.
Thus far the community has been able to spare them without
inconvenience.

Bob and Clip resumed charge of the boat, and during the next day
disposed of the cargo to Mr. Pearson at the price agreed upon.




CHAPTER XXXVIII.

WHAT BOB BROUGHT HOME.


After disposing of his cargo, Bob was puzzled to know what to do with
the ferry-boat. Finally he had an offer of one hundred dollars, from a
speculative Yankee who had drifted out to St. Louis, and gladly accepted
it. This sum paid all expenses, including his and Clip's return fare,
and left him with a handsome sum to his credit, viz.:


     1,400 bushels wheat, at $2.25,      $3,150
     Reward,                              1,000
                                         ------
                                         $4,150


This sum, with the exception of one hundred and fifty dollars, by advice
of Mr. Pearson, he deposited in a St. Louis bank, and then started for
home.

He could not make the whole passage by steamer, but went part way by
railroad, and then engaged a carriage to a point four miles from home.
Thence he and Clip walked. He wanted to surprise not only his mother,
but Wolverton. He knew now that Brown and Minton had only been agents of
his more crafty enemy, Brown having made a written confession, not so
much out of friendship to Bob as out of spite against Wolverton, whom he
held responsible for getting him into this scrape.

With soiled shoes and clothes covered with dust, Bob and Clip entered
the village, and purposely walked by Wolverton's office.

The latter, spying them through the window, smiled maliciously, and
hurried out to meet them.

"Aha, my young friends," he said, with a pleased glance at their soiled
clothes, "so you have returned?"

"Yes, sir," answered Bob, soberly.

"And what luck did you have, may I ask?"

"We had good luck at first, but at Rocky Creek two rascals entrapped us,
and stole our boat and cargo."

Wolverton laughed outright. So it was true, after all.

"Excuse my smiling," he said; "but you seem to have come out at the
little end of the horn."

"It does seem so, sir."

"You remember what I told you before you started?"

"What was that?"

"That you were too young for such an expedition. It would have been much
better for you to accept my offer."

"It seems so," answered Bob again.

"Seems so! Of course it would have been. But the trouble was, you were
so puffed up by your own self-conceit that you thought you knew best."

"I plead guilty to that, sir; I did think so," answered Bob, candidly.

"I am glad you admit it. So you had to walk back?"

"You can judge for yourself, Mr. Wolverton."

"Well, you certainly do look like two tramps. The next time you may feel
like following my advice."

"I may," answered Bob.

It did occur to Mr. Wolverton that Bob's answers were rather unusual,
and his manner rather queer; quite unlike his usual tone and manner. But
this he readily accounted for. The boy's pride had been humbled. He knew
now that he was in Wolverton's power, and he had the sense to be humble,
in the hope of making better terms.

"But it won't do," said the agent to himself. "He will find that I will
have what is mine, and he cannot soften my heart by any appeal to my
pity."

"It appears to me you are in rather a scrape," he said, after a pause.

"How is that."

"Why, a part of your mortgage comes due in a short time. I hope you
don't expect me to wait."

"No doubt you will be considerate, Mr. Wolverton, remembering what luck
we have had."

"No, I won't!" snarled Wolverton. "Don't flatter yourself so far. I am
not responsible for your misfortune, or folly, as I call it."

"Still, Mr. Wolverton--"
