
"Ha, we have something here!" he exclaimed.

"Yes," answered Fred, "but those happen to belong to me."

"Where did you get them?"

"From a friend in New York. He intrusted them to me to use if I needed.
Meanwhile I was to put them in the savings bank."

"Not a very likely story," said the detective suspiciously.

"Likely or not, it is a true story. Does this man Carver claim to have
lost any gold coins?"

"No."

"I thought not."

"However, we come back to the inquiry--where did you get the watch?"

"The man who slept in the room with me must have left it here to throw
suspicion on me," said Fred, with sudden inspiration.

"That is possible," said the clerk, who was favorably impressed by
Fred's manner.

"We must not jump at conclusions," said the detective warily. "I shall
feel justified in detaining the boy after what I have found."

"You won't take me to the station house?" said Fred nervously.

"No; it will answer the purpose if you are locked up in this room--for
the present."

"Then," said Fred, turning to the clerk, "I shall be much obliged if
you will send me up some breakfast."

"It shall be done."

Within half an hour Fred was discussing a beefsteak and fried potatoes
with hearty enjoyment. It takes a good deal to spoil the appetite of a
healthy boy of seventeen.




CHAPTER XII.

FRED AS A PRISONER.

After breakfast Fred became restless. It was tantalizing to be so near
the Falls, and yet to be locked up, and prevented from seeing them. Of
course it would all come right in time, but it was hard to bear the
suspense and confinement. Hunting round the room he found a juvenile
book, and sitting down at the window read it. It helped to while away
the time till twelve o'clock. He had scarcely read the last page when
he heard the key turning in the lock outside. The door opened and two
persons appeared at the entrance. One was the clerk the other a boy,
rather short, with a bright, attractive face.

"I thought you might like company," said the clerk in a friendly
manner. "This is my young cousin, Frank Hamblin, who will remain with
yon for a while."

"I am glad to see you, Frank," said Fred offering his hand. "You are
very kind to come and see a bold, bad burglar."

"You don't look much like it," said Frank, laughing. "Still appearances
are deceitful."

"I don't think I look wicked," said Fred meditatively, as he glanced at
his reflection in a small mirror that hung over the washstand. "Yet it
appears that I have broken into a gentleman's house in Elmira, and
stolen a gold watch and chain and some government bonds."

"How could you do it?" asked Frank with much seriousness. "So young and
yet so wicked!"

"That's the question that puzzles me," said Fred. "How could I do it
when at the time the burglary was committed I was speeding over the
Erie road at the rate of thirty miles an hour?"

"Can you prove this?" asked Frank eagerly.

"Certainly I could, if the conductor or brakeman of my car were here."

"Where are they?"

"Probably on their way back to New York."

"Do you live there?"

"Yes."

"I have always wanted to see the city of New York. It must be a gay
place."

"You are right there, Frank. Whenever you do come, just inquire for
Fred Fenton, and I will show you round. There is my address."

"Thank you! I should like it ever so much. Have you ever been here
before?"

"No. I wanted very much to see the Falls, but here I am locked up in a
hotel chamber. I wish the Falls were visible from the window."

"They are on the other side of the house."

"Do you know this detective--the one that searched me?"

"Yes, I have seen him. I heard him tell my cousin that he did not
believe you guilty, but that finding the watch and chain in your bundle
was a suspicious circumstance."

"I suppose it is. Now I can understand how innocent people get into
trouble. Do you live here?"

"No, I am only visiting some friends here. I live in Auburn."

"That's where the State's prison is, isn't it?"

"Yes."

"Then I hope I shan't go to Auburn to live. Have you any idea how long
I shall have to stay here?"

"Till evening, I suppose. You will probably be brought before a justice
in the morning," was Frank's reply.

Fred sighed.

"How differently things have turned out from what I anticipated," he
said. "I expected to be walking round, and looking at the Falls to-day."

"Hold on a minute!" said Frank. "Mr. Ferguson boards here, and he may
be down-stairs now. I'll ask him if you can't go out under my charge if
you'll promise not to run away.

"I'll promise that fast enough. You can knock me down if I attempt to
escape."

"I am afraid I might find that difficult, as you are at least two
inches taller than I."

"I will be very gentle and submissive. I wouldn't be willing to run
away with such a suspicion hanging over me."

"Excuse me a minute! I'll do what I can for you."

Frank went to the door and attempted to open it, but it was locked on
the outside and resisted his efforts.

"I forgot," he said, laughing, "that I am a prisoner too. Really it
makes a fellow feel queer to be locked up."

"That's the way I feel. You can ring the bell, can't you?"

"A good thought!"

