course of time therefore the blind man grew great in the eyes of his
fellows, until they called him Sheikh respectfully, and waited on him
when he performed his ablutions, and he obtained over them a supremacy
as great as was Khaled's over the kingdom he governed. He was very wise
also, acquainted with the interpretation of dreams, and able to recite
various chapters of the Koran. It was even said that he was able to
distinguish a good man from a bad by the sound of his tread, though some
thought that he only heard the jingling of coins in the girdle, and
judged by this, having a finer hearing than other men. At all events he
was often aware that a person able to give alms was approaching, while
his companions were talking among themselves and noticed nothing, though
they had eyes to see, being mostly only cripples and lepers.

On a certain day in the spring, when the sun was beginning to be hot and
not long after Khaled had told Zehowah his story, many of the beggars
were sitting in the eastern gate, by which the great road issues out of
the city towards Hasa. They expected the coming of the first pilgrims
every day, for the season was advancing. And now they sat talking
together of the good prospects before them, and rejoicing that the
winter was over so that they would not suffer any more from the cold.

'There is a horseman on the road,' said the Sheikh of the beggars,
interrupting the conversation. 'O you to whom Allah has preserved the
light of day, look forth and tell me who the rider is.'

'It is undoubtedly a pilgrim,' answered a young beggar, who was a
stranger but had found his way to Riad without legs, no man knew how.

'Ass of Egypt,' replied the Sheikh reprovingly, 'do pilgrims ride at a
full gallop upon steeds of pure blood? But though your eyes are open
your ears are deaf with the sleep of stupidity from which there is no
awakening. That is a good horse, ridden by a light rider. Truly a man
must itch to be called Haji who gallops thus on the road to Mecca.'

Then the others looked, and at last one of them spoke, a hunchback
having but one eye, but that one was keen.

'O Sheikh,' he said, 'rejoice and praise Allah, for I think it is he
whom you call your brother, who comes in from the desert to visit you.'

'If that is the case, I will indeed give thanks,' answered the blind
man, 'for there is little in my barley-sack, less in my wallet and
nothing at all in my stomach. Allah is gracious and compassionate!'

The hunchback's eye had not deceived him, and before long the Bedouin
dismounted at the gate and looked about until he saw the Sheikh of the
beggars, who indeed had already risen to welcome him. When they had
embraced the Bedouin led the blind man along in the shadow of the
eastern wall until they were so far from the rest that they might freely
talk without being overheard. Then they sat down together, and the mare
stood waiting before them.

'O my brother,' the Bedouin began, 'was not my mother the adopted
daughter of your uncle, upon whom be peace? And have I not called you
brother and filled your barley-sack from time to time these many years?'

'This is true,' answered the Sheikh of the beggars. 'Allah will requite
you with seventy thousand days of unspeakable bliss for every grain of
barley you have caused to pass my teeth. "Be constant in prayer and in
giving alms," says the holy book, "and you shall find with Allah all the
good which you have sent before you, for your souls." And it is also
said, "Give alms to your kindred, and to the poor and to orphans." I am
also grateful for all you have done, and my gratitude grows as a palm
tree in the garden of my soul which is irrigated by your charity.'

'It is well, my brother, it is well. I know the uprightness of your
heart, and I have not ridden hither from the desert to count the
treasure which may be in store for me in paradise. Allah knows the
good, as well as the evil. I have come for another purpose. But tell me
first, what is the news in the city? Are there no strange rumours afloat
of late concerning Khaled the Sultan?'

'In each man's soul there are two wells,' said the blind man. 'The one
is the spring of truth, the other is the fountain of lies.'

'You are wise and full of years,' said the Bedouin, 'and I understand
your caution, for I also am not very young. But here we must speak
plainly, for the time is short in which to act. A sand-storm has
darkened the eyes of the men of the desert and they are saying that
Khaled is a Shiyah, a Persian and a robber, and that he must be
overthrown and a man of our own people made king in his stead.'

'I have indeed heard such a rumour.'

'It is more than a rumour. The tribes are even now assembling towards
Riad, and before many days are past the end will come. Abdullah is the
chief mover in this. But with your help, my brother, we will make his
plotting empty and his scheming fruitless as a twig of ghada stuck into
the sand, which will neither strike root nor bear leaves.'

When the Sheikh of the beggars heard that he was expected to give help
in frustrating Abdullah's plans he was troubled and much astonished.

'Shall the blind sheep go out and fight the lion?' he inquired
tremulously.

'Even so,' replied the Bedouin unmoved, 'and, moreover, without danger
to himself. Hear me first. Abdullah and his tribe will encamp in the low
hills, in a few days, as usual, but somewhat earlier than in other
years, and a great number of other Bedouins will be in the neighbouring
valleys at the same time. Then Abdullah will come into the city openly
and go to his house with his wife and slaves, and during several days he
will receive the visits of his friends and return them, and go to the
palace and salute Khaled, as though nothing were about to happen. But in
the meantime he will make everything ready, for it is his intention to
go into the palace at night, disguised in a woman's garment, with his
wife, and they will slay Khaled in his sleep, and bind Zehowah, and
distribute much treasure among the guards and slaves, and before morning
the city will be full of Bedouins all ready to proclaim Abdullah Sultan.
And you alone can prevent all this.'

But the blind man laughed in his beard.

'This is a good jest!' he cried. 'You have sought out a valiant warrior
to stand between the Sultan and death! I am blind and old, and a beggar,
and you would have me stand in the path of Abdullah and a thousand armed
men. They would certainly laugh, as I do. Let me take with me a few
lepers and the Egyptian jackass without legs, who has flown among us
lately like a locust out of the clear air. Verily, their strength shall
avail against the lances of the desert.'

'This is no jest, my brother,' answered the Bedouin, gravely. 'Neither
I, nor a hundred armed horsemen with me could do what you will do
unhurt. But I will save Khaled. For in the battle of the pass before we
came to Ha√Øl last summer when I had an arrow in my right arm and a spear
thrust in my side, certain dogs of Shammars encompassed me, and darkness
was already descending upon my eyes when Khaled rode in like a whirlwind
of scythes, and sent four of them to hell, where they are now drinking
molten brass like thirsty camels. Then I swore by Allah that I would
defend him in the hour of need.'

'Why do you not then lie in wait for Abdullah yourself and slay him as
he passes you in the dark?'

'Is he not the sheikh of my tribe? How then can I lay a hand on him? But
I have thought of this during many nights in my tent, and you alone can
do what is needed.'

'Surely this is folly,' said the Sheikh of the beggars. 'You have met a
hot wind in the desert and your mind is unsettled by it. I pray you come
with me into the city to my dwelling, and take some refreshment, or at
least let me send to the well for a drink of water.'

'My head is cool and I am not thirsty, nor is the hot wind blowing at
this time of year. Hear me. I will tell you how to save Khaled from
destruction, and you shall receive more gold than you have dreamed of,
and a house, and rich garments, and a young wife of a good family to
comfort your old age. For the deed is easy and safe, but the reward will
be great, and you alone can do the one and earn the other.'

'I perceive,' said the blind man, 'that you are indeed in earnest, but I
cannot understand what I can do. We know that Khaled is forewarned, for
it is not many days since he summoned the chief men in Riad, with the
Kadi, to the palace, and refused to tell them the name of his father,
but said that if they attacked him he would kill as many of them as he
could.'

'I did not know this,' answered the Bedouin. 'But the knowledge does not
change my plan. Now hear me. You are the Sheikh of all the beggars in
Riad--may Allah send you long life and much gain--they are an army and
