"Where can my friends find yours?"

"At my lodging, if that suits them."

"Perfectly."

Campodonico turned on his heel and slowly went towards the group at the
other end of the room. Ghisleri followed him at a distance, lighting a
fresh cigarette as he walked. He had recovered his composure the moment
he had felt himself freed from the obligation to bear the insults heaped
upon him by Bianca Corleone's brother.

It must not be supposed that no one had watched the two as they stood
talking before the picture. More than one person had noticed the fierce
look in Campodonico's eyes, and the unnatural paleness of Ghisleri's
face. One of these was Donna Maria Boccapaduli.

"I suppose you have been discussing that painting," she said carelessly
to Pietro. "People always do."

"Yes," answered Ghisleri, as indifferently as he could.

"And what was the result of the discussion?"

"We agreed to differ." Pietro laughed a little harshly.

As soon as possible he excused himself and got away, for he had only
just the time necessary to find a couple of friends and explain matters,
before going to the ball to meet the Contessa, as he had promised to do.
He had forgotten an important detail, however, and as he passed
Campodonico who was also going away, and without his wife, on pretence
of an engagement at the club, he stopped him.

"By the by," he said, "I suppose we are ostensibly quarrelling about a
painter, or something of that sort."

"Yes--anything. Zichy, for instance. Everybody saw us looking at the
picture. You like it and I do not."

"Very well."

So they parted, to meet, in all probability, at dawn on the following
morning, in a quiet place outside the city. Ghisleri found two friends
in whose hands he placed himself, telling them that he was quite
indifferent to the weapons, and only desired to meet his adversary's
wishes as far as possible, since the affair was very insignificant. He
remarked in an indifferent tone that, as he had once fought with
Campodonico, using foils, and as the latter had not seemed satisfied on
that occasion, he had no objection to pistols, if the opposite side
preferred them. He wished everything to be arranged as amicably as
possible, he said, and without any undue publicity. He left them at his
lodging and departed to keep his engagement at the embassy. As he drove
through the bitter air in an open cab, he meditated on his position, and
wondered what Maddalena would say when she learned that he had been out
with his old adversary. She should not know anything about the encounter
until it was over, if he could keep it from her. At all events, he
reflected, he had done all that a man could do to keep out of a quarrel,
as he had promised her he would, and he had been driven to break a
promise of a far more sacred nature than the one he had given her. If
she knew the truth, too, it was for her, and for her alone, that he was
to fight. He wondered whether people would say it was for Laura Arden's
sake, on account of the discussion about the evil eye which had taken
place at table. The suggestion annoyed him very much, but he reached his
destination before he had found time to reason out the whole case, or to
decide what to do. In any event it would be better if people thought
that he had taken the foils in defence of an unprotected widow like
Laura, than for the good name of the Contessa dell' Armi.

She was there before him, looking very lovely in a gown of palest green,
half covered with old lace. The shade suited her fair hair and dazzling
skin, and she looked taller in faint colours, as short women do. He
found her seated in one of the smaller rooms through which he had to
pass on his way to the great ball-room, and she was surrounded by four
or five men of the gay set, all talking to her at once, all trying to be
extremely witty, and all wishing that the others would go away. But the
Contessa held her own with them, making no distinction, and keeping up
the lively, empty, rattling conversation without any apparent
difficulty. Pietro sat down in the circle, and made a remark from time
to time, to which she generally gave a direct answer, until, little by
little, she was talking with him alone, and the others began to drop
away as they always did in the course of half an hour when Ghisleri
appeared in Maddalena's neighbourhood. It was a thing perfectly
understood, as a matter not even worth mentioning.

"Will you get me something to drink?" she said when only Spicca was left
by her side.

Pietro went off towards the supper-room, which was rather distant, and
as a dance was just over and the place was crowded, it was some minutes
before he could get what he wanted, and go back to her with it. Spicca
looked at him with an odd expression of something between amusement and
sympathy as he rose and left the two together, and Ghisleri at once saw
that something unusual had occurred in his absence, for Maddalena was
very pale, and her hand shook violently as she took the glass he brought
her.

"What is the matter?" he asked anxiously, as he sat down.

"Something very disagreeable has happened," she answered, looking round
nervously.

The sofa on which they sat stood out from one side of a marble pillar,
with its back to the side of the room the guests crossed who went
directly to the ball-room, and facing the side by which they went from
the ball-room to the rooms beyond, and to the supper-room, for there
were four doors, opposite each other, two of which opened into the
great hall where the dancing was going on. Maddalena was seated at the
end of the sofa which was against the pillar, so that a person passing
through behind her might easily not notice her presence.

"Pray tell me what it is," said Ghisleri.

"Just as you went to get me the lemonade, I heard two people talking in
a low voice behind me," said Maddalena. "They must have stopped first by
the door--I looked round afterwards and saw them, but I do not know
either of them--some new people from one of the other embassies, or
merely foreigners here on a visit. They spoke rather bad French. There
was a man and a lady. They saw you cross the room and the lady asked the
man who you were, and the man told her, saying that he only knew you by
sight. The lady uttered an exclamation, and said that you were the one
man in Rome whom she wished to see because you had been loved by--you
know whom I mean--I know it hurts you to speak of her, and I understand
it. The man laughed and said there had been others since, and that there
was especially a certain Marquise d' Armi, as he called me, who was
madly in love with you. The most amusing part of the whole thing,
concluded the man, was that you were perfectly indifferent to her, as
everybody knew. It was horrible, and I almost fainted. Dear old Spicca
went on talking, trying to prevent me from hearing them. It was just
like him."

The Contessa's lip trembled, and her eyes glittered strangely as she
looked at Pietro.

"It is horrible," he said, in a low voice. He had thought that he had
felt enough emotions during that day, but he was mistaken. Even now
there were more in store for him. He was deeply shocked, for he guessed
what she must have suffered.

"Horrible--yes! But oh--can you not tell me it is not true? Do you not
see that my heart is breaking?"

"No, dearest lady," he answered tenderly, trying to soothe her. "Not
one word of it is true. How can you make yourself unhappy by thinking
such a thing?"

Maddalena drew a painful breath. He spoke very kindly, but there was no
ringing note of passion in his voice as there had once been. With a
sudden determination that surprised him, she rose to her feet.

"Take me to the ball-room," she said hurriedly. "I shall cry if I stay
here."

It was almost a relief to Ghisleri to see her accept the first man who
presented himself as a partner and whirl away with him into the great
hall. He stood leaning against the marble door-post, watching her as she
wound her way in and out among the many moving couples. He was conscious
that he might very possibly never see her again. Campodonico would of
course select pistols, and meant to kill him if he could. He might
succeed, though duels rarely ended fatally now-a-days. And if he did,
Maddalena dell' Armi would be left to her fate. He was horror-struck
