
He rowed away. Presently the old Judge came out of his faint and looked
up piteously into the sympathetic face that was bent over him.

"Say it ain't true, Pembroke; tell me it ain't true!" he said in a weak
voice.

There was nothing weak in the deep organ-tones that responded--

"You know it's a lie as well as I do, old friend. He is of the best
blood of the Old Dominion."

"God bless you for saying it!" said the old gentleman, fervently. "Ah,
Pembroke, it was such a blow!"

Howard stayed by his friend, and saw him home, and entered the house
with him. It was dark, and past supper-time, but the Judge was not
thinking of supper; he was eager to hear the slander refuted from
headquarters, and as eager to have Howard hear it, too. Tom was sent
for, and he came immediately. He was bruised and lame, and was not a
happy-looking object. His uncle made him sit down, and said--

"We have been hearing about your adventure, Tom, with a handsome lie
added to it for embellishment. Now pulverize that lie to dust! What
measures have you taken? How does the thing stand?"

Tom answered guilelessly: "It don't stand at all; it's all over. I had
him up in court and beat him. Pudd'nhead Wilson defended him--first case
he ever had, and lost it. The judge fined the miserable hound five
dollars for the assault."

Howard and the Judge sprang to their feet with the opening
sentence--why, neither knew; then they stood gazing vacantly at each
other. Howard stood a moment, then sat mournfully down without saying
anything. The Judge's wrath began to kindle, and he burst out--

"You cur! You scum! You vermin! Do you mean to tell me that blood of my
race has suffered a blow and crawled to a court of law about it? Answer
me!"

Tom's head drooped, and he answered with an eloquent silence. His uncle
stared at him with a mixed expression of amazement and shame and
incredulity that was sorrowful to see. At last he said--

"Which of the twins was it?"

"Count Luigi."

"You have challenged him?"

"N--no," hesitated Tom, turning pale.

"You will challenge him to-night. Howard will carry it."

Tom began to turn sick, and to show it. He turned his hat round and
round in his hand, his uncle glowering blacker and blacker upon him as
the heavy seconds drifted by; then at last he began to stammer, and said
piteously--

"Oh, please don't ask me to do it, uncle! He is a murderous devil--I
never could--I--I'm afraid of him!"

Old Driscoll's mouth opened and closed three times before he could get
it to perform its office; then he stormed out--

"A coward in my family! A Driscoll a coward! Oh, what have I done to
deserve this infamy!" He tottered to his secretary in the corner
repeating that lament again and again in heartbreaking tones, and got
out of a drawer a paper, which he slowly tore to bits scattering the
bits absently in his track as he walked up and down the room, still
grieving and lamenting. At last he said--

"There it is, shreds and fragments once more--my will. Once more you
have forced me to disinherit you, you base son of a most noble father!
Leave my sight! Go--before I spit on you!"

The young man did not tarry. Then the Judge turned to Howard:

"You will be my second, old friend?"

"Of course."

"There is pen and paper. Draft the cartel, and lose no time."

"The Count shall have it in his hands in fifteen minutes," said Howard.

Tom was very heavy-hearted. His appetite was gone with his property and
his self-respect. He went out the back way and wandered down the obscure
lane grieving, and wondering if any course of future conduct, however
discreet and carefully perfected and watched over, could win back his
uncle's favor and persuade him to reconstruct once more that generous
will which had just gone to ruin before his eyes. He finally concluded
that it could. He said to himself that he had accomplished this sort of
triumph once already, and that what had been done once could be done
again. He would set about it. He would bend every energy to the task,
and he would score that triumph once more, cost what it might to his
convenience, limit as it might his frivolous and liberty-loving life.

"To begin," he said to himself, "I'll square up with the proceeds of my
raid, and then gambling has got to be stopped--and stopped short off.
It's the worst vice I've got--from my standpoint, anyway, because it's
the one he can most easily find out, through the impatience of my
creditors. He thought it expensive to have to pay two hundred dollars to
them for me once. Expensive--that! Why, it cost me the whole of his
fortune--but of course he never thought of that; some people can't think
of any but their own side of a case. If he had known how deep I am in,
now, the will would have gone to pot without waiting for a duel to help.
Three hundred dollars! It's a pile! But he'll never hear of it, I'm
thankful to say. The minute I've cleared it off, I'm safe; and I'll
never touch a card again. Anyway, I won't while he lives, I make oath to
that. I'm entering on my last reform--I know it--yes, and I'll win; but
after that, if I ever slip again I'm gone."




CHAPTER XIII.

Tom Stares at Ruin.

When I reflect upon the number of disagreeable people who I know have
gone to a better world, I am moved to lead a different life.--Pudd'nhead
Wilson's Calendar.

October. This is one of the peculiarly dangerous months to speculate in
stocks in. The others are July, January, September, April, November,
May, March, June, December, August, and February.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's
Calendar.

Thus mournfully communing with himself Tom moped along the lane past
Pudd'nhead Wilson's house, and still on and on between fences inclosing
vacant country on each hand till he neared the haunted house, then he
came moping back again, with many sighs and heavy with trouble. He
sorely wanted cheerful company. Rowena! His heart gave a bound at the
thought, but the next thought quieted it--the detested twins would be
there.

He was on the inhabited side of Wilson's house, and now as he approached
it he noticed that the sitting-room was lighted. This would do; others
made him feel unwelcome sometimes, but Wilson never failed in courtesy
toward him, and a kindly courtesy does at least save one's feelings,
even if it is not professing to stand for a welcome. Wilson heard
footsteps at his threshold, then the clearing of a throat.

"It's that fickle-tempered, dissipated young goose--poor devil, he find
friends pretty scarce to-day, likely, after the disgrace of carrying a
personal-assault case into a law-court."

A dejected knock. "Come in!"

Tom entered, and drooped into a chair, without saying anything. Wilson
said kindly--

"Why, my boy, you look desolate. Don't take it so hard. Try and forget
you have been kicked."

"Oh, dear," said Tom, wretchedly, "it's not that, Pudd'nhead--it's not
that. It's a thousand times worse than that--oh, yes, a million times
worse."

