
“I wish you wouldn’t talk in that way, cousin Katharine,” said Bright,
in a low voice. “I don’t think it’s exactly kind.”

“It’s true, at all events,” answered Katharine. “As for being kind--it’s
not a case of kindness on my part. It’s gratitude I feel, because you
and aunt Maggie have been so awfully kind to me, just when I was in
trouble.”

“Oh--if you’re going to look at it in that way!” Bright paused, but
Katharine said nothing. “Well, I don’t see where the kindness lies,” he
continued. “Of course, if you choose to put it so--but it’s a long way
on the other side. It’s a pretty considerable kindness of you to come
and stop in my house. If that’s what you’ve got to say about the will
business, cousin Katharine, I hope you won’t say any more, because I
don’t like it. I appreciate--I suppose that’s the word--I appreciate
your motives in trying to twist things inside out and to make martyrs of
us because we’ve accepted your company without saying, ‘Look here,
cousin Katharine, this is our bread, and you’re eating it, and we don’t
exactly mind, but we’d rather you’d go and eat your own.’ I suppose
that’s what you make out that we’re thinking all the time. I don’t know
whether you call that being kind to me, exactly, but I know pretty well
what it feels like. It feels as if you’d slapped my face.”

“Ham! Cousin Ham!” cried Katharine. “You know how I meant it--please,
please don’t think--”

“No; I know I’m an idiot. I suppose it’s just as well you should know
it, too. It may make things more comfortable. But I’ll tell you. Don’t
talk that way, please, because we don’t feel that way, and we’re not
going to. I’d rather have you know that this is just as much your home
as Clinton Place is than--well, than lots of things. And since we’re
saying everything right out, like this, and we’re either going to be
friends--or not--I’d like to ask you one question, if you don’t mind.
You may be offended, but you’ll know I didn’t mean to be offensive,
because I’ve said so. May I?”

He spoke roughly, relapsing under excitement and emotion to habits of
speech which had been formed and strengthened in his early years in the
West. Katharine had occasionally heard him talk in that way with men,
losing all at once the refinements of accent and speech which had been
familiar in childhood and again in maturity, but which ten years of
California and Nevada had lined, so to say, with something rougher and
stronger that occasionally broke through the shell. Katharine was by no
means sure of what he meant to say, and would very much have preferred
that he should not ask his question just then, whatever it might prove
to be. But she saw well enough that in his present mood it would not be
easy to control him.

“Yes,” she said. “Ask me anything you like, if you think I can answer. I
will if I can.”

“Well--are you going to marry Jack Ralston or not, cousin Katharine? It
would make a difference to me if you’d tell me.”

Katharine was taken unawares, both by the question and its form. Not to
answer it was very difficult, under the circumstances. She had risked
trouble in letting him speak, and it would not be true either to say
that she was going to marry Ralston or that she was not, since she was
married already. But she had never contemplated the possibility of
telling Bright the secret, and she did not wish to do so now. She was
very truthful and also very reticent--qualities which she inherited,
and which were therefore the foundation of her impulses and not acquired
virtues from which there was at least a chance of escape under very
trying circumstances. She hesitated a moment, and then made up her mind.

“I’d rather not answer the question just now,” she said, but she felt
the blush slowly rising to her cheeks.

Bright glanced at her with a look almost expressing fear. Then he turned
his eyes away, and grew red. He jingled his little bunch of keys in his
pocket, in his emotion. Once or twice he opened his lips and drew
breath, but checked himself and kept silence. Seeing that he said
nothing, Katharine rose to her feet, hoping to put an end to the
situation. He pretended not to see her, at first. She felt that she
should not go away in silence, for she did not wish to seem unkind, so
she stood still for a moment, keeping herself in countenance by
adjusting the little cape she wore over her injured arm. Still he said
nothing, and at last she made a step as though she were going away,
purposely trying to put on a kindly and natural expression.

“Where are you going?” he asked, almost roughly.

“I was going to my room,” she answered, quietly. “I haven’t even taken
off my hat, yet, you see. I’m just as I came in.”

She lengthened the short explanation unnecessarily in order to seem
kind, and then regretted it. She made another step.

“Don’t go just yet!” he exclaimed.

His throat was dry, and the words came with difficulty. Katharine knew
that there was nothing to be done now but to face the situation. She
stopped just as she was about to take another step, and came back to him
as he stood by the fireplace.

“Please don’t say anything more,” she said. “I hadn’t any idea what
question you were going to ask. Please don’t--”

“Just hear me, please,” he answered, paying no attention to what she
said. “It isn’t going to take long. You know what I meant. Well--I’ve
thought for some time that things had cooled off between you and Jack,
and that you’d settled down to be friends. So I thought I’d ask you. Of
course, if you said right out that you were going to marry him or you
weren’t--well, that would rather simplify things. But of course, if you
can’t, or won’t, I’ve just got to be satisfied, that’s all. You’ve got a
doubt, anyhow. And Jack’s my friend. He had the first right, and he has
it until you say ‘no’ and send him off. I don’t want you to think that
I’m not acting squarely by him.”

For a moment Katharine hesitated. She was much tempted to tell him of
her marriage, seeing how he spoke, but again her natural impulse kept
her silent on that point.

“There’ll never be any chance for any one else, Ham,” she said gently.
“Put it out of your mind--and I’m grateful, indeed I am!”

“Never?” he asked, looking at her--and a nervous smile that meant
nothing came into his face.

She shook her head in answer.

“There’ll never be any chance for any one else,” she repeated gravely.

He looked at her a moment longer, his face growing rather pale. Once
more he jingled his keys in his pocket, as he turned his head away.

“Well--I’m sorry,” he said. “Excuse me if I spoke--you see I didn’t
know.”

There was a tone with the commonplace words that took them straight to
Katharine’s heart. She saw how the strong, simple, uneloquent man was
suffering, and she knew that she should never have come to the house.

“I’m more sorry--and more ashamed--than you can guess,” she said, and
with bent head she left him standing by the fireplace, and went to her
room.

He did not move for a long time after she had gone, but stood still, his
face changing, though little, from time to time, with his thoughts. He
jingled his keys meditatively in his pocket every now and then. At last
he sighed and uttered one monosyllable, solemnly and without undue
emphasis.

“Damn.”

Then he shook his big shoulders, and got his hat and went for a solitary
stroll, eastwards in the direction of the river.

But Katharine had not such powerful monosyllables at her command, and
she suddenly felt very much ashamed of herself, as she shut the door of
her room and looked about, with a vague idea that she ought to go away
at once. It was not as though she had not been warned of what might
happen, nor as though she had been forced into the situation against her
will. She had deliberately chosen to come to the Brights’ rather than to
go anywhere else, and had obliged John Ralston to let her do so when she
had been with him in the carriage. If she ever told him what had just
happened he would have in his power one of those weapons which, in a
small way, humanity keenly dreads, to wit, the power to say “I told you
so.” It is not easy to explain the sense of utter humiliation which most
