The first to press forward, and grasp his hand convulsively was his
brother, Robert Graham.

"Robert," said Sandy, "but for your brave act I should have been lying
dead instead of him," and he pointed, with a shudder, to the dead
captain.

"For your sake, Sandy," said Robert solemnly, "I have shed human blood.
To save your life, I have become a murderer."

"No, Robert, you cannot be called that any more than if you had shed
blood in self-defence."

Their conversation was interrupted by Rupert Ring.

"Comrades," he said, "the captain is dead. We can do nothing without a
leader. We should appoint one at once."

Here Fletcher pushed forward.

"I am the oldest in service among you," he said. "I was the trusted
friend of Captain Stockton. I submit that I have the best claim to be
your leader."

But among bushrangers, as in other communities, the man who is the most
anxious to secure office is very apt to be left in the lurch. Now, it
happened that Fletcher was by no means a favorite in the band. He was
sly and sneaking in his methods, currying favor with the captain, even
at the expense of manliness and self-respect, and there were serious
doubts as to his courage. If he had been wiser, he would not have made a
boast of his standing with the late leader, for the men were heartily
tired of his tyranny, and resolved to elect someone in his place who
bore no similarity to him.

Rupert Ring smiled slightly as he heard Fletcher's modest claim.

"Comrades," he said, "you have heard Fletcher's appeal. It is true that
he is the oldest in service among you. It is for you to consider whether
that entitles him to the post of leader. Those of you who are in favor
of Dick Fletcher as your leader will signify it by raising your right
hands."

Fletcher's eye wandered anxiously around the circle. To his chagrin not
a single hand was raised save his own. There was a cheer of derision
which brought an angry flush to his cheek.

Then a clear voice was heard. It was that of the young man, Wyman, whose
conversation with the two boys has already been recorded.

"I nominate Rupert Ring for our leader," he said.

There was a chorus of approval, which emboldened Wyman to add: "As he
can't very well put the question on his own nomination, I will do so.
Those of you who want Ring for your captain, please hold up your right
hands." All hands were raised except that of Fletcher.

"That settles it," said Wyman, who was unversed in parliamentary
language. "I call for three cheers for Captain Ring!"

The woods echoed to the lusty cheers of the bushrangers. It was evident,
from the general expression of satisfaction, that the choice was a
popular one.

"Comrades," said the new captain modestly, "I did not look for this
promotion, as you may have thought from my taking the lead just now, but
I saw that it was necessary for somebody to act. I don't know whether
you have made a wise choice or not, but I will do my best to make you
think so. Since I am your captain, it is my duty first to see that
proper honor is paid to the remains of your late captain, whom sudden
death has overtaken. You two lift the body and carry it into yonder
cabin."

The two attendants did so.

"Prepare a coffin, and at daybreak we will commit him to the earth.
Whatever else may be said of him, he was a brave man, and knew not
fear."

"That is true," said Robert Graham in a low voice.

"As to his faults, those we have no further concern with. All of us have
faults and no doubt grave ones."

Fletcher, till now, had sulked in silence. He was terribly disappointed
that he had been passed over and Rupert Ring promoted to the place of
chief, but since it was so he felt that it was politic to stand well
with the new administration.

"Captain Ring," he said, extending his hand, "let me be the first to
congratulate you on your election as our captain."

Ring smiled slightly. He had never liked Fletcher.

"I accept your congratulations, Fletcher," he said, "and condole with
you on your own disappointment. We can't all be leaders."

"I hope to enjoy your favor, as I did that of Captain Stockton,"
continued Fletcher smoothly.

"That will depend on yourself," said Ring shortly.

"I would like to suggest that the two boys"--here Fletcher turned in the
direction where Harry and Jack had been standing, and ejaculated in
dismay, "I don't see them. What has become of them?"

"They have taken advantage of the excitement and confusion to run away,
I fancy," said the new captain quietly.

This was quite true. Just after the fatal shot had been fired, and the
attention of all had been taken up by the tragedy, Harry had whispered
to Jack, "Now's our time to escape, Jack. Follow me!"

"I'm with you," responded Jack promptly, and no one noticed the two as
they vanished among the trees.

"Shall I go after them, Captain Ring?" asked Fletcher in excitement.
"I'll take another man, and scour the woods for them."

"It is not necessary," said Ring indifferently. "Let them go! They would
only be in our way."

"But," protested Fletcher, "Captain Stockton meant to take them into the
band. They are bright and smart boys, and would grow up into useful
members."

"Heaven forbid!" said Ring earnestly. "Our lives are spoiled already,
and we have no chance but to continue. Leave them to grow up innocent."

"This is strange talk for a captain of bushrangers," said Fletcher,
disappointed.

"Remember that I am your captain," retorted Ring sharply, "and don't
attempt to interfere with me! Go, I would be alone."

Fletcher slunk away, mortified and disappointed. It was well for the two
boys that he had not been elected captain.




CHAPTER XV.

LOST IN THE WOODS.

Yes, the two boys had escaped. When the excitement produced by the fatal
shot was at its height, it had flashed upon Harry like an inspiration
that then, if ever, was the time to escape. He knew that it would be at
the risk of their lives, and but for one consideration it is doubtful if
he would have been willing to incur the peril of the attempt. But he
felt that to stay was to run a risk as great that of being compelled to
join the ranks of the bushrangers, and of that he had a great dread.

The boys never stopped running till they had set half a mile between
them and the camp of the bushrangers. Jack was the first to show
distress.

"Hold on, Harry," he said, panting, "I am all out of breath."

Harry instantly slackened his speed.

