"She was acting according to instructions, no doubt."

"Very probably."

"I wish you had learned more."

"So do I. Why do they keep you away from her?"

"Because she has money, and they wish to keep it in their hands," said
Hartley, plausibly. "The aunt is a very mercenary woman. She is living
here in London, doubtless on my little girl's fortune."

John Hartley knew that this was not true, for Mrs. Vernon was a rich
woman; but it suited his purpose to say so, and the statement was
believed by his acquaintance.

"This is bad treatment, Hartley," he said, in a tone of sympathy.

"Isn't it?"

"What are you going to do about it?"

"Try to find out where the child is placed, and get possession of her."

"I wish you success."

This information John Hartley felt to be of value. It narrowed his
search, and made success much less difficult.

In order to obtain more definite information, he lay in wait for Mrs.
Vernon's servant.

Margaret at first repulsed him, but a sovereign judiciously slipped into
her hand convinced her that Hartley was quite the gentleman, and he had
no difficulty, by the promise of a future douceur, in obtaining her
co-operation.

"What is it you want, sir?" she asked. "If it's no harm you mean my
missus----"

"Certainly not, but she is keeping my child from me. You can understand
a father's wish to see his child, my dear girl."

"Indeed, I think it's cruel to keep her from you, sir."

"Then look over your mistress' papers and try to obtain the street and
number where she is boarding in New York. I have a right to know that."

"Of course you have, sir," said the girl, readily.

So it came about that the girl obtained Dan's address, and communicated
it to John Hartley.

As soon as possible afterward Hartley sailed for New York.

"I'll secure the child," he said to himself, exultingly, "and then my
sweet sister-in-law must pay roundly for her if she wants her back."

All which attested the devoted love of John Hartley for his child.




CHAPTER XXXI.

ALTHEA'S ABDUCTION.


Arrived in New York, John Hartley lost no time in ascertaining where Dan
and his mother lived. In order the better to watch without incurring
suspicion, he engaged by the week a room in a house opposite, which,
luckily for his purpose, happened to be for rent. It was a front window,
and furnished him with a post of observation from which he could see who
went in and out of the house opposite.

Hartley soon learned that it would not be so easy as he had anticipated
to gain possession of the little girl. She never went out alone, but
always accompanied either by Dan or his mother.

Hartley was disappointed. If, now, Althea were attending school, there
would be an opportunity to kidnap her. As it was, he was at his wits'
end.

At last, however, opportunity favored him.

On the evening of the party Mrs. Mordaunt chanced to need some small
article necessary to the work upon which she was engaged. She might
indeed wait until the next day, but she was repairing a vest of Dan's,
which he would need to wear in the morning, and she did not like to
disappoint him.

"My child," she said, "I find I must go out a little while."

"What for, mamma?"

"I want to buy some braid to bind Dan's vest. He will want to wear it in
the morning."

"May I go with you, mamma?"

"No, my child. You can be reading your picture-book till I come back. I
won't be long."

So Mrs. Mordaunt put on her street dress, and left the house in the
direction of Eighth avenue, where there was a cheap store at which she
often traded.

No sooner did Hartley see her leave the house, as he could readily do,
for the night was light, than he hurried to Union Square, scarcely five
minutes distant, and hailed a cab-driver.

"Do you want a job, my man?" he asked.

"Yes, sir."

"Can you hold your tongue?"

"Yes, sir, if necessary."

"It is necessary."

"There is nothing wrong, sir, I hope."

"Certainly not. My child has been kidnapped during my absence in Europe.
With your help I mean to recover her."

"All right, sir."

"She is in the custody of some designing persons, who keep possession
of her on account of a fortune which she is to inherit. She does not
know me to be her father, we have been so long separated; but I feel
anxious to take her away from her treacherous guardians."

"You are right, sir. I've got a little girl of my own, and I understand
your feelings. Where shall we go?"

Hartley gave the proper address. Fifteen minutes afterward the cab drew
up before Mrs. Brown's door, and Hartley, springing from it, rang the
bell. It so happened that Mrs. Brown was out, and a servant answered the
bell. She looked inquiringly at the visitor.

"A lady lives here with a little girl," he said, quickly.

"Yes, sir; Mrs. Mordaunt."

"Precisely; and the little girl is named Althea."

"You are right, sir."

"Mrs. Mordaunt has been run over by a street-car, and been carried into
my house. She wishes the little girl to come at once to her."

"Is she much hurt?" asked Nancy, anxiously.

"I am afraid her leg is broken; but I can't wait. Will you bring the
little girl down at once?"

"Oh, yes, sir. I'll lose no time."

Nancy went up stairs two steps at a time, and broke into Mrs.
