and still; there was a secluded spot, which he knew of, under a
salt-house at the head of a long pier but seldom used at night. The
fine rain was uncertain, and took moods. As the two came down the
larynx of the Alley, the drizzle had dripped off into a soft mist.
Bayard heard Captain Hap across the street giving utterance to his
favorite phrase:--

“It’s comin’ on thick; so thick it has stems to it.”

The captain looked after the minister and the drunkard with
disapproval in his keen, dark eyes.

“Better look out, Mr. Bayard!” he called, with the freedom of
a nurse too recently dismissed not to feel responsible for his
patient. “It ain’t no night for you to be settin’ round on the
docks. You cough, sir! Him you’ve got in tow ain’t worth it--no,
nor twenty like him!”

“That’s a fact,” said Job humbly, stopping short.

“Come on, Job,” Bayard answered decidedly.

So they came under the salt-house, and sat down. Both were silent
at first. Job wiped off an old fish-keg with the sleeve of his
jumper, and offered this piece of furniture to the minister; the
fisherman perched himself on the edge of a big broken pile which
reared its gray head above the wharf; the rising tide flapped
with a sinister sound under his feet which hung over, recklessly
swinging. Job looked down into the black water. He was man enough
still to estimate what he had done, and miserable enough to quench
the shame and fire in him together by a leap. Men do such things,
in crises such as Job had reached, far oftener than we may suppose.
Job said nothing. Bayard watched him closely.

“Well, Job?” he said at last; not sternly, as he had spoken at
Trawl’s door.

“I haven’t touched it before, sir, not a drop till last night,”
said Job with sullen dreariness. “I was countin’ on it how I should
see you the fust time since--I thought of it all the way home from
Georges’. I was so set to see you I couldn’t wait to get ashore to
see you. I took a clean jump from the dory to the landin’. I upsot
the dory and two men.... Mr. Bayard, sir, the cap’n’s right. I
ain’t wuth it. You’d better let me drownded off the Clara Em.”

“Tell me how it happened,” said Bayard gently. Job shook his head.

“You know’s well’s I, sir. We come ashore, and Trawl, he had one of
his ---- runners to the wharf. Ben was there, bossin’ the ---- job.”

The minister listened to this profanity without proffering a
rebuke. His teeth were set; he looked as if he would have liked to
say as much, himself.

“There was a fellar there had made two hundred dollars to his trip.
He treated. So I said I didn’t want any. But I hankered for it
till it seemed I’d die there on the spot before ’em. Ben, he sent
a bar-boy after me come to say I needn’t drink unless I pleased,
but not to be onsocial, and to come along with the crowd. So I
said, No, I was a goin’ home to my wife and kid. When the fellar
was gone, I see he’d slipped a bottle into my coat pocket. It was
a pint bottle XXX. The cork was loose and it leaked. So I put it
back, for I swore I wouldn’t touch it, and I got a little on my
fingers. I put ’em in my mouth to lick ’em off--and, sir, before
God, that’s all I know--till I come to, to-day. The hanker got me,
and that’s all I know. I must ha’ ben at it all night. Seems to me
I went home an’ licked my wife and come away ag’in, but I ain’t
sure. I must ha’ ben on a reg’lar toot. I’m a ---- drunken fool,
and the quicker you let me go to ---- the better.”

Job leaned over and gazed at the water quietly. There was a look
about his jaw which Bayard did not like. He came out from under the
salt-house and moved the keg close beside the broken pile.

“What were you doing when I found you? I’ve been looking for you
everywhere--last night, and all day.”

“I was havin’ it out,” said Job doggedly.

“Having?”--

“It lays between me and the rum, God and the devil. I was set to
see which would beat.”

“Why didn’t you come straight over to see me?”

“I couldn’t.”

“Couldn’t put your feet up those steps and walk in?”

“No, sir. I couldn’t do it. I come over twenty times. I couldn’t
get no further. I had to come back to Trawl’s. I HAD TO DO IT!”

Job brought his clenched hand down heavily on his knee.

“You can’t onderstand, sir,” he said drearily. “You ain’t a
drinkin’ man.”

“I sometimes wish I had been,” said the minister unexpectedly. “I
must understand these things.”

“God forbid!” said Job solemnly. He stretched his shaking arm out
with a beautiful gesture, and put it around Bayard, as if he were
shielding from taint a woman or some pure being from an unknown
world.

Tears sprang to the minister’s eyes. He took the drunkard’s dirty
hand, and clasped it warmly. The two men sat in silence. Job looked
at the water. Bayard looked steadily at Job.

“Come,” he said at length, in his usual tone. “It is beginning to
rain, in earnest. I’m not quite strong yet. I suppose I must not
sit here. Take my arm, and come home to Mari and Joey.”

Job acquiesced hopelessly. He knew that it would happen all over
again. They walked on mutely; their steps fell with a hollow sound
upon the deserted pier; the water sighed as they passed, like the
involuntary witness of irreclaimable tragedy.

Suddenly, Bayard dropped Job’s hand, and spoke in a ringing voice:--

“Job Slip, get down upon your knees--just where you stand!”

Job hesitated.

“Down!” cried Bayard.

Job obeyed, as if he had been a dog.

“Now, lift up your hands--so--to the sky.”

As if the minister had been a cut-throat, Job obeyed again.

“Now pray,” commanded Bayard.

“I don’t know--how to,” stammered Job.

“Pray! Pray!” repeated Bayard.

“I’ve forgot the way you do it, sir!”

“No matter how other people do it! This is your affair. Pray your
own way. Pray anyhow. But pray!”

“I haven’t done such a thing since I was--since I used to say:
‘Eenty Deenty Donty,’--no, that ain’t it, neither. ‘Now I lay
me?’ That’s more like it. But that don’t seem appropriate to the
circumstances, sir.”

“Try again, Job.”

“’Tain’t no use, Mr. Bayard. I’m a goner. If I couldn’t keep sober
for you, I ain’t ergointer for no Creetur I never see nor spoke
to,--nor no man ever see nor spoke to,--a thousand fathoms up
overhead.”

Job lifted his trembling arms high and higher towards the dark sky.

“Pray!” reiterated Bayard.

