The boys just adored her, and certainly they were a jolly lot. Sometimes
they had streaks of luck, at others they were hard up. But every
Saturday night the rent money was counted out to make sure, and the
agent was soon greatly interested in her. She was a wonderful little
market woman, and she found so much entertainment going out to do
errands. She used to linger about the flower stands, and thrill with
emotions that seemed strange indeed to her. She took great pleasure in
watching the little flower bed a thin, delicate looking woman used to
tend, that belonged to the front house.

One day Patsey brought her home a rose.

“Oh,” she cried, “if Bess was only here to see!” and tears overflowed
her eyes. “O Patsey, do you mind them wild roses the lady gev you an’
you brought to us? They’re always keepin’ in my mind with Bess.”

“I wisht I knew where they growed, I’d go fer some. But ain’t this a
stunner?”

“It’s jes’ splendid, an’ you’re so good, Patsey.”

“I wisht yer cheeks cud be red as that,” the boy said earnestly.

Mrs. Brian went out now and then to do a bit of washing, “unbeknownst to
her man,” who thought he earned enough for both of them. She came and
sat on the little stoop with Dil occasionally, and had a “bit of a
talk.” Patsey had advised that she should let folks think both her
parents were dead—he had said so in the first instance to make her
coming with them seem reasonable.

But one day she told Mrs. Brian about little Bess, “who was hurted by a
bad fall, and died last winter.” Then she ventured on a wonder about
heaven, hoping for some tangible explanation.

“I s’pose it’s a good thing to go to heaven when you’re sick, or old an’
all tired out, but I ain’t in any hurry. I want a good bit o’ fun an’
pleasure first. My man sez if you’re honest an’ do the fair thing, it’s
as good a religion as he wants, an’ he’ll trust it to take any one
there. My ’pinion is that some of them that talks about it don’t appear
to know, when you pin ’em down to the pint. My man thinks most everybody
who ain’t awful bad’ll go. There’s some folks so dreadful you know, that
the devil really ought to have ’em for firewood.”

No one seemed in any hurry to go. It was a great mystery to Dil. And now
Barker’s Court seemed as if it must have been the City of Destruction.
If only her mother had been like Christiana! It was all such a puzzle.
She was so lonely, and longed for some satisfying comfort.

The weather was so lovely again. Ah! if Bess had not died, they would
have started by themselves, she felt quite sure. And as the days passed
with no John Travis, Dil sometimes grew cold and sick at heart. In spite
of the boys’ merriment and kindliness, she could not get down to the
real hold on life. It seemed to her as if she was wandering off in some
strange land, when she used to sit alone and wonder; it could hardly be
called thinking, it was so intangible.




XII—THE RESPONSE OF PINING EYES


The boys chipped in one evening and took Dil to the theatre. They were
fond of the rather coarse fun and stage heroics. Dil was simply
bewildered with the lights, the blare of the second-rate orchestra, and
the crowds of people. She was a little afraid too. What if they should
meet some one who knew her mother?

A curious thought came to her unappeased soul. Some one was singing a
song, one of the rather pathetic ballads just then a favorite. She did
not see the stage nor the young man, but like a distinct vision the
little room in Barker’s Court was before her eyes. Bess in her old
wagon, Mrs. Murphy with her baby in her arms, old Mrs. Bolan, and the
group of listening women. The wonderful rapture in Bess’s face was
distinct. It was the sweet old hymn that she was listening to, the voice
that stilled her longing soul, that filled her with content unutterable.

There was a round of applause that brought her back to the present life.
They were rather noisy here. She liked the dreamland best.

“That takes the cake jist!” declared Patsey, looking down in the
bewildered face. “What’s the matter? Youse look nawful pale!”

“My head aches,” she said. “It’s so warm here. And it’s all very nice,
but will it be over soon, Patsey?”

The boy was disappointed; but the next morning Dil evinced such a
cordial interest in all the points that had amused them, that Patsey
decided that it must have been the headache, and not lack of
appreciation.

But he hung around after the others were gone, with a curious sense of
responsibility.

“Youse don’t git reel well any more, Dil,” he said, his voice full of
solicitude. “Kin I do anythin’—”

“O Patsey!” The quick tears came to her eyes. “Why, I am well, an’
everything’s so nice now, an’ Mrs. Brian jes’ lovely. Mebbe I ain’t
quite so strong sence I was sick. An’ sometimes I get lonesome with you
away all day.”

“I wish youse knowed some gals—”

“Patsey,” a soft, tender light came to her brown eyes, “I think I miss
the babies. They’re so cunnin’ an’ sweet, an’ put their arms round your
neck an’ say such pritty little words. An’ if I could have some babies I
wouldn’t wash any more. That puts me out o’ breath like, an’ hurts my
side. ’Twas that tired me for last night.”

“Youse jist sha’n’t wash no more, then. But babies is such a bother!”

“I love thim so. An’ only two, maybe. Curis there ain’t a baby in this
house, nor in the front, neither. Babies would seem like old times, when
I had Bess.”

There was such a wistful look in her pale, tender face. Patsey thought
she had grown a great deal prettier, but he wished she had red cheeks.
And he was moved to go out at once and hunt up the babies.

Other girls might have made friends in the neighborhood; but Dil had
never acquired friendly arts, and now she shrank from companionship. But
she liked Mrs. Brian; and that very afternoon as they sat together Dil
ventured to state her desires.

“You don’t look fit to bother with ’em. You ought to be out pleasurin’ a
bit.”

“But I’m strong, though; an’ I used to be such a fat little chunk! I was
stunted like; but I think I look better not to be so fat,” she said with
quaint self-appreciation.

“There’s one baby I could get for you easy. The mother’s a nice body—you
see, the man went off. She’s waitress in a restaurant, an’ her little
girl’s pretty as a pink, with a head full of yellow curls, an’ big blue
eyes. She pays a dollar for her keep, ’ceptin’ nights an’ Sundays. An’
you’d be so good, which the woman ain’t. You couldn’t hurt a fly if you
tried.”

“Oh, if I could have her!” cried Dil eagerly. A little girl with golden
hair, curly hair. And a dollar would pay for the washing and ironing.
The boys had been so good about fixing up things and buying her clothes
that she had felt she must do all she could in return.

“I’ll see about it this very evenin’, dear.”

“Oh, thank you! thank you!”

The mother, a slim young thing, came to visit Dil on Sunday, with
pretty, chubby, two-year-old Nelly, who was not shy at all, and came and
hugged Dil at once. Her prettiness was not of the spirituelle order,
as Bess’s would have been under any circumstances. The eyes were merry
and wondering, the voice a gay little ripple, and comforted Dil
curiously.

And through the course of the week several “incidental” ones came. It
was like old times.

“Seems to me it’s nawful tough to be nussin’ kids,” said Patsey; “but,
Dil, you’ve chirked up an’ grown reel jolly. You’re hankerin’ arter
