he had not mentioned her. With the statement that the party would go on
board in two or three days, they parted, and the boats returned to the
ship. The commander had something to think of now; but he came to the
conclusion that the reprobate was not aware of the presence of the Blanche
or her owner.

The carriages followed the shore road till they came to the upper end of
the city, and then turned into the first of the long streets with several
names in different parts, which extends entirely through the town. Near the
esplanade they found the finest shops, and the ladies went into some of
them to see the goods. Then they struck the Circular Road, and drove
entirely around the city.

"This reminds me of Moscow, in some parts, where palaces and shanties are
side by side in the same street," said Captain Ringgold. "There does not
seem to be any aristocratic section, unless that by the esplanade is such."

They saw plenty of mosques, temples, and churches, some of the latter very
fine. They believed they had taken in the whole city. After dinner Lord
Tremlyn invited them to an excursion on board of a steam-yacht the next
day, the use of which was tendered to him by a high official.




                                 CHAPTER XXXV

                      A SUCCESSFUL HUNT IN THE SUNDERBUNDS


A breakfast at six o'clock was provided the following morning for the
tourists, and they came down from their chambers prepared for the aquatic
excursion, which was to include something more than sight-seeing, for the
gentlemen and the boys were directed to take their rifles along. Mr.
Boulong had called upon the commander the evening before, and he had been
invited to join the party; but he had excused himself, and suggested that
Mr. Gaskette would enjoy it more than he should, and he was asked to go.

By half-past six the party were on The Strand, as the road in the esplanade
bordering the river is called. The second officer of the ship was there;
and he was not only a sailor and an artist, but he had the reputation of
being a dead shot. The company embarked on the steam-yacht, which was large
enough to make voyages to Madras and Ceylon. The excursion was not intended
as a mere shooting-party, Lord Tremlyn explained, but to enable the company
to obtain a better view of Calcutta than they could get in any other
manner.

From the river a full view was obtained of the multitude of columns,
belfries, and cupolas, as well as of the Government House, the Town Hall,
and the line of magnificent houses beyond the esplanade. Along the shore
The Strand, as it is called the whole length of the city, the jetties, and
the landing-stages were crowded with men; for, where labor is so cheap,
work is not done by small forces of men. There are several lines of
steamers running between London, Southampton, and Liverpool to this port;
and they were constantly arriving and departing.

"You don't see such a variety of races here as you did in Bombay," said
Lord Tremlyn as he was pointing out the sights to be seen. "You observe
some Chinamen and Burmese; but most of the laborers are of the low class of
natives, Bengalese, and they are very sorry specimens of the Hindus."

"But what are the merchants and shopkeepers?" asked Captain Ringgold.

"They are Baboos, which is a name given to the Bengalese. The better class
of them, in contact with the English, realize that education is a power;
and they have labored for years to improve their countrymen. They have
established schools and colleges, and when young natives applied for
government situations the authorities felt obliged to admit them. To-day
you will find many natives acting as clerks in the post-office, railway,
and telegraph-offices, as well as in the courts in minor capacities.

"In fact, there has been a social revolution in progress here for half a
century or more, and its effects may be seen now. The government has
modified the lot of woman to some extent, as you have learned. The Hindu
law weighed terribly upon her. When a woman lost her husband, custom
required that she should be sent back to her own family. Her relatives
shaved off her hair, dressed her in the coarsest clothing, and compelled
her to do the severest drudgery of the household. She is forbidden to marry
again, and is treated as though she was responsible for becoming a widow.
The reforming of this evil is in progress; but the people are baked into
their prejudices and superstitions of forty centuries, and it is worse than
pulling their teeth to interfere with them.

"One of the favorite divinities of the natives here is Kali, the wife of
Siva, the goddess of murder. Her worship is odious and disgusting; for her
altars were formerly sprinkled with human blood, and the idols were
surrounded with dead bodies and skulls. Their great festival is the
Churuk-Pooja, which is still celebrated, though the government has
forbidden all its brutal features. You have all seen a 'merry-go-round'
machine in which children ride in a circle on wooden horses.

"An apparatus like this, but without the wooden steeds, was used by these
fanatics. At the end of the four arms hung ropes with sharp hooks at the
end, on which were hung up the devotees, as the butcher does his meats in
his shop; and the machine was revolved rapidly till the hooks pulled out,
and the victim dropped upon the ground, fainting or dead. At the present
time the festival is attended by Baboos of the best class; but it amounts
simply to an athletic exhibition with music. The government and the
reformers have brought about this change of performance."

"Do the English attend such shows?" asked Dr. Hawkes.

"Sometimes, from curiosity. But they are here just about what they are in
London, and their habits are much the same," replied the viscount. "The
river here is about a mile wide. Formerly we could not have come as far as
we have without seeing hundreds of corpses floating on the surface. Natives
who were too poor to pay the bill for the funeral pyre threw the bodies of
their friends into the river. Of course this was a menace to the health of
the city; and the practice was forbidden by the government, which built an
immense tower, wherein is kept a fire constantly burning, in which the
bodies of the poor are consumed without expense."

"See that big bird on the shore!" exclaimed Mrs. Belgrave. "I saw several
of them yesterday, and I meant to ask what it was."

"That is the arghilah, generally called the adjutant," replied Sir
Modava. "He is the licensed scavenger of Calcutta, for it is forbidden by
law to kill or molest him. You see him walking about in a crowd with as
much dignity and gravity as though he were a big banker; and he is also
seen perched upon the walls and buildings. They have an enormous bill, as
you observe. A friend of mine had a tame one; and one day when the table
was ready for dinner he took a chicken from the dish and swallowed it
whole. He has a searching eye, and discovers a hidden bit of meat, a dead
cat or other animal, and bolts it in the twinkling of an eye."

The steamer continued on her course down the river, and in less than four
hours arrived at Diamond Harbor. It contained a fort, a signal-station, and
a telegraph-office, though there is nothing in the shape of a village. The
East India Company's ships made this their port; but the improvement of the
navigation of the river enables all the steamers to go up to the city, to
which their arrival is telegraphed.

The extensive territory included in the delta of the Ganges is called the
Sunderbunds, and is about equal to the State of Massachusetts in size. It
is a muddy region, cut up by a network of streams; and it is full of
swamps, morasses, and mud-holes. Nearest to the sea is a belt of land,
forming a wide extent of jungle, with a dense undergrowth of tropical
plants and verdure; for it is in the Torrid Zone, which the tourists
entered about forty miles north of Calcutta. This jungle was the objective
point of the hunters of the party.

The captain of the steam-yacht took the company on board through a number
of the lagoons and cutoffs to enable them to see the wild character of the
scenery. Lord Tremlyn, Sir Modava, and Dr. Ferrolan were kept busy
explaining the trees, plants, crocodiles, storks, and other animals.

At a pleasant basin, dinner was served on board, and it was quite as good
as they would have obtained at the Great Eastern; for just now the party
were government guests, and the officials could not do enough for a person
of Lord Tremlyn's influence in England. After the meal the hunters prepared
themselves for the sport in which they were to engage. Mrs. Belgrave warned
her son to be very careful, and Mrs. Blossom did as much for Felix.

The steamer started into a cut-off leading through to the Bay of Bengal,
the polite captain explained. It was full of game of all sorts, including
the wild buffalo, rhinoceros, tiger, leopard, wild hog, deer, and the trees
and bushes were as full of monkeys as they could swarm. It was agreed among
the hunters that none of the latter should be shot, for they were harmless
animals.

