
"They are not; and I don't understand their game," answered Milton.

Suddenly, at an order from the commander of the company, the "Cornfeds"
dismounted, and proceeded to lead their horses; but the animals still
sank deep in the mud, even without the weight of their riders.

"Whar's that stream you spoke on, Milton?" asked Life, as he continued
to study the situation.

"Over to the left of you, and I've often fished it."

"I see it; how fur is it from that company?"

"Not more than a hundred rods from the head of the column."

"Is the bottom of the brook mud?"

"Not a bit of it. It is hard gravel below the top soil of mud."

"Then I reckon I know what them fellers are driving at," said Life,
apparently pleased with his solution of the question. "How deep is the
water?"

"From one to three feet, I should say."

"That's the idee! Them fellers is gwine to take to the stream," said
Life. "How wide is it?"

"From twenty to thirty feet in different places."

"Then it is wide enough for them to march in column of fours."

Life dismounted, and climbed a tree, which afforded him a view of the
winding stream. It passed within twenty rods of the mired wagons, and
probably the mud was not so deep nearer the woods as it was farther
from it. Leading their horses, the company got along faster than
before, but still had some distance to go before they reached the
stream. The escort of the train seemed to be discouraged at the
prospect before them; though they still worked hard at the wheels, and
their progress seemed to be slower than when first seen.

"I reckon we shall have a fight on this medder, Milton, and you must
ride back and report to the leftenant," said Life as he descended from
the tree. "Them half-starved Cornfeds won't give it up; for a dozen or
more wagins, loaded with rations, is a prize to them, to say nothin' of
the army in which they train. Your horse is well rested now, and you
must make the gravel fly on your way to the road; for I reckon the
re-enforcements will be needed as soon as they can get here."

"All right, Sergeant; I will make the distance as fast as we did
coming," replied Milton as he started his horse, and immediately
hurried him to a gallop.

Life Knox ascended the tree again, seated himself on a branch, and
proceeded to watch the "Cornfeds." In about ten minutes more they
reached the stream; but they had some difficulty in making their horses
go down the steep bank, for the animals were evidently disgusted with
their experience in the soft soil. The troopers stamped down the sods;
and after making an inclined plane to the water, they rode down into
the flowing current. The horses, perhaps concluding that they had made
this movement to be watered, fell to drinking as though they had had no
water that day.

Life was rather disappointed when he saw the company making so good
progress in this novel road, and they soon reached their nearest point
to the coveted wagons. The enemy were now within twenty rods of the
train. Half an hour had elapsed since Milton left, and it was about
time for the re-enforcement to appear.

The sergeant wanted to do something to retard the advance of the
company; and, at the top of his ample lungs, he began to give military
commands, as though he had a regiment in charge. The enemy heard his
voice, and halted where they were in the stream.




CHAPTER XVI

AN IMAGINARY AND A REAL BATTLE


"Company--halt!" yelled Sergeant Knox; and he continued to give orders,
as though he were in the act of bringing a column into position.

The enemy halted, as if in obedience to the command of the sergeant on
the shore. His commands were plainly heard in the still air of the
morning by the troopers in the water; for all of them had turned their
gaze in the direction of the woods. But the observer was concealed
among the branches of a large tree, and the enemy could see nothing.

The guard of the wagon-train still continued to work at the wheels. So
far as they could move the vehicles at all, it was in the direction of
the Jamestown Road, still three miles from them. As Life regarded the
situation, it was a hopeless case for them, being only twenty rods from
the enemy. It is no wonder that they were discouraged, though the
officers compelled their men to continue their labor.

The only salvation for the train and the guard was in the arrival of
the re-enforcement from the Riverlawn Cavalry and its auxiliary force.
He was confident that this assistance would come very soon, and he
hoped it would come before the enemy left the stream. Life measured
with his eye the direction and distances of the edge of the forest, the
train, and the cavalry.

His position was in about the centre of a straight portion of the line
of the woods, ending at a point nearest to the stream. He had been
informed that Lieutenant Lyon would command the detachment that was to
move towards the pike. This force could do little or nothing with their
horses in the meadow, any more than the Confederate company. The
sergeant had arranged in his mind just how the affair should be
managed, and believed that Deck would hear his advice, as he often had
before, whether he followed it or not.

The enemy remained at a halt in the stream, the officers and most of
the troopers watching the woods in the direction from which the
commands came; for Life had repeated them at intervals for some time.
Like a prudent commander, the captain seemed to be unwilling to
continue his fight with the mud until the unseen enemy, if there was
one, had been seen, and his strength measured.

The sergeant looked at his great silver watch, and found that fifty
minutes had elapsed since the departure of Milton. He had calculated
closely that the re-enforcement would be on the ground in about half an
hour; but probably his impatience had hurried his reckoning, and he
made no allowance for the overhanging branches of the trees, which
would to some extent impede the progress of the troopers.

But he had heard the sound of the horses' feet as he returned his watch
to his pocket. He descended from the tree in hot haste, and rushed up
the road with all the speed that his long legs would carry him. He soon
discovered his lieutenant riding at the head of his platoon. Deck, as
soon as he saw the sergeant, gave the order to walk the horses; for he
desired to ascertain the nature of the situation before he reached the
scene of the coming action.

[Illustration: "HE SOON DISCOVERED HIS LIEUTENANT RIDING AT THE HEAD OF
HIS PLATOON." Page 210.]

"None o' my business, Leftenant; but I reckon you'd better halt, and
take a look at things ahead," said the sergeant in a very low tone to
the commander of the force, which consisted of nearly, or quite, eighty
men, or more than three-fourths of the strength of the Confederate
company, allowing it to be full, as it appeared to be.

Deck promptly accepted the suggestion, and gave the command; for he had
only the meagre information conveyed to him by Milton, and he knew
nothing whatever of any changes in the situation since he left his
companion; and in the space of an hour it was possible that the
condition of things on the meadow was entirely altered.

In the same low tone the sergeant suggested that he had better
dismount, and go with him to the boundary line of the forest, where he
could see for himself the position of the wagon-train and that of the
enemy. This was just what the lieutenant wanted to know, and he at once
complied with the suggestion of his faithful friend. They went to the
point indicated, keeping behind the trees; for Deck did not wish the
Confederates to draw any inference from his appearance so near the
scene of action.
