cigars; which in Sevilla includes the putting up of tobacco in papers
for smoking, and it may be so here. Before I close I wish to say that
authorities differ in regard to the population of the city; but I think
the professor was about right in putting it at 270,000. Lippincott gives
it with the suburbs at 160,000, and Chambers at nearly 300,000. You have
been patient and longer suffering than I intended you should be, and I
thank you."

The commander made his bow, and descended from the rostrum. Hearty
applause followed, and the siamangs joined with repeated cries and
squeaks. Miss Mingo had fallen asleep in her comfortable quarters; but
the noise woke her with a start, and she sprang to the shoulder of Miss
Blanche, where she gave her "Ra! Ra! Ra!" and the squeak which is the
"tiger" at the end of it. As the audience left their chairs for a walk
on the deck, Mr. and Mrs. Mingo sprang into the fore-rigging, climbing
the shrouds, and over the futtock-shrouds, disdaining to crawl through
the lubber-hole to the top.

Miss Mingo looked up at them, and then sprang into the rigging; for her
strength and agility seemed to have greatly increased since she came on
board, making it probable that the sea-air agreed with her. But her
mamma did not appear to be quite satisfied with this venture; and she
sprang over the futtocks, and seized her with one arm as she began to
mount them.

Mr. Mingo ran up the topmast rigging, and seated himself on the
cross-trees. The anxious mother looked at him a moment, and then darted
down to the deck with the baby in her arm. Then, seeing Mrs. Belgrave
seated in one of the arm-chairs on the promenade, she carried Miss Mingo
to her, placing the infant in her lap. The lady immediately folded the
little one in her arms so that she could not escape, caressing her so
that she did not offer to follow her mother up the rigging, though she
watched her ascent.

Mrs. Mingo ascended to the cross-trees, where she and the gentleman
siamang seemed to hold a conference. The latter then sprang up to the
topgallant yard, and was closely followed by his mate. They turned
somersets, and went through a variety of athletic feats, which greatly
interested their audience on deck, who gave them a round of applause.
They seemed to understand and appreciate this manifestation of
approbation, for they attempted various other feats.

Mrs. Mingo got hold of the topgallant halliards, and finding them loose,
swung out over the lee side of the ship. Captain Ringgold was startled
at this movement. She swung out as far as she could, the line yielding,
and suddenly she dropped into the water. The captain rang the gong to
stop the screw, and then to back it. If the siamang could swim at all,
she was very clumsy in the water; and the waves, for there was
considerable sea on, seemed to bother her.

"Clear away the second cutter, Mr. Gaskette!" shouted the commander as
soon as he had rung the gong to stop the screw, and the ship was as
nearly at rest as she could be on the billows.

"All the second cutters, on deck!" shouted Biggs, the boatswain, after
he had piped his whistle, at the order of the second officer.

The boat was swung out in as much haste as though the cry had been "Man
overboard!" and her crew took their places in good order. The cutter was
lowered into the water, and the men gave way on a favoring wave and went
clear of the ship. They pulled with all their might; and Lanark, the
cockswain, steered her for the siamang.

"Stand by, bowmen, to haul in the lady!" called Mr. Gaskette, as the
cutter approached the unhappy animal. "In bows!" and the two bowmen
tossed their oars, and brought them down in place, the men springing
into the fore-sheets to seize hold of the creature. "Way enough!"

It looked to those who were anxiously watching the operations of the
men, fearful that Miss Mingo would become an orphan, as though the boat
would strike Mrs. Mingo, and kill her by the collision.

"Stern all!" cried Mr. Gaskette with energy.

The order was obeyed, and the cutter came to a stop when near the
animal. The bowmen were reaching to get hold of her, when she made a
vigorous leap into the fore-sheets, grasping the rail as she did so. She
shook herself with all her might as soon as she was in the boat, and a
cheer went up from the deck of the ship. The lady then seated herself on
the little platform in the bow, and seemed to be as happy as ever, and
that was saying a great deal.

"Give way!" said Mr. Gaskette, laughing at the apparent self-possession
of Mrs. Mingo when her troubles were over. The cutter came alongside the
ship under its davits, the falls were hooked on, and the boat was
hoisted up. The lady was the first to leap from her place to the rail of
the ship.

The passengers applauded as she moved aft; and she replied with her
usual cry, and ended it with a squeak. She went directly to the
promenade, which she mounted, and then hastened to Mrs. Belgrave's
chair. She looked at her baby as though it had been overboard. Miss
Mingo's keeper had taken care that the infant should not see her mother
in the water; and the little one could not have told what was the matter
if any one had asked her, first because she did not know, and second for
an obvious reason.

The ship was going ahead again, and the captain came to the promenade.
He took the lady into the sun, and persuaded her to lie down and dry
herself. She seemed to understand the matter, and stretched herself out.

"What made her fall overboard, Captain?" asked the lady--meaning Mrs.
Belgrave this time, and not the siamang.

[Illustration: SHE MADE A VIGOROUS LEAP INTO THE FORE-SHEETS.

Page 267.]

"The fore topgallant halliard was not made fast to the cleat, and when
it ran out, it jerked her from it," replied the commander. "It ought not
to have been loose, and there is a bit of discipline for some jack-tar."

The ship went along as before; and when the passengers turned out the
next morning Manila was in sight, and not five miles distant.




CHAPTER XXIX

GOING ON SHORE IN MANILA


The ship had slowed down in the afternoon, and reached the entrance of
Manila Bay about eight bells, or four o'clock in the morning. At the
Boca Grande she had taken a pilot; but she still had twenty-five miles
to run. She had come in by the larger of the two passages, formed by a
group of islands, both of which are called "mouths" (bocas); and the
smaller of them is the Boca Chica. The Blanche had followed the example
of the Guardian-Mother in slowing down, and had taken a pilot at about
the same time.

The passengers had asked the steward on watch in the cabin to call them
at half-past five, and they were all on deck as soon as it was light
enough for them to see the shore clearly. But the bay is so large that
they could make out the shores only ahead of the ship. They could see
the mountains in the distance, with a lower stretch of land between them
and the low ground of the shore. All that they could observe was
tropical verdure, with lofty palms on every hand. The low ground,
covered with water in the rainy season, was planted with rice-fields.

The ladies declared that the view was lovely; and certainly it presented
variety enough, with the high lands in the background, and the rich and
luxuriant growth near the bay. The pilot was a Spaniard who could speak
a little English; and the commander ordered him to bring the ship to
anchor at a safe place, as near as convenient off the end of the two
piers at the mouth of Pasig. The Blanche took a position abreast of her,
off the fort, while the first was off the lighthouse.

The health-officer came on board, and by this time it was after sunrise.
He was blandly received by the commander, as every official or visitor
was, and the conversation was carried on in English. All the ship's
company and the passengers were mustered on the upper deck. The papers,
including lists of all the persons on board, were examined, and compared
with the number presented, which made it clear that no one was sick in
his stateroom or in the forecastle.

The custom-house officers were not far behind, and the character of the
steamer was explained. There was no manifest, for there was no cargo to
be invoiced. The principal officer was very minute in his inquiry, and
