choice, seven; Frederic Harper has one; Anthony Weston has twelve, and
is elected."

Captain Sedley clapped his hands at this evidence of good will on the
part of the members, and the club all joined heartily in the
demonstration. Three days before, the grand jury had found a bill
against Tony; but his friends still continued to regard and treat him
as an innocent person.

"I thank you for your kindness," said Tony, rising; "I am sure, I--"
but the poor fellow choked up, and could say no more.

His heart was full, and the great tears rolled down his cheeks.

"Never mind it, Tony; here is the record-book," said Fred Harper,
taking it from the library case.

Tony wiped away his tears, and seated himself at the foot of the table,
where a small desk had been placed for the use of the clerk.

"Mr. Chairman," said Charles Hardy.

Frank nodded to him to indicate that he had the floor.

"I move that a committee of three be appointed to draft and report a
constitution for the club."

"Second the motion," added Sam Harper.

The motion prevailed. Charles Hardy, Tony Weston, and Fred Harper were
nominated "at large," and chosen to serve on this committee. Leaving
the hall, they retired to the boat-room for deliberation; but the
constitution had already been prepared by Frank and Charles, with the
assistance of Captain Sedley. To make the business look more important
and dignified, Charles insisted on remaining out a few moments, during
which time they talked over the matter with Uncle Ben.

When they returned, the constitution was duly reported, and adopted
article by article.

Perhaps my young readers would not readily appreciate the moral of my
story without reading this important document; therefore I add, in
full, the

    CONSTITUTION.

    ARTICLE I.

    This association shall be called the Zephyr Boat Club.

    ARTICLE II.

    The objects of the association shall be the instruction and
    amusement of the members, and the acquiring of good morals, good
    manners, and good habits in general.

    ARTICLE III.

    The officers of the club shall consist of a coxswain, as president,
    and a clerk.

    ARTICLE IV.

    It shall be the duty of the coxswain to command the boat, to
    preside at the meetings of the club, and to exercise a general
    supervision over its affairs. He shall hold his office for two
    weeks.

    ARTICLE V.

    The clerk shall keep a record of the meetings, and of all business
    pertaining to the club, and shall hold his office for four weeks.

    ARTICLE VI.

    No member of this club shall use profane language at any time. No
    member shall neglect his school, or his duties at home. No member
    shall use vulgar or indecent language. No member shall provoke a
    quarrel with another person, but shall do all he can to prevent
    fighting and unkindly feelings one towards another. No member shall
    use tobacco, or ardent spirits as a beverage, in any form. All
    members shall obey the coxswain while in the boat. Any member
    offending against either of the requirements of this article shall
    be liable to suspension, and if incorrigible, to expulsion from the
    club.

    ARTICLE VII.

    In order the more perfectly to carry out the beneficent and
    reformatory purposes of the founder of the club, to whose bounty
    we are indebted for the opportunities of instruction and amusement
    the association affords us, we appoint him our Director. All
    violations of Article VI., and all violations of the spirit of our
    organization set forth in Article II., whether in word or in deed,
    shall be reported to our Director, and the delinquent shall be
    subject to such penalty as he shall determine.

    ARTICLE VIII.

    The hall and library shall be open every Wednesday and Saturday
    afternoon, at such other times as the Director or coxswain may
    order, and every evening except Sunday till nine o'clock.

    ARTICLE IX.

    This constitution may be altered or amended by a vote of two-thirds
    of the members.

This constitution was transferred to the record book, and duly signed.
Some other business was transacted, and the meeting adjourned.

"Put on your uniforms," said Frank, as he rose from his chair, "and we
will make our first appearance."

"At twelve o'clock there will be a collation ready for you on Centre
Island, to which you are all invited," said Captain Sedley.

"Hurrah!" shouted Charles Hardy, as he rushed into the boat-room.




CHAPTER XIII

THE THUNDERBOLT


The appearance of the Zephyr Club in uniform was unique and pleasing,
and each of the members was "every inch a sailor." Uncle Ben was
delighted with the change; "they looked so much more shipshape than in
their shore togs."

"Come, Uncle Ben, we are all ready," said Frank.

"I arn't goin' with you this time."

"You must go without him to-day, Frank," added Captain Sedley. "Uncle
Ben must take the things over to the island for the collation."

"Are we to go alone?"

"Certainly."

"Hurrah!" cried Charles, who always used this word to express his
gratification.

"But, boys, you must preserve good discipline. According to the
constitution you must all obey the coxswain. And, Frank, be very
careful; don't get aground on the rocks at the north shore, and if you
go down the river, don't go too near the dam."

"I will not, father," replied Frank, who was fully impressed by the
responsibility of his position as commander of the Zephyr. "Take your
places in the boat. Tony, number them."

The doors which gave egress from the boat-house to the lake were thrown
open by Uncle Ben.

"Now, back her steady," continued Frank, standing up in the
stern-sheets. "Don't let her rub, Tony. Steady; one hard push; now she
