aloud while the others sewed. Sometimes the Major came in to listen; but
he thought there were no novels written nowadays like "The Mysteries of
Udolpho," "The Children of the Abbey," and "The Vicar of Wakefield."

"Oh," said the little girl, "isn't this funny! We have the first volume
of 'The Grumbler' and the second of 'The Grandfather.' I don't believe I
can piece them together," with a bright, mirthful expression.

"And I picked those up myself. No; we are interested in the 'Grumbler'
now and must know what became of him."

They were English novels by a Miss Pickering, long since forgotten,
while less worthy ones are remembered.

"We'll walk up after supper and change them," continued Cousin Jennie.

But visitors came in shortly afterward to stay to supper. People were
not specially invited then; and the hostess did not expect to prepare a
feast on ordinary occasions. So Jennie said Hanny might go up alone, if
she didn't mind.

She started gladly, yet a sense of diffidence oppressed her as she stood
at the door, a half guilty consciousness, as if she had no right to the
secret Mrs. Clemm was trying so assiduously to hide.

The poet was pacing up and down the room; but his pallid face and
strange, shining eyes seemed looking out from some other world. Mrs.
Clemm sat by the window with a magazine in her hand.

Hanny preferred her request timidly.

"Oh, come in and hunt them up. Your cousin is quite welcome to anything.
Then there are some upstairs, though I brought down that pile over in
the corner this very morning."

The corner looked attractive. Hanny went thither, and knelt down on the
checked matting. There were two books of engravings containing portraits
of famous people, some old volumes of verse, some new ones, and
magazines.

The volumes she wanted were not among them. But she exhumed something
else that made her forget the slight, nervous man pacing up and down,
and the woman at the window. Turning the leaves of an old novel that had
lost one cover, she came across the name of one of her heroes, "Richard
of the Lion Heart." She had a passion, just then, for English history.
And there was Bulwer's "White Rose of England," in paper covers with a
Harper imprint.

"Could I take these beside?" she asked, with some hesitation.

He glanced over at them as he came to that end of the room.

"Those old novels? Yes. Do they let you read novels?"

"I read almost anything," and Hanny glanced up with rising colour. "But
there are not so many books up here--I live in New York," she added, by
way of explanation.

A half smile crossed his face, but its melancholy haunted the little
girl long afterward.

Then she went over to the closet, and soon found her missing volumes,
and uttered her gentle Good-afternoon. Mrs. Clemm had folded her sewing,
and came out on the porch where the water-pail stood empty, so she
started to the well.

"Please thank your cousin for her kindness," she said in a soft tone. "I
am glad she is fond of books."

The modern realistic school, or even the analytic school, would flout
Madame Cottin's old novel of "The Saracen" to-day. Perhaps in the year
two thousand the novels of to-day will be wondered at. The next morning,
the little girl was up in her eyrie in the corner of the porch, and
began her story. She was deeply interested in the Crusaders as well.
Richard, Saladin, and his noble and knightly brother Melek held her
spell-bound. She let the patchwork lie unheeded.

Queen Joan, Richard's sister, beautiful and unfortunate in her marriage,
almost a prisoner for years, rescued and taken to the Holy Land in
company with Berengaria, and treated with Oriental suavity and honour,
and loved by Melek Adel, indeed, almost married to him, though history
considers it only as one of the many feints of Eastern diplomacy, roused
all Hanny's youthful ardour. And Saladin's young nephew, taking
knighthood at Richard's hands on Easter morning, was so striking a
picture that the child could not understand why Turks and Christians
should be bitter enemies, when friendships like this could be cemented,
and apparently appreciated by men of such qualities.

She lost interest in the "Grumbler," and I am afraid her mind wandered
as she read aloud. She was really glad that for several days there were
no children to play with. She sat out of doors, and was pretty sure that
would answer Doctor Joe's requirements; and the Major took her out
driving, but she smuggled in her book. She was not quite so pale, though
that might have been due to sun-burn.

She had just finished her enchanting story one morning, and was glancing
idly down the hill, watching the toilers who bent over as if they were
carrying heavy loads, or drawing something behind them. Physical culture
had not yet been applied to the fine art of walking.

A barouche, drawn by two nodding horses, came slowly along. There were
four ladies in it; but one especially attracted the child. She wore a
gown of softest cerulean blue, a bonnet of blue crape with delicate pink
roses, and a large bow of airy tulle tied under her chin. Her long
ringlets, the fashion of the day, drooped about her lovely face, that
smiled and dimpled as she talked. Her hands were daintily gloved, and
one held her parasol up high so she could glance about. Hanny was quite
sure she espied her, for her companion leaned out and looked also.

She left the child in a daze as she went by. Hanny had a secret,
exultant consciousness that she had seen her ideal poet; then she smiled
and wondered if she could write poems. Dolly was quite as pretty, but
she couldn't; and Margaret was handsomer. She could not quite associate
the sad, abstracted man up the road with "Annabel Lee." What a puzzle it
all was!

She went downstairs presently, and was sitting on the area steps
watching Cousin Jennie iron, when the tall figure in her shabby black
hat and veil, which she invariably wore, came up the outer steps. Hanny
ran to open the gate.

Mrs. Clemm was always quietly dignified. It was the intangible good
breeding that distinguished her from the ordinary country-folk. She had
a small tin kettle in her hand, and her manner was apologetic.

"They had some unexpected visitors from the city, dear friends of
Eddie's" (she oftener called him that than any other name, and she often
said "My poor dear Eddie!"). "Could they spare her some milk, and a few
eggs? They had no milk at the store."

"With pleasure," said Jennie, who went to the milk-room, and cast a
glance around to see if there was not something else that would help out
the feast.

The little girl wanted to ask some questions, but she hesitated from
diffidence.

She wondered afterward how the quiet, almost listless woman could
concoct dainty feasts for these illustrious people out of her poverty;
for they were illustrious in their day. Were the wit and poesy and
knowledge the successive desserts, and bright gossip the sparkle of the
Barmecide wine? She thought of the little cottage, when she read of
Madame Scarron among the French wits.

She described them to Cousin Jennie when the tall black figure was going
slowly up the road.

"Yes, they have a good many visitors," said Jennie. "They did last
summer, when poor Mrs. Poe was alive."

"Was she very beautiful?"

"Oh, child, beauty isn't everything!" and Jennie smiled. "Yes; it was
said she was. But she was so thin and pale. She used to sit out there on
the porch, wrapped in a white shawl, with his arm about her, or her head
resting on his shoulder. You see no one knew much about them then, and
they kept so to themselves. Then there is his unfortunate habit, that
you cannot help feeling ought not to belong to a person of his
intelligence. It is a great pity."

