Western Express?"

"Yes. I know it."

"Where are you going then?"

"I shall stop at Buffalo," answered Mark, not caring to mention his
further destination.

Solon Talbot looked amazed.

"What on earth carries you out there?" he asked.

"This train," answered Mark demurely.

Solon Talbot frowned.

"You know what I mean. Why are you going to Buffalo?"

"A little matter of business."

"What business can a boy like you possibly have, I'd like to know?"

"It isn't my own business, Uncle Solon, and so I don't feel at liberty
to tell."

"It is very strange. Have you a sleeping berth?"

"Yes."

"What number?"

"No. 7."

"That is the lower berth--just the one I wanted," exclaimed Talbot in
vexation. "Mine is the upper. Let me see your sleeping check."

Mark showed it. Solon Talbot regarded it enviously "I will give you
twenty-five cents to exchange," he said.

"I will exchange without the twenty-five cents if you prefer the lower
berth."

"I do, but--I would rather pay."

"I can't accept it. Here is the check. Give me yours in return."

Solon did so muttering his thanks rather ungraciously. He hated to be
under any obligation to his nephew.

"Where is Edgar?" asked Mark.

"I left him in New York. I am going back to Syracuse to attend to a
little business, and shall then return to New York."

Mr. Talbot took out an evening paper and began to read. Mark prepared to
look around him. Presently Mr. Talbot arose.

"I am going into the smoking-car to smoke a cigar," he said. "Have an
eye on my grip while I am gone."

"All right, uncle."

Hours passed. The two travelers retired to their respective berths.
About two o'clock Mark was startled by a severe shock that nearly threw
him out of his berth. There was a confused shouting, and Mark heard some
one crying,

"What's happened?"

Leaning out of the berth he saw Solon Talbot standing in the aisle, his
face pale as a sheet.

There was a swaying movement of the car, and a sudden lurch. The car had
gone over an embankment.




CHAPTER XIV.

THE TELLTALE MEMORANDUM.


WHEN Mark came to himself he realized that he was lying on his back on
the ground. It was a bright moonlight night, and he could see for some
distance.

First of all he moved his arms and legs to ascertain whether any of his
limbs were broken. Reassured on this point he felt next for the diamond
pin. To his great relief it was safe.

All about him was confusion. He was just thinking of getting up when a
man came along with a lantern, and stooping over, began to feel in the
pockets of a prostrate figure lying near by. Instantly Mark was on the
alert, for he felt sure that this man must be a thief intent on robbing
the victims of the disaster.

He peered into the face of the robber who fancied himself unobserved,
and with a thrill of excitement he recognized the man whom he had met
twice before in New York, and who had called himself Hamilton Schuyler.
At the same time, glancing at the upturned face of the recumbent figure
he saw that it was his uncle, Solon Talbot, still insensible.

Schuyler had just drawn Mr. Talbot's watch from his pocket, when Mark,
putting a whistle to his mouth, blew a sharp note on it.

Schuyler started, let the watch drop, and rose in a state of nervous
alarm.

"What was that?" he cried.

"Mr. Hamilton Schuyler," said Mark calmly, "that gentleman will have
occasion for his watch. You had better let it alone."

"I was only going to take care of it for him," muttered Schuyler.

"You'd take care of it well," retorted Mark.

"Who are you?" demanded Schuyler, and he stepped over to where Mark lay
and peered into his face.

"By jingo, if it isn't the telegraph boy!" he exclaimed. "How came you
here?"

"By the train."

"Have you any more bogus diamonds about you?" inquired Schuyler
sarcastically.

"I might have had if I had expected to meet you."

"I'll see what I can find at any rate."

As he spoke he leaned over and was about to feel in Mark's pockets when
the telegraph messenger blew another blast on his whistle so loud that a
relief party came running up in haste.

"What's the matter?" asked the leader.

"The matter is that here is a thief, rifling the pockets of the
passengers. He was just feeling in mine."

Schuyler started to run, but was quickly captured.

"What are you about, you scoundrel?" asked his captor.

"Trying to relieve the victims of the disaster," answered Schuyler. "On
my honor that is all I was doing."

"Is this true?" asked his captor, turning to Mark.

"Yes; he was trying to relieve us of our valuables. He had that
gentleman's watch out of his pocket when I first whistled. As you came
up, he was trying to rob me."

"That's enough! Take him along."

Two strong men tied Schuyler's hands together and marched him away.

