
“Who is your father? Is his name Timmins?”

“No, sir. My father is Bradley Wentworth, of Seneca, Illinois.”

“We have an officer here who came from Seneca. He will tell us whether
your statement is correct. Ah, here he is! Hilton, come here.”

A stout, pleasant-faced policeman entered the station house.

“Well, sir,” he responded, touching his cap.

“Look at this boy and tell me if you recognize him.”

Hilton approached, and as he scanned Victor’s face, said in surprise,
“Why, it’s Squire Wentworth’s son.”

“And he lives in Seneca?”

“Yes; I am surprised to see him here.”

Victor flushed.

“I left school without my father’s knowledge,” he said in
embarrassment.

“He is working in a bookstore here in town,” explained the sergeant.
“This man who has just been caught in the act of burglary declares the
boy to be John Timmins, the son of one of his pals.”

“That isn’t true. I recognize the boy as the son of Mr. Wentworth.”

“That settles the matter. Young man, you are discharged. As for the man
who has testified falsely against you, he will find that he has not
improved his chances by so doing.”

Victor left the station-house, and returning to the store, resumed
his interrupted night’s rest. But the last hour had been so full of
excitement that it was at least two hours before he could compose
himself to sleep.

“I’ve read about burglars,” thought Victor, as he called to mind sundry
dime novels that he had perused in his boarding-school days, “but I
never expected to meet one, or to be suspected of being his accomplice.”

Before Mrs. Ferguson reached the store she had already read in great
excitement an account of how her place had been entered, and gave
Victor high praise for his success in causing the arrest of the
burglar.




CHAPTER XXXIV.

A STRANGE MEETING.


NOEL BROOKE and Gerald remained at the Lindell Hotel beyond the time
originally fixed, as the former found an English friend established in
a prosperous business on Olive Street. Gilbert Sandford was a man of
forty-five, a pleasant, genial, man, who lived in a fine house in the
upper portion of the city. He had a wife and three attractive children.

“Come and take dinner with me next Sunday, Noel,” he said in a
hospitable manner.

“I shall be glad to do so if you will let me bring my friend also.”

“By all means! Any friend of yours is welcome. Did he accompany you
from England?”

“No. It is a young American—a boy of sixteen—whom I met in Colorado.
We have been together three or four months now, and I have become very
much attached to him.”

“Bring him along by all means. My children will enjoy his company.”

“By the way, how old is your oldest child?”

“Edward is fourteen, only two years younger than your friend. The other
two are girls. What is your friend’s name?”

“Gerald Lane.”

“A good name. Is he fond of children?”

“Yes. In our travels he has frequently become acquainted with children,
and has always made himself a favorite with them.”

The next Sunday found Gerald and his employer dinner guests at the
handsome residence of Mr. Sandford. Before he left, Gerald had made
himself an established favorite with the entire Sandford family. The
merchant was particularly gracious to him. It was not long before this
partiality was to turn to his advantage.

Three weeks later Mr. Brooke received a letter from England which he
read with an expression of pain.

“Gerald,” he said, “this letter comes from my sister. My father is
seriously ill, and I shall be obliged to return to England at once.”

“I am very sorry,” said Gerald with sincere sympathy.

“One regret I have is, that it will compel us to separate for a time at
least.”

“I feared so, Mr. Brooke. I shall feel quite lost without you. I have
no relatives, and it will leave me alone in the world.”

“I would invite you to go to England with me if it were not a case of
sickness.”

“I should not expect it, Mr. Brooke. Besides, I am an American boy, and
I have my living to earn in America.”

“That gives me an idea. Remain here, please, till I return from Mr.
Sandford’s office. I must go there and acquaint him with my recall.”

An hour later he returned to the hotel.

“I have engaged my passage from New York by next Saturday’s steamer,”
he said. “I shall leave St. Louis to-morrow morning.”

“Then I shall have to form my plans,” said Gerald.

“They are formed already. How would you like to go into the employ of
Mr. Sandford?”

“I would like nothing better.”

“He has a place provided for you. You will remain in the store here for
a short time, and then he will send you off on a special mission.”

Gerald brightened up.

“I must be indebted to you for this, Mr. Brooke?” he said.

“Partly, but partly also to the pleasant impression which you made on
the whole family. You don’t ask what salary you are to receive?”

“If it will pay my board with a little over I shall be satisfied.”

“It won’t pay for your board at this hotel.”

“I should not expect it. I will seek a fair boarding-house. Probably I
can get board for six or seven dollars a week?”

“I should think so. Your salary will be fifteen dollars a week.”

“But does Mr. Sandford know that I have no business experience?”

“Yes, he knows it, but he thinks you have qualities that will enable
you to make a success.”

After hurried preparations Mr. Brooke left St. Louis, and the same day
Gerald moved to a plain, but cheerful boarding-house not far from the
store where he was to be employed.

He was at first occupied as stock clerk, and soon familiarized himself
