
"I noticed that she had a pretty head, which she carried gracefully, but
it was against the window, and I couldn't make out the face."

"That," said the head waiter, with pride either in the fact or for the
effect it must produce, "was Miss Phyllis Desmond."

Gaites started as satisfactorily as could be wished. "Indeed?"

"Yes; she's engaged to play here the whole summer." The head waiter
fumbled with the knife and fork at the place opposite, and blushed. "But
you'll hear her to-night yourself," he ended incoherently, and hurried
away, to show another guest to his, or rather her, place.

Gaites wondered why he felt suddenly angry; why he resented the head
waiter's blush as an impertinence and a liberty. After all, the fellow
was a student and probably a gentleman; and if he chose to help himself
through college by taking that menial r√¥le during the summer, rather
than come upon the charity of his friends or the hard-earned savings of
a poor old father, what had any one to say against it? Gaites had
nothing to say against it; and yet that blush, that embarrassment of a
man who had pulled out his chair for him, in relation to such a girl as
Miss Phyllis Desmond, incensed him so much that he could not enjoy his
supper. He did not bow to the head waiter when he held the netting-door
open for him to go out, and he felt the necessity of taking the evening
air in another stroll to cool himself off.

Of course, if the poor girl was reduced to playing in the hotel
orchestra for the money it would give her, she had come down to the
level of the head waiter, and they must meet as equals. But the thought
was no less intolerable for that, and Gaites set out with the notion of
walking away from it. At the station, however, which was in friendly
proximity to the Inn, his steps were stayed by the sound of girlish
voices, rising like sweetly varied pipes from beyond the freight-depot.
Their youth invited his own to look them up, and he followed round to
the back of the depot, where he came upon a sight which had, perhaps
from the waning light, a heightened charm. Against the curtain of low
pines which had been gradually creeping back upon the depot ever since
the woods were cut away to make room for it, four girls were posed in
attitudes instinctively dramatic and vividly eager, while as many men
were employed in getting what Gaites at once saw to be Miss Phyllis
Desmond's piano into the wagon backed up to the platform of the depot.
Their work was nearly accomplished, but at every moment of what still
remained to be done the girls emitted little shrieks, laughs, and moans
of intense interest, and fluttered in their light summer dresses against
the background of the dark evergreens like anxious birds.

At last the piano was got into the middle of the wagon, the inclined
planks withdrawn and loaded into it, and the tail-board snapped to.
Three of the men stepped aside, and one of them jumped into the front of
the wagon and gathered up the reins from the horses' backs. He called
with mocking challenge to the group of girls, "Nobody goin' to git up
here and keep this piano from tippin' out?"

A wild clamor rose from the girls, settling at last into staccato cries.

"You've got to do it, Phyl!"

"Yes, Phyllis, you must get in!"

"It's your piano, Phyl. You've got to keep it from tipping out!"

"No, no! I won't! I can't! I'm not going to!" one voice answered to all,
but apparently without a single reference to the event; for in the end
the speaker gave her hand to the man in the wagon, and with many small
laughs and squeaks was pulled up over the hub and tire of a front wheel,
and then stood staying herself against the piano-case, with a final
lamentation of "Oh, it's a shame! I'll never speak to any of you again!
How perfectly mean! Oh!" The last exclamation signalized the start of
the horses at a brisk mountain trot, which the driver presently sobered
to a walk. The three remaining girls followed, mocking and cheering, and
after them lounged the three remaining men, at a respectful distance,
marking the social interval between them, which was to be bridged only
in some such moment of supreme excitement as the present.

It was no question with Gaites whether he should bring up the end of the
procession; he could not think of any consideration that would have
stayed him. He scarcely troubled himself to keep at a fit remove from
the rest; and as he followed in the deepening twilight he felt a sweet,
unselfish gladness of heart that the poor girl whom he had seen so wan
and sad in Boston should be the gay soul of this pretty triumph.

The wagon drove into the grounds of the Desmond cottage, and backed up
to the edge of the veranda. Lights appeared, and voices came from
within. One of the men, despatched to the barn for a hatchet, came
flickering back with a lantern also; lamps brought out of the house were
extinguished by the evening breeze (in spite of luminous hands held near
the chimney to shelter them), amidst the joyful applause of all the
girls and the laughter of the men. A sound of hammering rose, and then a
sound of boards rending from the clutch of nails, and then a sound of
pieces thrown loosely into a pile. There was a continual flutter of
women's dresses and emotions, and this did not end even when the piano,
disclosed from its casing and all its wraps, was pushed indoors, and
placed against the parlor wall, where a flash of lamp-light revealed it
to Gaites in final position.

He lingered still, in the shelter of some barberry-bushes at the cottage
gate, and not till the last cry of gratitude had been answered by the
unanimous disclaimer of the men rattling away in the wagon did he feel
that his pursuit of the piano had ended.


VII.

"Can you tell me, madam," asked Gaites of an obviously approachable
tabby next the chimney-corner, "which of the musicians is Miss Desmond?"

He had hurried back to the Inn, and got himself early into a dress suit
that proved wholly inessential, and was down among the first at the hop.
This function, it seemed, was going on in the parlor, which summed in
itself the character of ball-room as well as drawing-room. The hop had
now begun, and two young girl couples were doing what they could to
rebuke the sparse youth of Lower Merritt Inn for their lack of eagerness
in the evening's pleasure by dancing alone. Gaites did not even notice
them, he was so intent upon the ladies of the orchestra, concerning whom
he was beginning to have a troubled mind, not to say a dark misgiving.

"Oh," the approachable tabby answered, "it's the one at the piano. The
violinist is Miss Axewright, of South Newton. They were at the
Conservatory together in Boston, and they are such friends! Miss Desmond
would never have played here--intends to take pupils in Portland in the
winter--if Miss Axewright hadn't come," and the pleasant old tabby
purred on, with a velvety pat here, and a delicate scratch there. But
Gaites heard with one ear only; the other was more devotedly given to
the orchestra, which also claimed both his eyes. While he learned, as
with the mind of some one else, that the Desmonds had been very much
opposed to Phyllis's playing at the Inn, but had consented partly with
their poverty, because they needed everything they could rake and scrape
together, and partly with their will, because Miss Axewright was such a
nice girl, he was painfully adjusting his consciousness to the fact that
the girl at the piano was not the girl whom he had seen at Boston and
whom he had so rashly and romantically decided to be Miss Phyllis
Desmond. The pianist was indeed Miss Desmond, but to no purpose, if the
violinist was some one else; it availed as little that the violinist was
the illusion that had lured him to Lower Merritt in pursuit of Miss
Desmond's piano, if she were really Miss Axewright of South Newton.

What remained for him to do was to arrange for his departure by the
first train in the morning; and he was subjectively accounting to the
landlord for his abrupt change of mind after he had engaged his room for
a week, while he was intent with all his upper faculties upon the
graceful poses and movements of Miss Axewright. There was something so
appealing in the pressure of her soft chin as it held the violin in
place against her round, girlish throat that Gaites felt a lump in his
own larger than his Adam's-apple would account for to the spectator; the
delicately arched wrist of the hand that held the bow, and the
rhythmical curve and flow of her arm in playing, were means of the spell
which wove itself about him, and left him, as it were, bound hand and
foot. It was in this helpless condition that he rose at the urgence of a
friendly young fellow who had chosen himself master of ceremonies, and
took part in the dancing; and at the end of the first half of the
programme, while the other dancers streamed out on the verandas and
thronged the stairways, he was aware of dangling his chains as he
lounged toward the ladies of the orchestra. The volunteer master of
ceremonies had half shut himself across the piano in his eager talk with
Miss Desmond, and he readily relinquished Miss Axewright to Gaites, who
willingly devoted himself to her, after Miss Desmond had risen in
acknowledgment of his bow. He had then perceived that she was not nearly
so tall as she had seemed when seated; and a woman who sat tall and
stood low was as much his aversion as if his own abnormally long legs
