it now presented itself altogether in the image and in the place in
which she had left it. The image was that of her being, as Lord Mark
had declared, a success. This depended more or less of course on his
idea of the thing--into which at present, however, she wouldn't go.
But, renewing soon, she had asked him what he meant then that Mrs.
Lowder would do with her, and he had replied that this might safely be
left. "She'll get back," he pleasantly said, "her money." He could say
it too--which was singular--without affecting her either as vulgar or
as "nasty "; and he had soon explained himself by adding: "Nobody here,
you know, does anything for nothing."

"Ah, if you mean that we shall reward her as hard as ever we can,
nothing is more certain. But she's an idealist," Milly continued, "and
idealists, in the long run, I think, don't feel that they lose."

Lord Mark seemed, within the limits of his enthusiasm, to find this
charming. "Ah, she strikes you as an idealist?"

"She idealises us, my friend and me, absolutely. She sees us in a
light," said Milly. "That's all I've got to hold on by. So don't
deprive me of it."

"I wouldn't for the world. But do you think," he continued as if it
were suddenly important for him--"do you think she sees me in a
light?"

She neglected his question for a little, partly because her attention
attached itself more and more to the handsome girl, partly because,
placed so near their hostess, she wished not to show as discussing her
too freely. Mrs. Lowder, it was true, steering in the other quarter a
course in which she called at subjects as if they were islets in an
archipelago, continued to allow them their ease, and Kate Croy, at the
same time, steadily revealed herself as interesting. Milly in fact
found, of a sudden, her ease--found it all--as she bethought herself
that what Mrs. Lowder was really arranging for was a report on her
quality and, as perhaps might be said, her value from Lord Mark. She
wished him, the wonderful lady, to have no pretext for not knowing what
he thought of Miss Theale. Why his judgment so mattered remained to be
seen; but it was this divination, in any case, that now determined
Milly's rejoinder. "No. She knows you. She has probably reason to. And
you all, here, know each other--I see that--so far as you know
anything. You know what you're used to, and it's your being used to
it--that, and that only--that makes you. But there are things you don't
know."

He took it in as if it might fairly, to do him justice, be a point.
"Things that I don't--with all the pains I take and the way I've run
about the world to leave nothing unlearned?"

Milly thought, and it was perhaps the very truth of his claim--its not
being negligible--that sharpened her impatience and thereby her wit.
"You're blas√©, but you're not enlightened. You're familiar with
everything, but conscious, really of nothing. What I mean is that
you've no imagination."

Lord Mark, at this, threw back his head, ranging with his eyes the
opposite side of the room and showing himself at last so much more
completely as diverted that it fairly attracted their hostess's notice.
Mrs. Lowder, however, only smiled on Milly for a sign that something
racy was what she had expected, and resumed, with a splash of her
screw, her cruise among the islands. "Oh, I've heard that," the young
man replied, "before!"

"There it is then. You've heard everything before. You've heard me of
course before, in my country, often enough."

"Oh, never too often," he protested; "I'm sure I hope I shall still
hear you again and again."

"But what good then has it done you?" the girl went on as if now
frankly to amuse him.

"Oh, you'll see when you know me."

"But, most assuredly, I shall never know you."

"Then that will be exactly," he laughed, "the good!"

If it established thus that they couldn't, or Wouldn't, mix, why, none
the less, did Milly feel, through it, a perverse quickening of the
relation to which she had been, in spite of herself, appointed?

What queerer consequence of their not mixing than their talking--for it
was what they had arrived at--almost intimately? She wished to get away
from him, or indeed, much rather, away from herself so far as she was
present to him. She saw already--wonderful creature, after all, herself
too--that there would be a good deal more of him to come for her, and
that the special sign of their intercourse would be to keep herself out
of the question. Everything else might come in--only never that; and
with such an arrangement they might even go far. This in fact might
quite have begun, on the spot, with her returning again to the topic of
the handsome girl. If she was to keep herself out she could naturally
best do so by putting in somebody else. She accordingly put in Kate
Croy, being ready to that extent--as she was not at all afraid for
her--to sacrifice her if necessary. Lord Mark himself, for that matter,
had made it easy by saying a little while before that no one among them
did anything for nothing. "What then"--she was aware of being
abrupt--"does Miss Croy, if she's so interested, do it for? What has
she to gain by her lovely welcome? Look at her now!" Milly broke
out with characteristic freedom of praise, though pulling herself up
also with a compunctious "Oh!" as the direction thus given to their
eyes happened to coincide with a turn of Kate's face to them. All she
had meant to do was to insist that this face was fine; but what she had
in fact done was to renew again her effect of showing herself to its
possessor as conjoined with Lord Mark for some interested view of it.
He had, however, promptly met her question.

"To gain? Why, your acquaintance."

"Well, what's my acquaintance to her? She can care for me--she must
feel that--only by being sorry for me; and that's why she's lovely: to
be already willing to take the trouble to be. It's the height of the
disinterested."

There were more things in this than one that Lord Mark might have taken
up; but in a minute he had made his choice. "Ah then, I'm nowhere, for
I'm afraid I'm not sorry for you in the least. What do you make
then," he asked, "of your success?"

"Why, just the great reason of all. It's just because our friend there
sees it that she pities me. She understands," Milly said; "she's better
than any of you. She's beautiful."

He appeared struck with this at last--with the point the girl made of
it; to which she came back even after a diversion created by a dish
presented between them. "Beautiful in character, I see. Is she so?
You must tell me about her."

Milly wondered. "But haven't you known her longer than I? Haven't you
seen her for yourself?"

"No--I've failed with her. It's no use. I don't make her out. And I
assure you I really should like to." His assurance had in fact for his
companion a positive suggestion of sincerity; he affected her as now
saying something that he felt; and she was the more struck with it as
she was still conscious of the failure even of curiosity he had just
shown in respect to herself. She had meant something--though indeed for
herself almost only--in speaking of their friend's natural pity; it had
been a note, doubtless, of questionable taste, but it had quavered out
in spite of her; and he had not so much as cared to inquire "Why
'natural'?" Not that it wasn't really much better for her that he
shouldn't: explanations would in truth have taken her much too far.
Only she now perceived that, in comparison, her word about this other
person really "drew" him; and there were things in that, probably, many
things, as to which she would learn more and which glimmered there
already as part and parcel of that larger "real" with which, in her new
situation, she was to be beguiled. It was in fact at the very moment,
this element, not absent from what Lord Mark was further saying. "So
you're wrong, you see, as to our knowing all about each other. There
are cases where we break down. I at any rate give her up--up, that
is, to you. You must do her for me--tell me, I mean, when you know
more. You'll notice," he pleasantly wound up, "that I've confidence in
you."

"Why shouldn't you have?" Milly asked, observing in this, as she
thought, a fine, though, for such a man, a surprisingly artless,
fatuity. It was as if there might have been a question of her
falsifying for the sake of her own show--that is of her honesty not
being proof against her desire to keep well with him herself. She
didn't, none the less, otherwise protest against his remark; there was
