reach him, and his demand for an explanation could come back to Hewson.
He wrote from St. Johnswort, where he had already gone for the season,
and he assumed, as no doubt he had a right to do, that the whole thing
was a fake, and that if Hewson was hesitating about denying it for fear
of giving it further prominence, or out of contempt for it, he wished
that he would not hesitate. There were reasons, which would suggest
themselves to Hewson, why the thing, if merely and entirely a fake,
should be very annoying, and he thought that it would be best to make the
denial immediate and imperative. To this end he advised Hewson’s sending
the newspaper people a lawyer’s letter; with the ulterior trouble which
this would intimate they would move in the matter with a quickened
conscience.

Apparently St. John was very much in earnest, and Hewson would eagerly
have lied out of it, he felt in sudden depravity, from a just regard for
St. John’s right to privacy in his own premises, but no lying, not the
boldest, not the most ingenious, could now avail. Scores of people could
witness that they had heard Hewson tell the story at first hand; at
second hand hundreds could still more confidently affirm its truth. But
if he admitted the truth of the fact and denied merely that it had
happened at St. Johnswort, he would have Miss Hernshaw to deal with and
what could he hope from truth so relentless as hers? She was of a moral
make so awful that if he ventured to deny it without appeal for her
support (which was impossible), she was quite capable of denying his
denial.

He did the only thing he could. He wrote to St. John declaring that the
newspaper story, though utterly false in its pretensions to be an
interview with him, was true in its essentials. The thing had really
happened, he had seen an apparition, and he had seen it at St.
Johnswort that morning when St. John supposed his house to have been
invaded by burglars. He vainly turned over a thousand deprecatory
expressions in his mind, with which to soften the blow but he let his
letter go without including one.




X.


A week of silence passed, and then one night St. John himself appeared at
Hewson’s apartment. Hewson almost knew that it was his ring at the door,
and in the tremulous note of his voice asking the man if he were at home,
he recognized the great blubbery fellow’s most plaintive mood.

“Well, Hewson,” he whimpered, without staying for any form of greeting
when they stood face to face, “this has been a terrible business for me.
You can’t imagine how it’s broken me up in every direction.”

“I--I’m afraid I can, St. John,” Hewson began, but St. John cut him off.

“Oh, no, you can’t. Look here!” He showed a handful of letters. “All from
people who had promised to stay with me, taking it back, since that
infernal interview of yours, or from people who hadn’t answered before,
saying they can’t come. Of course they make all sorts of civil excuses. I
shouldn’t know what to do with these people if any of them came. There
isn’t a servant left on the place, except the gardener who lives in his
own house, and the groom who sleeps in the stable. For the last three
days I’ve had to take my meals at that infernal inn where you got your
coffee.”

“Is it so bad as that?” Hewson gasped.

“Yes, it is. It’s so bad that sometimes I can’t realize it. Do you
actually mean to tell me, Hewson that you saw a ghost in my house?”

“I never said a ghost. I said an apparition. I don’t know what it was. It
may have been an optical delusion. I call it an apparition, because
that’s the shortest way out. You know I’m not a spiritualist.”

“Yes, that’s the devil of it,” said St. John. “That’s the very thing that
makes people believe it is a ghost. There isn’t one of them that don’t
say to himself and the other fellows that if a cool, clear-headed chap
like you saw something queer, it must have been a ghost; and so they go
on knocking my house down in price till I don’t believe it would fetch
fifteen hundred under the hammer to-morrow. It’s simply ruin to me.”

“Ruin?” Hewson echoed.

“Yes, ruin,” St. John repeated. “Before this thing came out I refused
twenty-five thousand for the place, because I knew I could get
twenty-eight thousand. Now I couldn’t get twenty-eight hundred. Couldn’t
you understand that the reputation of being haunted simply plays the
devil with a piece of property?” “Yes; yes, I did understand that, and
for that very reason I was always careful--”

“Careful! To tell people that you had seen a ghost in my house?”

“No! Not to tell them where I had seen a ghost. I never--”

“How did it get out then?”

“I,” Hewson began, and then he stood with his mouth open, unable to close
it for the articulation of the next word, which he at last huskily
whispered forth, “can’t tell you.”

“Can’t tell me?” wailed St. John. “Well, I call that pretty rough!”

“It is rough,” Hewson admitted; “and Heaven knows that I would make it
smooth if I could. I never once--except once only--mentioned your place
in connection with the matter. I was scrupulously careful not to do so,
for I did imagine something like what has happened. I would do
anything--anything--in reparation. But I can’t even tell you how the name
of your place got out in the connection, though certainly you have a
right to ask and to know. The circumstances were--peculiar. The person--
was one that I wouldn’t have dreamt was capable of repeating it. It was
as if I had said the words over to myself.”

“Well, I can’t understand all that,” said St. John, with rueful
sulkiness, from which he brisked up to ask, as if by a sudden
inspiration, “If it was only to one person, why couldn’t you deny it, and
throw the onus on the other fellow?” He looked up at Hewson, standing
nerveless before him, from where he lay mournfully wallowing in an
easy-chair, as if now for the first time, there might be a gleam of hope
for them both in some such notion.

Hewson slowly shook his head. “It wouldn’t work. The person--isn’t that
kind of person.”

“Why, but see here,” St. John urged. “There must be something in the
fellow that you can appeal to. If you went and told him how it was
playing the very deuce with me pecuniarily, he would see the necessity of
letting you deny it, and taking the consequences, if he was anything of a
man at all.”

“He isn’t anything of a man at all,” said Hewson, in mechanical and
melancholy parody.

“Then in Heaven’s name what is he?” demanded St. John, savagely.

“A woman.” “Oh!” St. John fell back in his chair. But he pulled himself
up again with a sudden renewal of hope. “Why, see here! If she’s the
right kind of woman, she’ll enjoy denying the story, and putting the
people in the wrong that have circulated it!”

Hewson shook his head in rejection of the general principle, while, as to
the particular instance, he could only say: “She isn’t that kind. She’s
the kind that would rather die herself, and let everybody else die, than
be party to any sort of deception.”

“She must be a queer woman,” St. John bewailed himself, looking at the
point of his cigar, and discovering to his surprise that it was out. He
did not attempt to light it. “Of course, I can’t ask you who she is;
but why shouldn’t I see her, and try what I can do with her? I’m the
one that’s the principal sufferer in this matter,” he added, perhaps
seeing refusal in Hewson’s troubled eye.

“Because--for one reason--she’s in London.”

“Oh Lord!” St. John lamented.

“But if she were here in New York, I couldn’t allow it,” he continued.
“It was in confidence between us.”

“She doesn’t seem to have thought so,” said St. John, with sarcasm which
Hewson could not resent.

“There’s only one thing for me to do,” said Hewson, who had been thinking
the point over, and saw no other way out for him as a gentleman, or even
