burned hay-color. He was adjusting eyeglasses to a narrow, well-cut
nose; under a scanty mustache his mouth had fallen into pleasant lines,
the nearsighted eyes, now regarding her normally from behind the
glasses, seemed clear, unusually pleasant, even a trifle mischievous.

"Is there anything I can do for you?" he asked respectfully.

"After the general is awake--if I might have the use of a room--and a
little fresh water--" Speech died in her throat; some of the color died
in her face, too.

"Did you wish me to awake him now? If your business is urgent I will,"
said Captain West.

She did not reply; an imperceptible twitching tightened her lips; then
the young mouth relaxed, drooping a trifle at the corners. Lying there,
so outwardly calm, her tired, faraway gaze fixed absently on him, she
seemed on the verge of slumber.

"If your business is urgent," he was repeating pleasantly. But she made
no answer.

Urgent? No, not now. It had been urgent a second or two ago. But not
now. There was time--time to lie there looking at him, time to try to
realize such things as triumph, accomplishment, the excitement of
achievement; time to relax from the long, long strain and lie nerveless,
without strength, yielding languidly to the reaction from a task well
done.

So this was success? A pitiful curiosity made her eyes wistful for an
instant. Success? It had not come as she expected.

Was her long quest over? Was this the finish? Had all ended here--here
at headquarters, whither she had returned to take up, patiently, the
lost trail once more?

Her dark gaze rested on this man dreamily; but her heart, after its
first painful bound of astonishment, was beating now with heavy,
sickened intelligence. The triumph had come too suddenly.

"Are you hungry?" he asked.

She was not hungry. There was a bucket of water and a soldier's tin cup
on the window sill; and, forestalling him instinctively, she reached
over, plunged the cup into the tepid depths and drank.

"I was going to offer you some," he said, amused; and over the brimming
cup she smiled back, shuddering.

"If you care to lie down for a few moments I'll move that youngster off
the sofa," he suggested.

But fatigue had vanished; she was terribly awake now.

"Can't you sleep? You are white as death. I'll call you in an hour," he
ventured gently, with that soft quality in his voice which sounded so
terrible in her ears--so dreadful that she sat up in an uncontrollable
tremor of revolt.

"What did you ask me?"

"I thought you might wish to sleep for half an hour----"

Sleep? She shook her head, wondering whether sleep would be more
merciful to her at this time to-morrow--or the next day--or ever again.
And all the time, apparently indifferent and distrait, she was studying
every detail of this man; his lean features, his lean limbs, his thin,
muscular hands, his uniform, the slim, light sabre which he balanced
with both hands across his angular knees; the spurred boots, well
groomed and well fitted; the polished cross-straps supporting field
glasses and holster.

"Are you the famous Special Messenger?--if it is not a military
indiscretion to name you," he asked, with a glint of humor in his
pleasant eyes. It seemed to her as though something else glimmered
there, too--the faintest flash of amused recklessness, as though gayly
daring any destiny that might menace. He was younger than she had
thought, and it sickened her to realize that he was quite as amiably
conscious of her as any well-bred man may be who permits himself to
recognize the charm of an attractive woman. All at once a deathly
feeling came over her--faintness, which passed--repugnance, which gave
birth to a desperate hope. The hope flickered; only the momentary
necessity for self-persuasion kept it alive. She must give him every
chance; she must take from him none. Not that for one instant she was
afraid of herself--of failing in duty; she understood that she could
not. But she had not expected this moment to come in such a fashion. No;
there was more for her to do, a chance--barely a miracle of chance--that
she might be mistaken.

"Why do you think I am the Special Messenger, Captain West?"

There was no sign of inward tumult under her smooth, flushed mask as she
lay back, elbows set on the chair's padded arms, hands clasped together.
Over them she gazed serenely at the signal officer. And he looked back
at her.

"Other spies come to headquarters," he said, "but you are the only one
so far who embodies my ideal of the highly mysterious Special
Messenger."

"Do I appear mysterious?"

"Not unattractively so," he said, smiling.

"I have heard," she said, "that the Union spy whom they call the Special
Messenger is middle-aged and fat."

"I've heard that, too," he nodded, with a twinkle in his gray eyes--"and
I've heard also that she's red-headed, peppered with freckles,
and--according to report--bow-legged from too many cross-saddles."

"Please observe my single spur," she said, extending her slender, booted
foot; "and you will notice that I don't fit that passport."

"My idea of her passport itemizes every feature you possess," he said,
laughing; "five feet seven; dark hair, brown eyes, regular features,
small, well-shaped hands----"

"Please--Captain West!"

"I beg your pardon--" very serious.

"I am not offended.... What time is it, if you please?"

He lifted the candle, looked closely at his watch and informed her; she
expressed disbelief, and stretched out her hand for the watch. He may
not have noticed it; he returned the watch to his pocket.

She sank back in her chair, very thoughtful. Her glimpse of the monogram
on the back of the watch had not lasted long enough. Was it an M or a W
she had seen?

The room was hot; the aide on the sofa ceased snoring; one spurred heel
had fallen to the floor, where it trailed limply. Once or twice he
muttered nonsense in his sleep.

The major of artillery grunted, lifted a congested face from the cradle
of his folded arms, blinked at them stupidly, then his heavy,
close-clipped head fell into his arms again. The candle glimmered on his
tarnished shoulder straps.

A few moments later a door at the end of the room creaked and a
fully-lathered visage protruded. Two gimlet eyes surveyed the scene; a
mouth all awry from a sabre-slash closed grimly as Captain West rose to
attention.

"Is there any fresh water?" asked the general. "There's a dead mouse in
this pail."

At the sound of his voice the aide awoke, got onto his feet, took the
pail, and wandered off into the house somewhere; the artillery officer
rose with a dreadful yawn, and picked up his forage cap and gauntlets.

Then he yawned again, showing every yellow tooth in his head.

The general opened his door wider, standing wiry and erect in boots and
breeches. His flannel shirt was open at the throat; lather covered his
features, making the distorted smile that crept over them unusually
hideous.

