economy, she had meant to make over for the child. She had grown a
little stouter in this wonderful climate, and could not wear it. She
glanced at the slender virginal form, and decided what could be done.
Carmen was handy with her needle, there had been need enough in her
straitened life.

No one came near them. Pablo had forgotten about the Estenegas, or
thought of them vaguely as children, and this was a friend of Missy's.

Jason Chadsey was much puzzled what course to pursue. The right way
seemed to be to send word to the Se√±ora Estenega. But the tidings
could just as well be sent if he found Joseph Hudson untrustworthy.
The vessel came in Saturday afternoon. The master was watching out,
and saw Mr. Chadsey on the pier. He waved his broad-fronted tarpaulin,
and was answered by the return wave of a hand. There were some orders
to give, the boat was made fast, and Hudson sprang ashore. And as the
elder man looked full into the young, trusty face, his heart went out
to the lovers, and he resolved to befriend them.

So he brought him home to supper, and it was planned that they would
go over to Sausalito on the morrow and find a priest to marry them.
Then he must secure a vessel going northward, and be out of the way
some months at least, for he knew Spanish vengeance was quick and
sharp. He had heard a few stories about Pascuel Estenega's treatment
of servants that were rather chilling. The matter had been so well
managed that he had not been suspicioned at all, and when the vessel
left Monterey, the disappearance had not been whispered outside the
convent walls. But that was not to say no search had been made.

Jason Chadsey accompanied them, and stood as sort of sponsor for the
marriage. The priest was old and not inquisitive, or perhaps the fee
in hand convinced him that all things were right. The sponsor was
curiously touched by the unalloyed delight of the young couple, who
seemed now so perfectly content that they made love in the most
unabashed fashion, while before, Carmen had appeared shy and in
terror.

They returned to the home that had sheltered them, and Hudson thought
it best to take some trip up northward, perhaps settle there for a
while. Already there was much trading up to the Columbia River.
Chadsey hated to give up so trusty and capable a man. He might fit out
a vessel with miscellaneous stores; indeed, that was the way to carry
trade to strange places. He would put Joseph Hudson in as captain, and
leave the bargain-making in his hands.

Miss Holmes did some shopping for the young wife, as it was not deemed
prudent for Carmen to venture out. She longed ardently to see her
little sisters, and begged that Laverne might go and call on them. The
latter had not seen them for a long while, the watchful sister had
discouraged any intimacy.

Laverne had begun school on Monday with many injunctions from Miss
Holmes to be most watchful over herself. She had a wonderful secret
now. Olive Personette never had had anything like it, for her sister's
engagement had been announced at once. And she was so full of that,
and the marriage in the early autumn, that she could hardly steady her
mind sufficiently to pass her examinations. Then she was going to the
Academy next year. They were all young ladies in the department, you
had nothing to do with little girls. There were to be three
bridesmaids, and their attendants were to wear full military costumes.

"Don't you think I might go over to the sisters?" Laverne pleaded. "I
would be very, very cautious. Carmen wants so to hear about them."

Miss Holmes was almost afraid, but the pleading eyes conquered.

She went after school. There was the long, bare corridor, with one
table and a big registry book, two wooden benches, and a few chairs.
The adobe floor had been painted gray, like the walls, and it looked
cheerless to the American girl.

Sister Anasticia was not quite sure. The children were busy with the
study hour. But Laverne pleaded with the same eyes that she had won
Miss Holmes, and presently the sister brought the children in, and
seated herself at the table with some needlework.

They were full of quiet joy, and squeezed Laverne's hands with the old
friendliness. And they had so much to tell her. Carmen was to be
married soon, the wedding gowns were being made, and they were
beautiful. The old home had been dismantled, the city was to cut
streets through it. They did not care, it was a lonely old place. They
were going to Monterey to live, and they were so glad. Carmen would be
a great lady, and live on a fine estate, ride around in her carriage,
and give balls, and they would all be so happy.

Juana resembled her mother in face and figure. But Anesta had shot up
into a tall girl, and suggested Carmencita, carried her head rather
haughtily.

The sister rapped on the table with her thimble, raising her eyes.

"You are too noisy and too frivolous," she said, with severity.

They kissed each other good-by.

"I wish we could come over and see you," Juana whispered. "We always
had such a good time. Perhaps you will come to Monterey," wistfully.

"Oh, I think I shall," was the hopeful reply.

Carmen was so glad to hear about them, and how they looked, and if
they seemed happy. She had considered writing letters to them a great
hardship, now she felt she could fill pages and pages. She wondered
how it was that her heart was so overflowing with love. And the
thought that she might never see them again filled her eyes with
tears.

"Oh, I do wonder if Pascuel will desire to marry either of the girls?"
she cried in half affright.

"But if he is so old----"

"That doesn't seem to matter where there is money. And Papa Estenega
wanted both branches of the family united. And if I had not had a
son!"

She shuddered, thinking of the poor wife who had drowned herself.

It was not until the last of the week that Captain Hudson was ready to
start with his venture. Carmen packed her plain trousseau, and was
most grateful for all the kindness.

"I shall see you sometime again," she said, in a broken voice, "but
not in quite a while. It will be best to stay until they have
forgotten about me. I shall be cast out, you know. They will take my
name off the books, and excommunicate me, I think. But I shall be an
American, and you do not fear such things, so I will try not to. Oh,
how good you have all been to me. I can never repay, but I shall pray
night and morning, and you will live in my thoughts."

They started out Saturday afternoon. Jason Chadsey pressed a roll of
money in the bride's hands. In those days wedding gifts were pure
friendship. There would be a full moon, and they could sail all night,
for a full moon on the Pacific Coast was something really beyond
description. Jason Chadsey sat out on the step enjoying it. He always
felt beauty keenly, though he had no words for it. This was why he
delighted in the child's prattle. She had so much imagination.

Had he been young once and loved like that? Young people of to-day put
their love in passionate words, rapturous kisses. They were not afraid
of making it the best thing of life, as it was. And his love had only
sipped the dregs.

Was Laverne crying? "What is it, dear?" he asked.

"The house seems so lonely, just as if some one had been buried, as it
did when Balder was killed. Uncle Jason, couldn't we go somewhere? Or
if something would happen again. I liked Captain Hudson so much. And
Carmencita has grown so sweet. Oh, it has been such a lovely week, but
it went so rapidly. Does the time pass quickly when you are happy, and
slowly when you are a little dull?"

"But you have me," he said jealously.

"I couldn't live without you." She nestled closer.

"I want you always, always."

"And sometime we might go up North. It is a queer, wild country,
grand, but not as beautiful as the southland, with its millions of
