"Yes, let us go slow," repeated the prince, brushing his damp forehead.

"Wait a moment!" said Colonel Arnheim, stepping forward.  "Only one
thing will prove his identity to me; not all the papers in the world
can do it."

"What do you know?" cried the prince, bewildered.

"Something I have not dared tell till this moment,"--miserably.

"Curse it, you are keeping us waiting!"  The duke kicked about the
shattered bits of porcelain.

"I used to play with the--the young prince," began Arnheim.  "Your
Highness will recollect that I did."  Arnheim went over to Max.  "Take
off your coat."  Max did so, wondering.  "Roll up your sleeve."  Again
Max obeyed, and his wonder grew.  "See!" cried the colonel in a high,
unnatural voice, due to his unusual excitement.  "Oh, there can be no
doubt!  It is your son!"

The duke and the prince bumped against each other in their mad rush to
inspect Max's arm.  Arnheim's finger rested upon the peculiar scar I
have mentioned.

"Lord help us, it's your wine-case brand!" gasped the duke.

"My wine case!"  The prince was almost on the verge of tears.

The girl sat perfectly quiet.

"Explain, explain!" said Max.

"Yes, yes!  How did this come?--put there?" spluttered the prince.

"Your Highness, we--your son--we were playing in the wine-cellars that
day," stammered the unhappy Arnheim.  "I saw . . . the hot iron . . .
I was a boy of no more than five . . .  I branded the prince on the
arm.  He cried so that I was frightened and ran and hid.  When I went
to look for him he was gone.  Oh, I know; it is your son."

"I'll take your word for it, Colonel!" cried the prince.  "I said from
the first that he wasn't bad-looking.  Didn't I, Princess?"  He then
turned embarrassedly toward Max and timidly held out his hand.  That
was as near sentiment as ever the father and the son came, but it was
genuine.  "Ho, steward!  Hans, you rascal, where are you?"

The steward presently entered, shading his eyes.

"Your Highness called?"

"That I did.  That's Max come home!"

"Little Max?"

"Little Max.  Now, candles, and march yourself to the packing-cellars.
Off with you!"  The happy old man slapped the duke on the shoulder.
"I've an idea, Josef."

"What is it?" asked the duke, also very well pleased with events.

"I'll tell you all about it when we get into the cellar."  But the nod
toward the girl and the nod toward Max was a liberal education.

"I am pardoned?" said Arnheim.

"Pardoned?  My boy, if I had an army I would make you a general!"
roared the prince.  "Come along, Josef.  And you, Arnheim!  You
troopers, out of here, every one of you, and leave these two young
persons alone!"

And out of the various doors the little company departed, leaving the
princess and Max alone.

Ah, how everything was changed! thought Max, as he let down his sleeve
and buttoned his cuff.  A prince!  He was a prince; he, Max
Scharfenstein, cow-boy, quarter-back, trooper, doctor, was a prince!
If it was a dream, he was going to box the ears of the bell-boy who
woke him up.  But it wasn't a dream; he knew it wasn't.  The girl
yonder didn't dissolve into mist and disappear; she was living, living.
He had now the right to love any one he chose, and he did choose to
love this beautiful girl, who, with lowered eyes, was nervously
plucking the ends of the pillow tassel.  It was all changed for her,
too.

"Princess!" he said a bit brokenly.

"I am called Gretchen by my friends,"--with a boldness that only
half-disguised her real timidity.  What would he do, this big, handsome
fellow, who had turned out to be a prince, fairy-tale wise?

"Gretchen?  I like that better than Hildegarde; it is less formal.
Well, then, Gretchen, I can't explain it, but this new order of things
has given me a tremendous backbone."  He crossed the room to her side.
"You will not wed my--my father?"

"Never in all this world!"--slipping around the table, her eyes dim
like the bloom on the grape.  She ought not to be afraid of him, but
she was.

"But I--"

"You have known me only four days," she whispered faintly.  "You can
not know your mind."

"Oh, when one is a prince,"--laughing,--"it takes no time at all.  I
love you.  I knew it was going to be when you looked around in old
Bauer's smithy."

"Did I look around?"--innocently.

"You certainly did, for I looked around and saw you."

They paused.  (There is no pastime quite like it.)

"But they say that I am wild like a young horse."  (Love is always
finding some argument which he wishes to have knocked under.)

"Not to me,"--ardently.  "You may ride a bicycle every day, if you
wish."

"I'd rather have an automobile,"--drolly.

"An airship, if money will buy it!"

"They say--my uncle says--that I am not capable of loving anything."

"What do I care what they say?  Will you be my wife?"

"Give me a week to think it over."

"No."

(She liked that!)

"A day, then?"

"Not an hour!"

(She liked this still better!)

"Oh!"

"Not half an hour!"

"This is almost as bad as the duke; you are forcing me."

"If you do not answer yes or no at once, I'll go back to Barscheit and
trounce that fellow who struck me.  I can do it now."

"Well--but only four days--"

"Hours!  Think of riding together for ever!"--joyously taking a step
nearer.

"I dare not think of it.  It is all so like a dream. . . .  Oh!"
bursting into tears (what unaccountable beings women are!)--"if you do
not love me!"

"Don't I, though!"

