
As soon as they were in the room our hero told his story in all of its
details and then produced the letter he had found. Andrew Shalley
listened closely to the story and pondered over the letter for some
time.

"Randy, have you any idea who this person who signs himself G. A. G.
can be?"

"I've been thinking that over, Mr. Shalley, and I have found out that
there is a head clerk who works for Bann & Shadow, the wholesale
grocers, whose name is George A. Gaffney. Gaffney used to come and see
Polk once in a while."

"And we buy a great many things from Bann & Shadow," put in the
steamboat owner.

"So we do."

"I will look this man Gaffney up at once."

With the steamboat owner to think was to act, and going below with our
hero he consulted a directory and found that George A. Gaffney lived on
West Twenty-sixth Street.

"I will call upon this fellow," said he. "You can go along."

They took a car on one of the avenues and got out at the corner of
Twenty-sixth Street. They had to walk half a block. The neighborhood
was not of the best, and Gaffney's residence proved to be a four-story
apartment house. The man lived on the top floor with his wife and four
small children.


George Gaffney was at home, sitting in his shirt sleeves by a front
window, smoking a pipe. He was surprised to receive visitors at that
hour.

"Is this Mr. George A. Gaffney?" questioned Andrew Shalley.

"That's my name."

"Are you a clerk for Bann & Shadow, the wholesale grocers?"

"I am."

"I would like to see you privately, Mr. Gaffney."

"Who are you?"

"I am Andrew Shalley, the owner of the steamboat Helen Shalley."

"Oh!"

George Gaffney was taken aback and showed it plainly. His wife had come
to a back doorway and was looking at the visitors curiously.

"Step in, sir," said the clerk, in a husky voice. "Mary, I will see
this gentleman alone," he went on to his wife, who at once retired,
closing the door after her.

Andrew Shalley was a good judge of character and he saw that George
Gaffney was a family man of fairly good qualities. He was extremely
nervous.

"I think I can get him to confess easily enough--if he has anything to
tell," thought the steamboat owner.

"Please be seated," said the clerk, and Mr. Shalley and Randy sat down.
Then there was a slight pause.

"Mr. Gaffney, I am afraid I have an unpleasant duty to perform," began
Andrew Shalley, in a cold, hard voice.

"Why--er--what do you mean?" stammered the clerk.

"I refer to your dealings with my purser, Peter Polk."

"I--er--I haven't had anything to do with him--that is--we had some
little business, but----" The clerk was unable to go on.

"You sent him a threatening letter the other day."

"Me? Who says so?"

"I have the letter in my possession."

The clerk winced and the steamboat owner saw that the shot struck home.

"This affair is a very serious one--you know that as well as I do,"
continued Andrew Shalley. "The fact of the matter is, it is a state's
prison offense."

The mention of prison had the desired effect. George Gaffney broke down
completely.

"Oh, sir,--I--I didn't mean to do any wrong--Polk said it would be all
right. He got me to go into it--it was all his doings. All I ever got
out of it was thirty-five dollars and that I will pay back. Mr.
Shalley, I--er--I hope you won't prosecute me, for the sake of my wife
and children!" And the clerk wrung his hands in despair.

"Didn't you get any more than thirty-five dollars?"

"No, sir, not a cent more, I swear it. And Polk said that was due to me
legally."

"If that is true, I will not prosecute you,--but on one condition."

"Name it."

"That you tell me everything you know about Peter Polk's doings."

"I will do it, Mr. Shalley."




CHAPTER XXIX

GEORGE GAFFNEY'S STATEMENT


"I cannot tell you all Peter Polk has done," said George Gaffney, on
beginning his story, "but I can tell you all so far as it concerns his
purchase of goods from Bann & Shadow."

"That will be enough," answered Andrew Shalley, and brought out a book
and a pencil, to take notes.

"He came to our firm three years ago and began to purchase various
goods for the Helen Shalley. At first he met all bills promptly and
never asked for any rebate or commission. That lasted for about three
months."

"He must have been feeling his way."

"He was. At the end of six months he made a claim of a rebate on a bill
for a hundred and fifty dollars and we allowed him ten dollars. Then he
got ten dollars more on another bill, and after that he claimed a
rebate of ten per cent. on everything he bought of us."

"You have all those bills on your books?"

"We have."

"Good. Go on."

"He gradually got bolder and wanted me to aid him in getting a
commission elsewhere on regular steamboat supplies. I was willing to
make a little extra money and introduced him to the firm of Leeson &
Bronette. Leeson is an easy-going man and he promised Polk a big
commission on all goods purchased. Polk bought hundreds of dollars'
worth of goods from them, and got, I am pretty sure, from fifteen to
twenty per cent. on every bill paid."

"Oh, what a rascal!" murmured Randy.

"Then I introduced him to another man, Aaron Denman, and he got goods
from that man too and got his commission--how much I do not know. For
