"Carol, why don't you like the rector? He is almost handsome."

"I do like him, Nan."

"Oh, I don't mean in that way," impulsively.

"In what way?" asked Caroline, her voice losing some of its warmth.

"Passively."

The faint, perpendicular line above Caroline's nose was the only sign of
her displeasure.

"Has he proposed to you?"

"Gracious sakes! one would think that the rector was in love with me.
Nan, you are very embarrassing when you look like that. Match-making
isn't your forte. Besides, the rector and I do not get on very well.
Bifurcated riding skirts are not to his fancy; and I would not give up
my morning ride for the best man living. Oh, Nan, you ought to ride a
horse; there's nothing like it in the world."

"The rector has called upon you more than any other girl in town." When
Mrs. Cathewe had an idea, she was very persistent about it. "I have even
seen him watching you when delivering a sermon."

Caroline laughed.

"Calling doesn't signify. And you must remember, daddy is the banker of
St. Paul's. No, Nan; I don't mean that; I am sure that the rector's
calls have nothing to do with the finances of the church. But, to tell
the truth, daddy calls him a mollycoddle; says he hasn't enough
gumption--whatever that may be--to stand up for himself at the trustees'
meetings. All the trustees are opposed to him because he is not over
thirty."

"And the best-looking rector the church ever had," supplemented Mrs.
Cathewe.

"But a mollycoddle, Nan! You wouldn't have me marry a mollycoddle, would
you?" There was a covert plea in her tones which urged Mrs. Cathewe
emphatically to deny that the Reverend Richard Allen was a mollycoddle.

Mrs. Cathewe did deny it. "He is not a mollycoddle, and you very well
know it. Jack says that his meekness and humility is all a sham."

"A hypocrite!" sitting up very straight.

"Mercy, no! His meekness is merely a sign of splendid self-control. No
man could be a mollycoddle and have eyes like his. True, they are mild,
but of the mildness of the sea on a calm day. 'Ware of the hurricane!"

"Has Mr. Cathewe found out yet to what college he belonged before he
became a divinity student?"

"No; and even I have never had the courage to ask him. But Jack thinks
it is Harvard, because the rector let slip one day something about
Cambridge. Why don't you write to ask your brother about him?"

For reasons best known to herself, Caroline did not answer.

"Are you ever going to get married? You are twenty-four."

Caroline was laughing again; but it was not the same spirit of mirth
that had been called into life by the possible and probable advent of
Mr. "Shifty" Sullivan.

"You ought to get married," declared Mrs. Cathewe. "Think of the dinners
and teas I should give, following the announcement."

"It is almost worth the risk," mockingly. Caroline arose and walked over
to the grate and sat down in the Morris chair. She took up the tongs and
stirred the maple log. The spurt of flame discovered a face almost as
beautiful as it was interesting and amiable. Her principal claim to
beauty, however, lay in her eyes, which were large and brown, with a
glister of gold in the rim of that part of the iris which immediately
surrounded the pupil. With these eyes she was fascinating; even her
dearest friends admitted this; and she was without caprices, which is a
rare trait in a beautiful woman. She was also as independent as the
Declaration which her mother's grandfather signed a hundred and some odd
years before. She came naturally into the spirit, her father being a
retired army officer, now the financial mainstay of St. Paul's, of which
the Reverend Richard Allen had recently been duly appointed rector.

It is propitious to observe at once that the general possessed an
unreliable liver and a battered shin which always ached with rheumatism
during rainy weather. Only two persons dared to cross him on stormy
days--his daughter and his son. The son was completing his final year at
Harvard in the double capacity of so-and-so on the 'varsity crew and
some-place-or-other on the eleven, and felt the importance of the luster
which he was adding to the historic family name. But this story in
nowise concerns him; rather the adventures of Mr. Sullivan, the
pugilist, and the rector of St. Paul.

"Mollycoddle," mused Caroline, replacing the tongs.

"Oh, your father's judgment is not infallible."

"It is where courage is concerned," retorted Caroline.

"Well, what's a mollycoddle, anyway?" demanded Mrs. Cathewe, forgetting
for the time being her own imminent troubles.

"Does Webster define it? I do not recall. But at any rate the accepted
meaning of the word is a person without a backbone, a human being with
rubber vertebr√¶, as daddy expresses it."

"Oh, fudge! your father likes men who slam doors, talk loudly, and bang
their fists in their palms."

"Not always," smiling; "at least on days like this."

"Yes, I understand," replied Mrs. Cathewe, laughing. "B-r-r-r! I can see
him. Jack says he eats them alive, whatever he means by that."

"Poor daddy!"

"I remember the late rector. Whenever he made a begging call he first
asked the servant at the door, 'How's the general's liver to-day?' 'Bad,
bad, your worship.' I overheard this dialogue one day while waiting for
you. I had to bury my head in the sofa pillows."

"You are going to have Brussels sprouts for salad?"

"Yes. Why?" amused at this queer turn in the conversation.

"I was wondering if your Mr. Sullivan will call them amateur cabbages?"

"Why did you remind me of him? I had almost forgotten him."

"If only I can keep a sober face!" said Caroline, clasping her hands.
"If he wears a dress suit, it is sure to pucker across the shoulders, be
short in the sleeves, and generally wrinkled. He will wear a huge yellow
stone, and his hair will be clipped close to the skull. It will be
covered with as many white scars as a map with railroad tracks. 'Mr.
Sullivan, permit me to introduce the Reverend Richard Allen.' 'Sure.'
Oh, it is rich!" And the laughter which followed smothered the sound of
closing doors. "Nan, it is a tonic. I wish I were a novelist's wife.
'Mr. Sullivan, I am charmed to meet you.' I can imagine the rector's
horror."

"And what is going to horrify the rector?" asked a manly voice from the
doorway.

Both women turned guiltily, each uttering a little cry of surprise and
dismay. They beheld a young man of thirty, of medium height, who looked
shorter than he really was because of the breadth of his shoulders. His
face was clean-shaven and manly; the head was well developed, the chin
decided, the blue-gray eyes alight with animation and expectancy. The
clerical frock was buttoned closely to the throat, giving emphasis to
the splendid breathing powers concealed beneath. The Reverend Richard
Allen looked all things save the mollycoddle, as the flush on Caroline's
cheeks conceded. And as she arose, she vaguely wondered how much he had
heard.

The rector, being above all things a gentleman, did not press his
question. He came forward and shook hands, and then spread his fingers
over the crackling log.

"What do you suppose has happened to me this day?" he began, turning his
