smooth-shaven man, who eyed him in return, coolly insolent, lighting a
cigar.

"I don't want to go to the Willow Villa," said Ruthven; "I want you to
drive me past it."

"Sir?"

"Past it. And then turn around and drive back here. Is that plain?"

"Yes, sir."

Ruthven got into the closed body of the vehicle, rubbed the frost from
the window, and peeked out. The hackman, unhitching his lank horse,
climbed to the seat, gathered the reins, and the vehicle started to the
jangling accompaniment of a single battered cow-bell.

The melancholy clamour of the bell annoyed little Mr. Ruthven; he was
horribly cold, too, even in his fur coat. Also the musty smell of the
ancient vehicle annoyed him as he sat, half turned around, peeping out
of the rear window into the white tree-lined road.

There was nothing to see but the snowy road flanked by trees and stark
hedges; nothing but the flat expanse of white on either side, broken
here and there by patches of thin woodlands or by some old-time
farmhouse with its slab shingles painted white and its green shutters
and squat roof.

"What a God-forsaken place," muttered little Mr. Ruthven with a hard
grimace. "If she's happy in this sort of a hole there's no doubt she's
some sort of a lunatic."

He looked out again furtively, thinking of what the agency had reported
to him. How was it possible for any human creature to live in such a
waste and be happy and healthy and gay, as they told him his wife was.
What could a human being do to kill the horror of such silent, deathly
white isolation? Drive about in it in a Cossack sleigh, as they said she
did? Horror!

The driver pulled up short, then began to turn his horse. Ruthven
squinted out of the window, but saw no sign of a villa. Then he rapped
sharply on the forward window, motioning the driver to descend, come
around, and open the door.

When the man appeared Ruthven demanded why he had turned his horse, and
the hackman, pointing to a wooded hill to the west, explained that the
Willow Villa stood there.

Ruthven had supposed that the main road passed the house; he got out of
the covered wagon, looked across at the low hill, and dug his gloved
hands deeper into his fur-lined pockets.

For a while he stood in the snow, stolid, thoughtful, puffing his cigar.
A half-contemptuous curiosity possessed him to see his wife once more
before he discarded her; see what she looked like, whether she appeared
normal and in possession of the small amount of sense he had
condescended to credit her with.

Besides, here was a safe chance to see her. Selwyn was in New York, and
the absolute certainty of his personal safety attracted him strongly,
rousing all the latent tyranny in his meagre soul.

Probably--but he didn't understand the legal requirements of the matter,
and whether or not it was necessary for him personally to see this place
where Selwyn maintained her, and see her in it--probably he would be
obliged to come here again with far less certainty of personal security
from Selwyn. Perhaps that future visit might even be avoided if he took
this opportunity to investigate. Whether it was the half-sneering
curiosity to see his wife, or the hope of doing a thing now which, by
the doing, he need not do later--whether it was either of these that
moved him to the impulse, is not quite clear.

He said to the hackman: "You wait here. I'm going over to the Willow
Villa for a few moments, and then I'll want you to drive me back to the
station in time for that four-thirty. Do you understand?"

The man said he understood, and Ruthven, bundled in his fur coat, picked
his way across the crust, through a gateway, and up what appeared to be
a hedged lane.

The lane presently disclosed itself as an avenue, now doubly lined with
tall trees; this avenue he continued to follow, passing through a grove
of locusts, and came out before a house on the low crest of a hill.

There were clumps of evergreens about, tall cedars, a bit of bushy
foreland, and a stretch of snow. And across this open space of snow a
young girl was moving, followed by a white wolf-hound. Once she paused,
hesitated, looked cautiously around her. Ruthven, hiding behind a bush,
saw her thrust her arm into a low evergreen shrub and draw out a shining
object that glittered like glass. Then she started toward the house
again.

At first Ruthven thought she was his wife, then he was not sure, and he
cast his cigar away and followed, slinking forward among the evergreens.
But the youthful fur-clad figure kept straight on to the veranda of the
house, and Ruthven, curious and determined to find out whether it was
Alixe or not, left the semi-shelter of the evergreens and crossed the
open space just as the woman's figure disappeared around an angle of the
veranda.

Vexed, determined not to return without some definite discovery, Ruthven
stepped upon the veranda. Just around the angle of the porch he heard a
door opening, and he hurried forward impatient and absolutely unafraid,
anxious to get one good look at his wife and be off.

But when he turned the angle of the porch there was no one there; only
an open door confronted him, with a big, mild-eyed wolf-hound standing
in the doorway, looking steadily up at him.

Ruthven glanced somewhat dubiously at the dog, then, as the animal made
no offensive movement, he craned his fleshy neck, striving to see inside
the house.

He did see--nothing very much--only the same young girl, still in her
furs, emerging from an inner room, her arms full of dolls.

In his eagerness to see more, Ruthven pushed past the great white dog,
who withdrew his head disdainfully from the unceremonious contact, but
quietly followed Ruthven into the house, standing beside him, watching
him out of great limpid, deerlike eyes.

But Ruthven no longer heeded the dog. His amused and slightly sneering
gaze was fastened on the girl in furs who had entered what appeared to
be a living room to the right, and now, down on her knees beside a
couch, smiling and talking confidentially and quite happily to herself,
was placing her dolls in a row against the wall.

The dolls were of various sorts, some plainly enough home-made, some
very waxy and gay in sash and lace, some with polished smiling features
of porcelain. One doll, however, was different--a bit of ragged red
flannel and something protruding to represent the head, something that
glittered. And the girl in the fur jacket had this curious doll in
her hands when Ruthven, to make sure of her identity, took a quick
impulsive step forward.



Then the great white dog growled, very low, and the girl in the fur
jacket looked around and up quickly.

Alixe! He realised it as she caught his pale eyes fixed on her; and she
stared, sprang to her feet still staring. Then into her eyes leaped
terror, the living horror of recognition distorting her face. And, as
she saw he meant to speak she recoiled, shrinking away, turning in her
fright like a hunted thing. The strange doll in her hand glittered; it
was a revolver wrapped in a red rag.

"W-what's the matter?" he stammered, stepping forward, fearful of the
weapon she clutched.

But at the sound of his voice she screamed, crept back closer against
the wall, screamed again, pushing the shining muzzle of the weapon deep
into her fur jacket above her breast.

"F-for God's sake!" he gasped, "don't fire!--don't--"

She closed both eyes and pulled the trigger; something knocked her flat
against the wall, but she heard no sound of a report, and she pulled the
trigger again and felt another blow.

