you cry before. And it's not your baby."

"I know it," said Isabel, humbly. "I suppose it is because I am so sorry
for you. I am--terribly."

"I never thought you had that much feeling," said Anabel, dully. "You
were always the strong one. Come and see my baby."

Isabel rose, trembling and unnerved, but no longer shrinking, and
followed Anabel into the nursery, where the child, looking like a little
wax-work, lay in its crib.

"She is dead!" said Anabel, in the same astonished indignant voice. "My
baby!" She caught Isabel's arm and shook it violently. "It isn't true,"
she commanded. "Say it is not. How can it be? She spoke and laughed only
two hours ago. The relapse was nothing. The doctor said so. That is not
my baby." And then her brain stopped for a moment, and Isabel carried
her into the other room.

She remained with her until after the funeral. Anabel, when she
recovered her senses, cried hopelessly for hours, but gradually
controlled herself and rose and went about her affairs with a stern
calm. It was her first trouble, but not for nothing had she been given a
square jaw and a sturdy little figure. She was filled with dumb protest,
and laid away her bright careless youth in the child's coffin, but she
accepted the inevitable.

Mr. and Mrs. Leslie were in the south when the baby died, but arrived
for the funeral. Until then Anabel clung to her friend, and so did young
Colton, who was far more demoralized than his wife. He did not brush his
hair, nor go to bed, but wandered about the house like a bewildered
spirit, occasionally smiting his hands together, or embracing the other
two children convulsively. He had no support to offer his wife, and
Isabel was glad to stay with the brave stricken little creature; but
when Mrs. Leslie arrived she felt herself superfluous and returned home.

She had had little time to think of Gwynne, but it had crossed her mind
that she would accept this heartrending episode, in which she had been
called upon to play an intimate part, as but another warning; one,
moreover, that would stand its ground did she attempt to force it aside.
But Gwynne entered and filled her dispossessed mind the moment she sat
down under her acacia-tree, which was perhaps an hour after her return
home. But this time her dreams did not flow upon a smooth golden scented
tide. She searched the accumulated newspapers for mention of him in the
despatches, wept stormily at his neglect, tormented herself with the
belief that Julia Kaye was in Washington; at all events that he had
discovered that his love for herself was but one more passing fancy,
born of propinquity.

She saw mention of him. Twice he had dined at the White House, and his
name was frequently in the list of guests at other dinners and
functions. He was not visiting at the British Embassy, and Isabel drew
her only comfort from the fact: he might be enjoying himself too much to
think of her, but his purpose was unaltered, or he certainly would be
the guest of a man whom she knew to be his friend: Gwynne was the last
man to embarrass anybody, and if the ambassador had enemies they would
find his connivance at the Americanization of a useful British peer
vastly to his own discredit.

Isabel enjoyed no further peace of mind. The flames of uncertainty
devoured her. The worst she could endure, but suspense spurred her
always ardent imagination to such appalling feats that she barely ate or
slept. But she was far too high-handed to suffer actively for long. She
buried her pride in one of her many crypts, summoned her feminine craft,
and wrote Gwynne a letter. It began in the brief and business-like
manner the iniquities of their builders demanded--they were on
strike--and her facile pen flowed on with various other items of
information, more or less unpleasant. Mr. Clink, the lessee of Mountain
House, had absconded with all the furniture, including the doors and
windows, and she hesitated to refurnish, not knowing if Gwynne would
return in time for the salmon-fishing. Nor had she been able to find
another tenant, although she had spent two days in the mountains. She
thought it might be a good place for a sanitarium, if he were inclined
to form a company. Some sulphur springs had recently bubbled out of the
ground near the house, which would add to the value of the property; but
she must confess that they ruined the place for her. She distrusted the
sudden advent of mineral waters; one never knew what was coming next.
Then, after more cheering, but equally practical information, she
rambled off into gossip, told the sad story of the Coltons' bereavement,
and asked him a few friendly questions about himself. Of course he had
not succeeded in getting his passport or he would be home--unless, to be
sure, the Britisher was too strong in him after all, and he would not
return. This alternative she contemplated with a lively regret, for she
had had no one to talk to since he left, and so much business sat
heavily on her shoulders. Then she announced herself his affectionate
cousin; and it was not until the letter was gone, and quite a day of
self-gratulation at her own adroitness, that it suddenly occurred to her
that Gwynne had made up his mind that the first letter should come from
her. For a few moments she was furious, then concluded that she did not
care; she wanted to hear from him on any terms. She counted the days,
intending finally to count the hours and minutes; but this agreeably
breathless task came to an abrupt end at the close of the sixth day.
Gwynne answered by telegraph. He thanked her for her interesting and
more than welcome letter. He was well, and bored, and hoping daily to
settle his affairs and start for home. In any case he should have
returned to California: he was surprised at her doubts. She was not to
bother further about his affairs out there. He had telegraphed to the
contractor that he could wait as long as the strikers. He added that he
longed for California.

Isabel wondered if he had not dared to trust himself in a letter,
finally concluded that this was the secret of the long telegram,
dismissed her apprehensions, and, with a soothed but by no means
tranquil imagination, yielded herself up again to dreams and the
spring.




VIII


It was close upon the middle of April when Gwynne left the train a mile
from Lumalitas, and, being unheralded, walked across the fields to his
house. He had intended to get off at Rosewater, hire the fastest horse
in town, and ride out to Old Inn; but he had been seized with doubt and
diffidence, and while he was still turning hot and cold the train moved
out of the station. It was now nearly ten weeks since he had seen
Isabel, and during that time he had received one letter from her. This
letter he had read and reread until its contents were meaningless; and
he was still in doubt as to what might lurk between the lines. He was
reasonably sure that he had forced her to write, but whether mere pique
and curiosity had been his aides, he was far from being able to
determine. She had been right in assuming that he dared not trust
himself to the tempting privacy of the letter. He had no idea how he
stood, and would not run the risk of making a fool of himself; not until
he was face to face with her could he pretend to decide upon any course
of action. But he had been tormented for ten weeks as he had never
expected to be tormented by any woman. Although he still assured himself
that he intended to marry her, the riot in his mind and blood bred
distrust of himself and evoked terrible images of Isabel at the altar
with another. He should hate to the day of his death the beautiful old
town of Santa Barbara, where he had been without any sort of refuge
from his thoughts; and in Washington, although he had managed to occupy
his mind and time profitably, there were still hours which he must spend
alone, and he had dreaded them.

And he was beset by other doubts than those of the mere lover. He was
conscious that in these weeks of absence and longing, he had idealized
Isabel, until the being he dwelt with in fancy was more goddess than
woman. He knew many sides of her, but much had eluded him, even after he
began to study her. That she was gifted in large measure with what the
Americans so aptly termed cussedness he had good reason to know; and
whether this very definite characteristic so far controlled her nature
as to hold her nobler qualities in durance----or were there nobler
qualities? She had brain and common-sense; both attributes had compelled
his respect long since. And she had character and pride--loyalty and
independence. He had had glimpses of what he would unhesitatingly have
accepted as heart and passion had he not known himself to be dazzled by
her beauty and wilful powers of fascination. That she was wholly
feminine, at least, he was convinced; she was too often absurdly so to
keep up, with any one that saw her constantly, the fiction of the
sexless philosopher. The very devil in her was of the unmistakable
feminine kidney. All this gave him hope, and he knew, that when caprice
permitted, she would be unrivalled as a companion. Intellectually, at
least, there was no thought of his she could not share and appreciate;
and her sense of humor and her feminine perversities would always
delight him. If only there were depths beneath. The longings of the
spirit are always formless, vaguely worded, a little shamefaced. Gwynne
hardly knew what was the great extreme he wanted in his wife, but he
