"Sounds good," said Merrihew, pouring himself a third glass of very
indifferent Beaune.

"And they may be going anywhere but to Monte Carlo--Paris, Cherbourg,
Calais. In my opinion, Monte Carlo is the last place two such women are
likely to go to alone."

"Have a cigar," Merrihew urged drolly. "I paid fifteen cents apiece for
them in Rome. They are now four for a dollar. And I suppose that I'll
have to smoke them all up in Monte Carlo, or the Italian end of this
ruin will sink the harpoon into me for fifty more francs. I'd like to
get that blockhead over the line. I'd customs him."

"Don't blame him. He is to be admired. He is one of the rarities of
Europe--an honest official."

So they sat in the dingy restaurant, smoking and laughing and grumbling
till the next train was announced. At four that afternoon they arrived
without further mishap at the most interesting station of its size in
Europe--Monte Carlo. And Merrihew saw gold whichever way he looked: in
the sunshine on the sea, in the glistening rails, in the reflecting
windows of the many-terraced hotels, in the orange trees; gold, gold,
beautiful gold napoleons.

And then, into the omnibus adjoining, came the man with the scar.




CHAPTER XIII

KITTY ASKS QUESTIONS


The Riviera, from San Remo on the Italian side to Cannes on the French,
possesses a singular beauty. Cities and villages nestle in bays or crown
frowning promontories; and sheltered from northern winds by mountains
rugged and lofty, the vegetation is tropical and rich. Thousands of
splendid villas (architectural madnesses) string out along the
rock-bound coast; and princes and grand dukes and kings live in some of
these. Often a guide will point out some little palace and dramatically
whisper that this will be the villa of a famous ballerina, or Spanish
dancer, or opera singer, or some duchess whose husband never had any
duchy. And seldom these villas are more than a stone's throw from the
villas of the princes and grand dukes and kings. Nobility and royalty
are fond of jovial company. Aladdin's lamp is not necessary here, where
one may build a villa by the aid of one's toes!

Nature--earthly nature--has nothing to do with the morality of humanity,
if it can not uplift. Yet humanity can alter nature, beautify it after a
conventional manner, or demolish it, still after a conventional manner.
On the Riviera humanity has nature pretty well under hand.

Villefranche stands above Nice, between that white city and Monte Carlo.
It is quiet and lovely. For this reason the great army of tourists pass
it by; there is no casino, no band, no streets full of tantalizing
shops. On the very western limit of Villefranche, on the winding white
road which rises out of Nice, a road so frequently passed over by
automobiles that a haze of dust always hangs over it, is a modest little
villa, so modest that a ballerina would scorn it and a duchess ignore
it. It is, in truth, a  pensione , where only those who come well
recommended are accepted as guests. It is on the left of the road as you
ride east, and its verandas and window balconies look straight out to
sea, the eternally blue Mediterranean. A fine grove of shade trees
protects it from the full glare of the sun.



In the balcony La Signorina reposed in a steamer chair, gazing seaward.
The awning cast a warm glow as of gold upon her face and hair, a
transparent shadow. She was at this moment the most precious thing upon
which the eye may look--a wholly beautiful woman. Kitty Killigrew,
standing in the casement window, stared at her silently, not without
some envy, not without some awe. What was going on behind those dreamy
eyes? Only once did the woman in the chair move, but this movement was
tense with passion: she clenched her hands and struck them roughly on
the arms of the chair. Immediately she relaxed, as if realizing how
futile such emotion was. Kitty stirred and came out. She sat in the
neighboring chair.

"Hilda?" said Kitty.

"Yes, Kitty."

"Who and what are you?" Kitty asked bravely.

La Signorina's eyes wandered till they met Kitty's. There was neither
anger nor surprise in the glance, only deliberation.

"And what good would it do you to know? Would it change our positions
any? Would it bring money from home any sooner? You already know,
without my telling you, that I am unhappy. The adventuress always is."

"Adventuress?" Kitty laughed scornfully. "The proprietor pretends he
does not know you, but I am certain he does. He forgets himself
sometimes in the way he bows to you. He has even called you  altezza ,
which you tell me is Italian for highness."

"He is in hope of a liberal tip."

"The proprietor? One does not tip him."

"That is true. I can not understand his motive, then."

"If he also applied the title to me, it would be different. He rarely
notices me. Won't you tell me what the secret is?"

"How beautiful that white sail looks!"

"You know all about me," went on Kitty stubbornly.

"Because you told me. I never asked you a single question."

"And you have told me nothing."

"Why should I? Come, Kitty, be reasonable. Tell me what you think of
that sail. Is it not beautiful in the sunset?"

"Is it--love?"

"Love?" La Signorina shrugged. "Poor Kitty, you are trying in vain to
make a romance out of my life. What should I know of love? It is a myth,
a fable, only to be found in story-books. You should not read so much."

"It is not curiosity," declared Kitty. "It is because I love you, and
because it makes me sad when I hear you laugh, when I see you beat your
hands against the chair as you did just now." There was a tremble in
Kitty's voice that suggested the nearness of tears.

La Signorina turned again, in a passion which was as fierce as it was
sudden.

"There  is  a man," she whispered rather than spoke, the pupils in her
eyes dilating so that the blue irises nearly disappeared. "But I loathe
him, I hate him, I abhor him! And were it not wicked to kill, he would
have been dead long ago. Enough! If you ever ask another question, I
will leave you. I like you, but I insist that my secrets shall be my
own, since they concern you in no manner."

"I am sorry," said Kitty with contrition. "But I suspected there was a
man. I understand. He was false to you and broke your heart,"
romantically.

"No, Kitty; only my pride."

"It is a strange world," mused Kitty.

"It would be otherwise were it not that the heart and the mind are
always at war. But let us turn to our affairs. I received a letter
to-day."

"From home?" eagerly.

"I have no home, Kitty. The letter is from a friend in Naples. Mr.
Hillard and Mr. Merrihew, friends of yours, are in Italy."

Kitty could scarce believe her ears. "Where are they? Where are they
stopping?"

"That I do not know. But listen. They have started out to find us. When
