“I don’t like the prospect,” Montague responded.

The younger man shrugged his shoulders. “What are you going to do
about it?” he asked. “Your political machines and your offices are
in the hands of peanut-politicians and grafters who are looking for
what’s coming to them. If you want anything, you have to pay them
for it, just the same as in any other business. You face the same
situation every hour--‘Pay or quit.’”

“Look,” Curtiss went on, after a pause, “take our own case. Here we
are, and we want to build a little railroad. It’s an important work;
it’s got to be done. But we might haunt the lobbies of your State
legislature for fifty years, and if we didn’t put up, we wouldn’t
get the charter. And, in the meantime, what do you suppose the Steel
Trust would be doing?”

“Have you ever thought what such things will lead to?” asked
Montague.

“I don’t know,” said Curtiss. “I’ve had a fancy that some day the
business men of the country will have to go into politics and run it
on business lines.”

The other pondered the reply. “That sounds simple,” he said. “But
doesn’t it mean the overthrow of Republican institutions?”

“I am afraid it would,” said Curtiss. “But what’s to be done?”

There was no answer.

“Do you know any remedy?” he persisted.

“No, I don’t know any remedy,” said Montague, “but I am looking for
one. And I can tell you of this, for a start; I value this Republic
more than I do any business I ever got into yet; and if I come to
that dilemma, it will be the business that will give way.”

Curtiss was watching him narrowly. He put his hand on his shoulder.
“That’s all right, old man,” he said. “But take my advice, and don’t
let Davenant hear you say that.”

“Why not?” asked the other.

The younger man rose from his seat. “Here’s my station,” he said.
“The reason is--it might unsettle his ideas. He’s a conservative
Democrat, you know, and he likes to make speeches at banquets!”




CHAPTER XII


IN spite of his doubts, Montague returned to his old home, and put
through the programme as agreed. Just as he had anticipated, he
found that he was received as a conquering hero by the holders of
the Northern Mississippi stock. He talked with old Mr. Lee, his
cousin, and two or three others of his old friends, and he had no
difficulty in obtaining their pledges for the new ticket. They were
all interested, and eager about the future of the road.

He did not have to concern himself with the new charter. Davenant
drew up the bill, and he wrote that a nephew of Senator Harmon’s
would be able to put it through without attracting any attention.
All that Montague knew was that the bill passed, and was signed by
the Governor.

And then came the day of the stockholders’ meeting. He attended it,
presenting proxies for the stock of Ryder and Price, and nominated
his ticket, greatly to the consternation of Mr. Carter, the
president of the road, who had been a lifelong friend of his
family’s. The new board of directors was elected by the votes of
nearly three-fourths of the stock, and the new stock issue was voted
by the same majority. As none of the former stockholders cared to
take the new stock, Montague subscribed for the whole issue in the
name of Ryder and Price, and presented a certified check for the
necessary deposit.

The news of these events, of course, created great excitement in the
neighbourhood; also it did not pass unobserved in New York. Northern
Mississippi was quoted for the first time on the “curb,” and there
was quite a little trading; the stock went up nearly ten points in
one day.

Montague received this information in a letter from Harry Curtiss.
“You must be prepared to withstand the flatteries of the Steel
crowd,” he wrote. “They will be after you before long.”

Montague judged that he would not mind facing the “Steel crowd”; but
he was much troubled by an interview which he had to go through with
on the day after the meeting. Old Mr. Carter came to see him, and
gave him a feeble hand to shake, and sat and gazed at him with a
pitiful look of unhappiness.

“Allan,” he said, “I have been president of the Northern Mississippi
for fifteen years, and I have served the road faithfully and
devotedly. And now--I want you to tell me--what does this mean? Am
I--”

Montague could not remember a time when Mr. Carter had not been a
visitor at his father’s home, and it was painful to see him in his
helplessness. But there was nothing that could be done about it; he
set his lips together.

“I am very sorry, Mr. Garter,” he said; “but I am not at liberty to
say a word to you about the plans of my clients.”

“Am I to understand, then, that I am to be turned out of my
position? I am to have no consideration for all that I have done?
Surely--”

“I am very sorry,” Montague said again, firmly,--“but the
circumstances at the present time are such that I must ask you to
excuse me from discussing the matter in any way.”

A day or two later Montague received a telegram from Price,
instructing him to go to Riverton, where the works of the
Mississippi Steel Company were located, and to meet Mr. Andrews, the
president of the Company. Montague had been to Riverton several
times in his youth, and he remembered the huge mills, which were one
of the sights of the State. But he was not prepared for the enormous
development which had since taken place. The Mississippi Steel
Company had now two huge Bessemer converters, in which a volcano of
molten flame roared all day and night. It had bought up the whole
western side of the town, and cleared away half a hundred ramshackle
dwellings; and here were long rows of coke-ovens, and two huge
rail-mills, and a plate-mill from which arose sounds like the
crashing of the day of doom. Everywhere loomed rows of towering
chimneys, and pillars of rolling black smoke. Little miniature
railroad tracks ran crisscross about the yards, and engines came
puffing and clanking, carrying blazing white ingots which the eye
could not bear to face.

Opposite to the entrance of the stockaded yards, the Company had put
up a new office building, and upon the top floor of this were the
president’s rooms.

“Mr. Andrews will be in on the two o’clock train,” said his
secretary, who was evidently expecting the visitor. “Will you wait
in his office?”

“I think I should like to see the works, if you can arrange it for
me,” said Montague. And so he was provided with a pass and an
attendant, and made a tour of the yards.

It was interesting to Montague to see the actual property of the
Mississippi Steel Company. Sitting in comfortable offices in Wall
Street and exchanging pieces of paper, one had a tendency to lose
sight of the fact that he was dealing in material things and
disposing of the destinies of living people. But Montague was now to
build and operate a railroad--to purchase real cars and handle real
iron and steel; and the thought was in his mind that at every step
of what he did he wished to keep this reality in mind.

It was a July day, with not a cloud in the sky, and an almost
tropical sun blazed down upon the works. The sheds and railroad
tracks shimmered in the heat, and it seemed as if the cinders upon
which one trod had been newly poured from a fire. In the rooms where
the furnaces blazed, Montague could not penetrate at all; he could
only stand in the doorway, shading his eyes from the glare. In each
