the branches above the singers’ heads, and brought down slow showers of
tinted leaves upon the grass.

It was a perfect afternoon. The fields were golden brown; no frost
had fallen to blacken or bleach them. Hickories were canopies of warm
amber; oaks were reddening, and the maples were aglow with autumnal
fires. The still air was nutty sweet.

The prayer, immediately preceding the sermon, was offered by an aged
farm-hand, upon whom the leader called to conduct our devotions.
His hair was pale chinchilla; his back was bent, and his thin voice
quavered sadly. All the same, he voiced the petitions of every heart
for strength, wisdom, and righteousness, briefly and pertinently. The
sermon over, Dabney was bidden to “lead us in prayer.”

I was more than curious to hear the “gifted” brother. I had, on
the drive out from the village, illustrations of his practice
of introducing pointed personalities into extempore blending of
supplication, confession, and adoration. How, the year before, when the
smallpox appeared in the lower end of the village, Doctor Flournoy, a
leading physician in the county, undertook the charge of the few cases
of the dreaded disease, quarantining himself from the homes of other
patients and acquaintances. In the cold weather, the second service of
the Sabbath was still for the negroes. But they occupied the lower part
of the church, and the whites sat in the gallery, reversing the order
of the morning services. There were few in the gallery when Doctor
Flournoy, peeping in at the door, thought it safe to slip into a seat
in the choir-loft, which was quite empty.

Dabney’s falcon eye had descried him, and when he arose to pray he
“improved” the incident:

“O Lord! we beseech Thee to bless and take care of the good doctor who
has crope into the gallery up yonder, ’cause why, he’s afeerd he may
carry smallpox in his clo’es to some of us. Be a shield about that good
man whose heart so faints for the courts of the Lord that he jes’ can’t
keep away. See to it, O Shepherd of Thine Isrul! that he don’t ketch
the smallpox himself!”

With all this, I was so far unprepared for what was to follow the
uprising of the tall figure from the ranks of the believers, collected
in the heart of the congregation, that I shrank back, out of sight of
those who might have their eyes open and focussed upon me, in my seat
just within a front window.

For thus held forth the man mighty in prayer, when he had disposed
comfortably of the world at large and the brotherhood of saints in
especial:

“O Lord! have mercy upon the hardened and hell-defying, hell-desarvin’
sinners, in these ’ere low-groun’s of sin an’ sorrow, ’roun’ about
Charlotte Coate-House, from the rivers to the ends of the yearth.

“Bring ’em to mou’n as one mou’ns fer his first-born, and come a
flockin’ into the kingdom, as doves to their windows, from the rivers
to the ends of the yearth.

“Bless the master an’ mistis of this home, an’ pour out on ’em the
riches of the heavens above, and the earth beneath, and the waters
under the earth, from the rivers to the ends of the yearth.

“O Lord! in the plentifulness of Thy mercy, bless with all manner of
mercies the great and notable man of God, whom Thou hast placed over
us in speritual things. Bless him in his rising up, and goin’ about,
and among the sheep of his parstur’, from the rivers to the ends of the
yearth.

“Bless her who Thou hast given to him to be a pardner in the lan’ what
flows wid milk an’ honey, an’ in de was’ and desolate po’tions, whar no
water is, from the rivers to the ends of the yearth.

“May they two live together for many a long year, like two turtle-doves
in one nes’, with nary a jar between, from the rivers to the ends of
the yearth!”

“A powerful figure—that of the family jars!” said my companion, when
we had had our confidential laugh out, driving homeward between the
hedgerows of the plantation-road and the cool depths of forest-lands.
“And the only one he did not borrow from the Bible. He knows but one
book.”




XXXIV

    MY NOVITIATE AS A PRACTICAL HOUSEWIFE—MY COOK “GETS HER HAND
    OUT”—INCEPTION OF “COMMON SENSE IN THE HOUSEHOLD”


FIFTY years after it was written, I found among some family papers a
letter from my husband to his father, dated “February 20, 1857.” His
description of the cottage home in which we were now installed, as
master and mistress, reads like a pastoral. He was not addicted to
sentimental rhapsodies. If this were ever his style, he would have
curbed the disposition to effervesce, in writing to another man. But
the tone of the whole epistle is that of one thoroughly content with
his home and the management thereof.

One sentence brought deep gratification to me, blended oddly with
amusement and a tinge of melancholy:

    “Virginia is very well and very busy. I confess to some
    surprise at her skill in housewifery. She seems as much at
    home in the kitchen as in the drawing-room, to which she is
    summoned many times a day to receive visitors.”

Until I read that letter, I had not meant to devote so much as a
page—much less a chapter—to the crucial experiences of that novitiate
in domestic lore. Now, I feel it incumbent upon me, as a duty I owe to
the countrywomen I have tried to help along these lines, for forty-odd
years, to lift the veil from the homely, ill-appointed kitchen in which
I successfully deluded a quick-eyed, quick-witted man into believing I
was mistress of the situation.

In my father’s house I was considered to have a turn, if not a talent,
for housewifery. From childhood it was my delight to haunt the laundry,
where the finer branches of cookery were carried on when the washing
was out of the way. My mother was a very Mrs. Rundle in the excellence
of her preserves and pickles. Mary Anne, the comely Indo-mulatto,
was proficient in the composition of cakes, jellies, and pastries,
syllabubs and creams. She liked to have me “help” her, as she put it.
That is, I whipped eggs and beat butter and pounded spices, peeled
fruit, topped and tailed gooseberries, when I felt like it, and kept
her amused with my chatter.

At ten, I was trusted to carry the key-basket and to “give out”
ingredients required for the day’s cooking and serving. At fourteen,
I believed myself to be a clever cake-maker, and at sixteen, proudly
assumed the responsibility of putting up preserves and pickles for the
winter’s consumption, one summer, when my mother’s health obliged her
to leave town in the height of the fruit season. When she came home,
the stern old granddame, with whom I was rather a favorite (if she ever
indulged her buckram-clad spirit in the weakness of having a favorite),
informed her gentle daughter-in-law that “Mary”—as she persisted in
calling me—“had kept the house so well that we had hardly missed her
mother.”

It was not strange, therefore, that I took the helm of my newly
launched barque with faint and few misgivings as to my ability to
navigate the unknown seas that looked calm and bright from the shore.

Ours was a prosperous country parish, and liberal hospitality was
the law of daily living. The Henrys vacated the Parsonage a few days
before Christmas, and I went down to Richmond for a fortnight, to
complete the household plenishing we had begun during the honeymoon. My
sisters-in-law—with whom I was ever upon cordial terms—had lent advice
and co-operation in the selection of furniture at the North. My carpets
were bought in New Brunswick, New Jersey, where Judge Terhune was an
old and honored resident. My mother had seen to the outfit of household
linen. I smile now, in recollecting how care-free was my mood through
that happy Christmas fortnight, after the receipt of a letter from the
member of the firm who abode by the stuff for ten days of my holiday,
apprised me of the arrival of the furniture from New Brunswick and from
Richmond, likewise, that “Mrs. Eggleston and Mrs. Henry, with some
other ladies, kindly insist upon having the house cleaned, the carpets
made and put down, and the furniture settled in place while you are
away.”

The proceedings would astound me now that I know more of humankind,
