
She didn’t look at him for it, but she was none the less strongly
distinct “He has been here--and that has done it He knows,” she
admirably emphasised.

“Knows what I think of him, no doubt--for a brazen young prevaricator!
But what else?”

She still kept her eyes on a far-off point. “What he will have
seen--that I feel we’re too good friends.”

“Then your denial of it’s false,” her father fairly thundered--“and you
are infatuated?”

It made her the more quiet. “I like him very much.”

“So that your row about the picture,” he demanded with passion, “has
been all a blind?” And then as her quietness still held her: “And his a
blind as much--to help him to get at you?”

She looked at him again now. “He must speak for himself. I’ve said what
I mean.”

“But what the devil do you mean?” Lord Theign, taking in the hour, had
reached the door as in supremely baffled conclusion and with a sense of
time lamentably lost.

Their eyes met upon it all dreadfully across the wide space, and,
hurried and incommoded as she saw him, she yet made him still stand a
minute. Then she let everything go. “Do what you like with the picture!”

He jerked up his arm and guarding hand as before a levelled blow at his
face, and with the other hand flung open the door, having done with her
now and immediately lost to sight. Left alone she stood a moment looking
before her; then with a vague advance, held apparently by a quickly
growing sense of the implication of her act, reached a table where she
remained a little, deep afresh in thought--only the next thing to fall
into a chair close to it and there, with her elbows on it, yield to the
impulse of covering her flushed face with her hands.





BOOK THIRD




I

HUGH CRIMBLE waited again in the Bruton Street drawing-room--this time
at the afternoon hour; he restlessly shifted his place, looked at things
about him without seeing them; all he saw, all he outwardly studied,
was his own face and figure as he stopped an instant before a long glass
suspended between two windows. Just as he turned from that brief and
perhaps not wholly gratified inspection Lady Grace--that he had sent
up his name to whom was immediately apparent--presented herself at
the entrance from the other room. These young persons had hereupon no
instant exchange of words; their exchange was mute--they but paused
where they were; while the silence of each evidently tested the other
for full confidence. A measure of this comfort came first, it would have
appeared, to Hugh; though he then at once asked for confirmation of it.

“Am I right, Lady Grace, am I right?--to have come, I mean, after so
many days of not hearing, not knowing, and perhaps, all too stupidly,
not trying.” And he went on as, still with her eyes on him, she didn’t
speak; though, only, we should have guessed, from her stress of emotion.
“Even if I’m wrong, let me tell you, I don’t care--simply because,
whatever new difficulty I may have brought about for you here a
fortnight ago, there’s something that to-day adds to my doubt and my
fear too great a pang, and that has made me feel I can scarce bear the
suspense of them as they are.”

The girl came nearer, and if her grave face expressed a pity it yet
declined a dread. “Of what suspense do you speak? Your still being
without the other opinion--?”

“Ah, that worries me, yes; and all the more, at this hour, as I say,
that--” He dropped it, however: “I’ll tell you in a moment! My real
torment, all the while, has been not to know, from day to day, what
situation, what complication that last scene of ours with your father
here has let you in for; and yet at the same time--having no sign nor
sound from you!--to see the importance of not making anything possibly
worse by approaching you again, however discreetly. I’ve been in the
dark,” he pursued, “and feeling that I must leave you there; so that
now--just brutally turning up once more under personal need and at any
cost--I don’t know whether I most want or most fear what I may learn
from you.”

Lady Grace, listening and watching, appeared to choose between different
ways of meeting this appeal; she had a pacifying, postponing gesture,
marked with a beautiful authority, a sign of the value for her of what
she gave precedence to and which waved off everything else. “Have you
had--first of all--any news yet of Bardi?”

“That I have is what has driven me straight at you again--since I’ve
shown you before how I turn to you at a crisis. He has come as I hoped
and like a regular good ‘un,” Hugh was able to state; “I’ve just met
him at the station, but I pick him up again, at his hotel in Clifford
Street, at five. He stopped, on his way from Dover this morning, to my
extreme exasperation, to ‘sample’ Canterbury, and I leave him to a
bath and a change and tea. Then swooping down I whirl him round to Bond
Street, where his very first apprehension of the thing (an apprehension,
oh I guarantee you, so quick and clean and fine and wise) will be the
flash-light projected--well,” said the young man, to wind up handsomely,
but briefly and reasonably, “over the whole field of our question.”

She panted with comprehension. “That of the two portraits being but the
one sitter!”

“That of the two portraits being but the one sitter. With everything so
to the good, more and more, that bangs in, up to the head, the golden
nail of authenticity, and”--he quite glowed through his gloom for
it--“we take our stand in glory on the last Mantovano in the world.”

It was a presumption his friend visibly yearned for--but over which,
too, with her eyes away from him, she still distinguished the shadow of
a cloud. “That is if the flash-light comes!”

“That is if it comes indeed, confound it!”--he had to enlarge a little
under the recall of past experience. “So now, at any rate, you see my
tension!”

She looked at him again as with a vision too full for a waste of words.
“While you on your side of course keep well in view Mr. Bender’s.”

“Yes, while I keep well in view Mr. Bender’s; though he doesn’t know,
you see, of Bardi’s being at hand.”

“Still,” said the girl, always all lucid for the case, “if the
‘flash-light’ does presently break----!”

“It will first take him in the eye?” Hugh had jumped to her idea, but he
adopted it only to provide: “It might if he didn’t now wear goggles, so
to say!--clapped on him too hard by Pappendick’s so damnably perverse
opinion.” With which, however, he quickly bethought himself. “Ah, of
course, these wretched days, you haven’t known of Pappendick’s personal
visit. After that wire from Verona I wired him back defiance--”

“And that brought him?” she cried.

“To do the honest thing, yes--I will say for him: to renew, for full
assurance, his early memory of our picture.”

She hung upon it. “But only to stick then to what he had telegraphed?”

“To declare that for him, lackaday! our thing’s a pure Moretto--and
to declare as much, moreover, with all the weight of his authority, to
Bender himself, who of course made a point of seeing him.”

“So that Bender”--she followed and wondered--“is, as a consequence,
wholly off?”

It made her friend’s humour play up in his acute-ness. “Bender,
Lady Grace, is, by the law of his being, never ‘wholly’ off--or
on!--anything. He lives, like the moon, in mid-air, shedding his silver
light on earth; never quite gone, yet never all there--save for
inappreciable moments. He would be in eclipse as a peril, I grant,”
 Hugh went on--“if the question had struck him as really closed. But
