
Esther paused, and then came slowly to the door and stood there. She
looked like a sulky child, with the beauty of the child and the charm.
She hated Madame Beattie too much to gaze directly at her, but she knew
what she should see if she did look: an old woman absolutely brazen in
her defiance of the softening arts of dress, divested of every
bewildering subterfuge, sitting in a circle of candlelight in the
adequate company of her book.

"Esther," said Madame Beattie, "you may have the necklace."

Then Esther did glance quickly at her. She wondered what Madame Beattie
thought she could get out of giving up the adored gewgaw into other
hands.

"I don't want it," said Madame Beattie. "I'd much rather have the money
for it. Get the money and bring it to me."

Esther curled her lip a little in the scorn she really felt. She could
not conceive of any woman's being so lost to woman's perquisites as to
confess baldly her need of money above trinkets.

"But you'd better go to the right man for it," said Madame Beattie. "It
isn't Alston Choate. Jeff's the man, my dear. He's cleverer than the
devil if you once get him started. Not that I think you could. He's
done with you, I fancy."

Esther, still speechless, wondered if she could. It was a challenge of
precisely the force Madame Beattie meant it to be.




XXXII


The next morning, a sweet one of warmth and gently drifting leaves,
Esther went to call on Lydia, and Madame Beattie, with a satirical grin,
looked after her from the window. Madame Beattie's understanding of the
human mind had given her a dramatic hold on the world when the world
loved her, and it was mechanically serving her now in these little deeds
that were only of a mean importance, though, from the force of habit,
she played the game so hard. Esther was very fresh and pretty in her
white dress with an artful parasol that cast a freshening glow. She had
the right expression, too, the calmness of one who makes a commonplace
morning call.

And it was not Lydia who saw her coming. It was Jeff, in his working
blouse and shabby trousers, standing on a cool corner of the veranda and
finishing his morning smoke before he went out to picking early apples.
Esther knew at precisely what instant he caught sight of her, and saw
him knock out his pipe into the garden bed below the veranda and lay it
on the rail. Then he waited for her, and she was almost amusedly
prepared for his large-eyed wonder and the set of the jaw which betrayed
his certainty of having something difficult to meet. It was not thus he
had been used to greet her on sweet October mornings in those other
days. Suddenly he turned with a quick gesture of the hand as if he were
warning some one back, and Esther, almost at the steps, understood that
he had heard Lydia coming and had tried to stop her. Lydia evidently
had not understood and ran innocently out on some errand of her own.
Seeing Esther, she halted an appreciable instant. Then something as
quickly settled itself in her mind, and she advanced and stood at the
side of Jeff. Esther furled her parasol and came up the steps, and her
face did not for an instant change in its sweet seriousness. She looked
at Lydia with a faint, almost, it might seem, a pitying smile.

"I thought," said she, "after what I said, I ought to come, to reassure
you."

Neither Jeff nor Lydia seemed likely to move, and Esther stood there
looking from one to the other with her concerned air of having something
to do for them. It was only a moment, yet it seemed to Lydia as if they
had been communing a long time, in some hidden fashion, and learning
amazingly to understand each other. That is, she was understanding
Esther, and the outcome terrified her. Esther seemed more dangerous than
ever, bearing gifts. But Lydia could almost always do the sensible thing
in an emergency and keep emotion to be quelled in solitude.

"Come in," said she, "and sit down. Jeff, won't you move the chairs into
the shady corner? We'd better not go into the library. Farvie's there."

Jeff awoke from his tranced surprise and the two women followed him to
the seclusion of the vines. There Esther took the chair he set for her,
and looked gravely at Lydia, as she said:

"I was very hasty. I told him--" She indicated Jeff with a little
gesture. It seemed she found some significance in the informality of the
pronoun--"I told him I had found out who took the necklace. I knew of
course he would tell you. And I came to keep you from being troubled."

"Lydia," said Jeff, with the effect of stepping quickly in between them,
"go into the house. This is something that doesn't concern you in the
least."

Lydia, very pale now, was looking at Esther, in a fixed antagonism. Her
hands were tightly clasped. She looked like a creature braced against a
blow. But Esther seemed of all imaginable persons the least likely to
deliver a blow of any sort. She was gracefully relaxed in her chair, one
delicate hand holding the parasol and the other resting, with the
fingers upcurled like lily petals, on her knee.

"No," said Lydia, not looking at Jeff, though she answered him, "I
sha'n't go in. It does concern me. That's what she came for. She's told
you so. To accuse me of taking it."

With the last words, a little scorn ran into her voice. It was a scorn
of what Esther might do, and it warmed her and made her suddenly feel
equal to the moment.

"No," said Esther, in her softest tone, a sympathetic tone, full of a
grave concern. "It was only to confess I ought not to have said it.
Whatever I knew, I ought to have kept it to myself. For there was the
necklace. You had sent it back. You had done wrong, but what better
could you do than send it back? And I understand--" she glowed a little
now, turning to Jeff--"I understand how wonderful it was of you to take
it on yourself."

Jeff was frowning, and though facing her, looking no further than the
lily-petalled hand. Esther was quite sure he was dwelling on the hand
with inevitable appreciation. She had a feeling that he was frowning
because it distracted him from his task of pleasing Lydia and at the
same time meeting her own sympathetic tribute. But he was not. Esther
knew a great many things about men, but she was na√Øvely unconscious of
their complete detachment from feminine allurements when they are
summoned to affairs.

"Esther," said Jeff, before Lydia could speak, "just why are you here?"

"I told you," said Esther, with a pretty air of pained surprise. "To
tell Lydia she mustn't be unhappy."

Then Lydia found her tongue.

"I'm not unhappy," she said, with a brutality of incisiveness which
offers the bare fact with no concern for its effect. "I took the
necklace. But I don't know," said Lydia, with one of her happy
convictions that she really had a legal mind and might well follow its
inspirations, "I don't know whether it is stealing to take a thing away
from a person who has stolen it herself."

"Lydia!" said Jeff warningly.

He hardly knew why he was stopping her. Certainly not in compassion for
Esther; she, at this moment, was merely an irritating cause of a spoiled
morning. But Lydia, he felt, like a careering force that had slipped
control, must be checked before she did serious harm.

"You know," said Lydia, now looking Esther calmly in the eye, "you know
you were the first to steal the necklace. You stole it years ago, from
Madame Beattie. No, I don't know whether it's stealing to take it from
you when you'd no business to have it anyway. I must ask some one."

Lydia was no longer pale with apprehension. The rose was on her cheek.
Her eyes glowed with mischief and the lust of battle. Once she darted a
little smiling look at Jeff. "Come on," it seemed to say. "I can't be
worse off than I am. Let's put her through her paces and get something
out of it--fun, at least."

Esther looked back at her in that pained forbearance which clothed her
like a transfiguring atmosphere. Then she drew a sharp breath.
