life."

She marched to the staircase hall:

"Meacham?"

"Ma’am?"

"Mr. Grismer’s hat!"

Jim, seated beside the bed where Stephanie lay in the darkened room, her
tear-marred face buried in her pillow, heard the front door close.  Then
silence reigned again in the twilight of the house of Cleland.

Miss Quest peeped into the room, then withdrew.  If the young fellow
heard her at all he made no movement, so still, so intent had he been
since his father’s death in striving to visualize the familiar face.
And found to his astonishment and grief that he could not mentally
summon his father’s image before his eyes—could not flog the shocked
brain to evoke the beloved features. The very effort was becoming an
agony to him.

It began to rain about four o’clock.  It rained hard all night long on
the resounding scuttle and roof overhead.  Toward dawn the rain ceased
and the dark world grew noisy.  There was a cat-fight on the back fence.
The car wheels on Madison Avenue seemed unusually dissonant.  Very far
away, foggy river whistles saluted the dawn of another day.

There were a great many people at the funeral.  God knows the dead are
indifferent to such attroupements macabre, but it seems to satisfy
some morbid requirement in the living—friends, a priest, and a passing
bell.

Hoc erat in more majorum: hodie tibi; cras mihi.

The family—Jim, Stephanie and Miss Quest—sat together, as is customary.
The church was bathed in tinted sunlight streaming through stained glass
and falling over casket and flowers in glowing hues.  The dyed splendour
painted pew and chancel and stained Stephanie’s black veil with crimson.
Behind them a discreet but interminable string of many people continued.

When the first creeping note of the organ, ominous and low, grew out of
the silence, young Cleland felt Stephanie sway a little and remain
resting against his shoulder.  After a moment he realized that the girl
had lost consciousness; and he quietly passed his arm around her,
holding her firmly until she revived and moved again.

As for himself, what was passing before him seemed like a shadow scene
enacted behind darkened glass. There was nothing real about it, nothing
that seemed to appertain in any way to this dead father who had been a
comrade and beloved friend.  He looked at the casket, at the massed
flowers, at the altar, the surplices.  All were foreign to the intensely
human father he had loved—nothing here seemed to be in harmony with
him—not the crawling vibration of the organ, not the resonant,
professional droning of the clergy; not these throngs of unseen people
behind his back,—not the black garments he wore; not this slender,
sombre, drooping thing of crape seated here close beside him, trembling
at intervals, with one black-gloved hand gripping his.

A sullen hatred for it all began to possess him.  All this was
interrupting him—actually making it harder than ever for him to
visualize his father—driving the beloved phantom out from its familiar
environment in his heart into unrecognizable surroundings full of
caskets, pallid, heavy-scented flowers, surpliced clergymen whose
cadenced phrases were accurately timed; whose every move and gesture
showed them to be quite perfect in the "business" of the act.

"Hell," he muttered under his breath; and became aware of Stephanie’s
white face and startled eyes.

"Nothing," he whispered; "only I can’t stand this mummery!  I want to
get back to the library where I can be with father....  He isn’t in
that black and silver thing over there.  He isn’t in any orthodox
paradise.  He’s part of the sunlight out doors—and the spring air....
He’s an immortal part of everything beautiful that ever was.  When these
people conclude to let him alone, I’ll have a chance with him....  You
think I’m crazy, Steve?"

Her pale lips formed "No."

They remained silent after that until the end, their tense fingers
interlocked.  Miss Quest’s head remained bowed in the folds of her crape
veil.

The drive from the cemetery began through the level, rosy rays of a
declining sun, and ended in soft spring darkness full of the cheery
noises of populous streets.

Cleland had dreaded to enter the house as they drew near to it; its
prospective emptiness appalled him; but old Meacham had lighted every
light all over the house; and it seemed to help, somehow.

Miss Quest went with Stephanie to her room, leaving Jim in the library
alone.

Strange, irrelevant thoughts came to the boy’s mind to assail him,
torment him with their futility: he remembered several things which he
had forgotten to tell his father—matters of no consequence which now
suddenly assumed agonizing importance.

There in the solitude of the library, he remembered, among other things,
that his father would never read his novel, now.  Why had he waited,
wishing to have it entirely finished before his father should read this
first beloved product of his eager pen?

Stephanie found him striding about the library, lips distorted,
quivering with swelling grief.

"Oh, Steve," he said, seeing her in the doorway, "I am beginning to
realize that I can’t talk to him any more!  I can’t touch him—I can’t
talk—hear his voice—see——"

"Jim—don’t——"

"The whole world is no good to me now!" cried the boy, flinging up his
arms in helpless resentment toward whatever had done this thing to him.

Whatever had done it offered no excuse.




                             *CHAPTER XII.*


The reading of John Cleland’s will marked the beginning of the end of
the old régime for Stephanie Quest and for James Cleland.

Two short letters accompanied the legal document. All the papers were of
recent date.

The letter directed to Jim was almost blunt in its brevity:


MY DEAR SON:

I have had what I believe to have been two slight shocks of paralysis.
If I am right, and another shock proves fatal, I wish you, after my
death, to go abroad and travel and study for the next two years.  At the
end of that period you ought to know whether or not you really desire to
make literature your profession.  If you do, come back to your own
country and go to work.  Europe is a good school, but you should
practise your profession in your native land.

Keep straight, fit, and clean.  Keep your head in adversity and in
success.  Find out what business in life you are fitted for, equip
yourself for it, and then go into it with all your heart.

I’ve left you some money and a good name.  And my deep, abiding love.
My belief is that death is merely an intermission.  So your mother and I
will rejoin you when the next act begins.  Until then, old chap—good
luck!

FATHER.


To Stephanie he wrote:


STEVE, DEAR:
