She had been far away, outside of the world, in a region to which the
clamouring street could not mount. Her thoughts had lifted her to a land
that had the colours, clear and yet capricious, of which dreams are
made. There beauty stood, and truth with beauty, and so
indistinguishably that the two were one. But truth, detaching herself,
showed her candid face. The shadows elongating, reached up and darkened
it. The candour remained, but the candour had become terrible. Cassy saw
it. She saw that the land to which she had been lifted was the land of
beauty and horror. It was then she shivered.

Instantly something touched her. There was no one. The land, the beauty,
the horror had faded. No longer on the heights, she was in a trivial
room in Harlem. She was awake. She was absolutely alone. None the less
something that was nothing, something invisible, inaudible, intangible,
imperceptible, something emanating from the depths where events crouch,
prepared to pounce, had touched her. She knew it, she felt it. Her
impulse was to scream, to rush away. But from what? It was all
imaginary. Common-sense, that can be so traitorous, told her that. Then,
immediately, before the wireless from the unknown, which modern
occultism calls the impact, could impel her, the room was invaded.

Ma Tamby, tramping in, switching on the lights, was exclaiming and
gesticulating at her and at Paliser, who had followed and who was
standing in the doorway.

"Dearie! For God's sake! The child's asleep! In all my born days I never
knew the likes of that!"

Icily Cassy eyed her. "What have you there?"

"Where? What? This?" Feelingly the woman exhibited a nice, big package.
"Why, the things I bought for you!"

"And do you for a moment suppose that I am going to carry a bundle?"

"Saints alive, child! Didn't you tell me----"

But now Paliser, in his cultured voice, intervened. "If I may have it?"
He took it, moved to the window, leaned from it, called: "Mike! You see
this? Then see too that you don't muff it."

The bundle vanished.

He turned to Cassy. "I telephoned to Dr. Grantly. He is a clergyman. It
might seem uncivil to keep him waiting."

Cassy saw him at once--a starchy old man, with a white tie and little
side whiskers, who lived--and would die--in a closed circle of thought.

Then again that nothing touched her, though, because of the others, more
lightly, less surely. But it touched her. She was quite conscious of it,
equally conscious that there was still time, that she could still
desist, that she had only to say that she would not, that she had
changed her mind and tell them no, right out and be hanged to them. On
the strawberry of her tongue it trembled. At once before her there
floated another picture, the picture of a shabby old man, without a
penny in the world, or a hope save in her.

She stood up.

"Dearie, dearie, I wish you joy, I do!" the fat woman sobbed, or
appeared to sob, and everything being possible, it may be that she did
not sob. La joie fait peur. She had done her part. On the morrow a
cheque would reach her. "Dearie, dearie!"

"Don't be a fool," Cassy frigidly threw at her.

"Will you take my arm?" Paliser asked.

"Don't be a fool either," she threw at him and bravely, head up, went on
to the events that waited.

In the street below a strain overtook her. Ma Tamby was amusing herself
with "Lohengrin."




XX


Paliser, alighting, turned to help Cassy. But Cassy could get out
unassisted.

The gravel crunched beneath the wheels of the retreating car. From afar
came the bark of a dog, caught up and repeated. Otherwise the air was
still, very sweet. The house too was silent. In the hall and in the
windows there were lights, but there seemed to be nobody about and that
and the quiet gave her the delicious impression that the house was
enchanted. It was a very nonsensical impression, but it was the nonsense
that made it delicious.

Paliser was saying something, though what she did not hear. The sky now
was indigo and in it hung a yellow feather. On the Hudson it had been
very pale, the ghost of a feather. But, as Harlem receded, it had ridden
higher and brightened in the ride. Cassy had watched it, wishing that
Paliser would not talk. He had sat next to her, on the same seat, yet if
the portion of it which he occupied had been in a Queensland back-block,
he could not have been farther from her heart. He took her hand and she
let him. He kissed her and she submitted to that. But she wondered
whether courtesans do not hate the men who pay them, more than they hate
themselves. Was she any better? However a priest mumbled at her, she was
selling herself. Love alone is marriage. She had none, nor had he. The
whole thing was abominable, and, as he held her hand and pressed her
lips, her young soul rebelled. Even for her father's sake, this cup was
too much.

Now though, the empty hall and the great silent house took on the
atmosphere of the Palace of the White Cat. The cup became a philtre. The
abomination changed into deliciousness. There are fairy-tales that are
real. For all she knew, Paliser might change into Prince Charming and
certainly he looked it.

He had been saying something, what she did not hear. But on the steps
beneath the perron, she turned and saw that which previously she had not
realised, he was extraordinarily good-looking, and about her closed a
consciousness that her rowdy frock was a tissue of diamonds and that he
was in doublet and hose.

A moment only. But during it something melted about her. Immediately
aware of the phenomenon, she felt that she ought to freeze. She tried to
and failed. The atmosphere of deliciousness prevented and, though she
did not know the reason, she did know that she had failed and the fact
instead of annoying, amused. Then, as she followed Paliser into the
house, she told herself that she was an imbecile, that she did not know
her own mind and, without transition, wondered how her father was taking
it.

From the hall, they passed through a succession of rooms vacant,
subdued, rich, and on into that other room where she had sung. At the
farther end was a hyacinth curtain that masked a door. But near the
entrance through which she had come was an ivory chair. Cassy, seating
herself on it, wondered what had become of the bundle. She was sure that
it held everything except what she wanted. Then suddenly behind her blue
smock came a gnawing. She thought she would ask Paliser to have somebody
fetch her a sandwich, two sandwiches, or else some bread and butter,
but, now that she looked for him, he had gone.

She got up, crossed the room and sat down on another chair which was
black, probably ebony. It had a curial appearance that suggested the
senate, not the senate at Washington, but the S. P. Q. of Rome. It was
quite near the hyacinth curtain and behind the latter she heard voices.
Like the rooms they were subdued. She could distinguish nothing. Yet
there must be a bell somewhere and she decided that if Paliser did not
shortly return, she would ring. The gnawing was sharper. She was very
hungry.

Again she got up and looked from a window. It gave on a garden in which
there was underbush that the moon was chequering with amber spots. After
all, it was a queer sort of a wedding. But what had she expected? Grace
Church? St. Thomas'? Invitations a fortnight in advance, aisles banked
with flowers, filled with snobs and the garbage of the Wagner score that
Ma Tamby had tossed after her? Not by a long shot!

She turned. Paliser was entering. But the gnawing had nibbled away the
enchantment and, as she turned, she looked rather cross.

Paliser, noticing that but mistaking the cause, said very
sympathetically: "During the Terror, a princess jogged along, smelling a
rose. Marriage is no worse than the guillotine, besides being much less
