minutes; but he learned that Sard had inquired the way to Ghost Lake
Inn.

That was sufficient. Darragh bought an axe, drove as far as Harrod's
Corners, dismissed the Ford, and walked into a forest entirely familiar
to him.

He emerged in half an hour on a wood road two miles farther on. Here he
felled a tree across the road and sat down in the bushes to await
events.

Toward sunset, hearing a car coming, he tied his handkerchief over his
face below the eyes, and took an automatic from his pocket.

Sard's car stopped and Sard got out to inspect the obstruction. Darragh
sauntered out of the bushes, poked his pistol against Mr. Sard's fat
abdomen, and leisurely and thoroughly robbed him.

In an agreeable spot near a brook Darragh lighted his pipe and sat him
down to examine the booty in detail. Two pistols, a stiletto, and a
blackjack composed the arsenal of Mr. Sard. A large wallet disclosed
more than four thousand dollars in Treasury notes--something to
reimburse Ricca when she arrived, he thought.

Among Sard's papers he discovered a cipher letter from
Rotterdam--probably from Quintana. Cipher was rather in Darragh's line.
All ciphers are solved by similar methods, unless the key is contained
in a code book known only to sender and receiver.

But Quintana's cipher proved to be only an easy acrostic--the very
simplest of secret messages. Within an hour Darragh had it pencilled
out:

    Cipher

    "Take notice:

    "Star Pond, N. Y.... Name is Mike Clinch.... Has Flaming
    Jewel.... Erosite.... I sail at once.

            "QUINTANA."

Having served in Russia as an officer in the Military Intelligence
Department attached to the American Expeditionary Forces, Darragh had
little trouble with Quintana's letter. Even the signature was not
difficult, the fraction 1/5 was easily translated Quint; and the
familiar prescription symbol [=a] [=a] spelled ana; which gave
Quintana's name in full.

He had heard of Erosite as the rarest and most magnificent of all gems.
Only three were known. The young Duchess Theodorica of Esthonia had
possessed one.

       

Darragh was immensely amused to find that the chase after Emanuel Sard
should have led him to the very borders of the great Harrod estate in
the Adirondacks.

He gathered up his loot and walked on through the splendid forest which
once had belonged to Henry Harrod of Boston, and which now was the
property of Harrod's nephew, James Darragh.

When he came to the first trespass notice he stood a moment to read it.
Then, slowly, he turned and looked toward Clinch's. An autumn sunset
flared like a conflagration through the pines. There was a glimmer of
water, too, where Star Pond lay.

       

Fate, Chance, and Destiny were becoming very busy with Mike Clinch. They
had started Quintana, Sard, and Darragh on his trail. Now they stirred
up the sovereign State of New York.

That lank wolf, Justice, was afoot and sniffing uncomfortably close to
the heels of Mike Clinch.


II

Two State Troopers drew bridles in the yellowing October forest. Their
smart drab uniforms touched with purple blended harmoniously with the
autumn woods. They were as inconspicuous as two deer in the dappled
shadow. There was a sunny clearing just ahead. The wood road they had
been travelling entered it. Beyond lay Star Pond.

Trooper Lannis said to Trooper Stormont: "That's Mike Clinch's clearing.
Our man may be there. Now we'll see if anybody tips him off this time."

Forest and clearing were very still in the sunshine. Nothing stirred
save gold leaves drifting down, and a hawk high in the deep blue sky
turning in narrow circles.

Lannis was instructing Stormont, who had been transferred from the Long
Island Troop, and who was unacquainted with local matters.

Lannis said: "Clinch's dump stands on the other edge of the clearing.
Clinch owns five hundred acres in here. He's a rat."

"Bad?"

"Well, he's mean. I don't know how bad he is. But he runs a rotten dump.
The forest has its slums as well as the city. This is the Hell's Kitchen
of the North Woods."

Stormont nodded.

"All the scum of the wilderness gathers here," went on Lannis. "Here's
where half the trouble in the North Woods hatches. We'll eat dinner at
Clinch's. His stepdaughter is a peach."

The sturdy, sun-browned trooper glanced at his wrist watch, stretched
his legs in his stirrups.

"Jack," he said, "I want you to get Clinch right, and I'm going to tell
you about his outfit while we watch this road. It's like a movie. Clinch
plays the lead. I'll dope out the scenario for you----"

He turned sideways in his saddle, freeing both spurred heels and lolled
so, constructing a cigarette while he talked:

"Way back around 1900 Mike Clinch was a guide--a decent young fellow
they say. He guided fishing parties in summer, hunters in fall and
winter. He made money and built the house. The people he guided were
wealthy. He made a lot of money and bought land. I understand he was
square and that everybody liked him.

"About that time there came to Clinch's 'hotel' a Mr. and Mrs. Strayer.
They were 'lungers.' Strayer seemed to be a gentleman; his wife was
good looking and rather common. Both were very young. He had the consump
bad--the galloping variety. He didn't last long. A month after he died
his young wife had a baby. Clinch married her. She also died the same
year. The baby's name was Eve. Clinch became quite crazy about her and
started to make a lady of her. That was his mania."

Lannis leaned from his saddle and carefully dropped his cigarette end
into a puddle of rain water. Then he swung one leg over and sat side
saddle.

"Clinch had plenty of money in those days," he went on. "He could afford
to educate the child. The kid had a governess. Then he sent her to a
fancy boarding school. She had everything a young girl could want.

"She developed into a pretty young thing at fifteen.... She's eighteen
now--and I don't know what to call her. She pulled a gun on me in July."

"What!"

"Sure. There was a row at Clinch's dump. A rum-runner called Jake Kloon
got shot up. I came up to get Clinch. He was sick-drunk in his bunk.
When I broke in the door Eve Strayer pulled a gun on me."

"What happened?" inquired Stormont.

"Nothing. I took Clinch.... But he got off as usual."

"Acquitted?"

Lannis nodded, rolling another cigarette:

