her head should not come into her life, she hurried out and
across the kitchen and hid her book in her own room. Then came
out into the kitchen and stood waiting for the steps outside
and for the opening of the door.

"You are come in good time," she said, as she met and answered
Winthrop's offered hand.

"I am glad I am in time," he said.

"Karen has been wishing for you particularly to-night -- but I
don't know that that is any sign, except to the superstitious,
that she is in particular danger."

"I shall be all the more welcome, at any rate."

"I don't know whether that is possible, in Karen's case. But
did you know she wanted you? -- did you know she was ill?"

"Do you suppose nothing but an errand of mercy could bring
me?" he answered slightly, though with a little opening of the
eyes which Elizabeth afterwards remembered and speculated
upon. But for the present she was content with the pleasant
implication of his words. Clam was ordered to bring
refreshments. These Winthrop declined; he had had all he
wanted. Then Elizabeth asked if he would like to see Karen.

She opened the door, which she had taken care to shut, and
went in with him.

"Karen -- here is the Governor, that you were wishing for."

The old woman turned her face towards them; then stretched out
her hand, and spoke with an accent of satisfied longing that
went at least to one heart.

"I thought he'd come," she said. "Governor! --"

Winthrop leaned over to speak to her and take her hand.
Elizabeth longed to hear what he would say, but she had no
business there; she went out, softly closing the door.

She was alone then; and she stood on the hearth before the
fire in a little tumult of pleasure, thinking how she should
dispose of her guest and what she might do for him.

"Once more I have a chance," she thought; "and I may never in
the world have another -- He will not come here again before I
go back to Mannahatta, he cannot stay in my house there, -- and
another summer is very far off, and very uncertain. He'll not
be very likely to come here -- he may be married -- and I am
very sure I shall not want to see his wife here -- I shall not
do it. -- Though I might ask her for his sake -- No! I should
better break with him at once and have no more to do with him;
it would be only misery." "And what is it now?" said something
else. And "Not misery" -- was the answer.

"Where will I put him, Miss 'Lizabeth?" said the voice of Clam
softly at her elbow. Elizabeth started.

"You must take my room. I will sleep with Mrs. Haye. Clam --
what have we got in the house? and what can you do in the way
of cooking?"

"I can do some things -- for some folks," said Clam. "Wa'n't my
cream gravy good the other day?"

"Cream gravy! -- with what?"

"Fresh lamb, -- mutton, I would say."

"But you have got no fresh mutton now, have you?"

"Maybe Mr. Underhill has," said Clam with a twinkle of her
bright eye.

"Mr. Underhill's fresh mutton is on the other side of the
river. What have we got on this side?"

"Pretty much of nothing," said Clam, "this side o' Mountain
Spring. Anderese ain't no good but to make the fire -- it takes
mor'n him to find somethin' to put over it."

"Then you'll have to go to Mountain Spring before breakfast,
Clam."

"Well, m'm. Who'll take care of the house while I'm gone, Miss
'Lizabeth?"

"Mrs. Cives -- can't she?"

"Mis' Cives is gone off home."

"Gone home! -- what, to Mountain Spring?"

"That's where her home is, she says."

"What for? and without asking?"

"She wanted to spend to-night at home, she said; and she asked
no questions and went."

"To night of all nights! when Karen seems so much worse!"

"It's good we've got the Governor," said Clam.

"But he can't sit up all night with her."

"Guess he will," said Clam. "Pretty much like him. You can
sleep in your bed, Miss 'Lizabeth."

"You go and get the room ready -- he must not sit up all night
-- and we'll see in the morning about Mountain Spring. Somebody
must go."

"He'll go if you ask him," said Clam. "He'd do the marketing
best, now, of all of us. He knows just where everything is.
'Fact is, we want him in the family pretty much all the time."

"Let him know when his room is ready, and offer him
refreshments, -- and call me if I am wanted."

Clam departed; but Elizabeth, instead of doing the same, took
a chair on the kitchen hearth and sat down to await any
possible demands upon her. She could hear a quiet sound of
talking in Karen's room; now and then the old woman's less
regulated voice, more low or more shrill, broke in upon the
subdued tones of the other. Elizabeth thought she would have
given anything to be a hearer of what was said and listened to
there; but the door was shut; it was all for Karen and not for
her; and she gave up at last in despair and retreated to her
cousin's room.

"So he's come?" said Rose.

"Yes! -- he's come. Did you know he was coming?"

"I! -- No, -- I didn't know he was coming. How should I?"

"Did you think he was coming, Rose?"
