
"Of course they are armed. They have revolvers, I'll bet my month's pay."

"If you don't want to go, stay on shore," answered Hapgood, petulantly.
"But don't make a noise about it."

"Of course I'll go, but I think we are getting into a bad scrape."

Tom and Hapgood held a hurried consultation, which ended in the former's
taking a position in the bow of the boat, while the other two took their
places at the oars. The muskets were laid across the thwarts, and the
rowers pulled out to the middle of the creek, just in season to intercept
the schooner. Of course they were seen by the men on board of her, who
attempted to avoid them.

"Hallo!" said Tom, in a kind of confidential tone. "On board the schooner
there! Are you going over?"

"Yes. What do you want?" answered one of the men on board the vessel.

"We want to get over, and are afraid to go in this boat. Won't you take us
over?"

"Who are you?"

"Friends. We've got a mail bag."

"Where did you get it?"

"In Washington."

By this time, the schooner had luffed up into the wind, and Tom directed
his companions to pull again. In a moment the boat was alongside the
schooner, and the soldier boy was about to jump upon her half-deck, when
the rebel crew, very naturally, ordered him to wait till they had
satisfied themselves in regard to his secession proclivities.

There were five men in the schooner, all of whom were seated near the
stern. Tom did not heed the protest of the traitors, but sprang on board
the schooner, followed by his companions.

"Now, tell us who you are before you come any farther," said one of the
men.

"Massachusetts soldiers! Surrender, or you are a dead man," replied Tom,
pointing his gun.




CHAPTER XXV.

IN THE HOSPITAL.


The night was very dark, so that the rebels in the boat could not
distinguish the uniform of those who had applied for a passage on the
schooner. Perhaps Tom Somers's experience in the Blue Ridge and on the
Shenandoah had improved his strategic ability, so that his words and his
manner seemed plausible. But as strategy and cunning always owe their
success to the comparative stupidity of the victims, Tom and his
companions gained the half-deck of the schooner more by the palpable
blundering of her crew than through the brilliancy of their own scheme.

Tom did not stop, in the midst of the exciting enterprise, to determine
the particular reason of his success, as we, his humble biographer, have
done. He was on the enemy's ground, and confronting the enemy's forces,
and logic was as much out of place as rebellion in a free republican
country. He was closely followed by Hapgood, and at a later period by Fred
Pemberton. The nerves of the latter were not remarkably steady, and as he
stepped on board the schooner, he neglected to take the painter with him;
and the consequence was, that the boat went adrift. It is good generalship
to keep the line of retreat open; and Fred's neglect had deprived them of
all means of retiring from the scene of action. The only alternative was
to fight their way through, and find safety in success.

To Tom's reply, that the party were Massachusetts soldiers, the rebel who
had acted as spokesman for the crew, uttered a volley of oaths, expressive
of his indignation and disgust at the sudden check which had been given to
their prosperous voyage.

"Surrender!" repeated Tom, in energetic tones.

Two of the rebels at the stern discharged their pistols in answer to the
summons--a piece of impudence which our Massachusetts soldiers could not
tolerate; and they returned the fire. The secessionists evidently carried
revolvers; and a turn of the barrel enabled them to fire a second volley,
which the soldiers were unable to do, for they had no time to load their
guns.

"O!" groaned Fred, as he sunk down upon the half-deck. "I'm hit."

"We can't stand this, Hapgood," said Tom, fiercely, as he leaped into the
midst of the party in the standing room. "Let's give them the bayonet."

"Give it to 'em, Tom!" replied the veteran, as he placed himself by the
side of his young companion.

"Will you surrender?" demanded Tom, as he thrust vigorously with his
bayonet.

"We surrender," replied one of the men; but it was not the one who had
spoken before, for he had dropped off his seat upon the bottom of the
boat.

"Give up your pistols, then," added Hapgood. "You look out for the boat,
Tom, and I will take care of these fellows."

Tom sprang to the position which had been occupied by the spokesman of the
party, and grasping the foresheet and the tiller of the boat, he soon
brought her up to the wind. Seating himself in the stern, he assumed the
management of the schooner, while Hapgood busied himself in taking the
pistols from the hands of the rebels, and exploring their pockets, in
search of other dangerous weapons.

"How are you, Fred?" shouted Tom, when the pressing business of the moment
had been disposed of. "Are you much hurt?"

"I'm afraid my time's most up," replied he, faintly.

"Where are you hit?"

"In the face; the ball went through my head, I suppose," he added, in
tones that were hardly audible, in the warring of the December blast.

"Keep up a good heart, Fred, and we will soon be ashore. Have you got an
easy place?"

"No, the water dashes over me."

"Can't you move him aft, Hapgood?"

"Pretty soon; when I get these fellows fixed," replied the veteran, who
had cut the rope nearest to his hands, and was securing the arms of the
prisoners behind them.

"There is no fear of them now. We have got two revolvers apiece, and we can
have it all our own way, if they show fight."

But Hapgood had bound the rebels by this time, and with tender care he
