
"But what would you wish for, in her place?"

"I should want to be straight, and stand and go about like other
people."

"Yes, Nora, but I say! I mean, what would you wish for that would not
be impossible?"

"Why, Daisy, how funny! Let me see. I should wish that somebody would
come and be good to me, I think."

"How?"

"O--tell me stories and read to me, and take tea with me--and I don't
know what!"

"Do you suppose nobody ever does take tea with her?" said Daisy, upon
whose fancy a new shadow of wretchedness darkened.

"I guess not," said Nora. "I don't believe anybody would. I guess nobody
likes her well enough, she is so bad."

"Who gets her tea for her then?"

"Why nobody. She does it herself."

"How can she?"

"I don't know. Marmaduke says she keeps her house clean too, though she
only goes about on her hands and knees."

"Nora," said Daisy, "that isn't like the Bible."

"What isn't?"

"Don't you remember what the Bible says? that whatever we would like
other people to do to us, we should do so to them."

"What do you mean, Daisy?"

"I mean just so."

"But what isn't like the Bible?"

"Why--to let that poor old woman go without what we would like if we
were in her place."

"Why Daisy! Molly Skelton! The Bible does not mean that we ought to go
and make visits to such horrid people as that."

"You said you would like it if you were in her place," observed Daisy,
"and I know I should. I thought so when you told me."

"But, Daisy, she is wicked!"

"Well, Jesus loves wicked people," said Daisy calmly. "Maybe she will
wear a white robe in heaven, and have a crown of gold upon her head."

"Daisy!--she is wicked," exclaimed Nora indignantly. "Wicked people do
not go to heaven."

"Yes, but if Jesus gives them his white robe, they do," said Daisy. "He
came to save wicked people."

"I don't want to talk any more about Molly Skelton," said Nora. "Look,
Daisy!--there's the old mother squirrel peeping out of her hole. Do you
see? Now she is coming out--see her black eyes! now there's her
beautiful feather tail!"--

This subject was to the full as interesting to Daisy as it was to her
friend; and in watching the grey family in the walnut tree and trying to
induce them to come near and get some almonds, the rest of the afternoon
flew by. Only the "mother squirrel" could be tempted near; but she,
older in experience and wisdom than her young ones, did venture into the
neighbourhood of the children, attracted by the nuts they threw down;
and getting pretty close to them, before she would venture quite so far
as where the nuts lay, she sat down on her haunches to look and see
whether all were safe; curling her thick, light plume of a tail up along
her back, or whisking it about in various lines of beauty, while her
bright little black eyes took all the observations they were equal to.
It was unending amusement for the children; and then to see Mrs. Bunny
finally seize an almond and spring away with it, was very charming. So
the afternoon sped; nor ever brought one moment of weariness, until the
summons came to bid the children into the house again to tea.




CHAPTER IX.


After tea the doctor took Daisy in his gig and drove her home. The drive
was unmarked by a single thing; except that just as they were passing
the cripple's house Daisy broke silence and asked,

"Is that woman--Molly Skelton--is she very poor, Dr. Sandford?"

"If to live on charity be poor. I do not suppose the neighbours let her
suffer."

"Is she cross to everybody, Dr. Sandford?"

"She has the name of it, I believe, Daisy. I really do not remember
whether she was cross to me or not."

"Then you know her?"

"Yes. I know everybody."

The family at Melbourne were found just taking their late tea as the
doctor and Daisy entered. They were met with complaints of the heat;
though Daisy thought the drawing room was exceeding pleasant, the air
came in at the long windows with such gentle freshness from the river.
The doctor took a cup of tea and declared the day was excellent if you
only rode fifty miles through the heat of it.

"Coolness is coolness, after that," he said.

Daisy sat in a corner and wondered at the people. Hot? and suffocating?
she had no recollection of any such thing all day. How delicious it had
been in that green dell under the walnut tree, with the grey squirrels!

"How has it been with you, Daisy?" said her aunt at last.

"Nice, aunt Gary."

Two or three people smiled; Daisy's favourite word came out with such a
dulcet tone of a smooth and clear spirit. It was a syrup drop of
sweetness in the midst of flat and acid qualities.

"It has been satisfactory, has it?" said her aunt, in a tone which did
not share the character. "Come here, Daisy--I have got something for
you. You know I robbed you a little while ago, and promised to try to
find something to make amends. Now come and see if I have done it.
Preston, fetch that box here."

A neat wooden case of some size was brought by Preston, and set at his
mother's feet. Mrs. Gary unlocked it, and went on to take out of its
enveloping coverings a very elegant French doll; a real empress Eugenie.
