"Very well, sir; I have been expelled. Let me go; that's all I ask."

"In due time you will have permission to go. I think I am,
technically, legally liable for the destruction of your boat," he
added, wiping his brow again; for it was hard work for him to say so
much. "But you have defied me, and the well-being of this institution
required that I should act promptly. I wish to make a proposition to
you."

He paused and looked at me. I intimated that I was ready to hear him.

"In about an hour the boys will assemble for evening prayers," he
continued, after rising from his chair and consulting his watch. "If
at that time you will apologize to me for your conduct, in their
presence, and before that time to Poodles, privately, I will restore
you to your rank and privileges in the Parkville Liberal Institute,
and--and pay you for your boat."

"I will not do it, sir," I replied, without an instant's hesitation.

Mr. Parasyte gave me a glance of mingled anger and mortification, and
turning on his heel, left the room, locking the door upon me.




CHAPTER VI.

IN WHICH ERNEST FINDS HIS FELLOW-STUDENTS IN OPEN REBELLION.


To apologize to Poodles was to acknowledge that I had done wrong. Had
I done wrong so far as my fellow-student was concerned? Seriously and
earnestly I asked myself this question. No; I had told the truth in
regard to the affair exactly as it was, and it would be a lie for me
to apologize to Poodles. I could not and would not do it. I would be
cut to pieces, and have my limbs torn piecemeal from my body before I
would do it.

As far as the principal was concerned, I felt that, provoked and
irritated by his tyranny and injustice, I had exhibited a proud and
defiant spirit, which was dangerous to the discipline of the school. I
was sorry that, when he called me back, I had not obeyed. While I was
in the school-room, or on the premises of the academy, I should have
yielded obedience, both in fact and in spirit; and I could not excuse
my defiant bearing by the plea that I had been expelled. I was
willing, after reflection, to apologize to Mr. Parasyte.

He proposed to pay for my boat. This was a great concession on his
part, though it was called forth by the belief that he was legally
liable for its destruction. He was willing to do me justice in that
respect, if I would humiliate myself before Poodles, and publicly heal
the wound which the discipline of the Institute had received at my
hands. Even at that time it seemed to me to be noble and honorable to
acknowledge an error and atone for it; and I am quite sure, if I could
have felt that I had done wrong, I should have been glad to own it,
and to make the confession in the presence of the students. There was
a principle at stake, and something more than mere personal feeling.

While I was debating with myself what I should do, Mr. Parasyte
appeared again. It was a matter of infinite importance to him. The
prosperity, if not the very existence, of his school depended upon
the issue of this affair; and he was naturally nervous and excited.
The students were in a state of incipient rebellion, as their conduct
in the afternoon indicated, and it was of the highest moment to the
Institute to have the matter amicably adjusted.

On the one hand, if I apologized to Poodles and the principal, the
"powers that be" would be vindicated, and the authority of the master
fully established. On the other hand, if I declined to do so, and the
sentence of expulsion was carried out, the boys were in sympathy with
me, and the rebellion might break out afresh, and end in the total
dissolution of the establishment. Under these circumstances, it was
not strange that Mr. Parasyte desired to see me again.

"I hope you have carefully considered your position, Thornton," said
he.

"I have," I replied; "and I am willing to apologize to you, but not to
Poodles."

"That is something gained," added he; and I could see his face
brighten up under the influence of a hope.

"My manner was defiant, and my conduct disobedient. I am willing to
apologize to you for this, and to submit to such punishment as you
think proper to inflict."

"That is very well; but it does not fully meet the difficulty. You
must also apologize to Poodles, which you are aware may be done in
private."

"I cannot do it, sir, either in public or in private. Poodles was
wholly and entirely to blame."

"I think not; when I settled the case it was closed up, and it must
not be opened again; at least not till some new testimony is obtained.
I cannot eat my own words."

"You may obtain new testimony, if you desire," I suggested.

"What?"

"Poodles signed the declaration that he had performed the examples on
the papers without assistance."

"He did. Have you any doubt that such is the case?" asked Mr.
Parasyte, though he must have been satisfied that Poodles did not work
out the examples.

"I am entirely confident that he did not perform them. Mr. Parasyte,"
I continued, earnestly, "I desire to stay at the Institute. It would
be very bad for me to be turned out, and I am willing to confess I
have done wrong. If you give Poodles the paper with the examination on
it, and he can perform one half of the examples, even now, without
help, I will apologize to him in public or in private."

"That looks very fair, but it is not," replied the principal, rubbing
his head, as if to stimulate his ideas.

"If Poodles can do the problems, I shall be willing to believe that I
am mistaken. In my opinion, he cannot perform a single one of them,
let alone the whole of them."

"I object to this proceeding," said he, impatiently. "It will be
equivalent to my making a confession."

The bell rang for the boys to assemble for the evening devotions. It
gave Mr. Parasyte a shock, for the business was still unsettled. I had
submitted to him a method by which he could ascertain the truth or
falsehood of Poodle's statements; but it involved an acknowledgment
that he, Mr. Parasyte, was in the wrong. He seemed to be afraid it
would be proved that he had made a blunder; that he had given an
unjust judgment. I was fully aware that the principal's position was a
difficult and painful one, and I was even disposed to sympathize with
him to a certain extent, though I was the victim of his partiality and
injustice. The perils and discomforts of his situation, however, had
been produced by his own hasty and unfair judgment; and it would have
been far better for him even to apologize to me. He would have lost
nothing with the boys by such a course; for never in my life did I
