
"Books, mademoiselle?"  I said, wondering.

"Yes; have you got all you want?"

"I have not got any books," I said; "there are none that I
want in the school library."

"Have you never been in Madame's library?"

"No, mademoiselle."

"Come!"

I jumped up and followed her, up and down stairs and through
halls and turnings, till she brought me into a pretty room
lined with books from floor to ceiling. Nobody was there.
Mademoiselle lit the gas with great energy, and then turned to
me, her great black eyes shining.

"Now what do you want, mon enfant? here is everything."

"Is there anything about Egypt?"

"Egypt! Are you in Egypt?  See here  look, here is Denon 
here is Laborde; here is two or three more. Do you like that?
Ah! I see by the way your grey eyes grow big.  Now sit down,
and do what you like. Nobody will disturb you. You can come
here every evening for the hour before tea."

Mademoiselle scarce staid for my thanks, and left me alone. I
had not seen either Laborde or Denon in my grandfather's
library at Magnolia; they were after his time. The engravings
and illustrations also had not been very many or very fine in
his collection of travellers' books. It was the greatest joy
to me to see some of those things in Mme. Ricard's library,
that I had read and dreamed about so long in my head. It was
adding eyesight to hearsay. I found a good deal too that I
wanted to read, in these later authorities. Evening after
evening I was in Madame's library, lost among the halls of the
old Egyptian conquerors.

The interest and delight of my work quite filled me, so that
the fate of my composition hardly came into my thoughts, or
the fact that other people were writing compositions too. And
when it was done, I was simply very sorry that it was done. I
had not written it for honour or for duty, but for love. I
suppose that was the reason why it succeeded. I remember I was
anything but satisfied with it myself, as I was reading it
aloud for the benefit of my judges. For it was a day of prize
compositions; and before the whole school and even some
visitors, the writings of the girls were given aloud, each by
its author. I thought, as I read mine, how poor it was, and
how magnificent my subject demanded that it should be. Under
the shade of the great columns, before those fine old
sphinxes, my words and myself seemed very small. I sat down in
my place again, glad that the reading was over.

But there was a little buzz; then a dead expectant silence;
then Mme. Ricard arose. My composition had been the last one.
I looked up, with the rest, to hear the award that she would
speak; and was at first very much confounded to hear my own
name called. "Miss Randolph " It did not occur to me what it
was spoken for; I sat still a moment in a maze. Mme. Ricard
stood waiting; all the room was in a hush.

"Don't you hear yourself called?" said a voice behind me. "Why
don't you go?"

I looked round at Miss Macy, who was my adviser, then
doubtfully I looked away from her and caught the eyes of Mlle.
Genevieve. She nodded and beckoned me to come forward. I did
it hastily then, and found myself curtseying in front of the
platform where stood Madame.

"The prize is yours, Miss Randolph," she said graciously.
"Your paper is approved by all the judges."

"Quite artistic,"  I heard a gentleman say at her elbow. "And
it shows an amount of thorough study and perfect preparation,
which I can but hold up as a model to all my young ladies. You
deserve this, my dear."

I was confounded; and a low curtsey was only a natural relief
to my feelings. But Madame unhappily took it otherwise.

"This is yours," she said, putting into my hands an elegant
little bronze standish;  "and if I had another prize to
bestow for grace of good manners, I am sure I would have the
pleasure of giving you that too."

I bent again before Madame, and got back to my seat as I
could. The great business of the day was over, and we soon
scattered to our rooms. And I had not been in mine five
minutes before the penalties of being distinguished began to
come upon me.

"Well, Daisy! " said Miss Lansing  "you've got it. How
pretty! Isn't it, Macy?"

"It isn't a bit prettier than it ought to be, for a prize in
such a school," said Miss Macy. "It will do."

"I've seen handsomer prizes," said Miss Bentley.

"But you've got it, more ways than one, Daisy," Miss Lansing
went on. "I declare! Aren't you a distinguished young lady!
Madame, too! Why, we all used to think we behaved pretty well
before company,  didn't we, St. Clair?"

"I hate favour and favouritism!" said that young lady, her
upper lip taking the peculiar turn to which my attention had
once been called. "Madame likes whatever is French."

"But Randolph is not French, are you, Randolph ?" said Black-
eyes, who was good-natured through everything.

"Madame is not French herself," said Miss Bentley.

"I hate everything at school!" St. Clair went on.

"It is too bad," said her friend. "Do you know, Daisy, St.
Clair always has the prize for compositions. What made you go
and write that long stuff about Rameses? the people didn't
understand it, and so they thought it was fine."

"I am sure there was a great deal finer writing in Faustina's
composition," said Miss Bentley.

I knew very well that Miss St. Clair had been accustomed to
win this half yearly prize for good writing. I had expected
nothing but that she would win it this time. I had counted
neither o n my own success nor on the displeasure it would
raise. I took my hat and went over to my dear Miss Cardigan;
hoping that ill-humour would have worked itself out by
bedtime. But I was mistaken.

St. Clair and I had been pretty near each other in our
classes, though once or twice lately I had got an advantage
over her; but we had kept on terms of cool social distance
