and pay over the back rents. He must do so, or his reputation would be
blasted forever. He must stand before the world as a knave and a
swindler, unless he did full and ample justice to the widow (who had a
husband), and the orphan (who had a father and mother); for Mr.
Wittleworth, when he waxed eloquent, had a habit of confounding terms.

About a week after the hearing which had been cut short so suddenly,
Fitz, deeming it his duty to look after the witnesses in the great case
of Wittleworth vs. Checkynshaw, thought it advisable to call one
evening at No. 3 Phillimore Court. The door was locked, and the house
was dark. He repeated the call every evening for a week, but with no
better result. Then he went in the daytime. No one answered his knock,
and the door was as unyielding as a rock of granite.

Mr. Wittleworth was bewildered. Mr. Checkynshaw had done this! He had
spirited away the chief witness. Fitz went to the barber's shop, and
inquired for André. He had left his place ten days before. Fitz met Leo
on the street one day, a month later.

"Where do you live now?" he asked.

"I am boarding in Gridley Street."

"Where are Maggie and your father?"

"Gone to France with Mr. Checkynshaw after his daughter," replied Leo,
hurrying on his way; for, make or break, he intended to be at school in
season.

Mr. Wittleworth scratched his head and looked foolish. Mr. Checkynshaw
appeared to be flanking him.




CHAPTER XXV.

THE ELEGANT YOUNG LADY.


Leo still slept at the house in Phillimore Court, though he took his
meals in Gridley Street. It was necessary for him to go two or three
times a day to his shop to look after his stock of mice, rabbits,
pigeons, and guinea pigs, in which he still carried on a tolerably
lucrative commerce in supplying his old friends and customers. Every
moment of his time was occupied from six o'clock in the morning until
ten o'clock at night. He did everything "upon honor," and he carried
this rule into his lessons as well as his mercantile speculations. What
he learned he really learned, and never left the subject till he had
fully mastered it.

Though he had been absent from school over two months, he stood so well
in his class, that, with the severe exertion he made, he was able to
regain the position he lost. As soon as his father began to improve in
health, and there was a prospect that Leo might again take his place in
school, he devoted himself to his studies, and followed up his
geography, history, and arithmetic with a zeal which promised the best
results. He called upon the master, and received directions for the
conduct of his course. There are always plenty of good people to help
those who are willing to help themselves, and Leo had all the friends
he needed.

Everything was going on well with Leo, even after the sudden
disappearance of André and Maggie, whom, no doubt, he greatly missed in
their absence. If he knew anything about the reason for their abrupt
departure, he kept his own counsel, especially in the presence of Fitz
Wittleworth, who, since he had discovered that "his witness" had been
tampered with, had become the tormentor of the young mechanic. Fitz
placed himself at the corner of Gridley Street almost every day, intent
upon worming something out of Leo. The latter was too busy to waste any
time on such a fellow as Mr. Wittleworth, and used to avoid him, as far
as he could, by taking a round-about way to his boarding-house. But
sometimes Fitz blundered upon his victim.

"I want to see you, Leo," said he one day, when he had by a happy
scheme outflanked him.

"I'm in a hurry, Fitz; I can't stop now. My mice haven't had their
dinner yet," replied Leo, uneasily.

"They won't starve just yet. Hold on! I've got something for you,"
persisted Fitz, when the victim began to move on.

"I don't want anything."

"Did you know your father had got himself into a scrape?"

"No, I didn't," answered Leo, who was interested in this intelligence.

"He has; and he'll have to answer to the court for clearing out. I
suppose you never read law, and don't know anything about the
subordination of witnesses. I'll tell you."

"I can't stay to hear it now," replied Leo, laughing, for he knew the
difference between "subordination" and "subornation."

"I want to talk with you about half an hour some time."

"What about?"

"About your father. Checkynshaw has bought him up."

"What do you mean by 'bought him up'?" demanded Leo, indignantly.

"I mean that Checkynshaw has paid him to keep out of the way in our
great case of Wittleworth versus Checkynshaw," added Fitz.

"I say he hasn't."

"Hasn't he cleared out?"

"What if he has? He's coming back again."

"Don't tell me! I know something about law."

"I won't tell you, and you needn't tell me. If you'll keep your side of
the street, I'll keep mine. If you mean to tell me that André Maggimore
has done anything wrong, or means to do anything wrong, you don't know
the man."

"I say he has. He was summoned as a witness for our side, and he has
sold out to the enemy."

"He hasn't done anything of the sort."

"What has he gone to France for, then?"

"That's his business, not yours."

"Yes, it is my business; I manage our suit, and you had better tell me
all you know about it."

"I guess not! In the first place, I don't know much about it; and in
the second, if I did, I wouldn't tell you."

"If André Maggimore commits perjury--"

"That will do, Fitz Wittleworth. I don't want to quarrel with you, and
I don't mean to do so; but you can't talk like that to me without
getting a broken head. So you can't talk to me at all. If you speak to
