
The professor finished his lecture, and the party started to see the
sights to which he had alluded. The old cathedral, with its unfinished
tower, was very much like many others they had seen. Within its chapel
all the elected emperors were crowned in front of the high altar. The
Town Hall was the scene of the festivities which followed the election
of an emperor. He was feasted in the banquet hall, where the kings and
princes of his empire waited upon him at table, in token of their
subservience. A whole ox was roasted in the market-place,--into which
the students looked from the windows,--and the emperor ate a slice,
while from a fountain flowing with wine the cup-bearer filled his
flagon. The room is hung with portraits of the emperors, under most of
which are placed the mottoes adopted at their coronation.

Passing across to the Hirschgraben, the tourists visited the house
where Göthe was born. Over the front door is the coat of arms of the
poet's father, which consists of three lyres, as if to prefigure the
destiny of the genius who first saw the light within its walls. Göthe's
room is a garret, wherein his portrait, his autograph, and his
washstand are exhibited. His statue stands near the theatre, and one of
Schiller in front of the guard-house. From the house of the poet, the
party went to the Städel Museum, filled with fine pictures, mostly by
Dutch and German artists, which is named for its founder, a liberal
banker, who gave four hundred thousand dollars to the institution,
besides a collection of artistic works. From the museum, the students,
after a walk of over a mile, reached the Jewish quarter, glanced at the
Rothschild House, the synagogue, and other buildings, returning to the
Hôtel de Russie at dark.

On the following morning the party went to Homburg, nine miles distant,
where they spent the rest of the day. The town is another watering-place,
and has increased in popularity till it outrivals Baden-Baden,
Wiesbaden, or any other fashionable resort in Germany. It has its
medicinal springs, which are beneficial in a variety of diseases. The
Kurhaus is the most magnificent in Europe, containing lofty halls,
elegantly frescoed, for dancing, gambling, for restaurants and
reading-rooms. As in Baden-Baden, the gambling monopoly is in the hands
of French speculators, and the lavish expenditure upon the gardens,
buildings, and other appointments is an instructive commentary on the
chances which favor the visitor disposed to try his fortune.

"Commodore," said Ben Duncan, who was now the second master of the
Josephine, as they met at the Hôtel Quatre Saisons in the evening, "I
have lost two hundred florins."

"What!" exclaimed Paul.

"Certainly, Mr. Duncan, you have not been gambling," added Grace
Arbuckle, looking as sad as though she had lost a dear friend.

"I lost two hundred florins out in that dog-house," replied Ben, who
was the wag of the party, and a general favorite.

"What dog-house?" inquired Paul.

"Why, the big one--auf dem Platz."

"Do you mean the Kursaal?" asked Paul.

"Mr. Fetridge calls it a dog-house, in Harper's Hand Book."

"No."

"The cur-house--what's the difference?"

"U in German is pronounced like double o. But you don't mean to say you
have been gambling, Ben?" added Paul.

"I said I had lost two hundred florins," replied Ben, with a most
lugubrious expression.

"Impossible!"

"I was standing near the table, in the grand gambling hell,--I
beg pardon, hall,--watching the play, when I saw a Russian czar, king,
grand dook, poly-wog, or something of that sort, win two hundred
florins at one fell swoop. Now, thinks I to myself, if I should put
down two hundred florins, and win, I should make two hundred florins by
the operation. I didn't do it--so I'm two hundred florins out."

Ben dropped his chin, and looked very sad, while Grace and Paul laughed
heartily, perhaps more at the "face" the wag made, than at the joke he
had perpetrated.

"I hope your losses will always be of this description, Ben," added
Paul.

"Probably they will be while each student is allowed only a florin a
day for pocket-money," replied Ben. "There is to be a grand concert in
the dog-house this evening. Of course we shall go!"

"Certainly."

"Suppose we walk down now."

"If you please; but don't call it a dog-house."

"Well, it is a gambling-hole, and I don't know but it is a libel on the
dog to call it so," answered Ben, as they walked towards the Kursaal.

Most of the excursionists were headed in that direction. Shuffles was
with the earl's party, though, strangely enough, Sir William was not at
the side of Lady Feodora. They seated themselves in the grand
apartment, and gazed with interest at the brilliant scene before them.

"Where can Sir William be?" said Lady Blankville.

"I do not know, mother," replied Feodora, languidly, as though she did
not care where he was.

"I haven't seen him these two hours."

"Nor I," added Feodora, in a tone which indicated that she did not wish
to see him for two hours more.

"I will look for him, if you desire," suggested Shuffles.

"O, no! Do not trouble yourself," replied Feodora. "Perhaps he is
looking at the play."

"Pray, do, if you please, Captain Shuffles," interposed the countess.

Lady Feodora was too dutiful a girl to object, and the commander went
to the gambling-rooms. At the roulette table he found the baronet,
playing with a zeal which indicated that this was not the first time he
had indulged in the baneful game. He was not staking large sums, but he
was losing about three out of four times that he put down his money.

"I beg your pardon, Sir William, but Lady Blankville is anxious to see
you," whispered Shuffles in his ear.

"Lady Blankville!" exclaimed the baronet, turning from the table as he
lost his last stake, and walking towards the concert-room.

"Lady Blankville," repeated the captain.

"Lady Feodora is not anxious to see me--is she?" said Sir William,
bitterly.

"She did not say that she was," replied Shuffles.
