Martin relapsed into silence. Rufus had given him something to think
about, which disturbed him considerably. Though he had been disappointed
in the contents of the box, he had not for a moment doubted the good
faith of his confederate, and he was proportionately incensed now that
the latter had appropriated seven dollars to his one. Considering that
he had done all the work, and incurred all the danger, it did seem
rather hard.

There was one bed in the room, rather a narrow one.

"I'm goin' to bed," said Martin, at length. "I guess the bed'll be big
enough for us both."

"Thank you," said Rufus, who did not fancy the idea of sleeping with his
step-father. "If you'll give me one of the pillows, I'll sleep on the
floor."

"Just as you say, but you'll find it rather hard sleepin'."

"I shan't mind."

This was the arrangement they adopted. Martin took off his coat and
vest, and threw himself on the bed. He was soon asleep, as his heavy
breathing clearly indicated. Rufus, stretched on the floor, lay awake
longer. It occurred to him that he might easily take the key of the door
from the pocket of Martin's vest, which lay on the chair at his bedside,
and so let himself out of the room. But even then it would be uncertain
whether he could get out of the house, and he would have to leave the
tin box behind him. This he hoped to get hold of through Humpy's
assistance. On the whole, therefore, it seemed best to wait a little
longer.




CHAPTER XXIII.

ESCAPE.


Humpy made up his mind to accept our hero's offer. Fifty dollars was to
him a small fortune, and he saw no reason why he should not earn it. The
brutal treatment he had received from Smith removed all the objections
he had at first felt.

Now, how was he going to fulfil his part of the compact?

To release Rufus would be comparatively easy. He happened to know that
the key of his own room in the attic would also fit the door of the
chamber in which our hero was confined. The difficulty was to get
possession of the tin box. He did not even know where it was concealed,
and must trust to his own sagacity to find out.

To this end he watched his employer carefully whenever he got a chance
to do so without being observed, hoping he might take the box out from
its place of concealment. Finally Smith noticed the boy's glances, and
said, roughly, "What are you looking at, boy? Do you think you shall
know me the next time you see me?"

Humpy did not reply, but this made him more careful.

In the morning he took up our hero's breakfast, meeting Martin on his
way downstairs.

"Well," said Rufus, eagerly, as he entered the room, "have you found out
anything about the box?"

"Not yet," said Humpy. "I'm tryin' to find where he's hid it. I can let
you out any time."

"How?"

"I've got a key that fits this lock."

"That's well, but I'd rather wait till I can carry the box with me."

"I'll do what I can," said Humpy. "I'm goin' to watch him sharp. I'd
better go down now, or maybe he'll be suspectin' something."

Humpy went downstairs, leaving Rufus to eat his breakfast. On his way
down his attention was drawn by angry voices, proceeding from the room
in which he had left Smith. He comprehended at once that Smith and
Martin were having a dispute about something. He stood still and
listened attentively, and caught the following conversation:--

"The boy tells me," said Martin, doggedly, "that there was four hundred
dollars in the box. You only gave me fifty."

"Then the boy lies!" said Smith, irritated.

"I don't believe he does," said Martin. "I don't like him myself, but he
aint in the habit of telling lies."

"Perhaps you believe him sooner than you do me."

"I don't see where the three hundred dollars went," persisted Martin.
"Considerin' that I did all the work, fifty dollars was very small for
me."

"You got half what there was. If there'd been more, you'd have got
more."

"Why didn't you wait and open the box when I was there?"

"Look here," said Smith, menacingly, "if you think I cheated you, you
might as well say so right out. I don't like beating around the bush."

"The boy says there was four hundred dollars. Turner told him so."

"Then Turner lies!" exclaimed Smith, who was the more angry, because the
charge was a true one. "The box is just as it was when I opened it. I'll
bring it out and show you just where I found the money."

When Humpy heard this, his eyes sparkled with excitement and
anticipation. Now, if ever, he would find out the whereabouts of the tin
box. Luckily for him the door was just ajar, and by standing on the
upper part of the staircase he could manage to see into the room.

He saw Smith go to a desk at the centre of one side of the room, and
open a drawer in it. From this he drew out the box, and, opening it,
displayed the contents to Martin.

"There," said he, "that's where I found the money. There was a roll of
ten ten-dollar bills. I divided them into two equal parts, and gave you
your share. I was disappointed myself, for I expected more. I didn't
think you'd suspect me of cheating you. But I don't want any fuss. I'll
give you ten dollars off my share, and then you can't complain."

So saying, he took out a ten from his pocket-book, and handed it to
Martin.

"Are you satisfied now?" he asked.

"I suppose I shall have to be," said Martin, rather sullenly, for he was
by no means sure of the veracity of his confederate.

"It's all I can do for you at any rate," said Smith. "And now suppose we
take breakfast. I shall want you to go to Newark to-day."

He replaced the box in the drawer, and, locking it, put the key in his
