"I didn't think of looking for a place in Chicago," I added; "but this
looks like a good chance."

"Why didn't you say so before Charles went off? If you want the place,
you shall have it. I say so, and I know what I'm saying; and Charles
has been afraid all along that I might make a will."

"I should like to go on trial; but I don't know that I can stay in
Chicago a great while."

"They want somebody right off, and somebody that's smart."

"I think I could suit them. I can keep books; and besides, I have
worked at carpentering for two years, and I know something about
lumber. Where is your son now? Is he in the house?"

"Sakes, no!" exclaimed the old lady, beginning to be excited. "He don't
board here; 'tain't smart enough for him; but I'll go with you and see
him."

"Thank you, Mrs. Whippleton."

"I'm pretty tired; but I'm allus willin' to do what I can for a
feller-cretur. I went clear down to St. Louis to help my nephew's son;
and I'll do as much for you as I would for him."

"I won't trouble you to go with me. If you will tell me where he is, I
will go alone."

"That won't do. I must lay down the law to Charles; and if he dares to
do any different from what I tell him, he won't touch any more of my
money--that's all."

I did not exactly like the idea of having Mr. Charles placed under
compulsion to take me, whether he liked me or not; and I decided, if he
objected to the arrangement, to take myself out of his way. We walked
to the residence of Mr. Charles, which was a genteel house in a good
section of the city. He had a parlor and bed-room, and seemed to live
in good style. Before she said anything about me, Mrs. Whippleton took
her son into the entry, where, I suppose, she "laid down the law" to
him."

"My mother says you want a place as entry clerk," said Mr. Charles,
when they returned to the parlor, where I was seated.

"Yes, sir," I replied, with becoming deference.

"When can you go to work?"

"At once, sir."

"To-morrow morning?"



"Yes, sir."

He then questioned me in regard to my knowledge of book-keeping and
arithmetic, and wanted to know if I understood board measure, and could
read lumber marks. I told him I had been a carpenter, and knew all
about lumber. I could keep a set of books by double entry, and thought
I was competent to perform all sorts of mercantile calculations. But he
was too shrewd and suspicious to take me on my own recommendation. He
gave me a sheet of paper, pen, and ink, and told me to write my name.

"Farringford!" exclaimed he, as he read what I wrote.

"Yes, sir; that is my name."

"Do you belong to the Farringfords of St. Louis?"

"Yes; but I was brought up on the upper Missouri."

"Well, your name is nothing in your favor; however, that isn't your
fault," he added, magnanimously; but fortunately he said no more on
that subject. "Now, what is the interest on two thousand dollars for
six months at eight per cent?"

"Eighty dollars," I replied, as soon as he had the question out of his
mouth, for my father had practised me thoroughly in all the short
methods of computing interest.

He gave me half a dozen other problems; but, as he selected only those
which he could solve in his own mind, I was very prompt in my replies.
He then wrote out an example in averaging accounts, and as it was not a
difficult one, and involved only round numbers, I did it very readily.

"But the most important thing with us," added Mr. Whippleton, "is
simple addition. I don't like to wait half an hour for a clerk to run
up a column of figures."

He then wrote about twenty sums of money, each having five or six
figures, and told me to add them. My father had always assured me that
simple addition tried the young accountant more than anything else, and
he had insisted that I should practise it until I could run up a column
as rapidly as my eye could take in the figures. I had used this
exercise for months, until I flattered myself I could give the sum of a
column as quick as any practised book-keeper. At the same time, he had
taught me his own method, that of taking two figures at once, and
adding their sum to the result already obtained. It was just as easy
for one quick at figures to add thirteen, sixteen, eighteen, or
nineteen, as it was to add three, six, eight, or nine. Thus, if the
figures in the column were 6, 5, 4, 7, 9, 3, 8, 2, 9, 1, my father
added them in couples, for it required no effort of the mind to add six
and five, four and seven, nine and three, eight and two, or nine and
one; and the mental process was eleven, twenty-two, thirty-four,
forty-four, fifty-four.

I had practised this system until I could carry it along as rapidly as
I could by adding a single figure at a time. Mr. Whippleton made his
figures in duplicate when he wrote them, and added one himself to prove
that I was right or wrong. Before he was half done, I had my result.

"You are wrong," said he, decidedly, when he had finished. "I would
rather have you use twice as much time, and have the result right, than
do it quick, and have it wrong. Accuracy first, and speed next."

That was just what my father had always told me, and I was rather
mortified at the failure. I went over the columns again, with the same
result.

"I get it so again, sir," I replied, when I had added the columns in an
opposite direction from that taken the first time.

Mr. Whippleton added his figures a second time; but there was still two
hundred dollars' difference in the two amounts.

"You add mine and I will add yours," said he, as we exchanged papers.

This time I made his figures come out right; but I was also astonished
to find that he too made mine come out correctly.

"I see it, sir," I added. "In the fourth item the five on your paper is
a three on mine, and we are both right."

"Exactly so! You'll do, young man, though I should like to see you make
out a bill. We sell Tobey Tinkum forty-two thousand Michigan pine
boards, clear, at thirty dollars;" and he proceeded to give me several
items, which I could not have written down if I had not been a
carpenter, for the technical terms would have bothered and defeated me.
