me from the cold waters of the upper Missouri, and brought me up in
his log cabin. Of course I could not believe it was old Matt, for I
had seen him fall before the rifle-shot of the Indian, and had wept
bitterly over his grave when his remains were committed to the earth.

The gentleman before me was dressed better than old Matt ever clothed
himself; but his face was as brown from exposure, and his brow as
deeply indented with wrinkles. If I had not known that my foster-father
was dead, I should have been willing to declare, at the first glance,
that this gentleman was he.

"What do you want, young man?" said he, as I paused rather longer that
politeness would tolerate before his door.

His voice was that of Matt Rockwood; and, as I do not care to prolong a
sensation, I at once jumped to the conclusion that the person before me
was the brother of my foster-father, though Morgan Blair had assured me
that he also was in his grave.

"If you please, sir, I would like to speak to you," I replied to his
question.

"Come in," he added, laying aside his newspaper. "What is your business
with me?"

I entered the room, which was a parlor, and from it a bedroom opened
on one side. The apartments were very handsomely furnished, and as the
gentleman before me was very well dressed, I concluded that fortune had
dealt more kindly with him than with Matt.

"Are you Mr. Rockwood?" I asked, gazing earnestly at him.

"I am."

"Mr. Mark Rockwood?"

"Yes."

"You had a brother, sir?"

"I had."

"And a sister?"

"No; or rather I had two, but both of them died in their childhood," he
replied, evidently astonished at my line of questions.

He had no sister, and Morgan Blair's story, as I had suspected after I
found him in the company of Lynch, was all a fiction.

"Have you heard from your brother within a few years?" I inquired.

"Not for twenty years. But who are you, young man?" he demanded,
evidently supposing that I had known his brother.

At this moment the waiter of whom I had inquired for Mr. Rockwood
appeared before the door and looked in.

"What do you want, John?" asked the old gentleman.

"Nothing, sir; the young man with you inquired for your room, and I
came to see if he found you," replied the servant, retiring.

"Who are you, young man, and why do you ask me these questions?"

"I have seen your brother Matthew since you have, and I did not know
but you might wish to hear about him, though I haven't any good news
for you."

"You knew Matthew, then?"

"Yes, sir; I lived with him about ten years. In fact, he brought me up."

"But the last I heard of him, he had gone up the Missouri River."

"Yes, sir; and it was there that I lived with him."

"Where is he now?" asked Mr. Rockwood; and I saw that he was
considerably moved.

"I am sorry to say I have no good news to tell you."

"Is he living?"

"No, sir; he died last spring. But I want to tell you, before I say
anything more, that no better man than your brother ever lived."

Mr. Rockwood was silent for a few moments. Doubtless the intelligence
I communicated revived the memories of the past, when they had been
children together.

"I am glad to hear you speak well of him, young man, for really you
could not say anything more pleasant of him," said Mr. Rockwood, at
last. "Since he is dead, nothing can be more comforting than to know
that he was a good man. Matt was always honest and straightforward; but
he was almost always unfortunate, he failed in business, and left this
part of the country discouraged and disheartened. I hope he was never
in want, or anything of that kind."

"No, sir; he always had plenty; and when he died he left some property."

"I'm very glad to hear it, for I have had times when I worried a great
deal about it. I tried to find out where he was, but I never succeeded.
Were you with him when he died?"

"I was, sir," I replied, not a little embarrassed; for I did not like
to reveal the manner of his death.

"Was he sick long?"

"No, sir; he had been troubled with the rheumatism for two or three
months; but he was able to be about on crutches at the time he died."

"Did he die of rheumatism?"

"No, sir; he did not die of any disease, nor suffer any pain."

"What do you mean, young man?"

"He was shot, and instantly killed, in a fight with the Indians."

"Poor Matt!" exclaimed Mr. Rockwood, averting his gaze from me.

"I was as near to him as I am to you now when he fell. He never moved
or breathed after he went down," I added.

"Well, he had lived his threescore and ten, and perhaps one could not
pass away any easier; but it is grating to one's feelings to know that
his brother was shot."

I related to him very minutely the history of Matt Rockwood; and he
listened, as may well be supposed, with the deepest interest.

"And so you found your father?" said he, as I concluded the narrative.

"Yes, sir; and I hope yet to save him from himself."

"I hope so; and I am willing to do all I can for you and for him."

"Thank you, sir. As I said before, sir, your brother left about a
