no use in looking further when you are suited."

"So I think," said David. "I never do."

"That is as good as Mrs. Lloyd could do for herself," said Judith.

"But Norton"--said Matilda.

"Shall we have our names put on the cups?" said Norton.

"But Norton," said Matilda desperately, "we are not all agreed. I am
very sorry!--I like it very much--it's beautiful"--

"You are afraid you haven't money enough?" said Norton. "Never fear!
Davy and I will pay the largest half; you and Judy shall give less, but
it don't make any difference. I'll tell you! David and I will get the
stand and the flask; and you two shall give the cups."

"It isn't that," said Matilda, very much distressed; "it is not that,
Norton; it is something else. It is"--

"What in the world is it?" said Judy, balancing herself daintily on one
toe.

"It is--that I don't drink wine, you know."

"What's that to do?" said Judy, while the two boys both looked at
Matilda. "You haven't to drink or let it alone; it is not for your
use anyhow."

"No, I know that; but I don't think it is right--I mean,--I mean," said
Matilda, gathering courage, "I have promised to do all I can to prevent
people from drinking wine. I can't help in such a present as this."

"They don't drink wine out of these little cups," said David. "It is
something different; it is Noyau, or Curaçoa, or Chartreuse, or
Maraschino, or some of those things, you know."

"Yes, but it is stronger," said Matilda in a low voice. "It's stronger
than wine."

"She's temperance!" exclaimed Judith, turning round on one heel and
coming back into position. "She's temperance! We are all wicked at Mrs.
Lloyd's; we drink Hock and we sip Curaçoa. I suppose she has only been
where people drink gin and lager; and she thinks it's all alike."

"She has been at Briery Bank, Judy," said Norton, "where the wines are
as good as in Blessington Avenue."

"Then she ought to have learned better!" said Judy. "That's all I have
to say."

"But Pink," said Norton, and he was very kind, though he looked
vexed,--"this is not anything about your drinking or not drinking,
you know. Grandmamma will have her wine and she will offer her cordial,
just the same; it don't make any difference; only we want to give her
something she will like, and she will like this; don't you see?"

"Yes, Norton, I see," said Matilda, her eyes filling with tears; "I am
very sorry; but I wish you and David wouldn't have anything to do
with wine, either."

"She don't mention me!" exclaimed Judy. "Either I'm so good I'm safe;
or I'm so bad it's no use trying to take care of me. You poor boys, she
will try to take care of you. What impertinence!"

"No more than if you did it, Judy, come, now!" said Norton. "It's no
such thing; it's only nonsense. Now Pink, don't be nonsensical!"

"We can do it without her being in the affair, if she doesn't like it,"
said David. "But I do not understand," he went on, addressing himself
to Matilda. "Giving a present isn't drinking wine, is it?"

"No," said Matilda, who by this time could hardly speak at all. "But
Mr. David, it is helping somebody else to drink."

"Do you think what you do would help or hinder?"

"What you do might."

"We shall go on just the same, whatever way you take. What difference
can it make, whether your money is in it or not?"

"I don't know," said Matilda struggling;--"none, perhaps, whether my
money is in it. But my name would be in it."

"Do you think that would make any difference?--stop, Norton, I want to
understand what she will say. What would your name do, in it or out of
it?"

"Ridiculous! to spend time talking to her!" said Judy. "That is just
what she wants."

But David waited for his answer; and Matilda's eyes were all
glittering, while her little head took its inexpressible air of
self-assertion.

"I don't know--I can't, tell," she said, answering David as if she had
not heard Judy;--"it might do nothing, but I have promised to use it on
the right side."

"Promised whom?" said David. "Maybe it is a promise that need not
stand. Promised whom?"

"Yes, whom did you promise, Pink?" said Norton.

Matilda hesitated and then spoke.

"I promised the Lord Jesus Christ," she said slowly.

She was looking at nobody in particular, yet her eye caught the
expression of annoyance on Norton's face; she did not see the cloud of
disgust and surprise that came over David's. He turned away. Judith's
eyes snapped.

"Isn't that neat now?" she said. "We have got a saint among us, sure
enough. Well--saints know how to take care of their money; we all know
that. What are we poor sinners going to do for grandmamma's present?
that's the question. I propose that we get her a prayerbook, very
large, and black, with gilt clasps and her name on the cover; then
everybody will know that Mrs. Lloyd is a good woman and goes to church."

"Be still, Judy!" said her brother sternly.

"Propose something yourself then," said Judith. "We can't do anything
at Candello's, that's clear. I don't believe there's an innocent thing
here beside tea cups. I've seen people drink brandy and water in
tumblers; and bowls hold whiskey punch. Dear me! what a pity it is that
good things are so bad!"

"Hush, Judy!" said Norton; "you won't hurt anybody by being too good."

"It's a way I despise," said Judith coolly. "When I hurt anybody, I
like to know it. I never shut my eyes and fire."

"It's a wonder you don't take better aim, then," said Norton
impatiently. "You are firing wild just now. Matilda has a right to
think as she likes, and she don't shut her eyes and fire. There's
nothing of a coward about her. But then we don't think as she thinks,
about some things; and I say we'll get this liqueur stand and she shall
