“To say the truth, Belle, I could have been, if he had been in
circumstances to marry. But, you see, I am one of those to whom the
luxuries are essential. I never could rub and scrub and work; in fact,
I had rather not live at all than live poor; and Harry is poor, and he
always will be poor. It’s a pity, too, poor fellow, for he’s nice.
Well, he is off in India! I know he will be tragical and gloomy, and
all that,” she said; and then the soft child-face smiled to itself in
the glass,—such a pretty little innocent smile!

All this while, John sat up with his heart beating very fast, writing
all about his engagement to his sister, and, up to this point, his
nearest, dearest, most confidential friend. It is almost too bad to
copy the letter of a shy man who finds himself in love for the first
time in his life; but we venture to make an extract:—

    “It is not her beauty merely that drew me to her, though
    she is the most beautiful human being I ever saw: it is the
    exquisite feminine softness and delicacy of her character,
    that sympathetic pliability by which she adapts herself to
    every varying feeling of the heart. You, my dear sister,
    are the noblest of women, and your place in my heart is
    still what it always was; but I feel that this dear little
    creature, while she fills a place no other has ever entered,
    will yet be a new bond to unite us. She will love us both;
    she will gradually come into all our ways and opinions,
    and be insensibly formed by us into a noble womanhood. Her
    extreme beauty, and the great admiration that has always
    followed her, have exposed her to many temptations, and
    caused most ungenerous things to be said of her.

    “Hitherto she has lived only in the fashionable world; and
    her literary and domestic education, as she herself is
    sensible, has been somewhat neglected.

    “But she longs to retire from all this; she is sick of
    fashionable folly, and will come to us to be all our own.
    Gradually the charming circle of cultivated families which
    form our society will elevate her taste, and form her mind.

    “Love is woman’s inspiration, and love will lead her to all
    that is noble and good. My dear sister, think not that any
    new ties are going to make you any less to me, or touch your
    place in my heart. I have already spoken of you to Lillie,
    and she longs to know you. You must be to her what you have
    always been to me,—guide, philosopher, and friend.

    “I am sure I never felt better impulses, more humble, more
    thankful, more religious, than I do now. That the happiness
    of this soft, gentle, fragile creature is to be henceforth
    in my hands is to me a solemn and inspiring thought. What
    man is worthy of a refined, delicate woman? I feel my
    unworthiness of her every hour; but, so help me God, I shall
    try to be all to her that a husband should; and you, my
    sister, I know, will help me to make happy the future which
    she so confidingly trusts to me.

    “Believe me, dear sister, I never was so much your
    affectionate brother,

                                                 “JOHN SEYMOUR.

    “P.S.—I forgot to tell you that Lillie remarkably resembles
    the ivory miniature of our dear sainted mother. She was
    very much affected when I told her of it. I think naturally
    Lillie has very much such a character as our mother; though
    circumstances, in her case, have been unfavorable to the
    development of it.”

Whether the charming vision was realized; whether the little sovereign
now enthroned will be a just and clement one; what immunities and
privileges she will allow to her slaves,—is yet to be seen in this
story.




CHAPTER II.

WHAT SHE THINKS OF IT.




SPRINGDALE was one of those beautiful rural towns whose flourishing
aspect is a striking exponent of the peculiarities of New-England
life. The ride through it presents a refreshing picture of wide, cool,
grassy streets, overhung with green arches of elm, with rows of large,
handsome houses on either side, each standing back from the street
in its own retired square of gardens, green turf, shady trees, and
flowering shrubs. It was, so to speak, a little city of country-seats.
It spoke of wealth, thrift, leisure, cultivation, quiet, thoughtful
habits, and moral tastes.

Some of these mansions were of ancestral reputation, and had been in
the family whose name they bore for generations back; a circumstance
sometimes occurring even in New-England towns where neither law nor
custom unites to perpetuate property in certain family lines.

The Seymour house was a well-known, respected mansion for generations
back. Old Judge Seymour, the grandfather, was the lineal descendant of
Parson Seymour; the pastor who first came with the little colony of
Springdale, when it was founded as a church in the wilderness, amid all
the dangers of wild beasts and Indians.

This present Seymour mansion was founded on the spot where the house of
the first minister was built by the active hands of his parishioners;
and, from generation to generation, order, piety, education, and high
respectability had been the tradition of the place.

The reader will come in with us, on this bright June morning, through
the grassy front yard, which has only the usual New-England fault of
being too densely shaded. The house we enter has a wide, cool hall
running through its centre and out into a back garden, now all aglow
with every beauty of June. The broad alleys of the garden showed
bright stores of all sorts of good old-fashioned flowers, well tended
and kept. Clumps of stately hollyhocks and scarlet peonies; roses of
every hue, purple, blush, gold-color, and white, were showering down
their leaves on the grassy turf; honeysuckles climbed and clambered
over arbors; and great, stately tufts of virgin-white lilies exalted
their majestic heads in saintly magnificence. The garden was Miss
Grace Seymour’s delight and pride. Every root in it was fragrant with
the invisible blossoms of memory,—memories of the mother who loved
and planted and watched them before her, and the grandmother who had
cared for them before that. The spirit of these charming old-fashioned
gardens is the spirit of family love; and, if ever blessed souls from
their better home feel drawn back to any thing on earth, we think it
must be to their flower-garden.

Miss Grace had been up early, and now, with her garden hat on, and
scissors in hand, was coming up the steps with her white apron full
of roses, white lilies, meadow-sweets, and honeysuckle, for the
parlor-vases, when the servant handed her a letter.

“From John,” she said, “good fellow;” and then she laid it on the
mantel-shelf of the parlor, while she busied herself in arranging her
flowers.

“I must get these into water, or they will wilt,” she said.

The large parlor was like many that you and I have seen in a certain
