refused to be interested in her, and forbade Basil to care for her. When
he had read of her exploit from the guide-book, Isabel asked him if he
had noticed that handsome girl in the blue and white striped Garibaldi
and Swiss hat, who had come aboard at Kingston. She pointed her out,
and courageously made him admire her beauty, which was of the most
bewitching Canadian type. The young girl was redeemed by her New World
birth from the English heaviness; a more delicate bloom lighted her
cheeks; a softer grace dwelt in her movement; yet she was round and
full, and she was in the perfect flower of youth. She was not so
ethereal in her loveliness as an American girl, but she was not so
nervous and had none of the painful fragility of the latter. Her
expression was just a little vacant, it must be owned; but so far as she
went she was faultless. She looked like the most tractable of daughters,
and as if she would be the most obedient of wives. She had a blameless
taste in dress, Isabel declared; her costume of blue and white striped
Garibaldi and Swiss hat (set upon heavy masses of dark brown hair) being
completed by a black silk skirt. “And you can see,” she added, “that
it’s an old skirt made over, and that she’s dressed as cheaply as she
is prettily.” This surprised Basil, who had imputed the young lady’s
personal sumptuousness to her dress, and had thought it enormously
rich. When she got off with her chaperone at one of the poorest-looking
country landings, she left them in hopeless conjecture about her. Was
she visiting there, or was the interior of Canada full of such stylish
and exquisite creatures? Where did she get her taste, her fashions, her
manners? As she passed from sight towards the shadow of the woods, they
felt the poorer for her going; yet they were glad to have seen her, and
on second thoughts they felt that they could not justly ask more of
her than to have merely existed for a few hours in their presence. They
perceived that beauty was not only its own excuse for being, but that it
flattered and favored and profited the world by consenting to be.

At Prescott, the boat on which they had come from Charlotte, and on
which they had been promised a passage without change to Montreal,
stopped, and they were transferred to a smaller steamer with the
uncomfortable name of Banshee. She was very old, and very infirm and
dirty, and in every way bore out the character of a squalid Irish
goblin. Besides, she was already heavily laden with passengers, and,
with the addition of the other steamer’s people had now double her
complement; and our friends doubted if they were not to pass the Rapids
in as much danger as discomfort. Their fellow-passengers were in great
variety, however, and thus partly atoned for their numbers. Among them
of course there was a full force of brides from Niagara and elsewhere,
and some curious forms of the prevailing infatuation appeared. It is
well enough, if she likes, and it may even be very noble for a passably
good-looking young lady to marry a gentleman of venerable age; but to
intensify the idea of self-devotion by furtively caressing his wrinkled
front seems too reproachful of the general public; while, on the other
hand, if the bride is very young and pretty, it enlists in behalf of the
white-haired husband the unwilling sympathies of the spectator to see
her the centre of a group of young people, and him only acknowledged
from time to time by a Parthian snub. Nothing, however, could have been
more satisfactory than the sisterly surrounding of this latter bride.
They were of a better class of Irish people; and if it had been any
sacrifice for her to marry so old a man, they were doing their best to
give the affair at least the liveliness of a wake. There were five
or six of those great handsome girls, with their generous curves and
wholesome colors, and they were every one attended by a good-looking
colonial lover, with whom they joked in slightly brogued voices,
and laughed with careless Celtic laughter. One of the young fellows
presently lost his hat overboard, and had to wear the handkerchief of
his lady about his head; and this appeared to be really one of the best
things in the world, and led to endless banter. They were well dressed,
and it could be imagined that the ancient bridegroom had come in for
the support of the whole good-looking, healthy, light-hearted family.
In some degree he looked it, and wore but a rueful countenance for a
bridegroom; so that a very young newly married couple, who sat next the
jolly sister-and-loverhood could not keep their pitying eyes off his
downcast face. “What if he, too, were young at heart!” the kind little
wife’s regard seemed to say.

For the sake of the slight air that was stirring, and to have the best
view of the Rapids, the Banshee’s whole company was gathered upon
the forward promenade, and the throng was almost as dense as in a
six-o’clock horse-car out from Boston. The standing and sitting groups
were closely packed together, and the expanded parasols and umbrellas
formed a nearly unbroken roof. Under this Isabel chatted at intervals
with the Ellisons, who sat near; but it was not an atmosphere that
provoked social feeling, and she was secretly glad when after a while
they shifted their position.

It was deadly hot, and most of the people saddened and silenced in
the heat. From time to time the clouds idling about overhead met and
sprinkled down a cruel little shower of rain that seemed to make the air
less breathable than before. The lonely shores were yellow with drought;
the islands grew wilder and barrener; the course of the river was for
miles at a stretch through country which gave no signs of human life.
The St. Lawrence has none of the bold picturesqueness of the Hudson, and
is far more like its far-off cousin the Mississippi. Its banks are low
like the Mississippi’s, its current, swift, its way through solitary
lands. The same sentiment of early adventure hangs about each: both are
haunted by visions of the Jesuit in his priestly robe, and the soldier
in his mediaeval steel; the same gay, devout, and dauntless race has
touched them both with immortal romance. If the water were of a dusky
golden color, instead of translucent green, and the shores and islands
were covered with cottonwoods and willows instead of dark cedars, one
could with no great effort believe one’s self on the Mississippi between
Cairo and St. Louis, so much do the great rivers strike one as kindred
in the chief features of their landscape. Only, in tracing this
resemblance you do not know just what to do with the purple mountains of
Vermont, seen vague against the horizon from the St. Lawrence, or with
the quaint little French villages that begin to show themselves as you
penetrate farther down into Lower Canada. These look so peaceful, with
their dormer-windowed cottages clustering about their church-spires,
that it seems impossible they could once have been the homes of the
savages and the cruel peasants who, with fire-brand and scalping-knife
and tomahawk, harassed the borders of New England for a hundred years.
But just after you descend the Long Sault you pass the hamlet of St.
Regis, in which was kindled the torch that wrapt Deerfield in flames,
waking her people from their sleep to meet instant death or taste the
bitterness of a captivity. The bell which was sent out from France for
the Indian converts of the Jesuits, and was captured by an English ship
and carried into Salem, and thence sold to Deerfield, where it called
the Puritans to prayer, till at last it also summoned the priest-led
Indians and ‘habitans’ across hundreds of miles of winter and of
wilderness to reclaim it from that desecration,--this fateful bell still
hangs in the church-tower of St. Regis, and has invited to matins and
vespers for nearly two centuries the children of those who fought so
pitilessly and dared and endured so much for it. Our friends would fair
have heard it as they passed, hoping for some mournful note of history
in its sound; but it hung silent over the silent hamlet, which, as it
lay in the hot afternoon sun by the river’s side, seemed as lifeless as
the Deerfield burnt long ago.

They turned from it to look at a gentleman who had just appeared in a
mustard-colored linen duster, and Basil asked, “Shouldn’t you like to
know the origin, personal history, and secret feelings of a gentleman
who goes about in a duster of that particular tint? Or, that gentleman
yonder with his eye tied up in a wet handkerchief, do you suppose he’s
travelling for pleasure? Look at those young people from Omaha: they
haven’t ceased flirting or cackling since we left Kingston. Do you
think everybody has such spirits out at Omaha? But behold a yet more
surprising figure than any we have yet seen among this boat-load of
nondescripts.”

This was a tall, handsome young man, with a face of somewhat foreign
cast, and well dressed, with a certain impressive difference from the
rest in the cut of his clothes. But what most drew the eye to him was
a large cross, set with brilliants, and surmounted by a heavy
double-headed eagle in gold. This ornament dazzled from a conspicuous
place on the left lappet of his coat; on his hand shone a magnificent
