
"So you have more than you want, and can actually throw it away?"

"Not throw it away, Anne; for these people, that these sheets are for,
are miserably off. You would think so, if you saw them."

"I don't want to see anybody worse off than myself," said Letitia.
"Why, what is that the child has got in her bosom, hanging to that
ribband. What is it?--a watch, I declare! Gold? is it a gold watch
really? Think of it, Anne!"

"It was one of my Christmas presents," said poor Matilda, hardly
knowing what to say.

"How many other presents did you have?"

Matilda had to tell, though she had a feeling it would not be to the
gratification of her sisters. They listened and looked, said little,
but by degrees drew out from her all the history of the evening's
entertainment.

"That's the way she lives," said Letitia to Anne. "That's the way she
is going on; while you and I are making people's dresses."

"But aren't you getting on well?" asked their little sister, sorely
bestead to make the conversation pleasant to them.

"We get work, and we do it," said Letitia. "And so make out to have
some bread and butter with our tea."

"But you have dinner, don't you?"

"I don't know what you'd call it," said Letitia. "What do you have for
dinner?"

"O the boys and Judy Bartholomew and I, we have our dinner at one o'
clock."

"Well, what do you have?" said Letitia sharply. "What did you have
to-day?"

"We had beefsteak."

"Not all alone, I suppose. What did you have with it?"

"We had oysters," said Matilda unwillingly, "and baked potatoes, and
rice, and bananas and oranges."

"There!" exclaimed Letitia. "That's what I call a dinner. What do you
suppose Anne and I had?"

"Hush, Letty," said Anne. "Whatever we had, it was our own. We were
beholden to nobody for it."

"Have you seen Maria since I have?" Matilda asked, trying to make a
diversion.

"No. How should we see Maria? We cannot go jaunting about. We have our
work to do."

"But it is nice work. I should think you would be very glad to have
it," Matilda ventured.

"Yes, we are, of course," said Anne expressively. "People must live.
How much did your watch cost?"

Very unwillingly Matilda named the sum, which Norton had told her. The
two sisters looked at each other and rose to depart.

"But you are not going?" cried Matilda. "You haven't said anything to
me yet. And I have not seen you for ever so long."

"We could not say anything that would be interesting to you," Anne
answered. "And we have to keep at our work, you know. We are busy."

"So am I busy," said Matilda; "very; with my lessons and my other
things I have to do."

"And parties," added Letitia, "and poor people. How were you dressed at
the party, Matilda?"

"Yes, let us see your dress," said Anne sitting down again.

They scanned and measured and examined the dress, stuff and work, with
business as well as with curious eyes; Matilda saw they were taking
hints from it. That led to the display of her whole wardrobe. It was
not agreeable to Matilda; she had a certain feeling that it was not
improving her sisters' peculiar mood of feeling towards her; however,
it seemed to be the one way in which she could afford them any the
least pleasure. So silks and poplins and muslins, all her things, were
brought out and turned over; the fashion and the work minutely examined
and commented on; the price detailed where Matilda happened to know it.

"Well, I have got something from that," said Anne, when at last the
show was done.

"Yes," echoed Letitia; "I never could make out before, just how that
sort of trimming was managed. Now I have got it."

They pulled up their cloaks again and tied their scarfs. Matilda looked
on sorrowfully.

"I suppose it's no use to ask you to come and see us," said Letty.

"I can't come often," Matilda answered, "because, you know, I cannot
walk there; and I cannot have the carriage except now and then."

"How do you suppose we get along without a carriage?" said Letty.

"You are older. Oh Anne and Letty!" cried their little sister, "I don't
know why I have so much and you have so little; but it isn't my fault."

Tears were in her eyes; but her sisters shewed no melting on their
part. They answered, that nobody supposed it was her fault. The energy
of Matilda's hugs and kisses seemed to impress them, at last.

"Tell me!" said Anne, holding her off to look at her,--"are you happy
here? Do they treat you really as their own child? Would you like to
come back to us? Because if you would--"

"O no, no, Anne! yes, they do. Yes, I am very happy. I don't want
anything but what I have got."

"Well, then you are to be envied," said Anne, relapsing into her former
tone; and the two went away. Matilda saw them out of the front door,
and then went back to her room and stood at the window a long time,
looking down the street by which they had gone. Why did they treat her
so? Why was she such a trouble to them? They were much older than she,
and her home sympathies had always been more particularly with Maria
and her mother in the old days; yet the family had been affectionate
and harmonious. The strange barrier which her prosperity had built up
between her and them was quite inexplicable to Matilda. At the same
time she was filled with sorrow for the contrast which she knew they
felt between her circumstances and their own. She mused, how she could
give them comfort or do them good in any way; but could not find it.
She was a weak little child. And the help she was giving to the poor
street sweeper and her mother was more needed and better bestowed there
than in any other direction. What would her small means avail towards
the wants of Anne and Letitia? But Matilda cried about it some sore
tears, as she stood by her window in the growing dusk. Then she went
