He is also giving attention to roses and ornamental shrubbery. What
makes the inception of such nurseries as Mr. Hardee's a matter of
congratulation is that they furnish to purchasers things that have been
proved suited to the climate and soil of Florida. Peach-trees, roses,
and grapes, sent from the North, bring here the habit of their Northern
growth, which often makes them worthless. With a singular stubbornness,
they adhere to the times and seasons to which they have been accustomed
farther North. We set a peach-orchard of some four hundred trees which
we obtained from a nursery in Georgia. We suspect now, that, having a
press of orders, our nurseryman simply sent us a packet of trees from
some Northern nursery. The consequence is, that year after year, when
all nature about them is bursting into leaf and blossom, when peaches of
good size gem the boughs of Florida trees, our peach-orchard stands
sullen and leafless; nor will it start bud or blossom till the time for
peaches to start in New York. The same has been our trouble with some
fine varieties of roses which we took from our Northern grounds. As yet,
they are hardly worth the ground they occupy; and whether they ever
will do any thing is a matter of doubt. Meanwhile we have only to ride a
little way into the pine-woods to see around many a rustic cabin a
perfect blaze of crimson roses and cluster roses, foaming over the
fences in cascades of flowers. These are Florida roses, born and bred;
and this is the way they do with not one tithe of the work and care that
we have expended on our poor Northern exiles. Mr. Hardee, therefore, in
attempting the pioneer nursery of Florida, is doing a good thing for
every new-comer; and we wish him all success. As a parting present, we
received a fine summer squash, which, for the first of May, one must
admit is good growth. And now, for the benefit of those who may want to
take up land in Florida, we shall give the experience of some friends
and neighbors of ours who have carried through about as thorough and
well-conducted an experiment as any; and we give it from memoranda which
they have kindly furnished, in the hope of being of use to other
settlers.




  [Illustration]

OUR EXPERIENCE IN CROPS.


A few years ago, three brothers, farmers, from Vermont, exhausted by the
long, hard winters there, came to Florida to try an experiment. They
bought two hundred and seventy-five acres in the vicinity of Mandarin at
one dollar per acre. It was pine-land, that had been cut over twice for
timber, and was now considered of no further value by its possessor, who
threw it into the hands of a land-agent to make what he could of it. It
was the very cheapest kind of Florida land.

Of this land they cleared only thirty-five acres. The fencing cost two
hundred dollars. They put up a large, unplastered, two-story house, with
piazzas to both floors, at a cost of about a thousand dollars. The
additional outlay was on two mules and a pair of oxen, estimated at four
hundred dollars. The last year, they put up a sugar-mill and
establishment at a cost of five hundred dollars.

An orange-grove, a vineyard, and a peach-orchard, are all included in
the programme of these operators, and are all well under way. But these
are later results. It is not safe to calculate on an orange-grove under
ten years, or on a vineyard or peach-orchard under four or five.

We have permission to copy verbatim certain memoranda of results with
which they have furnished us.


CABBAGES.

First Year.--Sowed seed in light sandy soil without manure. Weak
plants, beaten down by rain, lost.

Second Year.--Put out an acre and a half of fine plants: large part
turned out poorly. Part of the land was low, sour, and wet, and all
meagrely fertilized. Crop sold in Jacksonville for two hundred and fifty
dollars.

Third Year.--Three acres better, but still inadequately manured, and
half ruined by the Christmas frost: brought about eight hundred dollars.

Fourth Year (1871-72.)--Two acres better manured; planted in low land,
on ridges five feet apart: returned six hundred dollars. In favorable
seasons, with good culture, an acre of cabbages should yield a gross
return of five hundred dollars, of which three hundred would be clear
profit.


CUCUMBERS.

First Year.--Planted four acres, mostly new, hard, sour land,
broad-casting fifty bushels of lime to the acre, and using some weak,
half-rotted compost in the hills: wretched crop. The whole lot sent
North: did not pay for shipment.

Second Year.--An acre and a half best land, heavily manured with
well-rotted compost worked into drills eight feet apart: yielded fifty
bushels, which brought two hundred and fifty dollars in New York. More
would have been realized, except that an untimely hail-storm spoiled the
vines prematurely.

Third Year.--An acre and a half, well cultivated and manured, yielded
four hundred bushels, and brought a gross return of thirteen hundred
dollars.


TOMATOES.

First Year.--Lost many plants through rain and wet, and insufficient
manure. Those we got to the New-York market brought from four to six
dollars per bushel.

Second Year.--Manured too heavily in the hill with powerful
unfermented manures. A heavy rain helped ruin the crop. Those, however,
which we sent to market, brought good prices.

Third Year.--None planted for market; but those for family use did so
well as to put us in good humor with the crop, and induce us to plant
for this year.


SWEET-POTATOES.

Every year we have had pretty good success with them on land well
prepared with lime and ashes. We have had three hundred and fifty
bushels to the acre.


SUGAR-CANE

Has done very respectably on one-year-old soil manured with ashes only;
while mellow land, well prepared with muck, ashes, and fish-guano, has
yielded about twenty barrels of sugar to the acre.


IRISH POTATOES.

We have found these on light soil, with only moderate fertilizing, an
unprofitable crop at four dollars, but on good land, with very heavy
manuring, decidedly profitable at two dollars per bushel. Fine potatoes
rarely are less than that in Jacksonville. They will be ready to dig in
April and May.

