"Humph!"

"Now, my love, I do implore that you will not drag forward that
most unjust and unreasonable prejudice in the present company!"
cried his wife, in a nervous flutter from her bonnet-crown to her
gaiter-tips. "If I have failed to convince you that it is
groundless and absurd, oblige me by withholding the expression of
it, here and now!"

"My good Jane!" returned the imperturbable spouse--"Where else could
the truth be so fitly spoken as in the hearing of judicious friends?
I am sorry to say, Mr. Fordham, that my excellent wife and myself do
not agree respecting Mr. Wyllys' character and actions."

"Doctor! doctor!" ejaculated the frantic woman, plunging forward, at
an angle of forty-five degrees, to pluck his sleeve. "You forget
that you are addressing Mr. Wyllys' cousin!"

"A candid man, and a fair judge of human nature and motives,
nevertheless," her lord went on to say, with a stiff little bow in
the direction of the person named. "The only safe rule among friends
is candor. It is seldom I attribute sinister purposes to one whom I
do not know certainly to be malevolent or hypocritical, but when I
declare it to be my firm conviction that Orrin Wyllys--(of whom the
best thing I know is that he has descended physically from the same
stock that produced your husband, my child!)"--this to Jessie--"when
I affirm that I believe him to be a wolf who ravens safely and
reputably under the cowardly cover of sheep's clothing, I am not,
as my dear Jane here would persuade herself and you, the victim of
causeless prejudice."

"Dearest, I entreat!" broke in the wife, at her last gasp of
distress.

His discourse moved on majestically. There were four knots in his
handkerchief already.

"From the moment I heard Mr. Wyllys caution Mrs. Baxter not to
allude in her letter of invitation to our Jessie, to information he
had supplied relative to her person, residence, and education, I
distrusted the singleness of his desire for the resumption of Mrs.
Baxter's intercourse with the family of her early friend. When the
invited guests arrived, and I learned that the terms of their
previous intercourse entitled him to become her cavalier on all
occasions; her preceptor and referee in doubtful cases of conscience
and conduct;--when I compared this circumstance with his careless
and apparently accidental mention of her to Mrs. Baxter, and his
pretended indifference to her coming, I made up my mind that he was
particularly interested in her for some reason he did not care to
divulge. I believe still that this was the case. I believe that,
knowing her to be betrothed to his cousin, he strove, consciously
and systematically, to win her from her allegiance. I thank GOD that
he did not succeed; that she has given herself and her happiness
into the keeping of a true and honorable gentleman!"

"I am grateful to you, doctor, for your staunch friendship for
myself, and your paternal guardianship of my wife!"

Roy Fordham's full, pleasant tones reached Jessie's ears like an
angelic benediction through the seething chaos that was swallowing
her up.

"I am glad, moreover, that you have, in the present company,
introduced the subject of your misgivings regarding my cousin's
behavior while I was away. I appointed him my proxy before I left my
betrothed and my native land. The attentions that misled you into
doubt of his right dealing were paid in that character. I cannot
have you undervalue the 'true and honorable gentleman' I know Orrin
Wyllys to be. He is my friend!"

The doctor tugged at his cravat-bow and stared into the chandelier.
Mrs. Baxter gulped down all the solicitude she could swallow, and
threw all the rest into the deprecating look she cast upon Roy. He
stood before his zealous old superior--courteous, kind, but earnest
in defence of his absent friend--the model of gallant manliness,
thought the abject creature, cowering in the shadow of Mrs. Baxter's
chair, half dead with remorse and the dread of additional
questioning.

The love of this man she had trodden under foot! forgotten affection
and duty to him in the mad, wicked delirium wrought by the wiles of
one whom Roy, in the simplicity of his integrity, still accounted
honest and faithful. A cheat and a coward Jessie had written Orrin
down since that early September day when he confided to her the fact
of his engagement, and shrank visibly at the suggestion of Roy's
anger at his shameless breach of faith. She stigmatized him now, in
the council of her thoughts, as a liar from the beginning. He had
manoeuvred, then, to procure Mrs. Baxter's invitation for herself,
while he denied to her that she had ever been named between them
until after this was sent; had inveigled her away from the shelter
of her father's roof and the guard of her sister's care, that he
might establish his fell influence over her. Would not Roy, with all
his generous trust in his cousin's honor and friendship, compare the
doctor's mal-apropos statement with her confession of the change in
herself, and arrive at a tolerably correct perception of the truth
that would blast her forever in his sight, as not merely weak and
fickle, but forward and unmaidenly?

When the throbbing of her heart would let her listen intelligently
to what was going on, the doctor had been beguiled into a
dissertation upon Druidistic history, by Roy's exhibition of a
paper-weight in the form of an altar, encircled by a wreath of
mistletoe, graven out of a bit of stone he had picked up at
Stonehenge. His considerate spouse carried him off before one-third
of the knots in his handkerchief were untied. Her valedictory, like
her salutatory, was a diffuse apology for their intrusion upon the
sacredness of the installation-eve.

"But the doctor--dear, blundering man! is amenable to no laws of
conventionality," she subjoined, with an indulgent shrug and sigh.

It is questionable whether either of the persons addressed regretted
the breach of etiquette. The time had gone by more swiftly and
comfortably than if they had been left to themselves. As it was, an
embarrassing silence followed the visitors' departure. Roy stood on
the rug, facing the fire, motionless and thoughtful. Jessie,
trembling in a nervous chill that changed her fingers into shaking
icicles, durst not attempt to speak.

Fordham finally came out of his reverie with a start, and turned
toward her apologetically.

"You are sadly tired! Our good friends were very welcome, but they
have kept you up beyond your strength. May I take you to your room?"

She murmured a disclaimer of the imputation of excessive fatigue,
but took his proffered arm, and they mounted the stairs together.

A bright fire burned in the large front chamber, flashed gayly back
from the gilt fleur-de-lis of the delicately tinted wallpaper and
the frames of the few pictures. A cosey armchair stood ready for
Jessie, with a foot-cushion below it, and the marble slabs of bureau
and mantel bore fragile wealth of Bohemian and frosted glass and
Parian ornaments.

"Is there anything I can do to make you more comfortable?" inquired
Roy, not offering to sit down. "Wouldn't a glass of wine do your
head good?"

"I think not. I need nothing, thank you!" without raising her eyes
