
But, on the other hand, all those in search of health, all endowed with
romance and imagination, all who could appreciate the rare charming haze
of antiquity which hangs over the ancient little city, grew into love
for St. Augustine, and lingered there far beyond their appointed time.
Crowds of old ladies and gentlemen sunned themselves on the south
piazzas, and troops of young people sailed and walked every where,
waking up the sleeping woods and the dreaming water with song and
laughter. The enterprising tourists came and went with their accustomed
energy; they bought palmetto hats and twined gray moss around them; they
carried orange-wood canes and cigar boxes containing young alligators.
(Why young alligators must always travel North in cigar boxes in
preference to any other kind of box is a mystery; but in cigar boxes
they always go!) Once a hand-organ man appeared, and ground out the same
tune for two whole days on the Plaza.

“And what may be the name of that melody, Miss Iris--the one he is
playing now?” asked the Professor, endeavoring to assume a musical air.

“He can only play one tune, and he has been playing that steadily for
two days,” replied Iris. “As far as I can make out from the discords it
is intended to be Strauss’s Tausend und Eine Nacht.”

But the Professor, an expert in Hebrew, Greek, and Sanskrit, had never
condescended to a modern tongue.

“Pray translate it for me,” he said, playfully, with the air of an
affable Sphinx.

“It is a subject to which I have given profound thought, Sir,” said
Iris, gravely. “It is not ‘A thousand and one nights,’ because the last
night only is intended, and therefore the best way to translate it is, I
think, ‘The thousand and oneth.’ I will give you some verses on the
melody, if you like.”



The Professor liked, and Iris began:


“‘TAUSEND UND EINE NACHT.

            “‘The birds within their dells
    Are silent; hushed the shining insect throng--
            Now human music swells,
    And all the land is echoing with song;
            The serenade, the glee,
    The symphony--and forth, mit Macht und Pracht,
            Orchestral harmony
    Is thrilling out Tausend und Eine Nacht.

            “‘O thousand nights and one!
    The witching magic of thy opening bars,
            In little notes begun,
    Might move to swaying waltzes all the stars
            In all their shining spheres;
    Then, soft, a plaintive air the music sings--
            We dance, but half in tears--
    To dearest joy a sadness always clings.
            “‘O thousand nights and one!
    Could we but have a thousand nights of bliss!
            The golden stories spun
    By dark-eyed Arab girl ne’er equaled this.
            Soon over? Yes, we see
    The summer’s fading; but, when all is done,
            There lives the thought that we
    Were happy--not a thousand nights, but one!’

“Dancing at a watering-place, you know--two young people
waltzing--orchestra playing Tausend und Eine Nacht. You have danced to
it a hundred times I dare say.”

No, the Professor had neglected dancing in his youth, but still it might
not be too late to learn if--

“Oh, I beg your pardon,” said Iris, waking up from her vision. “I forgot
it was you, Sir; I thought you were--were somebody else.”

So the days passed. Iris strolled about the town with Mokes, talked on
the piazza with Hoffman, and wore his roses in her hair (Hoffman was
always seen with a fresh rose every morning); she even listened
occasionally to extracts from the Great Work. But the sea-wall by
moonlight was reserved for Antinous. Thus we dallied with the pleasant
weather until Aunt Diana, like a Spartan matron, roused herself to
action. “This will never do,” she said; “this very afternoon we will all
go over to the island and see the tombs.”

Aunt Di’s temper had been sorely tried. Going out with Mokes the
preceding evening to find Iris, who was ostensibly “strolling up and
down the wall” in the moonlight with the Captain, she had found no trace
of her niece from one end of the wall to the other--from the glacis of
San Marco to the flag-staff at the Barracks. Heroically swallowing her
wrath, she had returned to the hotel a perfect coruscation of stories,
bon-mots, and compliments, to cover the delinquency of her niece, and
amuse the deserted Mokes; and, to tell the truth, Mokes seemed very well
amused. He was not an ardent lover.

“Where do you suppose they are?” I said, sotto voce, to John Hoffman.

“The demi-lune!” he answered.

A sail-boat took us first down to Fish Island, which is really a part of
Anastasia, separated from it only by a small creek. The inlet, which is
named Matanzas River south of the harbor, and the North River above it,
was dotted with porpoises heaving up their unwieldy bulk; the shores
were bristling with oysters; armies of fiddler-crabs darted to and fro
on the sands; heavy old pelicans, sickle-bill curlews, ospreys, herons,
and even bald-headed eagles flew around and about us. We ran down before
the wind within sight of the mysterious old fortification that guards
the Matanzas channel--mysterious from the total absence of any data as
to its origin. “Three hundred and fifty Huguenots met their death down
there,” said John Hoffman; “massacred under the personal supervision of
Menendez himself. Their bones lie beneath this water, or under the
shifting sands of the beach, but the river perpetuates the deed in its
name, Matanzas, or slaughter.”

“Is there any place about here where there were no massacres?” asked
Sara. “Wherever I go, they arise from the past and glare at me. Between
Spanish, Huguenot, and Indian slaughter, I am becoming quite gory.”

The Professor, who was holding on his tall hat with much difficulty in
the fresh breeze, here wished to know generally if we had read the
remarkable narrative of Cabeça de Vaca, the true discoverer of the
Mississippi, who landed in Florida in 1527.

“Alas! the G. W. again,” murmured Sara in my ear. Miss Sharp, however,
wanted “so much to hear about it” that the Professor began. But the hat
kept interfering. Once Mokes rescued it, once John Hoffman, and the
renowned De Vaca suffered in consequence. The governess wore a white
scarf around her neck, one of those voluminous things called “clouds.”
She took it off, and leaned forward with a smile. “Perhaps if you were
to tie this over your hat,” she said, sweetly offering it.

But the Professor was glad to get it, and saw no occasion for sweetness
at all. He wanted to go on with De Vaca; and so, setting the hat firmly
on the back of his head, he threw the scarf over the top, and tied the
long ends firmly under his chin. The effect was striking, especially in
profile, and we were glad when the landing at Fish Island gave us an
opportunity to let out our laughter over hastily improvised and idiotic
jokes, while, all unconscious, the Professor went on behind us, and
