
"Do you wear stockin's?" asked Jim.

"Yes; don't you?"

"Not in warm weather. They aint no good. They only get dirty. But if
you wear 'em, that's the place to hide the money."

"I guess you're right," said Sam. "I wouldn't have thought of it.
Where can I do it?"

"Wait till we're on the New York side. You can sit down on one of the
piers and do it. Nobody'll see you."

Sam thought this good advice, and decided to follow it.

"There is some use in stockin's," said Jim, reflectively. "If I was in
your place, I wouldn't know where to stow away the money. Where are
you goin' now?"

"I'll have to go back," said Sam. "I've been a long time already."

"I'm goin to get some dinner," said Jim.

"I haven't got time," said Sam. "Besides, I don't feel so hungry as
usual. I guess it's the drink I took."

"It don't take away my appetite," said his companion, with an air of
superiority.

Sam took the cars home. Knowing what he did, it was with an
uncomfortable feeling that he ascended the stairs and entered the
presence of Dr. Graham.

The doctor looked angry.

"What made you so long?" he demanded abruptly. "Did you find the
house?"

"No," answered Sam, wishing that his embarrassing explanations were
fully over. "No, I didn't."

"You didn't find the house!" exclaimed the doctor, in angry surprise.
"Why didn't you?"

"I thought it wasn't any use," stammered Sam.

"Wasn't any use!" repeated the chiropodist. "Explain yourself, sir, at
once."

"As long as I hadn't got the letter," proceeded Sam.

Now the secret was out.

"What did you do with the letter?" demanded Dr. Graham, suspiciously.

"I lost it."

"Lost it! How could you lose it? Did you know there was money in it?"
said his employer, looking angry and disturbed.

"Yes, sir; you said so."

"Then why were you not careful of it, you young rascal?"

"I was, sir; that is, I tried to be. But it was stolen."

"Who would steal the letter unless he knew that it contained money?"

"That's it, sir. I ought not to have told anybody."

"Sit down, and tell me all about it, or it will be the worse for you,"
said the doctor.

"Now for it!" thought Sam.

"You see, sir," he commenced, "I was in the horse-cars in Brooklyn,
when I saw a boy I knew. We got to talking, and, before I knew it, I
told him that I was carryin' a letter with money in it. I took it out
of my coat-pocket, and showed it to him."

"You had no business to do it," said Dr. Graham. "No one but a fool
would show a money-letter. So the boy stole it, did he?"

"Oh, no," said Sam, hastily. "It wasn't he."

"Who was it, then? Don't be all day telling your story," said the
doctor, irritably.

"There was a young man sitting on the other side of me," said Sam. "He
was well-dressed, and I didn't think he'd do such a thing; but he must
have stole the letter."

"What makes you think so?"

"He got out only two or three minutes afterwards, and it wasn't long
after that that I missed the letter."

"What did you do?"

"I stopped the car, and went back. Jim went back along with me. We
looked all round, tryin' to find the man, but we couldn't."

"Of course you couldn't," growled the doctor. "Did you think he would
stay till you came up?"

"No, sir. That is, I didn't know what to think. I felt so bad about
losing the money," said Sam, artfully.

Now this story was on the whole very well got up. It did not do credit
to Sam's principles, but it did do credit to his powers of invention.
It might be true. There are such men as pickpockets to be found riding
in our city horse-cars, as possibly some of my readers may have
occasion to know. As yet Dr. Graham did not doubt the story of his
young assistant. Sam came very near getting off scot-free.

"But for your carelessness this money would not have been lost," said
his employer. "You ought to make up the loss to me."

"I haven't got any money," said Sam.

A sudden thought came to Dr. Graham. "Empty your pockets," he said.

"How lucky I put the bills in my stocking!" thought Sam.

He turned out his pockets, disclosing fifty cents. It was Friday, and
to-morrow his weekly wages would come due.

"That's all I've got," he said.

"Twenty dollars is five weeks salary," said Dr. Graham. "You ought to
work for me five weeks without pay."

"I'd starve to death," said Sam, in alarm. "I wouldn't be able to buy
anything to eat."

"I can keep back part of your salary, then," said his employer. "It is
only proper that you should suffer for your negligence."

At this moment a friend of the doctor's entered the office.
