
Mrs. G. blushed at the implied compliment, while the Doctor went on:

"Now, I never felt the least fear of how Arthur was coming out, and I
take great credit to myself for not opposing him. I knew a young man
must do a certain amount of fussing and fizzling before he settles
down strong and clear; and fighting and opposing a crotchety fellow
does no good. I think I have kept hold on Arthur by never rousing his
combativeness and being sparing of good advice; and you see he is
turning right already. A wife will put an end to all the semi-monkish
trumpery that has got itself mixed up with his real self-denying
labor. A woman is capital for sweeping down cobwebs in Church or
State. Well, I shall call on Arthur and congratulate him forthwith."

Dr. Gracey was Arthur's maternal uncle, and he had always kept an eye
upon him from boyhood, as the only son of a favorite sister.

The Doctor, himself rector of a large and thriving church, was a fair
representative of that exact mixture of conservatism and progress
which characterizes the great, steady middle class of the American
Episcopacy. He was tolerant and fatherly both to the Ritualists, who
overdo on one side, and the Low Church, who underdo on the other.
He believed largely in good nature, good sense, and the expectant
treatment, as best for diseases both in the churchly and medical
practice.

So, when he had succeeded in converting his favorite nephew to
Episcopacy, and found him in danger of using it only as a half-way
house to Rome, he took good heed neither to snub him, nor to sneer at
him, but to give him sympathy in all the good work he did, and, as far
as possible, to shield him from that species of persecution which is
sure to endear a man's errors to him, by investing them with a kind of
pathos.

"The world isn't in danger from the multitudes rushing into extremes
of self-sacrifice," the Doctor said, when his wife feared that Arthur
was becoming an ascetic. "Keep him at work; work will bring sense and
steadiness. Give him his head, and he'll pull in harness all right by
and by. A colt that don't kick out of the traces a little, at first,
can't have much blood in him."

It will be seen by the subject-matter of this conversation that the
good seed which had been sown in the heart of Miss Gusher had sprung
up and borne fruit--thirty, sixty and a hundred fold, as is the wont
of the gourds of gossip,--more rapid by half in their growth than the
gourd of Jonah, and not half as consolatory.

In fact, the gossip plant is like the grain of mustard seed, which,
though it be the least of all seeds, becometh a great tree, and the
fowls of the air lodge in its branches and chatter mightily there at
all seasons.

Miss Gusher, and Miss Vapors, and Miss Rapture, and old Mrs. Eyelet,
and the Misses Glibbett, so well employed their time, about the season
of Christmas, that there was not a female person in the limits of
their acquaintance that had not had the whole story of all that had
been seen, surmised, or imagined, related as a profound secret. Notes
were collected and compared. Mrs. Eyelet remembered that she had twice
seen Mr. St. John attending Angie to her door about nightfall. Miss
Sykes, visiting one afternoon in the same district, deposed and said
that she had met them coming out of a door together. She was quite
sure that they must have met by appointment. Then, oh, the depths
of possibility that the gossips saw in that Henderson house! Always
there, every Thursday evening! On intimate terms with the family.

"Depend upon it, my dear," said Mrs. Eyelet, "Mrs. Henderson has been
doing all she could to catch him. They say he's at her house almost
constantly."

Aunt Maria's plumage rustled with maternal solicitude. "I don't know
but it is as good a thing as we could expect for Angie," said she to
Mrs. Van Arsdel. "He's a young man of good family and independent
property. I don't like his ritualistic notions, to be sure; but one
can't have everything. And, at any rate, he can't become a Roman
Catholic if he gets married--that's one comfort."

"There he goes!" said little Mrs. Betsey, as she sat looking through
the blinds, with the forgiven Jack on her knee. "He's at the door now.
Dorcas, I do believe there's something in it."

"Something in what?" said Miss Dorcas, "and who are you talking
about, Betsey?"

"Why, Mr. St. John and Angie. He's standing at the door, this very
minute. It must be true. I'm glad of it; only he isn't half good
enough for her."

"Well, it don't follow that there is an engagement because Mr. St.
John is at the door," said Miss Dorcas.

"But all the things Mrs. Eyelet said, Dorcas!"

"Mrs. Eyelet is a gossip," said Miss Dorcas, shortly.

"But, Dorcas, I really thought his manner to her last Thursday was
particular. Oh, I'm sure there's something in it! They say he's such
a good young man, and independently rich. I wonder if they'll take
a house up in this neighborhood? It would be so nice to have Angie
within calling distance! A great favorite of mine is Angie."




CHAPTER XL.

THE ENGAGEMENT ANNOUNCED.


Meanwhile Dr. Gracey found his way to Arthur's study.

"So, Arthur," he said, "that pretty Miss Van Arsdel's engaged."

The blank expression and sudden change of color in St. John's face was
something quite worthy of observation.

"Miss Van Arsdel engaged!" he repeated with a gasp, feeling as if the
ground were going down under him.

"Yes, that pretty fairy, Miss Angelique, you know."

"How did you hear--who told you?"

"How did I hear? Why, it's all over town. Arthur, you bad boy, why
haven't you told me?"

"Me?"

"Yes, you; you are the happy individual. I came to congratulate you."

St. John looked terribly confused.

"Well, we are not really exactly engaged."

"But you are going to be, I understand. So far so good. I like the
family--good stock--nothing could be better; but, Arthur, let me tell
you, you'd better have it announced and above board forthwith. You are
not my sister's son, nor the man I took you for, if you could take
advantage of the confidence inspired by your position to carry on a
flirtation."

