begins to thicken. Turn into the tureen. Boil up the chicken broth once
sharply, and add to the milk in the soup-tureen, stirring up well.


FRIED SHAD AU GRATIN.

Clean, wash, and wipe a fine roe-shad. Take off head, tail, and fins,
and cut into eight pieces. Pepper and salt these; dip into beaten
egg, then in cracker-crumbs, and fry in hot dripping or lard. Drain,
and serve on a hot, flat dish. The roes should be parboiled, then
cooled—afterward dipped in egg and cracker, fried in the same manner as
the fish, and dished with it.


=Milanaise Pudding.=

  ½ lb. cold cooked ham.
  The meat of your soup-chicken.
  Nearly ½ lb. of macaroni.
  2 eggs.
  A cup of your soup, strained and skimmed before the rice is put in.
  1 tablespoonful of butter.
  Pepper and salt to taste.

Boil the macaroni in the broth until tender; then let it cool somewhat,
and, with a pair of old scissors, clip it into inch lengths. Chop
ham and chicken, and pepper. Mix with the macaroni—which should have
absorbed the broth—stir in the melted butter and eggs. Put into a
well-greased mould, and boil an hour and a half. Turn out; pour over it
a cup of drawn butter, and serve. Pass grated cheese with it.


MASHED POTATOES.

Prepare as usual and pass with the fish course.


NAVY BEANS.

This is a variety of white kidney beans. Shell and lay them in cold
water half an hour, to take off the raw, rank taste. Cook about
twenty-five minutes in boiling water, a little salt. Drain well;
pepper, salt, and butter. Eat hot.


COTTAGE PUDDING.

  1 cup of sugar.
  1 tablespoonful of butter.
  2 eggs.
  1 cup of sweet milk.
  3 cups of flour, or enough for pretty stiff batter. (Use Hecker’s
          prepared flour.)
  ½ teaspoonful of salt.

Cream butter and sugar; beat in the yolks, then the salted flour,
alternately with the whites. Bake in a buttered cake-mould until a
straw will come up clean from the middle. Turn out and eat hot with
sweet sauce.


  First Week.      Thursday.
  ——
  White Asparagus Soup.
  Stuffed Fillet of Veal with Bacon.      Scooped Potatoes.
  Tomato Salad.      Hominy Pudding.
  ——
  Cocoanut Puddings.
  ——


WHITE ASPARAGUS SOUP.

  3 lbs. knuckle of veal.
  1 slice of corned ham.
  3 bunches of well-bleached asparagus, cut into short pieces.
  4 quarts of water.
  1 cup of milk.
  1 tablespoonful of corn-starch.
  Pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and dice of fried bread.

Crack the bones to splinters and chop the meat. Put on with all the
asparagus stalks and one-half of the heads. Cover with the water and
cook gently, covered, three hours. Strain; cool to let the grease
rise; skim and return to the pot with the seasoning and reserved heads
of asparagus. Boil slowly for twenty minutes longer. Heat the milk
separately, salt and pepper, and stir in the corn-starch, boiling one
minute to thicken it. Pour into the tureen upon the dice of fried
bread; stir into this the boiling soup, and send to table.


STUFFED FILLET OF VEAL WITH BACON.

Take out the bone from the meat, and pin into a round with skewers.
Bind securely with soft tapes. Fill the cavity left by the bone with a
force-meat of crumbs, chopped pork; thyme, and parsley, seasoned with
pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a pinch of lemon-peel. Cover the top of the
fillet with thin slices of cold, cooked, fat bacon or salt pork,
tying them in place with twines crossing the meat in all directions.
Put into a pot with two cups of boiling water, and cook slowly and
steadily two hours. Then take from the pot and put into a dripping-pan.
Undo the strings and tapes. Brush the meat all over with raw egg, sift
rolled cracker thickly over it, and set in the oven for half an hour,
basting often with gravy from the pot. When it is well browned, lay
upon a hot dish with the pork about it. Strain and thicken the gravy,
and serve in a boat.

If your fillet be large, cook twice as long in the pot. The time given
above is for one weighing five pounds.


SCOOPED POTATOES.

Pare and cut round with a potato-gouge—a neat little instrument that
costs but a trifle. The waste bits can be boiled, mashed, and set by
for to-morrow’s uses. Boil the scooped pellets in hot, salted water
twenty minutes; throw this off and put in a cup of cold milk. Simmer
gently until the potatoes are tender; stir in a good lump of butter
rolled in flour, and when this is melted, a little minced parsley, with
pepper and salt. Stew three minutes, and pour into a deep dish.


TOMATO SALAD.

Pare with a keen knife; arrange upon a glass dish and cover with a
dressing like that made on Tuesday for lettuce, but adding the beaten
yolks of two raw eggs, whipped in the last thing.


HOMINY PUDDING.

  1 cupful cold, boiled, small-grained hominy.
  2 cups of milk.
  1 heaping tablespoonful of melted butter.
  3 eggs.
  1 tablespoonful of sugar.
  A little salt.

Rub the hominy very smooth with the butter; then the yolks, beaten up
with the sugar. Beat well before thinning with the salted milk. Lastly,
