"You consider the farm worth considerable more than the amount of the
mortgage, of course?"

"It is worth four thousand dollars, in my opinion," said the squire,
complacently.

"If you get it for twenty-two hundred, it will be an excellent bargain."

"Father," exclaimed Sinclair, entering the breakfast-room, rather
hurriedly, "Tom Nelson has got home."

"Where did you hear this, my son?" asked Squire Hudson, in surprise.

"At the store. He got home by coach last evening."

"Got discontented, I suppose," said the squire, in a tone of triumph. "I
thought that was how it would turn out. He can't expect me to advance
money to take him out there again."

"I wish you would let me go," said Sinclair.

"Some day I may take a trip out there with you, my son. Have you seen
Thomas?"

"No, he keeps mighty close. He hasn't even been round at the store."

"He is ashamed to show himself, I suppose. He will have to work on the
farm--on a farm again."

"I suppose that will be a hard pill for him to swallow," said Sinclair.

"No doubt. He is poor and proud, like his father before him. I am glad
of one thing,--that I am sure of getting back the two hundred dollars I
advanced for his journey. I wonder where he raised money to get back."

       *       *       *       *       *

Though there were not likely to be any competitors for the farm, a
considerable number gathered at the sale. There was a general feeling of
sympathy for the Nelsons, but no one was able to express that sympathy
in a tangible form, Squire Hudson cared little for the opinion of his
neighbors. Some of them were in debt to him, and he looked down upon
them with the arrogance of wealth.

Tom received many friendly greetings. He was plainly dressed, quiet in
his manner, and seemed to take matters very coolly.

At length the farm was put up, the auctioneer naturally turning towards
the squire, who responded pompously, "I bid twenty-two hundred dollars,
the amount of the mortgage I hold upon the property."

"Is there any other bid?" asked the auctioneer.

"I bid twenty-five hundred dollars," said a clear, boyish voice.

All were startled, and all eyes were turned upon Tom Nelson, who came
slightly forward.

"Twenty-five hundred!" repeated the auctioneer, hesitating whether he
should receive the bid.

"I protest against this outrage," exclaimed Squire Hudson, angrily. "The
bid is ridiculous."

"Why is my bid ridiculous, Squire Hudson?" asked Tom, calmly.

"Because you haven't got the money. It is a transparent attempt to run
up the price of the farm."

"You know nothing of my circumstances, Squire Hudson," said Tom,
independently. "I stand ready to pay the sum I bid, and, should you
outbid me, I am ready to prove to any committee you may appoint, that I
possess the money, or all my bids shall go for nothing, and you can have
the farm at your first offer."

"That is fair!" cried all.

"This is all nonsense," said the squire. "Those of you who choose may
believe this boy; I don't."

"Going at twenty-five hundred!" said the auctioneer.

"Twenty-five hundred and fifty!" said the squire, adding, "I make the
bid on the terms proposed by the boy."

"Twenty-eight hundred!" said Tom.

"And fifty!" bid the squire.

"Three thousand!" instantly came from Tom.

No one was more surprised than Tom's own family at this unexpected
scene. He had not dropped a hint as to his intentions, choosing to take
all by surprise. Mark Nelson was perplexed. Though he had great
confidence in Tom, he feared that he could not make good his bold bids.

At length the farm was knocked down to our hero at three thousand five
hundred dollars.

"Now," said the squire, angrily, "I demand that this farce come to an
end. I believe the bidding of this boy to be a premeditated swindle. If
so, I will do my best to have him punished."

"And I," said Tom, boldly, "have an equal right to demand that Squire
Hudson submit proof that he is responsible for the amount of his
offers."

"Curse your impudence!" exclaimed the squire, foaming with rage.

"But I waive that right," continued Tom, "and will ask Squire Hudson to
name two gentlemen present to examine the proofs which I have to offer
of my ability to back my bids."

"I name Mr. Jones and Mr. Howe," said the squire, quickly, "and request
them to act at once."

"That is my desire," said Tom.

In five minutes the committee reported that Tom had shown them
bank-books, of two Boston banks, certifying that he held two thousand
dollars on deposit in one, and four thousand in the other.

"Is that satisfactory?" asked Tom, coolly.

"No," shouted the squire; "I believe that the books are bogus."

But the rest of those present entertained no doubts, and our hero was at
once surrounded by admiring friends, who shook his hand till it fairly
ached.

"Squire Hudson, your mortgage shall be paid whenever you desire," said
Tom.

"Three cheers for Tom Nelson!" proposed some one, and the cheers were
given with a will. During the confusion the squire and his
brother-in-law slipped out of the house, thoroughly discomfited.




