could in our back garden, or take Perley's farm, and put it together,
and set men raising strawberries, than tramp round, asking for work,
with a feeling that it was taken from some one who had a better right,
who was a native of the soil."

"Then you have not lost your conscience?"

"I hope not. It is the same old story everywhere. What is to be done
about it?" and Jack knit his brows. "I have been going over the books
that I thought would help or let in a little light on the matter, but it
is a wisdom hard to get at. How to make more work in the world, how to
cheapen living, how to"--

"Bring about the millennium! What dead earnest you are in, Darcy!"

"Weren't you in earnest a moment ago, Maverick, when you talked about
the praying and the bread and broth?" said Jack with a great knot drawn
in his brow.

"Yes, Heaven knows. And some one must take hold of the thing who has
eyes to see, and brains, and--and money. You see, people have crowded
into cities and towns, and if they could be sent out somewhere! Why
don't we organize colonies or something of the sort? Now, there's
Florida. Living is cheap, and in such a climate there are fewer needs of
clothing and fuel. I have been wondering why the big dons in cities did
not gather up the poor they have been feeding at soup-houses and
everywhere, and send them out with some one to manage until they could
stand alone. There would be less diphtherias and fevers and starvation;
for that's its right name, Darcy. What can you do when one's system is
all run out with meal-mush, and weak tea that is half willow-leaves, and
such trash? There's Kilburn--he has had the name of being good to the
poor this winter because he has given them trust at his store. Such
stuff! I have looked into a few samples," and the expressive nostrils
curled in disgust. "He makes an enormous profit, for he sells the
poorest kind of goods to these people at the highest prices. Then he
manages to get hold of something, house or furniture, or maybe
clothes,--I don't know. He and Deacon Boyd--Darcy, how can a man honor
religion when these two men are its exponents? So good to the poor! Pah!
It makes me sick. Isn't there a cleaner air somewhere on God's earth?
Can't they be taken out of this?"

"If they could be! There must be one way out, Maverick: better, perhaps,
than going West where thousands are tramping about. And Heaven knows
they need a new factor in civilization down there!"

The young eyes met in sudden hopeful animation. Had they solved even one
strand of the great tangle, that worse than Gordian knot which could not
be cut?

The door opened slowly; and there entered a middle-aged, rather grizzled
man, with shaggy eyebrows, sparse beard, and bent shoulders. He glanced
in hesitatingly, his eyes wandering down to Darcy.

"I declare to man!" and he stared hard, with the door-knob still in his
hand. "Jack Darcy! I heard you were home. How d'y do? How d'y do?" and
he wrung the hand warmly. "I'm powerful glad to see you," and he looked
him slowly over, from head to foot. "Why, you've grown, or something!
What a great giant you are!--Morning, doctor," nodding rather
incidentally to Maverick. "So you've had a long tramp, Jack? Your mother
brought some of the letters over to my old lady, who has been rather
poorly the last two months. Why, you could set up book-writing! Well,
what's the good word? Can't be like Yerbury all over."

"There are too many towns full of idle people, if that is what you mean.
But it was splendid, Cameron! I have one more dream,--to go up and down
the Western coast, and over the Rocky Mountains; but I want to digest
this first. I have no fancy for mental dyspepsia," and he gave a good,
wholesome laugh.

"The right way, Jack," nodded Maverick, with a shrewd twinkle in his
eye.

"Well, you've come back to a dull place,--a dull place," and Cameron
shook his head despondingly. "We used to be main proud of old Yerbury;
but--is the whole world to go on and starve to death, with such crops,
and such an abundance of every thing?"

"We are going to weather it through, Cameron," Jack answered with a
stubborn hopefulness. "There have been hard times before that have ended
in renewed prosperity."

"Yes. There was '57; hard enough, Heaven knows, with the banks going to
smash everywhere. It ruined my father. And way back in '37, when there
was such a wild-fire about real estate, and it came out just as this
has. Do people ever learn by experience, Maverick?" and the man gave a
short, unmirthful chuckle. "You could buy up half Yerbury to-day, for
taxes and mortgages. I can't, for the life of me, see how it all came
about. And that it has gone all over the world,--well, human nature in
England or Germany can't well laugh at human nature in this
country.--Are these things like cholera and fevers, doctor, taking a
clean sweep once in a while?" and Cameron gave a twist to the end of his
faded beard, as if he might wring the secret out of it.

"We have learned to manage the cholera, and see in it, not a
dispensation of Providence, but the natural result of filth and greed
and carelessness. Darcy and I are getting up a panacea now," with a
bright little laugh. "But how is Mrs. Cameron? Is her medicine out?"

"Yes;" and Cameron drew a phial from his pocket. "You don't think it
would do to stop here? She's pretty well, I should say;" and he fingered
the bottle as if he were debating whether to have it filled or not.

"No. She must go on. She is getting her strength back nicely; but it's
bad policy to stop at three-quarters of the race,--eh, Cameron? The
first warm day I'll take her out driving."

While he was talking, he reached out for the bottle, and began
compounding. Cameron nodded an acknowledgment of the last sentence, then
turning to Jack, said abruptly,--

"What was the scheme, Darcy?"

Jack flushed, and glanced at Maverick.

"Emigration, the old remedy," answered the doctor. "England has tried
her hand at it pretty successfully; so why shouldn't we? Only we need
not go out of our own country. There are thousands of acres of
productive land lying idle, and thousands of people starving, or worse.
Too many here,--not enough there."

"Where to?" Cameron asked laconically, his face unmoved by any ripple of
enthusiasm.

Jack seemed to be put on his mettle by it. Lack of faith in him always
roused his belligerent qualities, back in the old school days.

"Yes, Cameron," in an incisive tone, looking steadily out of his
determined eyes. "The cities are crowded over and over, and full of
tramps, and the West swarms with them. We need not imagine we have all
the idle people here at the East. But farming there has come to be a
business of great things, almost as bad as manufacturing. You must have
money, or the big fellows will swallow you up. But we were talking of
Florida. No winter, as one may say; and your house a simple matter, your
fuel, your clothes, a mere nothing. You could hardly starve if you
tried."

Cameron came back to his chair, pushed it out from the wall, planted
himself deliberately in it, and tilted back, pushing up his old felt
hat, as if he did not mean to have his vision obstructed. Then he gave
his beard another twist.
