about her, thank heaven!"

"No," said Mrs. Barclay, "there is nothing but sound healthy life about
her; mental and bodily; and I agree with you, sweet as ever a human
life can be. In the garden or at her books,--hark! that is for supper."

For here there came a slight tap on the door.

"Supper!" cried Philip.

"Yes; it is rather late, and the girls promised me a cup of coffee,
after your exertions! But I dare say everybody wants some refreshment
by this time. Come!"

There was a cheery supper table spread in the dining-room; coffee,
indeed, and Stoney Creek oysters, and excellently cooked. Only Charity
and Madge were there; Mrs. Armadale had gone to bed, and Lois was
attending upon her. Mr. DilIwyn, however, was served assiduously.

"I hope you're hungry! You've done a load of good this evening, Mr.
Dillwyn," said Charity, as she gave him his coffee.

"Thank you. I don't see the connection," said Philip, with an air as
different as possible from that he had worn in talking to Mrs. Barclay
in the next room.

"People ought to be hungry when they have done a great deal of work,"
Madge explained, as she gave him a plate of oysters.

"I do not feel that I have done any work."

"O, well! I suppose it was play to you," said Charity, "but that don't
make any difference. You've done a load of good. Why, the children will
never be able to forget it, nor the grown folks either, as far as that
goes; they'll talk of it, and of you, for two years, and more."

"I am doubtful about the real worth of fame, Miss Charity, even when it
lasts two years."

"O, but you've done so much good!" said the lady. "Everybody sees now
that the white church can hold her own. Nobody'll think of making
disagreeable comparisons, if they have fifty Christmas trees."

"Suppose I had helped the yellow church?"

Charity looked as if she did not know what he would be at. Just then in
came Lois and took her place at the table; and Mr. Dillwyn forgot all
about rival churches.

"Here's Mr. Dillwyn don't think he's done any good, Lois!" cried her
elder sister. "Do cheer him up a little. I think it's a shame to talk
so. Why, we've done all we wanted to, and more. There won't a soul go
away from our church or school after this, now they see what we can do;
and I shouldn't wonder if we got some accessions from the other
instead. And here's Mr. Dillwyn says he don't know as he's done any
good!"

Lois lifted her eyes and met his, and they both smiled.

"Miss Lois sees the matter as I do," he said. "These are capital
oysters. Where do they come from?"

"But, Philip," said Mrs. Barclay, "you have given a great deal of
pleasure. Isn't that good?"

"Depends--" said he. "Probably it will be followed by a reaction."

"And you have kept the church together," added Charity, who was zealous.

"By a rope of sand, then, Miss Charity."

"At any rate, Mr. Dillwyn, you meant to do good," Lois put in here.

"I do not know, Miss Lois. I am afraid I was thinking more of pleasure,
myself; and shall experience myself the reaction I spoke of. I think I
feel the shadow of it already, as a coming event."

"But if we aren't to have any pleasure, because afterwards we feel a
little flat,--and of course we do," said Charity; "everybody knows
that. But, for instance, if we're not to have green peas in summer,
because we can't have 'em any way but dry in winter,--things would be
very queer! Queerer than they are; and they're queer enough already."

This speech called forth some merriment.

"You think even the dry remains of pleasure are better than nothing!"
said Philip. "Perhaps you are right."

"And to have those, we must have had the green reality," said Lois
merrily.

"I wonder if there is any way of keeping pleasure green," said Dillwyn.

"Vain, vain, Mr. Dillwyn!" said Mrs. Barclay. "Tout lasse, tout casse,
tout passe! don't you know? Solomon said, I believe, that all was
vanity. And he ought to know."

"But he didn't know," said Lois quickly.

"Lois!" said Charity--"it's in the Bible."

"I know it is in the Bible that he said so," Lois rejoined merrily.

"Was he not right, then?" Mr. Dillwyn asked.

"Perhaps," Lois answered, now gravely, "if you take simply his view."

"What was his view? Won't you explain?"

"I suppose you ain't going to set up to be wiser than Solomon, at this
time of day," said Charity severely. But that stirred Lois's merriment
again.

"Explain, Miss Lois!" said Dillwyn.

"I am not Solomon, that I should preach," she said.

"You just said you knew better than he," said Charity. "How you should
know better than the Bible, I don't see. It's news."

"Why, Charity, Solomon was not a good man."

"How came he to write proverbs, then?"

"At least he was not always a good man."

"That don't hinder his knowing what was vanity, does it?"

"But, Lois!" said Mrs. Barclay.  "Go back, and tell us your secret, if
you have one. How was Solomon's view mistaken? or what is yours?"

"These things were all given for our pleasure, Mrs. Barclay."

"But they die--and they go--and they fade," said Mrs. Barclay.

"You will not understand me," said Lois; "and yet it is true. If you
are Christ's--then, 'all things are yours;... the world, or life, or
death, or things present, or things to come: all are yours.' There is
no loss, but there comes more gain."

