
"Then, you had nothing to do with the disappearance of the young lady?"

"Certainly not," answered Orton Campbell, boldly. "I assure you it has
given me great concern, and I have been riding hither and thither this
morning in search of her."

"Won't you come in, sir? Perhaps we may be able to throw some light on
this mystery."

"She believes me," thought Orton Campbell, congratulating himself on the
effect of his duplicity.--"Certainly," he answered; "I shall be most
happy to do so."

He was ushered into the parlor, into which, five minutes later, entered
Florence, Richard Dewey, and a gentleman of clerical appearance.

"Miss Douglas!" exclaimed Orton Campbell, in astonishment.--"I thought
you said," turning to Mrs. Armstrong, "that Miss Douglas was not here?"

"I am not Miss Douglas," said Florence, quietly.

"I don't understand you."

"Perhaps I can explain the mystery," said Richard Dewey, coming forward.

"I wish you would, if you can," said Orton Campbell, with a sneer.

"This young lady is my wife."

"Your wife? And who are you?"

"Richard Dewey, at your service."

Orton Campbell had never known Dewey well, and his life at the mines had
so changed his appearance that it was not surprising he did not
recognize him.

"Is this true?" he asked, in visible dismay. "When were you married?"

"Half an hour since, by this gentleman;" and Richard Dewey waved his
hand in the direction of the clerical gentleman already referred to.

"You have done a good stroke of business, sir," said Campbell, with a
sneer and a look of baffled hatred. "The lady's fortune makes her a good
match."

"So you evidently thought, sir," answered Dewey. "Your unscrupulous
methods have not succeeded, and I beg to warn you that the lady now has
a protector who will punish any such persecution as that with which you
have recently visited her."

"You are quite mistaken. My agent--"

"Only followed your instructions," said an unexpected voice, as Jones,
who was within hearing, now entered from the adjoining room. "Mr. Orton,
I have confessed all, so you needn't try to humbug this gentleman."

"You are a scoundrel," said Campbell, wrathfully, excited by the
appearance of the man who, in return for being cheated, had betrayed
him.

"Then there's a pair of us, Mr. Campbell," said he, coolly. "I admit
that I behaved like a rascal, but I've tried to set matters right."

"You can find your way back to New York as you can; I have done with
you," said Campbell, hardly conscious that this very remark betrayed
him.

"Mr. Dewey has kindly offered to take me back with him," said Jones, not
at all disturbed by this notice.

"If you are going back by the next steamer, Mr. Campbell," said Richard
Dewey, "I will thank you to apprise your father of his ward's marriage,
and ask him to arrange for the surrender of her property at the proper
time."

"You may attend to your own messages, sir," said Orton, irritably. "I
will have nothing to do with them."

Without any further words he hurried out of the house, and drove at once
to the office of the steamship company, where he secured passage by the
earliest vessel eastward bound.

That same evening Mr. and Mrs. Richard Dewey held an informal reception
at their boarding-house.

It was not largely attended, for Florence had made but few
acquaintances during her stay in the city. Uncertain as her prospects
were, she had thought it best to keep aloof from her friends, who might
possibly make known her residence to her guardian. Among those present,
however, were Richard Dewey's tried friends, Bradley and Ben Stanton.

Bradley tried to excuse himself, on the ground that he was only a rough
miner and not accustomed to society, but his objection was overruled
both by Florence and her husband.

"You are a true friend, Mr. Bradley," said Florence, gratefully, "and I
should miss you more than any one else except my young friend and
cousin, Ben."

"Ben's different from what I am," said Bradley. "He ain't such a rough
specimen."

"I'm only a miner, like you," said Ben. "I am a country boy and not used
to society, but I don't believe Cousin Ida will care for that."

"Cousin Ida" was the name by which Ben had been instructed to call
Florence when she came out to California under his escort.

The upshot of it all was that both Bradley and Ben were present at the
bride's reception, and were made so thoroughly at home by Mrs. Richard
Dewey that neither felt in the least awkward.

Two weeks later Richard Dewey and his wife sailed for New York, but Ben
and Bradley remained behind.

"Come with us, Ben," said Florence. "I don't like to leave you behind."

"Thank you, Miss Florence--I mean Mrs. Dewey," said the boy--"but I am
not ready to go yet."

"Don't let the thought of money keep you here, Ben. I am rich, or I
shall be in a few months, when my guardian surrenders his trust, and I
will take care that you are well provided for."

"Thank you again," said Ben; "but I've promised to go back to the mines.
I've got a claim reserved for me, and so has Bradley. We'll go back now
and try to gather a little more gold-dust."

"But you'll let us see you in New York before long?"

"Yes, I shall go home in a few months, even if I come back again later.
I want to see Uncle Job and Cousin Jennie, and all my old friends, not
forgetting Sam Sturgis," added Ben, smiling.

"We must be content with that, I suppose," said the young lady. "I hope
you will have good luck, but even if you don't, remember that you have
two friends who will only be too glad to be of service to you.--Please
consider, Mr. Bradley, that this is said to you also."
