mystery to me. Then said I to her, 'Are you the mother, then, of all
these children? And if so, how came you to be selling medicines dressed
up like a man? It's perfectly disgraceful, and you ought to be
arrested.'

"'No one would buy of me if I was a woman,' she answered. 'The cart and
medicines belonged to my husband, and he died, poor fellow! four weeks
ago, leaving me without a cent. What was I to do? I know all the
medicines, and I know all he used to say when he sold them. He was about
my size, and I could wear his clothes. I just thought I'd try it for a
little while during fair-time for the sake of the children--only for a
little while to get started. So I cut my hair and resked it. And it's
done tolerably well until you come along and nearly scared my life out
of me yesterday and to-day. I don't see what on earth you meant by it.'

"Ruth, I took tea with that family on the hill-side, and I gave them all
the money I had with me. I have now come home. Any plan you have to
propose, I'll follow without a word. I have decided that my mission in
this life is not to lead. But she did say gold for cold," added Miss
Lois, with the spirit of "scissors."

"I am afraid a good many persons say it," answered Anne.

The next day Miss Lois gave herself up passively to the boat. They were
to take courage in each other's presence, and row to the solitary cabin
on the shore. When they reached it, it was again deserted.

"There is no path leading to it or away from it in any direction," said
Miss Lois, after peeping through the small window. "The fire is still
burning. The owner, therefore, whoever it is, uses a boat, and can not
have been long gone either, or the fire would be out."

"If he had gone down the river, we should have met him," suggested Anne,
still haunted by the old fear, and watching the forest glades
apprehensively.

"How do you know it is a he?" said Miss Lois, with grim humor.
"Perhaps this, too, is a woman. However, as you say, if he had gone down
the river, probably we should have met him--a 'probably' is all we
have to stand on--and the chances are, therefore, that he has gone up.
So we will go up."

[Illustration: "THE SECOND BOAT, WHICH WAS FARTHER UP THE LAKE,
CONTAINED A MAN."]

They took their places in the skiff again, and the little craft moved
forward. After another half-hour they saw, to their surprise, a broad
expanse of shining water opening out before them: the river was the
outlet of a little lake two miles long.

"This, then, is where they go fishing," said Miss Lois. "The Blackwells
spoke of the pond, but I thought it was on the other side of the valley.
Push out, Ruth. There are two boats on it, both dug-outs; we'll row by
them."

The first boat contained a boy, who said, "Good-day, mums," and showed a
string of fish. The second boat, which was farther up the lake,
contained a man. He was also fishing, and his face was shaded by an old
slouch hat. Anne, who was rowing, could not see him as they approached;
but she saw Miss Lois's hands close suddenly upon each other in their
lisle-thread gloves, and was prepared for something, she knew not what.
No word was spoken; she rowed steadily on, though her heart was
throbbing. When she too could look at the man, she saw what it was: he
was holding his rod with his left hand.

Their skiff had not paused; it passed him and his dug-out, and moved
onward a quarter of a mile--half a mile--before they spoke; they were
afraid the very air would betray them. Then Anne beached the boat under
the shade of a tree, took off her straw hat, and bathed her pale face in
the clear water.

"After all, it is the vaguest kind of a chance," said Miss Lois,
rallying, and bringing forward the common-sense view of the case: "no
better a one, at this stage, than the peony farmer or my medicine man.
You must not be excited, Ruth."

"I am excited only because I have thought so much of the river," said
Anne. "The theory that the man who did it went away from the foot of
that meadow in a boat, and up this river, has haunted me constantly."

"Theories are like scaffolding: they are not the house, but you can not
build the house without them," said Miss Lois. "What we've got to do
next is to see whether this man has all his fingers, whether he is a
woman, and whether he says, 'gold.' Will you leave it to me, or will you
speak to him yourself? On the whole, I think you had better speak to
him: your face is in your favor."

When Anne felt herself sufficiently calm, they rowed down the lake
again, and passed nearer to the dug-out, and paused.

"Have you taken many fish?" said Anne, in a voice totally unlike her
own, owing to the effort she made to control it. The fisherman looked
up, took his rod in his right hand, and, with his left, lifted a string
of fish.

"Pretty good, eh?" he said, regarding Anne with slow-coming approval.
"Have some?"

"Oh no," she answered, almost recoiling.

"But, on the whole, I think I should like a few for tea, Ruth," said
Miss Lois, hastening to the rescue--"my health," she added, addressing
the fisherman, "not being what it was in the lifetime of Mr. Young. How
much are your fish? I should like six, if you do not ask too much."

The man named his price, and the widow objected. Then she asked him to
hold up the string again, that she might have a better view. He laid his
rod aside, held the string in his right hand, and as she selected, still
bargaining for the fish she preferred, he detached them with his left
hand. Two pairs of eyes, one old, sharp, and aided by spectacles, the
other young, soft, intent, yet fearful, watched his every motion. When
he held the fish toward them, the widow was long in finding her purse;
the palm of his hand was toward them, they could see the underside of
the fingers. They were broad, and cushioned with coarse flesh.

Anne had now grown so pale that the elder woman did not dare to linger
longer. She paid the money, took the fish, and asked her niece to row on
down the lake, not forgetting, even then, to add that she was afraid of
the sun's heat, having once had a sun-stroke during the life of the
lamented Mr. Young. Anne rowed on, hardly knowing what she was doing.
Not until they had reached the little river again, and were out of sight
round its curve under the overhanging trees, did they speak.

"Left-handed, and cushions under his finger-tips," said Miss Lois. "But,
Ruth, how you acted! You almost betrayed us."

"I could not help it," said Anne, shuddering. "When I saw that hand, and
thought-- Oh, poor, poor Helen!"

"You must not give way to fancies," said Miss Louis. But she too felt an
inward excitement, though she would not acknowledge it.

The fisherman was short in stature, and broad; he was muscular, and his
arms seemed too long for his body as he sat in his boat. His head was
set on his shoulders without visible throat, his small eyes were very
near together, and twinkled when he spoke, while his massive jaw
contradicted their ferrety mirthfulness as his muscular frame
contradicted the childish, vacant expression of his peculiarly small
boyish mouth, whose upper lip protruded over narrow yellow teeth like
fangs.
