He hoisted the sails; and, getting in the anchor, he shoved the schooner
off the beach. Going to the northward of the island, he found that he
could just lay his course to the Gut. As the sun rose higher, the wind
freshened; and he had an eight-knot breeze all the forenoon. His return
was without incident; and as the first bells were ringing for church, he
landed at Plattsburgh.

He reported to the landlord at the Witherill House. He thought this
gentleman looked very serious, when he expected to be greeted as a
successful skipper after his cruise. He had no doubt Peppers had arrived
with his prisoner, and the story of his trip must be known. The first
thing the hotel-keeper did was to hand him a ten-dollar bill, as his
reward for the capture of Pearl Hawlinshed.

"You have earned your money, Dory; and there it is," said the landlord,
as he handed him the bill.

"I suppose Mr. Peppers has arrived," added Dory, as he put the money in
his wallet.

"Yes: he got back about half-past seven this morning. You had a rough
time of it with Hawlinshed."

"Yes, sir: he got the bulge on us at one time," answered Dory, laughing
as he thought of the exciting scenes of the day before.

But the landlord did not laugh, as he had always done before. He looked
very serious; and the skipper wondered if he had been charged with any
other crime, his friend looked so coldly upon him. The landlord pulled
out his watch, and then shook his head.

"Have you been to breakfast, Dory?" he asked.

"Yes, sir: I had some ham and hard-bread."

"I should ask you in to breakfast; but I am afraid you ought not to stay
here any longer," added the hotel-keeper. "It is nine o'clock now, and
you will be late."

"Late? Late for what?" asked Dory, astonished at this remark, which he
could not comprehend.

"Late for the funeral," replied the landlord in a subdued and gentle
tone.

"The funeral? What funeral?" asked Dory, with his heart in his throat.

The landlord looked at him in silence for a moment, and appeared to be
greatly surprised.

"Didn't you know there was to be a funeral in Burlington this afternoon,
Dory?" inquired the landlord, almost holding his breath.

"I didn't know any thing about a funeral," answered Dory, trembling with
emotion.

"You haven't heard the news? Didn't you know that one of your family
was"--And the hotel-keeper paused, afraid of the effect of the sudden
imparting of the information to the boy.

"My mother isn't dead, is she?" gasped Dory, clinging to the
office-counter for support.

"No, she is not. But another member of your family is to be buried
to-day," added the landlord.

"Is it my sister Marian?" groaned Dory.

"No, Dory: it is your father."

The young skipper staggered to a chair, and dropped into it. The
landlord hastened to him. His father was dead. Though it was known in
Plattsburgh, and had been for three days, that the Au Sable steamer,
while in charge of Perry Dornwood, the assistant pilot, had been run
over a point of rocks, and wrecked, Dory had not heard of it. Some who
could have told him the news did not care to hurt his feelings; others
did not know he was the son of the pilot; and many heard of the event,
and forgot it the next minute.

"My father dead!" groaned Dory. "And I did not even know that he was
sick!"

The landlord did not care to give him the whole of the sad particulars.
He was silent, thinking that some friend of the family could discharge
this painful duty better than he could.

"That is what my uncle Royal wanted of me, and I have been running away
from him," added Dory.

The landlord had seen Captain Gildrock the day before when he came to
Plattsburgh to look for the boy; and he supposed he had found him. He
concluded that the skipper thought it necessary to take his boat to
Burlington, and had therefore permitted the Sylph to go on without him.
He was surprised to see him when he came into the hotel.

The Sylph had merely come up to the wharf to land her passengers, and
Peppers had only told about the trick played upon him by Pearl. In fact,
the captain had asked him and Moody not to mention the fact that his
nephew had run away from him. It looked like an unpleasant family
matter, and he did not care to have it talked about.

Dory was overwhelmed by the intelligence of the death of his father. It
was some time before he recovered his self-possession, and then only
when the landlord again reminded him that he might be late for the
funeral. His good friend walked down to the wharf with him, carrying a
basket of provisions he had ordered for him; but the skipper did not
feel like eating now. He took the basket, and the Goldwing was soon
standing down the bay.

Of course it was not possible for Dory to think of any thing but the
death of his father as he sailed up the lake. He had no particulars of
the sad event; but now it appeared that his uncle had been in search of
him, and had taken great pains to find him. He regretted very much that
he had avoided him, and he thought more of uncle Royal than ever before
in his life. He had regarded him as a rich man, who was selfish, and who
had neglected his sister, the boy's mother. He had not been in her house
since she was married.

At eleven o'clock the Goldwing was off Colchester Light; and it was
likely to take a couple of hours more to finish the trip. Dory had eaten
his breakfast at five o'clock; and, if he was not hungry, he was faint,
and felt the need of food. Mechanically he opened the basket the
hotel-keeper had given him. It contained the choicest food from the
table of the hotel; and he ate, though rather from a sense of duty than
because he felt much interested in the operation. The lunch made him
feel better, for it seemed to allay a sort of nervousness that troubled
him.

He could not eat all the basket contained. The provision was wrapped up
in a sheet of white paper, and then the parcel was enclosed in a
newspaper. As he was restoring this last wrapper, something printed in
the paper attracted his attention. The article was headed "Suicide of a
Pilot."

Dory was almost paralyzed as he read the piece. He was obliged to stop
to control his emotion several times before he could finish it. He
learned that his father had drowned himself in the lake on Friday, and
his body had been found and sent to Burlington on Saturday morning.

For the first time he read of the disaster to the Au Sable. The
