That was an eventful year; for one brother married, and one went off to
seek his fortune, the father mortgaging his farm to give these sons a
fair start in life. Eli was to be a minister, and the farmer left his
fortunes in the hands of his wife, who, like many another good mother,
was the making of the great man of the family, and was content with that
knowledge, leaving him the glory.

The next year, Eli graduated with honor, and went home, to be received
with great rejoicing, just twenty-one, and a free man. He had longed for
this time, and planned a happy, studious life, preparing to preach the
gospel in a little parsonage of his own. But suddenly all was changed;
joy turned to sorrow, hope to doubt, and Eli was called to relinquish
liberty for duty,--to give up his own dreams of a home, to keep a roof
over the heads of the dear mother and the faithful sisters. His father
died suddenly, leaving very little for the women folk besides the
independence that lay in the skill of their own thrifty hands. The elder
brothers could not offer much help, and Eli was the one to whom the poor
souls turned in their hour of sorrow and anxiety.

"Go on, dear, and don't pester yourself about us. We can find food and
firin' here as long as the old farm is ours. I guess we can manage to
pay off the mortgage by-and-by. It don't seem as if I could turn out,
after livin' here ever sense I was married, and poor father so fond
on't."

The widow covered her face with her apron, and Eli put his arms about
her, saying manfully, as he gave up all his fondest hopes for her dearer
sake--

"Cheer up, mother, and trust to me. I should be a poor fellow if I
allowed you and the girls to want, after all you've done for me. I can
get a school, and earn instead of spend. Teaching and studying can go on
together. I'm sure I shouldn't prosper if I shirked my duty, and I
won't." The three sad women clung to him, and the brothers, looking at
his brave, bright face, felt that Eli was indeed a man to lean on and to
love in times like this.

"Well," thought the young philosopher, "the Lord knows what is best for
me, and perhaps this is a part of my education. I'll try to think so,
and hope to get some good out of a hard job."

In this spirit he set about teaching, and prospered wonderfully, for his
own great love of learning made it an easy and delightful task to help
others as he had longed to be helped. His innocent and tender nature
made all children love him, and gave him a remarkable power over them;
so when the first hard months were past, and his efforts began to bear
fruit, he found that what had seemed an affliction was a blessing, and
that teaching was his special gift. Filial duty sweetened the task, a
submissive heart found happiness in self-sacrifice, and a wise soul
showed him what a noble and lovely work it was to minister to little
children,--for of such is the kingdom of heaven.

For years Eli taught, and his school grew famous; for he copied the
fashions of other countries, invented new methods, and gave himself so
entirely to his profession that he could not fail of success. The
mortgage was paid off, and Eli made frequent pilgrimages to the dear
old mother, whose staff and comfort he still was. The sisters married
well, the brothers prospered, and at thirty, the schoolmaster found a
nobler mate than pretty Lucinda, and soon had some little pupils of his
very own to love and teach.

There his youth ends; but after the years of teaching he began to preach
at last, not in one pulpit, but in many all over the land, diffusing
good thoughts now as he had peddled small wares when a boy; still
learning as he went, still loving books and studying mankind, still
patient, pious, dutiful, and tender, a wise and beautiful old man, till,
at eighty, Eli's education ended.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

ONAWANDAH


"What in the world have I chosen?" exclaimed Geoff, as he drew out a
manuscript in his turn and read the queer name.

"A story that will just suit you, I think. The hero is an Indian, and a
brave one, as you will see. I learned the little tale from an old woman
who lived in the valley of the Connecticut, which the Indians called the
Long River of Pines."

With this very short preface, Aunt Elinor began to read, in her best
manner, the story of


                               ONAWANDAH.

Long ago,--when hostile Indians haunted the great forests, and every
settlement had its fort for the protection of the inhabitants,--in one
of the towns on the Connecticut River, lived Parson Bain and his little
son and daughter. The wife and mother was dead; but an old servant took
care of them, and did her best to make Reuben and Eunice good children.
Her direst threat, when they were naughty, was, "The Indians will come
and fetch you, if you don't behave." So they grew up in great fear of
the red men. Even the friendly Indians, who sometimes came for food or
powder, were regarded with suspicion by the people. No man went to work
without his gun near by. On Sundays, when they trudged to the rude
meeting-house, all carried the trusty rifle on the shoulder; and while
the pastor preached, a sentinel mounted guard at the door, to give
warning if canoes came down the river or a dark face peered from the
wood.

One autumn night, when the first heavy rains were falling and a cold
wind whistled through the valley, a knock came at the minister's door,
and, opening it, he found an Indian boy, ragged, hungry, and foot-sore,
who begged for food and shelter. In his broken way, he told how he had
fallen ill, and been left to die by enemies who had taken him from his
own people, months before; how he had wandered for days till almost
sinking; and that he had come now to ask for help, led by the hospitable
light in the parsonage window.

"Send him away, master, or harm will come of it. He is a spy, and we
shall all be scalped by the murdering Injuns who are waiting in the
wood," said old Becky, harshly; while little Eunice hid in the old
servant's ample skirts, and twelve-year-old Reuben laid his hand on his
cross-bow, ready to defend his sister if need be.

But the good man drew the poor lad in, saying, with his friendly smile:
"Shall not a Christian be as hospitable as a godless savage? Come in,
child, and be fed: you sorely need rest and shelter."

Leaving his face to express the gratitude he had no words to tell, the
boy sat by the comfortable fire and ate like a famished wolf, while
Becky muttered her forebodings and the children eyed the dark youth at a
safe distance. Something in his pinched face, wounded foot, and eyes
full of dumb pain and patience, touched the little girl's tender heart,
and, yielding to a pitiful impulse, she brought her own basin of new
milk and, setting it beside the stranger, ran to hide behind her father,
suddenly remembering that this was one of the dreaded Indians.

"That was well done, little daughter. Thou shalt love thine enemies, and
share thy bread with the needy. See, he is smiling; that pleased him,
and he wishes us to be his friends."

But Eunice ventured no more that night, and quaked in her little bed at
