diminution of his affection for her) the consciousness that his aunt's
nature was a narrow one. Her narrowness could have been summed up
roughly in the statement that her views upon every subject were purely
personal ones. It was difficult to realize how personal they were,
Winthrop himself, well as he knew her, had only within the past five or
six years become fully conscious of the absolute predominance of the
principle. No one besides himself had had the opportunity to make the
same discovery, save possibly--so he had sometimes thought with a
smile--the departed Peter Rutherford, the lady's husband. But Peter
Rutherford, among many excellent qualities, had not been endowed with a
delicate observation, and indeed having been of a robust and simple
nature, he had had small respect for the talent, at least in a man,
associating it vaguely with a knowledge of millinery, with a taste for
spelling-games and puzzles, for cake and religious novels--things he
considered unworthy of the masculine mind. His wife's nephew, however,
though not a judge of millinery, and not interested in the mild
entertainments and literature referred to, possessed observation in
abundance, and with regard to his aunt he had not been able to keep it
from exercising itself, at least to a certain degree. He had
discovered--he had been unable to help discovering--the secret springs
that moved much of her speech; and these springs were so simple that, in
a complicated age, they seemed extraordinary. Her opinions of persons
(he knew it now) were based entirely upon the narrow but well-defined
foundation of their behavior to herself.

Concerning people with whom she had no personal acquaintance, she was
utterly without opinions; no matter how eminent they might be, they were
no more to her than so much sand of the shore. You might talk to her
about them by the hour, and she would listen approvingly, or at least
quite without contradiction. People spoke of her, therefore, as very
appreciative, and, for a woman, broad-minded. What, in truth, can be
more broad-minded in one of the sex most given to partisanship than to
be able to listen with unprejudiced attention to the admirers of the
Rev. Mr. A., the distinguished High-Church clergyman, and then the very
next day to the friends of the Rev. Mr. B., equally eminent, but Low; to
the devotees of the C. family, who trace their descent directly from old
English barons--passing over, of course, that unimportant ancestor who
happened to have been the one to cross to the New World, and who,
immediately after his arrival, engaged in blacksmithing, and became in
time the best blacksmith the struggling little colony possessed--to
listen, I say, to the partisans of this ancient race, and then to
hearken the next afternoon with equal equanimity to warm praise of the
D.'s, who, having made their great fortune so vigorously in the present
generation, are engaged in spending it with a vigor equally
commendable--what, indeed, could be broader than this? It never occurred
to these talkers that A. and B., the C.'s and the D.'s, alike, were all
non-existent bodies, nebul√¶, to Mrs. Peter Rutherford so long as she was
not personally acquainted with them, so long as their names were not
upon her visiting list.

But when once this had been discovered, as Evert Winthrop had discovered
it, it made everything clear; it was perfectly easy to understand her,
easy to see how simple the opinions appeared to the lady herself, since
they had to do merely with a series of facts. If Mr. X. had been polite
to her, if he had been attentive, deferential, he was without doubt (if
at all presentable) a most delightful and praiseworthy person in every
way. If Mr. X. had been civil to a certain extent, yet on the whole
rather indifferent, he was a little dull, she thought; a good sort of a
man perhaps, but not interesting; tiresome. If Mr. X. had simply left
her alone, without either civility or incivility, she was apt to have
mysterious intuitions about him, intuitions which she mentioned,
confidentially of course, to her friends; little things which she had
noticed--indications. Of bad temper? Or was it bad habits? It was
something bad, at any rate; she was very ingenious in reading the signs.
But if Mr. X. had been guilty of actual rudeness (a quality which she
judged strictly by the standard of her own hidden but rigorous
requirements), Mr. X. was immediately thrust beyond the pale, there was
no good in him; in the way of odious traits there was nothing which she
did not attribute to him at one time or another, she could even hint at
darker guilt. She wondered that people should continue to receive him,
and to her dying day she never forgot to give, upon opportunity, her
well-aimed thrust--a thrust all the more effective because masked by her
reputation for amiability and frank, liberal qualities.

As, however, people generally were sufficiently attentive, this lady's
judgments seldom reached the last-mentioned stage, a condition of things
which she herself was the first to approve, because (this was the most
curious shade of her disposition) she believed fully in her own
opinions, and would have disliked greatly to "have anything to do with
unprincipled persons." But the world at large had no suspicion of these
intricacies; to the world at large Mrs. Rutherford was a handsome,
amiable woman, who, possessing a good fortune, a good house in New York,
a good old country-place on the Sound, and much hospitality, was
considered to be above petty criticisms--criticisms which would do for
people less pleasing, less well-endowed.

But though he read his aunt's nature, Winthrop was none the less
attached to her; it might be said, perhaps, with more accuracy, that he
was fond of her. He had been a very lonely little boy, his father while
loving him deeply had been strict with him, and had permitted him few
amusements, few companions; to go, therefore, and spend a month with his
aunt Katrina, to taste her indulgent kindness and enjoy the liberty she
allowed, to have her come and kiss him good-night, and talk to him about
his beautiful mother, to have her take him up on her lap and pet him
when he was a tired-out, drooping little fellow after immense exertions
with his big cousin Lanse, to hear her stories about his uncle Evert
(after whom he had been named)--that wonderful Uncle Evert who had gone
down to Central America to see the Aztecs--these things had been deeply
delightful at the time to the child, whose nature was reserved and
concentrated. And if the details were no longer distinct, now that he
was a man, the general remembrance at least was always there, the
remembrance of happy hours and motherly caresses. He therefore welcomed
the idea of his aunt's coming to Gracias. Though what Mrs. Peter
Rutherford would be able to find in that sleepy little hamlet in the way
of entertainment, he did not pretend to have discovered.

Five days later the party arrived, his aunt, her niece Mrs. Harold, her
maid Celestine.

As he greeted Mrs. Rutherford, Winthrop remarked to himself, as he had
remarked many times before, that his aunt was a fine-looking woman. Mrs.
Rutherford was sixty years of age, tall, erect, with a well-cut profile,
and beautiful gray hair, which lay in soft waves, like a silvery cloud,
above her fine dark eyes. The state of her health had evidently not
interfered with the arrangement of this aureola, neither had it relaxed
in any degree the grave perfection of her attire; her bonnet was a
model of elegance and simplicity, her boot, as she stepped from the
carriage, was seen to be another model of elegance and good sense. Mrs.
Rutherford loved elegance. But Mrs. Rutherford loved indolence as well,
and indolence never constructed or kept in order an appearance such as
hers; the person (of very different aspect) who followed her, laden with
baskets, cushions, and shawls, was the real architect of this fine
structure, from the soft waves of hair to the well-shaped boot; this
person was Celestine, the maid.

Celestine's real name was Minerva Poindexter. Her mistress, not liking
the classic appellation, had changed it to Celestine, the Poindexter
being dropped entirely. Mrs. Rutherford was accustomed to say that this
was her one deliberate affectation--she affected to believe that
Celestine was French; the maid, a tall, lean, yellow-skinned woman,
reticent and unsmiling, might have been French or Scotch, Portuguese or
Brazilian, as far as appearance went, tall, lean women of unmarried
aspect being a product scattered in regular, if limited, quantities over
the face of the entire civilized globe. As she seldom opened her lips,
her nationality could not be determined by an inquiring public from her
speech. There were those, however, who maintained that Celestine knew
all languages, that there was a dark omniscience about her. In reality
she was a Vermont woman, who had begun life as a country dress-maker--a
country dress-maker with great natural talent but no opportunities. The
opportunities had come later, they came when she was discovered by Mrs.
