of them were pitching smartly, and were not taking in water except in
the form of spray.

In a few minutes the Goldwing was within hailing distance of the barges.
Dory declined to take the helm when Matt suggested, and was again busy
with his lines on the forward deck.




CHAPTER XV.

THE SKIPPER USES A NAUTICAL LASSO.


"What's that?" called George Duane, while Dory was still busy on the
forward deck.

This question was called forth by what sounded like a volley of cheers
from the New York side of the lake; but nothing could be seen to
indicate the source from which the noise came.

"There it is again," added John Brattle, as three distinct cheers came
over the waves. "There is some sort of a party up that little cove."

There was an inlet just to the south of the barges, from which it was
now evident that the sounds came. But parties from the surrounding
country frequently had frolics on the shores of the lake, and the
students concluded that the cheers came from one of these gatherings.

The Topovers continued on their course, and seemed to be laboring to
increase their speed, which was certainly moderate enough. They pulled
but six oars in each barge, and against the wind and the heavy sea they
could make but little progress. The Goldwing was making three miles to
their one, and the moment for action was near.

Though the Goldwing was close-hauled, she leaped over the waves like a
bird, and Matt was running directly for the barges, one of which was
following the other, the Winooski being ahead. The skipper finished
arranging the lines on the forward deck. Getting on his feet he made a
careful survey of the situation.

"Matt, can you go to windward of the barges?" he called to the helmsman.

"I might, possibly, but it would be a close squeeze," replied Matt.

"Then we must work more to windward: tack, if you please," added Dory;
and it was evident that he had prepared his plan of attack.

Matt came about and headed the Goldwing to the north. Dory kept his eye
on the barges, but he gave no hint of his method of operations. Probably
Matt thought he was entitled to be informed in regard to the plan, but
the accident in the river for which he was responsible had humbled him,
and he asked no questions.

When the schooner had made about a quarter of a mile of northing, the
skipper gave the order to tack again. Matt was directed to steer for a
certain point on the shore, which would carry the yacht a little
distance to windward of the barges, allowing for the headway they would
make before she could reach them. In that lively breeze even the width
of the lake at Beaver River was only a run of a few minutes for the
Goldwing, and she was very soon abreast of the Gildrock. The Winooski
was about a hundred fathoms ahead of her.

"Now, Matt, we have some sharp work to do, and every thing must be done
on the instant," said Dory, when the Goldwing had passed the Gildrock
and was up with the Winooski.

"Perhaps you had better take the helm, then?" suggested the coxswain of
the Gildrock.

"I can't, for I have a job to do here on the forward deck. We shall go
about, and run for the Gildrock in a moment," replied Dory. "I want you
to make for her stem just as though you meant to run her down."

"All right, Dory; I will obey orders to the letter," returned the
helmsman.

"I would rather you would obey them in spirit; so if I make a blunder,
and get knocked out, I want you to correct it," added Dory lightly.

"I don't know what you are going to do, and I can only obey orders to
the letter," said Matt.

"I could not settle on any plan until I had seen how the barges lay; and
it is too late to explain now. Ready about!"

Matt promptly obeyed the orders given him, and the schooner came
entirely around. It would have been a shorter way to jibe her, but the
skipper never ventured upon this manoeuvre when the wind was at all
fresh; for he was not one of those venturesome boatmen who think they
are not smart unless they incur needless risks.

Dory saw that Matt was carrying out his orders to the letter, and it was
clear that Nim Splugger, the acting coxswain of the Gildrock, was
getting nervous as he saw the Goldwing dashing down upon his craft.

"What are you about? You will run over us!" yelled Nim, when he saw the
schooner within twenty feet of him.

The oarsmen were inclined to desert their posts, and kept looking behind
them at the Goldwing. But both barges had been in the trough of the sea,
and those in charge of them had found by actual trial that the only way
they could go was directly across the lake, against the wind. This was
the reason why the barges were nearly over to the New York shore, and
not because they were following a plan of their own.

"Keep to your oars, fellers!" shouted Nim Splugger, when he saw several
of his crew cease rowing. "Never mind that boat! She won't run into us."

But Nim had his doubts on this point, for the Goldwing did not budge an
inch from her course. Dory had looked over his lines, and was watching
the course of the schooner and the position of the Gildrock. When the
schooner was within ten feet of the barge, Nim gave a frantic yell, and
all the rowers gave up in despair.

"Keep her away a little, Matt!" called Dory, who was now on his feet
with a line in each hand.

The Topovers in the Gildrock gave a desperate yell, satisfied that they
should be floundering in the angry waters the next instant. The Goldwing
fell off a trifle at this moment, in obedience to the helm. Dory had
fixed the line in his left hand on the spur of the light boathook, which
he extended as far as he could reach. As he did so, one of the covers
from the cook-stove, which he had secured to the bight between his
hands, dropped into the water.

Thus arranged, the line formed a snare in the shape of a triangle, the
stove-cover sinking the lower angle a couple of feet under water. As the
skipper held the snare, the Gildrock ran her bow directly into it. The
bight of the line was a slip-noose, and as the schooner drove ahead, it
tightened up.

As the Goldwing went ahead, Dory paid out the line rapidly, for a single
jerk would have upset the barge. The Topovers in the boat were so
terrified that they did not comprehend what Dory was about.

"Hard down your helm, Matt!" shouted Dory, with tremendous energy, when
half his line had run out, and the bow of the schooner was abreast of
the stern of the Gildrock.
