brother, who had not appeared since the midday meal. The piece of
information he had just received was worth communicating, for it raised
Teresina very much in the eyes of Bastianello, and he did not doubt that
it would influence Ruggiero in the right direction. Bastianello, too,
was keen enough to see that anything which gave him an opportunity of
discussing the girl with his brother might be of advantage, in that it
might bring Ruggiero to the open expression of a settled purpose--either
to marry the girl or not. And if he once gave his word that he would
not, Bastianello would be no longer bound to suffer in silence as he had
suffered so many weeks. The younger of the brothers was less passionate,
less nervous and less easily moved in every way than the elder, but he
possessed much of the same general character and all of the same
fundamental good qualities--strength, courage and fidelity. In his
quiet way he was deeply and sincerely in love with Teresina, and meant,
if possible and if Ruggiero did not take her, to make her his wife.

At last Ruggiero's tall figure appeared at the corner of the building
occupied by the coastguard station, and Bastianello immediately whistled
to him, giving a signal which had served the brothers since they were
children. Ruggiero started, turned his head and at once jumped into the
first boat he could lay hands on and pulled out alongside of his
brother.

"What is it?" he asked, letting his oars swing astern and laying hold on
the gunwale of the sail boat.

"About Teresina," answered Bastianello, taking his pipe from his mouth
and leaning towards his brother. "The son of the Son of the Fool was
swimming about here just now, and he hauled himself half aboard of me
and made faces. So I took the boat-hook to hit his fingers. And just
then he said to me, 'You have a beautiful pair of masters you and your
brother.' 'Why?' I asked, and I held the boat-hook ready. But I would
not have hurt the boy, because he is one of ours. So he told me that he
had just seen the Count up there in the garden of the hotel, trying to
kiss Teresina and offering her the gold, and I gave him half a cigar to
tell me the rest, because he would not, and made faces."

"May he die murdered!" exclaimed Ruggiero in a low voice, his face as
white as canvas.

"Wait a little, she is a good girl," answered Bastianello. "Teresina
threw the gold upon the ground and told the Count that he was an
infamous one and a liar. And then she went away. And I think the boy was
speaking the truth, because if it were a lie he would have spoken in
another way. For it was as easy to say that the Count kissed her as to
say that she would not let him, and he would have had the tobacco all
the same."

"May he die of a stroke!" muttered Ruggiero.

"But if I were in your place," said his brother calmly, "I would not do
anything to your padrone, because the girl is a good girl and gave him
the good answer, and as for him--" Bastianello shrugged his shoulders.

"May the sharks get his body and the devil get his soul!"

"That will be as it shall be," answered Bastianello. "And it is sure
that if God wills, the grampuses will eat him. But we do not know the
end. What I would say is this, that it is time you should speak to the
girl, because I see how white you get when we talk of her, and you are
consuming yourself and will have an illness, and though I could work for
both you and me, four arms are better than two, in summer as in winter.
Therefore I say, go and speak to her, for she will have you and she will
be better with you than near that apoplexy of a San Miniato."

Ruggiero did not answer at once, but pulled out his pipe and filled it
and began to smoke.

"Why should I speak?" he asked at last. There was a struggle in his
mind, for he did not wish to tell Bastianello outright that he did not
really care for Teresina. If he betrayed this fact it would be hard
hereafter to account for his own state, which was too apparent to be
concealed, especially from his brother, and he had no idea that the
latter loved the girl.

"Why should you speak?" asked Bastianello, repeating the words, and
stirring the ashes in his pipe with the point of his knife. "Because if
you do not speak you will never get anything."

"It will be the same if I do," observed Ruggiero stolidly.

"I believe that very little," returned the other. "And I will tell you
something. If I were to speak to Teresina for you and say, 'Here is my
brother Ruggiero, who is not a great signore, but is well grown and has
two arms which are good, and a matter of seven or eight hundred francs
in the bank, and who is very fond of you, but he does not know how to
say it. Think well if you will have him,' I would say, 'and if you will
not, give me an honest answer and God bless you and let it be the end.'
That is how I would speak, and she would think about it for a week or
perhaps two, and then she would say to me, 'Bastianello, tell your
brother that I will have him.' Or else she would say, 'Bastianello, tell
your brother that I thank him, but that I have no heart in it.' That is
what she would say."

"It may be," said Ruggiero carelessly. "But of course she would thank,
and say 'Who is this Ruggiero?' and besides, the world is full of
women."

Bastianello was about to ask the interpretation of this rather
enigmatical speech when there was a stir on the pier and two or three
boats put out, the men standing in them and sculling them stern
foremost.

"Who is it?" asked Bastianello of the boatman who passed nearest to him.

"The Giovannina," answered the man.

She had returned from her last voyage to Calabria, having taken macaroni
from Amalfi and bringing back wine of Verbicaro. A fine boat, the
Giovannina, able to carry twenty tons in any weather, and water-tight
too, being decked with hatches over which you can stretch and batten
down tarpaulin. A pretty sight as she ran up to the end of the
breakwater, old Luigione standing at the stern with the tiller between
his knees and the slack of the main-sheet in his hand. She was running
wing and wing, with her bright new sails spreading far over the water on
each side. Then came a rattle and a sharp creak as the main-yard swung
over and came down on deck, the men taking in the bellying canvas with
wide open arms and old Luigione catching the end of the yard on his
shoulder while he steered with his knees, his great gaunt profile black
against the bright sky. Down foresail, and the good felucca forges ahead
and rounds the little breakwater. Let go the anchor and she is at rest
after her long voyage. For the season has not been good and she has been
hauled on a dozen beaches before she could sell her cargo. The men are
all as brown as mahogany, and as lean as wolves, for it has been a
voyage with share and share alike for all the crew and they have starved
themselves to bring home more money to their wives.

Then there is some bustle and confusion, as Luigione brings the papers
ashore and friends crowd around the felucca in boats, asking for news
and all talking at once.

"We have been in your town, Ruggiero," said one of the men, looking down
into the little boat.

"I hope you gave a message from me to Don Pietro Casale," answered
Ruggiero.

"Health to us, Don Pietro is dead," said the man, "and his wife is not
likely to live long either."

