everything connected with Mrs. Goddard, could tell him. He felt very
nervous at the idea of speaking to the vicar on the subject, and yet it
seemed to him that no one else could set his mind at rest. If he were
quite certain that Mr. Juxon had no intention of offering himself to the
charming tenant of the cottage, he might return to his work with some
sense of security in the future. Otherwise he saw only the desperate
alternative of throwing himself at her feet and declaring that he loved
her, or of going back to Cambridge with the dreadful anticipation of
hearing any day that she had married the squire. To be laughed at would
be bad, but to feel that he had lost her irrevocably, without a struggle,
would be awful. No one but the vicar could and would tell him the truth;
it would be bitter to ask such a question, but it must be done. Having at
last come to this formidable resolution, towards the conclusion of
dinner, his spirits rose a little. He took another glass of the vicar's
mild ale and felt that he could face his fate.

"May I speak to you a moment in the study, Mr. Ambrose?" he said as they
rose from table.

"Certainly," replied the vicar; and having conducted his wife to the
drawing-room, he returned to find John. There was a low, smouldering fire
in the study grate, and John had lit a solitary candle. The room looked
very dark and dismal and John was seated in one of the black leather
chairs, waiting.

"Anything about those verses you were speaking of to-day?" asked the
vicar cheerfully, in anticipation of a pleasant classical chat.

"No," said John, gloomily. "The fact is--" he cleared his throat, "the
fact is, I want to ask you rather a delicate question, sir."

The vicar's heavy eyebrows contracted; the lines of his face all turned
downwards, and his long, clean-shaved upper lip closed sharply upon its
fellow, like a steel trap. He turned his grey eyes upon John's averted
face with a searching look.

"Have you got into any trouble at Trinity, John?" he asked severely.

"Oh no--no indeed," said John. Nothing was further from his thoughts than
his college at that moment. "I want to ask you a question, which no one
else can answer. Is--do you think that--that Mr. Juxon has any idea of
marrying Mrs. Goddard?"

The vicar started in astonishment and laid both hands upon the arms of
his chair.

"What--in the world--put that--into your head?" he asked very slowly,
emphasising every word of his question. John was prepared to see his old
tutor astonished but was rather taken aback at the vicar's tone.

"Do you think it is likely, sir?" he insisted.

"Certainly not," answered the vicar, still eyeing him suspiciously.
"Certainly not. I have positive reasons to prove the contrary. But, my
dear John, why, in the name of all that is sensible, do you ask me such a
question? You don't seriously think of proposing--"

"I don't see why I should not," said John doggedly, seeing that he was
found out.

"You don't see why you should not? Why the thing is perfectly absurd, not
to say utterly impossible! John, you are certainly mad."

"I don't see why," repeated John. "I am a grown man. I have good
prospects--"

"Good prospects!" ejaculated the vicar in horror. "Good prospects! Why,
you are only an undergraduate at Cambridge."

"I may be senior classic in a few months," objected John. "That is not
such a bad prospect, it seems to me."

"It means that you may get a fellowship, probably will--in the course of
a few years. But you lose it if you marry. Besides--do you know that Mrs.
Goddard is ten years older than you, and more?"

"Impossible," said John in a tone of conviction.

"I know that she is. She will be two and thirty on her next birthday, and
you are not yet one and twenty."

"I shall be next month," argued John, who was somewhat taken aback,
however, by the alarming news of Mrs. Goddard's age. "Besides, I can go
into the church, before I get a fellowship--"

"No, you can't," said the vicar energetically. "You won't be able to
manage it. If you do, you will have to put up with a poor living."

"That would not matter. Mrs. Goddard has something--"

"An honourable prospect!" exclaimed Mr. Ambrose, growing more and more
excited. "To marry a woman ten years older than yourself because she has
a little money of her own! You! I would not have thought it of you,
John--indeed I would not!"

Indeed no one was more surprised than John Short himself, when he found
himself arguing the possibilities of his marriage with his old tutor. But
he was an obstinate young fellow enough and was not inclined to give up
the fight easily.

"Really," he objected, "I cannot see anything so very terrible in the
idea. I shall certainly make my way in the world. You know that it is not
for the sake of her money. Many men have married women ten years older
than themselves, and not half so beautiful and charming, I am sure."

"I don't believe it," said the vicar, "and if they have, why it has been
very different, that is all. Besides, you have not known Mrs. Goddard a
week--positively not more than five days--why, it is madness! Do you mean
to tell me that at the end of five days you believe you are seriously
attached to a lady you never saw in your life before?"

"I saw her once," said John. "That day when I waked Muggins--"

"Once! Nearly three years ago! I have no patience with you, John! That a
young fellow of your capabilities should give way to such a boyish fancy!
It is absolutely amazing! I thought you were growing to like her society
very much, but I did not believe it would, come to this!"

"It is nothing to be ashamed of," said John stoutly.

"It is something to be afraid of," answered the vicar.

"Oh, do not be alarmed," retorted John. "I will do nothing rash. You have
set my mind at rest in assuring me that she will not marry Mr. Juxon. I
shall not think of offering myself to Mrs. Goddard until after the
Tripos."

"Offering myself"--how deliciously important the expression sounded to
John's own ears! It conveyed such a delightful sense of the possibilities
of life when at last he should feel that he was in a position to offer
himself to any woman, especially to Mrs. Goddard.

"I have a great mind not to ask you to come down, even if you do turn out
senior classic," said the vicar, still fuming with excitement. "But if
you put off your rash action until then, you will probably have changed
your mind."

"I will never change my mind," said John confidently. It was evident,
nevertheless, that if the romance of his life were left to the tender
mercies of the Reverend Augustin Ambrose, it was likely to come to an
