superior air, for the idea of this farmer’s daughter knowing
anything about poetry amused her.

“Oh yes, I’ve got a number of his pieces in my book, and I’m fond of
‘em. But this man makes things so kind of true and natural I feel at
home with HIM. And this one I’ve longed to read, though I guess I
can’t understand much of it. His ‘Bumble Bee’ was just lovely; with
the grass and columbines and the yellow breeches of the bee. I’m
never tired of that;” and Becky’s face woke up into something like
beauty as she glanced hungrily at the Emerson while she dusted the
delicate cover that hid the treasures she coveted.

“I don’t care much for him, but Mamma does. I like romantic poems,
and ballads, and songs; don’t like descriptions of clouds and
fields, and bees, and farmers,” said Emily, showing plainly that
even Emerson’s simplest poems were far above her comprehension as
yet, because she loved sentiment more than Nature.

“I do, because I know ‘em better than love and the romantic stuff
most poetry tells about. But I don’t pretend to judge, I’m glad of
anything I can get. Now if you don’t want me I’ll pick up my dishes
and go to work.”

With that Becky went away, leaving Emily to rest and dream with her
eyes on the landscape which was giving her better poetry than any
her books held. She told her mother about the odd girl, and was sure
she would be amusing if she did not forget her place and try to be
friends.

“She is a good creature, my dear, her mother’s main stay, and works
beyond her strength, I am sure. Be kind to the poor girl, and put a
little pleasure into her life if you can,” answered Mrs. Spenser, as
she moved about, settling comforts and luxuries for her invalid.

“I shall HAVE to talk to her, as there is no other person of my age
in the house. How are the school marms? shall you get on with them,
Mamma? It will be so lonely here for us both, if we don’t make
friends with some one.”

“Most intelligent and amiable women all three, and we shall have
pleasant times together, I am sure. You may safely cultivate Becky;
Mrs. Taylor told me she was a remarkably bright girl, though she may
not look it.”

“Well, I’ll see. But I do hate freckles and big red hands, and round
shoulders. She can’t help it, I suppose, but ugly things fret me.”

“Remember that she has no time to be pretty, and be glad she is so
neat and willing. Shall we read, dear? I’m ready now.”

Emily consented, and listened for an hour or two while the pleasant
voice beside her conjured away all her vapors with some of Mrs.
Ewing’s charming tales.

“The grass is dry now, and I want to stroll on that green lawn
before lunch. You rest, Mamma dear, and let me make discoveries all
alone,” proposed Emily, when the sun shone warmly, and the instinct
of all young creatures for air and motion called her out.

So, with her hat and wrap, and book and parasol, she set forth to
explore the new land in which she found herself.

Down the wide, creaking stairs and out upon the door-stone she went,
pausing there for a moment to decide where first to go. The sound of
some one singing in the rear of the house led her in that direction,
and turning the corner she made her first pleasant discovery. A hill
rose steeply behind the farm-house, and leaning from the bank was an
old apple-tree, shading a spring that trickled out from the rocks
and dropped into a mossy trough below. Up the tree had grown a wild
grape-vine, making a green canopy over the great log which served as
a seat, and some one had planted maidenhair ferns about both seat
and spring to flourish beautifully in the damp, shady spot.

“Oh, how pretty! I’ll go and sit there. It looks clean, and I can
see what is going on in that big kitchen, and hear the singing. I
suppose it’s Becky’s little sisters by the racket.”

Emily established herself on the lichen-covered log with her feet
upon a stone, and sat enjoying the musical tinkle of the water, with
her eyes on the delicate ferns stirring in the wind, and the lively
jingle of the multiplication-table chanted by childish voices in her
ear.

Presently two little girls with a great pan of beans came to do
their work on the back doorstep, a third was seen washing dishes at
a window, and Becky’s brown-spotted gown flew about the kitchen as
if a very energetic girl wore it. A woman’s voice was heard giving
directions, as the speaker was evidently picking chickens somewhere
out of sight.

A little of the talk reached Emily and both amused and annoyed her,
for it proved that the country people were not as stupid as they
looked.

“Oh, well, we mustn’t mind if she IS notional and kind of wearing;
she’s been sick, and it will take time to get rid of her fretty
ways. Jest be pleasant, and take no notice, and that nice mother of
hers will make it all right,” said the woman’s voice.

“How anybody with every mortal thing to be happy with CAN be
out-of-sorts passes me. She fussed about every piller, chair, trunk,
and mite of food last night, and kept that poor tired lady trotting
till I was provoked. She’s right pleasant this morning though, and
as pretty as a picture in her ruffled gown and that blue thing on
her head,” answered Becky from the pantry, as she rattled out the
pie-board, little dreaming who sat hidden behind the grape-vine
festoons that veiled the corner by the spring.

“Well, she’s got redder hair ‘n’ we have, so she needn’t be so grand
and try to hide it with blue nets,” added one little voice.

“Yes, and it’s ever so much shorter ‘n’ ours, and curls all over her
head like Daisy’s wool. I should think such a big girl would feel
real ashamed without no braids,” said the other child, proudly
surveying the tawny mane that hung over her shoulders,--for like
most red-haired people all the children were blessed with luxuriant
crops of every shade from golden auburn to regular carrots.

“I think it’s lovely. Suppose it had to be cut off when she had the
fever. Wish I could get rid of my mop, it’s such a bother;” and
Becky was seen tying a clean towel over the great knot that made her
head look very like a copper kettle.

“Now fly round, deary, and get them pies ready. I’ll have these
fowls on in a minute, and then go to my butter. You run off and see
if you can’t find some wild strawberries for the poor girl, soon’s
ever you are through with them beans, children. We must kind of
pamper her up for a spell till her appetite comes back,” said the
mother.

Here the chat ended, and soon the little girls were gone, leaving
Becky alone rolling out pie-crust before the pantry window. As she
worked her lips moved, and Emily, still peeping through the leaves,
wondered what she was saying, for a low murmur rose and fell,
emphasized now and then with a thump of the rolling-pin.

“I mean to go and find out. If I stand on that wash-bench I can look
in and see her work. I’ll show them all that I‘m NOT ‘fussy,’ and
can be ‘right pleasant’ if I like.”

