went. I always says women-folk ought not to be let on horse-back, she
might have broke her neck; like as not----"

"You have been very kind," Tristrem answered, "very kind, indeed."

During the entire scene he had not said a word. The spectacle of Viola
fainting on the roadside, the fear that she might be maimed, the trouble
at her pallor--these things had tied his tongue; and even now, as he
spoke, his voice was not assured, and a hand with which he fumbled in
his waistcoat trembled so that the roll of bills which he drew out fell
on the porch at his feet. He stooped and picked it up.

"If Mrs. Raritan were here, she would thank you as I do," he continued.
"I wish--" and he was about to make some present, but the man drew back.

"That's all right, I don't want no pay for that."

"I beg your pardon," Tristrem answered, "I know you do not. Tell me, are
you married?"

The man laughed.

"Yes, I am, and I got the biggest boy you ever see. He's going on four
years and he weighs a ton."

"I wish you would do me a favor. Let me make him a little present."

But even to this the man would not listen. He was reluctant to accept so
much as thanks. Having done what good he could, he was anxious to go his
way--the sort of man that one has to visit the seashore to find, and
who, when found, is as refreshing as the breeze.

As he left the porch, he looked back. "Here's the doctor," he said, and
passed on into the night.

While the physician visited the patient, Tristrem paced the sitting-room
counting the minutes till he could have speech with him, himself. And
when at last he heard the stairs creak, he was out in the hall, prepared
to question and intercept. The physician was most reassuring. There was
nothing at all the matter. By morning Miss Raritan would be up and
about. She had had a shock, no doubt. She was upset, and a trifle
nervous, but all she needed was a good night's rest, with a chop and a
glass of claret to help her to it. If sleep were elusive, then a
bromide. But that was all. If she had been seventy a tumble like that
might have done for her, but at nineteen! And the doctor left the house,
reflecting that were not educated people the most timorous of all, the
emoluments of his profession would be slight.

Whether or not Miss Raritan found the chop and claret sufficient, or
whether she partook of a bromide as well, is not a part of history. In a
little while after the physician's departure a servant brought word to
Tristrem that for the moment Mrs. Raritan was unable to leave her
daughter, but if he would have his dinner then, Mrs. Raritan would see
him later. Such was the revulsion of feeling that Tristrem, to whom, ten
minutes before, the mere mention of food would have been distasteful,
sat down, and ate like a wolf. The meal finished, he went out on the
porch. There was no moon as yet, but the sky was brilliant with the
lights of other worlds. Before him was the infinite, in the air was the
scent of sea-weed, and beyond, the waves leaped up and fawned upon the
bluffs. And as he stood and watched it all, the servant came to him with
Mrs. Raritan's apologies. She thought it better, the maid explained, not
to leave Miss Raritan just yet, and would Mr. Varick be good enough to
excuse her for that evening?

"Wait a second," he answered, and went to his room. He found the jewels,
and brought them down-stairs. "Take these to Miss Raritan," he said, and
on a card he wrote some word of love, which he gave with the trinkets to
the maid. "La parlate d'amor," he murmured, as the servant left to do
his bidding, and then he went again to his room, and sat down at the
window companioned only by the stars. From beyond, the boom and
retreating wash of waves was still audible, and below in the garden he
caught, now and then, the spark and glitter of a firefly gyrating in
loops of gold, but the tower which he had noticed on arriving was lost
in the night.

It was in that direction, he told himself, that the accident must have
occurred. And what was it, after all? As yet he had not fully
understood. Had the horse stumbled, or had he bolted and thrown her? If
he had only been there! And as his fancy evoked the possibilities of
that ride, he saw a terrified brute tearing along a deserted road,
carrying the exquisite girl straight to some sudden death, and, just
when the end was imminent, his own muscles hardened into steel, he had
him by the bit and, though dragged by the impetus, at last he held him,
and she was safe. She was in his arms, her own about his neck, and were
he a knight-errant and she some gracious princess, what sweeter guerdon
could he claim?

But one thing preoccupied him. In the vertiginous flight she had lost
something--her whip, no, her hat--and it was incumbent on him to restore
it to her. Very softly, then, that he might not disturb her, he opened
the door. The house was hushed, and in a moment he was on the road. He
could see the tower now; it was illuminated, and it seemed to him odd
that he had not noticed the illumination before. It was that way, he
knew, back of Hazard's, and he hurried along in the direction which the
man had indicated. The insects had stilled their murmur, and the sky was
more obscure, but the road was clear.

He hurried on, and as he hurried he heard steps behind him, hurrying
too. He turned his head; behind him was a woman running, and who, as she
ran, cast a shadow that was monstrous. In the glimpse that he caught of
her he saw that she was bare of foot and that her breast was uncovered.
Her skirt was tattered and her hair was loose. He turned again, the face
was hideous. The eyes squinted, lustreless and opaque, the nose was
squat, the chin retreated, the forehead was seamed with scars, and the
mouth, that stretched to the ears, was extended with laughter. As she
ran she took her teeth out one by one, replacing them with either hand.
And still she laughed, a silent laughter, her thin lips distorted as
though she mocked the world.

Tristrem, overcome by the horror of that laughter, felt as agonized as a
child pursued. There was a fence at hand, a vacant lot, and across it a
light glimmered. Away he sped. In the field his foot caught in a
bramble; he fell, and could not rise, but he heard her coming and, with
a great effort just as she was on him, he was up again, distancing her
with ever-increasing space. The light was just beyond. He saw now it
came from the tower; there was another fence, he was over it; the door
was barred; no, it opened; he was safe!

In the middle of the room, circular as befits a tower, was a cradle, and
in the cradle was a little boy. As Tristrem looked at him he smiled; it
was, he knew, the child of the man to whom he had spoken that evening.
One hand was under the pillow, but the other, that lay on the coverlid,
held Viola's hat. He bent over to examine it; the fingers that held it
were grimy and large, and, as he looked closer, he saw that it was not a
child, but the man himself. Before he had an opportunity to account for
the delusion he heard the gallop of feet and a thunder at the door. It
was she! He wheeled like a rat surprised. There was a lateral exit,
through which he fled, and presently he found himself in a corridor that
seemed endless in extension. The man evidently had left the cradle and
preceded him, for Tristrem saw him putting on a great-coat some distance
ahead. In his feverish fright he thought, could he but disguise himself
with that, he might pass out unobserved, and he ran on to supplicate for
an exchange of costume; but when he reached the place where the man had
stood he had gone, vanished through a dead wall, and down the corridor
he heard her come. He could hear her bare feet patter on the stones. Oh,
God, what did she wish of him? And no escape, not one. He was in her
power, immured with her forevermore. He called for help, and beat at the
walls, and ever nearer she came, swifter than disease, and more
appalling than death. His nails sank in his flesh, he raised a hand to
stay the beating of his heart, and then at once she was upon him,
