a State superintendent to control them. A committee of three of the
regents has special charge of the institutes. Thus the farmers are
brought into direct relation with the University, and while, as a
prospectus says, they are not actually non-resident students of the
University, they receive information and instruction directly from it.
The State appropriates twelve thousand dollars a year to this work,
which pays the salaries of Mr. W. H. Morrison, the superintendent, to
whose tact and energy the success of the institutes is largely due, and
his assistants, and enables him to pay the expenses of specialists
and agriculturists who can instruct the farmers and wisely direct the
discussions at the meetings. By reason of this complete organization,
which penetrates every part of the State, subjects of most advantage are
considered, and time is not wasted in merely amateur debates.

I know of no other State where a like system of popular instruction on
a vital and universal interest of the State, directed by the highest
educational authority, is so perfectly organized and carried on with
such unity of purpose and detail of administration; no other in which
the farmer is brought systematically into such direct relations to the
university. In the current year there have been held eighty-two
farmers’ institutes in forty-five counties. The list of practical topics
discussed is 279, and in this service have been engaged one hundred and
seven workers, thirty-one of whom are specialists from other States.
This is an “agricultural college,” on a grand scale, brought to the
homes of the people. The meetings are managed by local committees in
such a way as to evoke local pride, interest, and talent. I will
mention some of the topics that were thoroughly discussed at one of
the institutes: clover as a fertilizer; recuperative agriculture;
bee-keeping; taking care of the little things about the house and
farm; the education for farmers’ daughters; the whole economy of sheep
husbandry; egg production; poultry; the value of thought and application
in farming; horses to breed for the farm and market; breeding and
management of swine; mixed farming; grain-raising; assessment and
collection of taxes; does knowledge pay? (with illustrations of money
made by knowledge of the market); breeding and care of cattle, with
expert testimony as to the best sorts of cows; points in corn culture;
full discussion of small-fruit culture; butter-making as a line art; the
daily; our country roads; agricultural education. So, during the winter,
every topic that concerns the well-being of the home, the prolit of
the farm, the moral welfare of the people and their prosperity, was
intelligently discussed, with audiences fully awake to the value of this
practical and applied education. Some of the best of these discussions
are printed and widely distributed. Most of them are full of wise
details in the way of thrift and money-making, but I am glad to see that
the meetings also consider the truth that as much care should be given
to the rearing of boys and girls as of calves and colts, and that brains
are as necessary in farming as in any other occupation.

As these farmers’ institutes are conducted, I do not know any influence
comparable to them in waking up the farmers to think, to inquire into
new and improved methods, and to see in what real prosperity consists.
With prosperity, as a rule, the farmer and his family are conservative,
law-keeping, church-going, good citizens. The little appropriation of
twelve thousand dollars has already returned to the State a hundred-fold
financially and a thousand-fold in general intelligence.

I have spoken of the habit in Minnesota and Wisconsin of depending
mostly upon one crop—that of spring wheat—and the disasters from this
single reliance in bad years. Hard lessons are beginning to teach the
advantage of mixed farming and stockraising. In this change the farmers’
institutes of Wisconsin have been potent. As one observer says, “They
have produced a revolution in the mode of farming, raising crops, and
caring for stock.” The farmers have been enabled to protect themselves
against the effects of drought and other evils. Taking the advice of the
institute in 1886, the farmers planted 50,000 acres of ensilage corn,
which took the place of the short hay crop caused by the drought.
This provision saved thousands of dollars’ worth of stock in several
counties. From all over the State comes the testimony of farmers as to
the good results of the institute work, like this: “Several thousand
dollars’ worth of improved stock have been brought in. Creameries and
cheese-factories have been established and well supported. Farmers are
no longer raising grain exclusively as heretofore. Our hill-sides are
covered with clover. Our farmers are encouraged to labor anew. A new era
of prosperity in our State dates from the farmers’ institutes.”

There is abundant evidence that a revolution is going on in the farming
of Wisconsin, greatly assisted, if not inaugurated, by this systematic
popular instruction from the University as a centre. It may not greatly
interest the reader that the result of this will be greater agricultural
wealth in Wisconsin, but it does concern him that putting intelligence
into farming must inevitably raise the level of the home life and the
general civilization of Wisconsin. I have spoken of this centralized,
systematic effort in some detail because it seems more efficient than
the work of agricultural societies and sporadic institutes in other
States.

In another matter Wisconsin has taken a step in advance of other States;
that is, in the care of the insane. The State has about 2600 insane,
increasing at the rate of about 167 a year. The provisions in the State
for these are the State Hospital (capacity of 500), Northern Hospital
(capacity of 600), the Milwaukee Asylum (capacity of 255), and fifteen
county asylums for the chronic insane, including two nearly ready
(capacity 1220). The improvement in the care of the insane consists in
several particulars—the doing away of restraints, either by mechanical
appliances or by narcotics, reasonable separation of the chronic cases
from the others, increased liberty, and the substitution of wholesome
labor for idleness. Many of these changes have been brought about by the
establishment of county asylums, the feature of which I wish specially
to speak. The State asylums were crowded beyond their proper capacity,
classification was difficult in them, and a large number of the insane
were miserably housed in county jails and poor-houses. The evils of
great establishments were more and more apparent, and it was determined
to try the experiment of county asylums. These have now been in
operation for six years, and a word about their constitution and
perfectly successful operation may be of public service.

These asylums, which are only for the chronic insane, are managed by
local authorities, but under constant and close State supervision; this
last provision is absolutely essential, and no doubt accounts for the
success of the undertaking. It is not necessary here to enter into
details as to the construction of these buildings. They are of brick,
solid, plain, comfortable, and of a size to accommodate not less than
fifty nor more than one hundred inmates: an institution with less than
fifty is not economical; one with a larger number than one hundred is
unwieldy, and beyond the personal supervision of the superintendent. A
farm is needed for economy in maintenance and to furnish occupation for
the men; about four acres for each inmate is a fair allowance. The
land should be fertile, and adapted to a variety of crops as well as to
cattle, and it should have woodland to give occupation in the winter.
The fact is recognized that idleness is no better for an insane than
for a sane person. The house-work is all done by the women; the farm,
garden, and general out-door work by the men. Experience shows that
three-fourths of the chronic insane can be furnished occupation of
some sort, and greatly to their physical and moral well-being. The
nervousness incident always to restraint and idleness disappears with
liberty and occupation. Hence greater happiness and comfort to the
insane, and occasionally a complete or partial cure.

About one attendant to twenty insane persons is sufficient, but it is
necessary that these should have intelligence and tact; the men capable
of leading in farm-work, the women to instruct in house-work and
dress-making, and it is well if they can play some musical instrument
and direct in amusements. One of the most encouraging features of this
experiment in small asylums has been the discovery of so many efficient
superintendents and matrons among the intelligent farmers and business
men of the rural districts, who have the practical sagacity and
financial ability to carry on these institutions successfully.

These asylums are as open as a school; no locked doors (instead of
window-bars, the glass-frames are of iron painted white), no pens made
