
"It is snowing," the cousin remarked, inconsequently, and sat himself
down.

"Dr. Thorold, you know;" and Justine, turning to Mistrial, began to
relate one of those little anecdotes which are serviceable when
conversation drags.

As she ran on, Roland, apparently attentive, marked that one of
Thorold's feet was moving uneasily, and divined rather than saw that the
fingers of his hand were clinched. "He is working himself up," he
reflected. "Well, let him; it will make it the easier for me." And as he
told himself this he turned on Thorold a glance which he was prepared
to instantly divert. But the physician was not looking; he sat
bolt-upright, his eyes lowered, and about his mouth and forehead the
creases of a scowl.

Dr. Thorold was of that class of man that women always like and never
adore. He was thoughtful of others, and considerate. Physically he was
well-favored, and pleasant to the eye. He was sometimes dull, but rarely
selfish; by taste and training he was a scholar--gifted at that; and yet
through some accident of nature he lacked that one fibre which
differentiates the hero from the herd. In the way we live to-day the
need of heroes is so slight that the absence of that fibre is of no
moment at all--a circumstance which may account for the fact that
Justine admired him very much, trusted him entirely, and had she been
his sister instead of his cousin could not have appreciated him more.

And now, as Roland eyed him for one moment, through some of those
indetectable currents that bring trivialities to the mind that is most
deeply engrossed he noticed that though the physician was in dress the
shoes he wore were not veneered. Then at once he entered into a perfect
understanding of the circumstances in which he was placed. Though he
lost the game even as the cards were being dealt, at least he would lose
it well. "I'll teach him a lesson," he decided; and presently, as
Justine ceased speaking, he assumed his gayest air.

"Yes, yes," he exclaimed, and gave a twist to his light mustache. He had
caught her ultimate words, and with them a cue.

"Yes, I remember in Nepal--"

And thereupon he carried his listener through a series of scenes and
adventures which he made graphic by sheer dexterity in the use of words.
His speech, colored and fluent, was of exactly that order which must be
heard, not read. It was his intonation which gave it its charm, the
manner in which he eluded a detail that might have wearied; the
expression his face took on at the situations which he saw before
describing, and which he made his auditor expect; and also the surety of
his skill in transition--the art with which he would pass from one idea
to another, connect them both with a gesture, and complete the subject
with a smile. The raconteur is usually a bore. When he is not, he is a
wizard. And as Roland passed from one peak of the Himalayas to another,
over one of the two that listened he exerted a palpable spell. At last,
the end of his tether reached, he turned to the cousin, and, without a
hesitation intervening, asked of him, as though the question were one of
really personal interest, "Dr. Thorold, have you ever been in the East?"

Thorold, thrown off his guard, glared for an instant, the scowl still
manifest; then he stood up. "No, sir; I have not," he answered; and
each of the monosyllables of his reply he seemed to propel with tongue
and teeth. "Good-night, Justine." And with a nod that was rather small
for two to divide, took himself from the room.

He reached the porti√®re before Justine fully grasped the discourtesy of
his conduct. She stared after him wonderingly, her lips half parted, her
clear eyes dilated and amazed, the color mounted to her cheeks, and she
made as though to leave her seat.

But this Roland thought it wise to prevent. "Miss Dunellen," he
murmured, "I am afraid Dr. Thorold was bored. It is my fault. I had no
right--"

"Bored! How could he have been? I am sure I don't see--"

"Yes, you do, my dear," thought Roland; "you think he was jealous, and
you are wrong; but it is good for us that you should." And in memory of
the little compliment her speech had unintentionally conveyed he gave
another twist to his mustache.

The outer door closed with a jar that reached him where he sat. "Thank
God!" he muttered; and divining that if he now went away the girl would
regret his departure, after another word or two, and despite the
protestation of her manner, he bade her good-night.

It is one of the charms of our lovely climate that the temperature can
fall twenty degrees in as many minutes. When Roland entered the Dunellen
house he left spring in the street; when he came out again there was
snow. Across the way a lamp flickered, beneath it a man was standing,
from beyond came a faint noise of passing wheels, but the chance of
rescue by cab or hansom was too remote for anyone but a foreigner to
entertain. Roland had omitted to provide himself with any protection
against a storm, yet that omission affected him but little. He had too
many things to think of to be anxious about his hat; and, his hands in
his pocket, his head lowered, he descended the steps, prepared to let
the snow do its worst.

As he reached the pavement the man at the lamp-post crossed the street.

"Mistrial," he called, for Roland was hurrying on--"Mistrial, I want a
word with you."

In a moment he was at his side, and simultaneously Roland recognized the
cousin. He was buttoned up in a loose coat faced with fur, and over his
head he held an umbrella. He seemed a little out of breath.

"If," he began at once, "if I hear that you ever presume to so much as
speak to Miss Dunellen again, I will break every bone in your body."

The voice in which he made this threat was gruff and aggressive. As he
delivered it, he closed his umbrella and swung it like a club.

"A nous deux, maintenant," mused Roland.

"And not only that--if you ever dare to enter that house again I will
expose you."

"Oh, will you, though?" answered Roland. The tone he assumed was
affectedly civil. "Well now, my fat friend, let me tell you this: I
intend to enter that house, as you call it, to-morrow at precisely five
o'clock. Let me pick you up on the way, and we can go together."

"Roland Mistrial, as sure as there is a God in heaven I will have you in
the Tombs."

"See here, put up your umbrella. You are not in a condition to expose
yourself--let alone anyone else. You are daft, Thorold--that is what is
the matter with you. If you persist in chattering Tombs at me in a
snow-storm I will answer Bloomingdale to you. You frightened me once, I
admit; but I am ten years older now, and ten years less easily scared.
Besides, what drivel you talk! You haven't that much to go on."

As Roland spoke his accent changed from affected suavity to open scorn.
"Now stop your bluster," he continued, "and listen to me. Because you
happen to find me in there, you think I have intentions on the
heiress--"

"It's a lie! She--"

"There, don't be abusive. I know you want her for yourself, and I hope
