wasted, though the gun of the Ocklockonee had done little better so far
as could be seen. The three vessels were not much more than half a mile
from each other, and the enemy had begun to use his broadside guns.

"Good!" shouted Mr. Amblen suddenly after the gunner had just let off
the great gun. "That shot overturned the midship piece of the Arran.
Ambleton has fully redeemed himself." The announcement of the effect of
this last shot sent up a volley of cheers from the crew.

The Bronx and her consort had set the American flag at the beginning of
the action, and the Confederate had promptly displayed her ensign, as
though she scorned to go into action without having it fully understood
what she was. She did not claim to be a blockade runner, and do her best
to escape, but "faced the music," even when she realized that she had
two enemies instead of one.

Christy had evidently inherited some of the naval blood on his mother's
side, and he was not satisfied with the slow progress of the action, for
the shots from the broadside guns of the enemy were beginning to tell
upon the Bronx, though she had received no serious injury. He caused the
signal to prepare to board to be set as agreed upon with Captain Flint.
The orders already given were to be carried out, and both vessels bore
down on the Arran with all speed.




CHAPTER XIX

ON THE DECK OF THE ARRAN


Captain Passford had carried out the programme agreed upon with Captain
Flint, and the latter had been working to the southward since the Bronx
came into the action, and as soon as the order to get ready to board
was given, the Ocklockonee went ahead at full speed, headed in that
direction. She had reached a position dead ahead of the Arran, so that
she no longer suffered from the shots of the latter's broadside guns,
and the Bronx was getting the entire benefit of them.

Both vessels had kept up a full head of steam, and the coal passers
were kept very busy at just this time. The Arran's midship gun had been
disabled so that she could not make any very telling shots, but her crew
had succeeded in righting her funnel, which had not gone entirely over,
but had been held by the stays. Yet it could be seen that there was a
big opening near the deck, for the smoke did not all pass through the
smokestack.

The broadside guns of the Arran were well served, and they were doing
considerable mischief on board of the Bronx. Christy was obliged to hold
back until her consort was in position to board the Arran on the port
hand, and he manoeuvred the steamer so as to receive as little damage
as possible from her guns. He was to board on the starboard hand of the
enemy, and he was working nearer to her all the time. Mr. Ambleton the
gunner had greatly improved his practice, and the commander was obliged
to check his enthusiasm, or there would have been nothing left of the
Arran in half an hour more. Christy considered the final result as fully
assured, for he did not believe the present enemy was any more heavily
manned than her consort had been, and he could throw double her force
upon her deck as soon as the two steamers were in position to do so.

"Are you doing all you can in the engine room, Mr. Sampson?" asked
Christy, pausing at the engine hatch.

"Everything, Captain Passford, and I think we must be making sixteen
knots," replied the chief engineer.

"Is Mr. Bockburn on duty?"

"He is, sir; and if he were a Connecticut Yankee he could not do any
better, or appear to be any more interested."

"He seems to be entirely impartial; all he wants is his pay, and he is
as willing to be on one side as the other if he only gets it," said
Christy. "Has any damage been done to the engine?"

"None at all, sir; a shot from one of those broadside guns went through
the side, and passed just over the top of one of the boilers," replied
the engineer. "Bockburn plugged the shot hole very skilfully, and said
it would not be possible for a shot to come in low enough to hit the
boilers. He knows all about the other two vessels, and has served as an
engineer on board of the Arran on the other side of the Atlantic."

Just at that moment a shot from the Arran struck the bridge and a
splinter from the structure knocked two men over. One of them picked
himself up, but said he was not much hurt, and refused to be sent below.
The other man was Veering; he seemed to be unable to get up, and was
carried down by order of the boatswain. This man was one of the
adherents of Hungerford and Pawcett, though so far he had been of no
service to them.

Christy hastened forward to ascertain the extent of the damage done to
the bridge. It was completely wrecked, and was no longer in condition to
be occupied by an officer. But the pilot house was still in serviceable
repair, and the quartermaster had not been disturbed. By this time, the
Ocklockonee had obtained a position on the port bow of the Arran, and
the commander directed the quartermaster at the wheel to run directly
for the other side of the enemy.

The time for decisive and final action had come. Mr. Baskirk placed
the boarders in position to be thrown on board of the Arran. He was
to command the first division himself, and Mr. Amblen the second. The
Ocklockonee was rushing at all the speed she could command to the work
before her.

  [Illustration: The captain of the Arran.]

For some reason not apparent the Arran had stopped her screw, though she
had kept in motion till now, doing her best to secure the most favorable
position for action. Possibly her commander believed a collision between
the vessels at a high rate of speed would be more fatal to him than
anything that could result from being boarded. It was soon discovered
that she was backing, and it was evident then that her captain had some
manoeuvre of his own in mind, though it was possible that he was only
doing something to counteract the effect of a collision. Doubtless he
thought the two vessels approaching him at such a rapid rate intended to
crush the Arran between them, and that they desired only to sink him.

He was not allowed many minutes more to carry out his policy, whatever
it was, for the Ocklockonee came up alongside of the Arran, the grapnels
were thrown out, and the whole boarding force of the steamer was hurled
upon her decks. But the commander was a plucky man, however he regarded
the chances for or against him, and his crew proceeded vigorously to
repel boarders. Christy had timed the movements of the Bronx very
carefully, and the Ocklockonee had hardly fastened to the Arran on
one side before he had his steamer grappled on the other.

"Boarders, away!" he shouted at the top of his lungs, and flourishing
his sword over his head, not however with the intention of going into
the fight himself, but as a demonstration to inspire the men.

Baskirk and Amblen rushed forward with cutlasses in their hands, leaping
upon the deck of the enemy. The crew was found to equal in numbers about
the force that the Ocklockonee had brought to bear upon them. The
boarders from the Bronx attacked them in the rear while they were fully
occupied with the boarders in front of them. The officers of the enemy
behaved with distinguished gallantry, and urged their men forward with
the most desperate enthusiasm. They struck hard blows, and several of
the boarders belonging to the consort had fallen, to say nothing of
wounds that did not entirely disable others. Some of the men belonging
