amuse myself."

"Did you succeed?" asked Ghisleri, trying hard to speak cheerfully.
There had been something hopeless in Maddalena's tone which shocked him
and pained him.

"More or less. Why do you ask me that?"

"Because I am interested."

"Do you care for me in the least--in any way?" she asked abruptly.

"You know that I do--"

"How should I know it?"

Ghisleri did not reply at once, for the question was not easily
answered. Maddalena waited in silence until he should speak.

"Perhaps you are right," he said at last. "You have no means of knowing
it, and I have no means of proving it. Dearest lady, since we have both
changed so much, do you not think you could believe a little in my
friendship?"

"We ought to be friends--you should be my best friend."

"I mean to be, if you will let me."

A long silence followed. Maddalena sat quite still, leaning back in a
corner of the sofa and looking at a picture on the opposite wall.
Ghisleri sat upright on a chair at a little distance from her.

"You say that you will be my friend, if I will let you," she said
slowly, after several minutes. "Even if you could imagine that I could
not wish it, you ought to be my best friend just the same. If I made you
suffer every hour of the day as I did on that last night, you ought to
bear it, and never have one unkind thought of me. No; do not answer me
yet: I have much more to say. You know that I have always told you just
what I have felt, when I have told you anything about myself. I was
very unhappy when we met at that ball--or, rather, when we parted--so
unhappy that I hardly knew what I said. I ought to have waited and
thought before I spoke. If I could have guessed that you were to be
wounded--well, it is of no use now. I am very, very fond of you. In
spite of everything, if you felt the least love for me still, however
little, I would say, 'Let us be as we were, as long as it can last.' As
it is--"

She paused and looked at him. He knew what she meant. If there were a
spark of love, she would forget everything and take him back on any
terms. For a moment the old struggle was violently resumed in his heart.
Ought he not, for her sake, to pretend love, and to live out his life as
best he could in the letter of devotion if not in the true spirit of
love? Or would not such an attempt necessarily be a failure, and bring
her more and more unhappiness with each month and year? He only
hesitated for an instant while she paused; then he determined to say
nothing. That was really the turning-point in Pietro Ghisleri's life.

"As it is," continued Maddalena, a little unsteadily, but with a brave
effort, "nothing but friendship is possible. Let it at least be a true
and honest friendship which neither of us need be ashamed of. Let all
the world see it. Go your way, and I will go mine, so far as the rest is
concerned. If you love Lady Herbert, marry her, if she will have you,
when her mourning is over."

"I do not love Lady Herbert at all," said Ghisleri with perfect truth.

"Well--if you should, or any other woman. Let the world say what it
will, it cannot invent anything worse than it has said of me already.
You owe me nothing--nothing but that,--to be a true friend to me always,
as I will be to you as long as I live."

She put out her hand, and he took it and pressed it. As she felt his,
the bright tears started to her eyes.

"What is it?" he asked tenderly, bending towards her as he spoke.

"Nothing," she answered hastily. "Your hand is so thin--how foolish of
me! I suppose you will grow to be as strong as ever?"

He saw how she still loved him, in spite of all. It was not too late
even now to renew the comedy, but his resolution had grown strong and
unalterable in a few moments.

"You are much too good to me," he said softly. "I have not deserved
it--but I will try to."

"Do not let us speak of all this any more for the present," she replied.
"Since we are friends, let us talk of other things, as friends do."

It was not easy, but Ghisleri did his best, feeling that the effort must
be made sooner or later and had therefore best be made at once. He kept
up the conversation for nearly half an hour, and then rose to go.

"Are you not very tired?" asked Maddalena, anxiously.

"Not at all. I am much stronger than I look."

"Indeed I hope you are!" she answered, looking at him sadly. "Good-bye.
Come soon again."

"Yes, I will come very soon."

Ghisleri went out and had himself driven about the city for an hour in
the bright spring weather. It was all new to him now, and he looked at
people and things with a sort of interest he had long forgotten to feel.
A few of his acquaintances recognised him at once, and waved their hats
to him if they chanced to be men, or made pretty gestures with their
hands if they were women. But the greater number did not know him at
first, and stared after the death-like face and the gaunt figure wrapped
in a fur coat that had grown far too wide.

He was very glad that the first meeting with Maddalena was over, for he
had looked forward to it with considerable anxiety. Something like what
had actually been said about friendship had been inevitable, as he now
saw, but he had not realised how much he was still loved, nor that
Maddalena could so far humiliate herself as to show that she cared for
him still, and to offer a renewal of their old relations. Even now,
could he have seen her pale and tear-stained face as she sat motionless
in the place where he had left her, he might possibly have been weak
enough to yield, strong as his determination was not to do so. But that
sight was spared him, and he was glad that he had held his peace when
she had paused to give him an opportunity of speaking. It was far better
so. To act a miserable play with her, no matter from what so-called
honourable motive of consideration, would be to make her life far more
unhappy than it would ultimately be if she knew the truth. He was
satisfied with what he had done, therefore, when he went back to his
rooms and lay down to rest after the fatigue of his first day out. But
the meeting had left a very sad and painful impression, and all that he
felt of remorse and regret for what he had done was doubled now. He
hated to think that by his fault she was cast upon the world, with
little left to save her, "trying to amuse herself," as she had said, and
he wondered at her gentleness and kindness to himself, so different from
her behaviour at their last meeting. That, at least, comforted him. In a
woman who could thus forgive there must be depths of goodness which
would ultimately come to the surface. He remembered how often he had
thought her hard, unjust, unkind, and, above all, unbelieving, in the
days that succeeded the first outbursts of unreasoning love, and how,
even while loving her, he had not always found it easy not to judge her
harshly. She was very different now. Possibly, since she felt that she
had lost her old power over him, she would be less impatient with him
