"You told me that you would have plenty of money by this time, Mr.
Talbot."

"I expected it, but a man can't foresee the fluctuations of Wall street.
I am afraid I shall meet with a loss."

"I don't believe you are as smart as Sam Eustis--he's engaged to my
cousin. He made ten thousand dollars last month on Lake Shore."

"It's the fools that blunder into luck," said Talbot, irritated.

"Then you'd better turn fool; it seems to pay," said Virginia, rather
sharply.

"No need of that--I'm fool enough already," said Talbot, bitterly.

"Oh, well, if you've only come here to make yourself disagreeable, I'm
sure you'd better stay away," said the young lady, tossing her head.

"I came here expecting sympathy and encouragement," said Talbot.
"Instead, you receive me with taunts and coldness."

"You are unreasonable, Mr. Talbot," said Virginia. "I will be cheerful
and pleasant when you bring me agreeable news."

"Oh, Virginia!" exclaimed Talbot, impulsively. "Why will you require
impossibilities of me? Take me as I am. I have an income of two thousand
dollars a year. We can live comfortably on that, and be happy in a snug
little home."

"Snug little home!" repeated the young lady, scornfully. "Thank you; I'd
rather not. I know just what that means. It means that I am to be a
household drudge, afraid to spend an extra sixpence--perhaps obliged to
take lodgers, like my aunt."

"Not so bad as that, Virginia."

"It would come to that in time."

"I am sure you cannot love me when you so coolly give me up for money."

"I haven't given you up, but I want you to get money."

"Would to Heaven I could!"

"You could if you were in earnest."

"Do you doubt that?"

"Where there's a will, there's a way, Mr. Talbot. If you really care so
much for me, you will try to support me as I want to live."

"Tell me, in a word, what you want."

"Well," said Virginia, slowly, "I want to go to Europe for my
honey-moon. I've heard so much of Paris, I know I should like it ever
so much. Then I want to live respectably when I get back."

"What do you call living respectably?" asked Talbot.

"Well, we must have a nice little house to ourselves, and I think, just
at first, I could get along with three servants; and I should want to go
to the opera, and the theater, and to concerts."

"You have not been accustomed to live in that way, Virginia."

"No; and that's why I have made up my mind not to marry unless my
husband can gratify me."

"Suppose this is impossible?"

"Impossible for you!" said Miss Conway, significantly.

"You mean you will look elsewhere?" said Talbot, hastily.

"Yes, I think so," said Virginia, coolly.

"And you would desert me for a richer suitor?" he demanded, quickly.

"Of course I would rather marry you--you know that," said Virginia, with
perfect self-possession; "but if you can't meet my conditions, perhaps
it is better that we should part."

"You are cruel--heartless!" exclaimed Talbot, angrily.

"No; only sensible," she returned, calmly. "I don't mean to marry you
and be unhappy all my life; and I can't be happy living in the stuffy
way my aunt does. We should both be sorry for such a marriage when it
was too late."

"I will take the risk, Virginia," said Talbot, fixing his eyes with
passionate love on the cold-hearted girl.

"But I will not," said Virginia, decidedly. "I am sure you needn't take
it to heart, Mr. Talbot. Why don't you exert yourself and win a fortune,
as other people do? I am sure plenty of money is made in Wall street."

"And lost."

"Not if you are smart. Come now, smooth your face, and tell me you will
try," she said, coaxingly.

"Yes, Virginia, I will try," he answered, his face clearing. "And if I
try----"

"You will succeed," she said, smiling.

"Well, I hope I may."

"And now don't let us talk about disagreeable things. Do you know, sir,
it is a week since you took me to any place of amusement? And here I
have been moping at home every evening with my aunt, who is terribly
tiresome, poor old soul!"

"I would rather spend the evening here with you, Virginia, than go to
any place of amusement."

"Then I can't agree with you. One gets tired of spooning."

"I don't--if you call by that name being in the company of one you
love."

"You would, if you had as little variety as I have."

"Tell me one thing, Virginia--you love me, don't you?" asked Talbot, in
whose mind sometimes there rose an unpleasant suspicion that his love
was not returned.

"Why, of course I do, you foolish man," she said, carelessly. "And now,
where are you going to take me?"

"Where do you want to go, my darling?"

"To the Italian opera. To-morrow they play 'The Huguenots.'"

"I thought you didn't care for music, Virginia?"

"I don't go for that. I want to go because it's fashionable, and I want
to be seen. So, be a good boy, and get some nice seats for to-morrow
evening."
