
                            OPERATIC TRAGEDY.


                            NOTE TO BIANCA.


The peculiarity of this opera was that while the words were committed to
memory, the music was composed and sung as the scene proceeded.

In spite of its absurdity, this play was a great favorite; for Jo was
truly superb as the hapless Bianca, while her trills and tragic agonies
were considered worthy of the famous Grisi herself.


                              CHARACTERS.


    Adelbert   .   .   .   .   .   .    Betrothed to Bianca.

    Huon   .   .   .   .   .   .   .    His Rival.

    Juan   .   .   .   .   .   .   .    A Page.

    Bianca .   .   .   .   .   .   .    A Spanish Lady.

    Hilda  .   .   .   .   .   .   .    A Witch.


                                BIANCA.

                           OPERATIC TRAGEDY.

                              SCENE FIRST.

                               [A wood.
                             Enter Huon.]

Huon. Hist! All is still. They are not yet here. On this spot will the
happy lovers meet. O wretched Huon! she whom thou so passionately doth
love will here speak tender words to thy thrice hated rival. Yet I,
unseen, will watch them, and ere long my fierce revenge shall change
their joy to deepest woe. Hark! they come! Now, jealous heart, be still!
[Hides among the trees.]

                                        [Enter Bianca and Adelbert.

Adel. Nay, dearest love, fear not; no mortal eye beholds us now, and yon
bright moon looks kindly down upon our love.

                              [They seat themselves beneath the trees.

Bianca. Ah, dearest Adelbert, with thee I feel no fear, but thy fierce
rival Huon did vow vengeance on thee, for I did reject his suit for
thine. Beware! for his wild heart can feel no pity, tenderness, or love.

Adel. I fear him not. Ere long thou wilt be mine, and then in our fair
home we will forget all but our love. Think not, dearest, of that dark,
revengeful man; he does not truly love thee.

Bianca. Near thee I cannot fear; but when thou art far from me, my fond
heart will ever dread some danger for thee. Ah, see the moon is waning;
dear love, thou must away.

Adel. Ah, sweet moments, why so quickly fled? 'Tis hard to leave thee,
thou bright star in my life's sky, and yet I must, or all may be
betrayed. Fare thee well, dear love. One sweet kiss ere we part! [They
embrace.]

Bianca. Farewell! Ah, when shall I again behold thee? Oh, be not long
away, for like a caged bird I pine for thee.

Adel. When next yon moon doth rise beneath thy lattice, thou shalt hear
my light guitar.

Bianca. Fail not to come. I shall watch for thee the live-long night,
and if thou comest not, this fond heart will grieve.

Both. Farewell, till yon bright moon doth rise,
      Farewell, dear love, farewell!
      Farewell, farewell, farewell!
      Farewell, dear love, farewell!

                                                       [Exit Adelbert.

Bianca. Ah, love, thou magic power, thus ever make my breast thy home.
Adieu, dear spot! I fly to happiness and--

Huon. Me--[Bianca shrieks, and seeks to fly. Huon detains her.]

Bianca. Unmanly villain, touch me not. What dost thou here concealed?

Huon. I listen to thy lover's fond and heartless vows. What is his love
to mine? Ah, lady, he loves thee for thy wealth alone. Again I ask, nay,
I implore thee to be mine! Oh, grant me now my prayer!

Bianca. Never! never! I will not listen to thee more. My heart is all
another's; my hatred and contempt are thine.

                                                         [Exit Bianca.

Huon. Now, by yon moon 'neath which thy tender vows were plighted, do I
swear to win thee, proud and haughty lady, to these arms. Thou shalt
curse the day when thou didst cast away my love, and wake my deep
revenge.

                                                           [Exit Huon.

                                CURTAIN.


                             SCENE SECOND.

            [A cave in the forest. Hilda leaning over a
                     boiling caldron. Enter Huon.]

Hilda. Ha! who art thou, and what wouldst thou with old Hilda? Speak,
and be obeyed.

Huon. O mighty wizard, I have sought thee for a charm to win a proud and
scornful woman's love,--some mystic potion that shall make her cold
heart burn for me. Ah, give me this, and gold uncounted shall be thine.

Hilda. I will give to thee a draught that shall chase her coldness and
her pride away, and make the heart now beating for another all thine
own. Hold! 'tis here,--three crimson drops when mingled in her wine,
will bring the boon thou askest [gives Huon a tiny phial].

Huon. Oh, blessed draught that wins for me the love I seek. Proud
Bianca, now art thou in my power, and shalt ere long return the love of
the once hated and despised Huon. Great sorceress, say how can I repay
thee? Fear not to claim thy just reward.

Hilda. I ask no gold. But when thy prize is won, remember thou old
Hilda's warning. Woman's heart is a fragile thing, and they who trifle
with it should beware. Now go; I would be alone.

Huon. Farewell! When my love and my revenge are won, I'll bless this
hour and Hilda's charm.

