speak. “He distinctly said he gave the picture to uncle Robert. I was
there when he brought it. Isn’t that just like them--coming to get what
they can when he’s hardly dead!”

“Yes--but what shall we do?”

“I don’t care. He’ll give it to Hester, as he meant to do at first. Let
him take it.”

Mrs. Lauderdale went to the door again.

“Let Mr. Crowdie have his picture, Leek. I’ll be responsible.”

“Very good, madam.”




CHAPTER XV.


The death of Robert Lauderdale was the news of the day, and produced a
profound impression everywhere. Even the city put on, here and there, an
outward token of mourning, for on every building of the many which had
belonged to him, the flag, if it were flying, was half-masted. New York
is a city of many flags, and the eye is accustomed to attach meaning to
their position.

And people spoke with respect of the dead man, which rarely happens when
the very rich are suddenly gone. He had done well with his money, and
every one said so. He had been more charitable than many had guessed
until those who had been helped by him began to bemoan their loss.
Stories went about of his having known, personally and by name, such men
as the conductors on the Elevated Road, and of his having visited them
in their homes--them and many others. His death made no difference to
any one in Wall Street, and every one in Wall Street was therefore
prepared to praise him.

Forthwith began the speculation and gossip in regard to the will. John
Ralston heard much of it, and he observed a curious tendency amongst
the men at the bank to treat him with greater deference than usual.

The Ralstons had been informed of the final catastrophe early in the
morning. John had immediately gone to Robert Lauderdale’s house, rather
to enquire about Katharine’s condition than for any other purpose, and
had thence proceeded down town. There was no reason why he should not go
to the bank as usual, he thought. The dead man had only been his
great-uncle, and he had determined to make Mr. Beman change his mind,
and to counteract the influence of Alexander Junior. The best way to do
this was to go to work as though nothing had happened. Before he had
been half an hour at his desk, his friend Hamilton Bright, the junior
partner in the firm, came up to him.

Hamilton Bright was a sturdy, heavily built man, five and thirty years
of age, with a prosperous air--what bankers call ‘a lucky face.’ He was
fair as a Saxon, pink and white of complexion, with clear, honest eyes,
and quiet, resolute features. In his early youth he had gone to the
West, and driven cattle in the Nacimiento Valley, had made some
fortunate investments with the small fortune he had inherited, had
returned to New York, gone into Beman Brothers’ bank, and in the course
of a few years had been taken into the partnership. He was an extremely
normal man. His only peculiarity was a sort of almost fatherly
attachment to John Ralston, about which he did not reason. The shadow in
his life was his love for Katharine Lauderdale, of which, for John’s
sake, he had never spoken, but which he was quite unable to conceal.

He came to John’s desk and spoke to him in a low voice.

“I say, Jack,” he began, “is it true that cousin Katharine has broken
her arm?”

“Yes,” answered Ralston, bending his black brows. “How did you hear it?”

“It’s got about and into the papers. There’s a paragraph about it. They
say she fell downstairs.”

“Some servant told, I suppose, and got a dollar for the item. It’s the
small bone of her right arm--she was staying with poor uncle Robert, and
she had a fall--somehow,” added Ralston, vaguely. “She must have been
there when he died. It was awfully sudden at the end. I saw him
yesterday afternoon. He seemed pretty strong. I went this morning to
enquire about cousin Katharine--they say he died very peacefully.
Failure of the heart, you know.”

Bright nodded thoughtfully, as he leaned one elbow upon Ralston’s desk.

“What sort of a will is it going to turn out?” he asked, after a
moment’s pause.

“I haven’t the slightest idea,” answered John, with perfect truth.

“It would be a good thing for you if he had died intestate. Your mother
and old Alexander are the next of kin. They’d get something in the
neighbourhood of thirty or forty millions apiece. You’d give up
clerking, Jack.”

“I don’t know, I’m sure. If I were ever to have much money, a year in a
bank wouldn’t do me any harm. But I’m not likely to stay here. Cousin
Alexander’s a good enemy to me. He’s been telling Mr. Beman that I
drink, and that sort of thing, and Mr. Beman has requested me to leave
on the first of the month.”

“You don’t mean that?” Hamilton Bright’s fair Saxon face reddened in
sudden anger for his friend.

“Of course I do.”

Ralston told him exactly what had happened, and by the time he had
finished, Alexander Lauderdale Junior had another enemy, and a dangerous
one. Had Bright known all, and especially that Katharine owed her broken
arm to her father’s violence, something unexpected might have happened.
Bright had for Katharine all the Quixotic devotion which a pure and
totally unrequited love can inspire in a perfectly simple disposition,
which has been brought into rather close contact with the uncompromising
code of such a region as the Nacimiento Valley.

“And you wish to stay in the bank?” asked Bright, quietly, at last.

“Yes. And you know very well, Ham, that I’m not as bad as I used to be.
I’m going to have a talk with Mr. Beman to-day.”

“Don’t you bother,” answered Bright. “I’ll talk to him--now.”

Hamilton Bright’s broad shoulders swung round, and he went straight to
the senior partner’s room. Mr. Beman was in his usual seat at his huge
desk.

“I want to speak to you about Ralston, Mr. Beman,” he said, briefly,
laying one of his broad hands upon the shelf of the desk. “You’ve told
him to go on the first of the month, because Mr. Alexander Lauderdale
informed you that he drank.”

“Yes,” answered Mr. Beman, “I have, though I don’t know how you heard
that it was through Mr. Lauderdale.”

“Well--it’s a fact, or Ralston wouldn’t have said so, in the first
place, and I see you admit it. But there isn’t a word of truth in the
story. Ralston gave up wine altogether last winter.”

“Do you mean to say that Mr. Lauderdale has told me--a deliberate
