made another effort.

“Bess was my poor little hurted sister. I didn’t ever have no other
one.”

“Don’t you want to tell me about her? I should so like to hear. How did
she get hurt?”

Virginia Deering had of late been taking lessons in divine as well as
human sympathy. She was willing to begin at the foundation with the
least of these.

Dil looked across the sunny field to the shaded, waving woods. There had
never been any one to whom she could tell all of Bess’s story. Mrs.
Brian, tender and kindly, had not understood. A helpless feeling came
over her.

“I wonder if she loved roses? Did she ever have any?” Miss Deering laid
her finger on those in Dil’s hand, then felt under and clasped the hand
itself.

Dil was suddenly roused. The grave face seemed transfigured. Where had
she seen it—under far different auspices?

“She had some wild roses wunst. Oh, do you know what wild roses is? I
looked in the woods for some yest’day.”

Wild roses! She had set herself to bear her lot, bruised and wrecked in
an evil moment, with all the bravery of true repentance.

“Yes,” in a soft, constrained tone. “I have always loved them. And last
summer where I was staying there were hundreds of them.”

“Oh,” cried Dil eagerly, “that was jest what he said. It was clear
away to las’ summer. Patsey was up to Grand Cent’l deepo’. He carried
bags an’ such. An’ a beautiful young lady gev him a great bunch. Casey
made a grab fer thim, but Patsey snatched, an’ he’s strongest, ’n’ he
gev it to Casey good till a cop come, ’n’ then he run all the way to
Barker’s Court an’ brought thim to Bess an’ me.”

“A great bunch of wild roses! Oh, then I know something about Patsey. It
was one day in August. And—and I had the roses.”

Dil’s face was a rare study. Virginia Deering bent over and kissed it.
Then the ice of strangeness was broken, and they were friends.

This was Patsey’s “stunner.” She was very sweet and lovely, with pink
cheeks, and teeth like pearls. Dil looked into the large, serious eyes,
and her heart warmed until she gave a soft, glad, trusting laugh.

“Patsey’ll be so glad to have me find you! They were the beautifullest
things, withered up some, but so sweet. Me an’ Bess hadn’t never seen
any; an’ I put them in a bowl of water, an’ all the baby buds come out,
an’ they made Bess so glad she could a-danced if she’d been well, ’cause
she used to ’fore she was hurted, when the hand-organs come. They was on
the winder-sill by where she slept, an’ every day we’d take out the poor
dead ones. ’N’ there was jes’ a few Sat’day when we went up to the
Square an’ met the man. ’N’ I allers had to wheel Bess, ’cause she
couldn’t walk.”

“What hurt her?”

“Well—pappy did. He was dreadful that night along a-drinkin’, an’ he
slammed her against the wall, an’ her poor little hurted legs never grew
any more. An’ the man said jes’ the same as you,—that he’d been stayin’
where there was hundreds of thim, an’ he made the beautifullest picture
of Bess—she was pritty as an angel.”

Miss Deering’s eyes fell on the little trail of freckles across Dil’s
nose. They were very small, but quite distinct on the waxen, pale skin.

“And he painted a picture of you! He put you in that wild-rose dell. I
know now. I thought I must have seen your face.”

Dil looked almost stupidly amazed.

“Bess was so much prittier,” she said simply. “Do you know ’bout him?
He went away ever so far, crost the ’Lantic Oshun. But he said he’d come
back in the spring.”

She lifted her grave, perplexed eyes to a face whose wavering tints were
struggling with keen emotion.

“He couldn’t come back in the spring. He went abroad with a cousin who
loved him very much, who was ill, and hoped to get well; but he grew
worse and weaker, and died only a little while ago. And Mr. Travis came
in on Monday, I think.”

Her voice trembled a little.

“Oh, I knew he would come!” The glad cry was electrifying.

And she, this little being, one among the waifs of a big city, had
looked for him, had a right to look for him.

“He ain’t the kind to tell what he don’t mean. Bess was so sure. An’ I
want to ast him so many things I can’t get straight by myself. I ain’t
smart like Bess was, an’ we was goin’ to heaven when he come back; he
said he’d go with us. An’ now Bess is dead.”

“My dear little girl,” Virginia held her close, and kissed the cool,
waxen cheek, the pale lips, “will you tell me all the story, and about
going to heaven?”

It was an easy confidence now. She told the plans so simply, with that
wonderful directness one rarely finds outside of Bible narratives. Her
own share in the small series of tragedies was related with no
consciousness that it had been heroic. Virginia could see the Square on
the Saturday afternoon, and Bess in her wagon, when she “ast Mr. Travis
to go to heaven with them.” And the other time—the singing. Ah, she well
knew the beauty and pathos of the voice. How they had hoped and
planned—and that last sad night, with its remembrance of wild roses.
Dil’s voice broke now and then, and she made little heart-touching
pauses; but Virginia was crying softly, moved from the depths of her
soul. And Dil’s wonderful faith that she could have brought Bess back to
life bordered on the sublime.

“Oh, my dear,” and Virginia’s voice trembled with tenderness, “you need
never doubt. Bess is in heaven.”

“No,” returned Dil, with a curious certainty in her tone, “she ain’t
quite gone, ’cause I’ve seen her. We all went up to Cent’l Park, Sunday
week ago. I was all alone, the boys goin’ off walkin’, an’ me bein’
tired. I wanted her so much, I called to her; an’ she come, all
beautiful an’ well, like his picture of her. I c’n talk to her, but
she can’t answer. There’s a little ketch in it I can’t get straight, not
bein’ smart like to understand. But she’s jes’ waitin’ somewheres, ’n’
he kin tell me how it is. You see, Bess wouldn’t go to heaven ’thout me,
an’ he would know just where she is. For she couldn’t get crost the
river ’n’ up the pallis steps ’les I had hold of her hand. For she never
had any one to love her so, ’n’ she wouldn’t go back on me for a whole
world.”

Miss Deering could readily believe that. But, oh, what should she say to
this wonderful faith? Had it puzzled John Travis as well?

“And who sent you here?” she asked, to break the tense strain.

Dil told of the fainting spell, and Mrs. Wilson and Miss Lawrence, who
had been so good.
