all mean?"

"Simply beauty."

"Beauty without mind, then."

"A picture does not need mind. But, to be worth anything, beauty it must
have."

"I don't know; a picture is a sort of companion. One of those pictures
would not be that; you might as well have a beautiful idiot."

"Ah, but a picture is silent," replied Blake.

Claudia laughed. "You are incorrigible." Then, going back to her first
subject, "I wish Mrs. Lenox would come here more," she said.

"You think she needs this enriching process you have suggested?"

"In one way--yes. All this beauty here in Venice is so much to her
husband; while she--is forever with that child!"

"But she does not keep him from the beauty."

"No; but she might make it so much more to him if she would."

"Why don't you suggest it to her?"

"There is no use. She does not understand me, I think. We speak a
different language."

"That may be. But I fancy she understands you."

"Perhaps she does," answered Claudia, with the untroubled frankness
which was one of her noticeable traits. She spoke as though she thought,
indeed, that Claudia Marcy's nature was a thing which Mrs. Lenox, or any
one, might observe. Claudia rather admired her nature. It was not
perfect, of course, but at least it was large in its boundaries, and
above the usual feminine pettinesses; she felt a calm pride in that. She
was silent for a while. The first sunset ray had now been joined by
others, and together they had lighted up one-half of the choir-dome; its
gold was all awake and glistening superbly, and the great mosaic figure
enthroned there began to glow with a solemn, mysterious life.

"Men should not marry until they are at least thirty, I think," resumed
Claudia; "and especially those of the imaginative or artistic
temperament. Three-quarters of the incongruous marriages one sees were
made when the husband was very young. It is not the wife's fault; at the
time of the marriage she is generally the superior, the generous one;
the benefit is conferred by her. But--she does not advance, and he
does."

"What would you propose in the way of--of an amelioration?" asked her
listener.

"There can, of course, be no amelioration in actual cases. But there
might be a prevention. I think that a law could be passed--such as now
exists, for instance, against the marriage of minors. If a man could not
marry until he was thirty or older, he would at that time naturally
select a wife who was ten years or so his junior rather than one of his
own age."

"And the women of thirty?"

"They would be already married to the men of fifty, you know."

Here a figure emerging from the heavy red-brown shadows of the north
aisle, and seeming to bring some of them with it, as it advanced,
crossed the billowy pavement, and stopped before them. It was Mr. Lenox.
He took a seat on the other side of Blake, and they talked for a while
of the way the chocolate-hued walls met the gold of the domes solidly,
without shading, and of the total absence of white--two of the marked
features of the rich interior of the old pirate cathedral. At length
Blake rose, giving up his place beside Miss Marcy to the younger man. "I
think we have still a half-hour before that jailer of a janitor jangles
his keys," she said.

"Yes; but for the men of fifty it is time to be going," answered Blake.
"They take cold rather easily, you know, those poor fellows of fifty."

He went away. Claudia and Lenox remained until the keys jangled.

Every day the weather and the water-city grew more divinely fair. June
began. And now even Mrs. Marcy saw no objection to their utilizing the
moonlight, and no longer spoke of "wraps." The evenings were haunted by
music; everybody seemed to be floating about singing or touching
guitars. The effect of the mingled light and shadows across the fronts
of the palaces was enchanting; they could not say enough in its praise.

"Still, do you know sometimes I would give it all for the fresh odor of
the fields at home, in the country, and the old scent of lilacs," said
Mrs. Lenox.

"Do you care for lilacs?" said Claudia. "If you had said roses--"

"No, I mean lilacs--the simple country lilacs. And I want to see some
currant bushes, too; yes, and even an old wooden garden fence," replied
Mrs. Lenox, laughing, but nevertheless as if she meant what she said.
She went with them only that once in the evening, for when she reached
home she found that the little boy had been wakeful, and that he had
refused to go to sleep again because she was not there. After this the
others went without her in a gondola holding four. At last, although the
moonlight lingers longer in Venice than anywhere else, there was, for
that month at least, no more. Yet still the evening air was delicious,
and the music did not cease; the effect of the shadows was even more
marvellous than the mingled light and shade had been. They continued to
go out and float about for an hour or two in the warm, peopled
darkness. They went also, but by daylight, to Torcello, and this time
Theocritus was of the party. During half of the day he was more despotic
than he had ever been, but later he seemed very tired; he slept in his
aunt's arms all the way home. Once she made an effort to transfer him to
her husband, as the weight of his little muffled figure lay heavily on
her slender arm; but Theocritus was awake immediately, and began to beat
off his uncle's hands with all his might.

"Do let me take him, Elizabeth; he will soon fall asleep again," said
Lenox. He looked annoyed. "You are overtaxing your strength; I can see
that you are tired out."

"It will not harm me; I know when I am really too tired," answered his
wife. She gave him a little trusting smile as she spoke, and his frown
passed off.

They were all together in one of the large gondolas; Blake noted this
little side-scene.

That night Theocritus had a slight attack of fever. Mrs. Lenox said that
it came from over-fatigue, and that he must not go on any of the longer
expeditions. When they went to Murano, therefore, and down to Chioggia,
she did not accompany them, but remained at home with her charge.

Mrs. Marcy was enjoying this last month in Venice greatly. "Naturally,
it is much pleasanter when one has some one to attend to one, and one
too who knows one's tastes and looks after one's little comforts," she
remarked to her niece, with some intricacy of impersonal pronouns. The
lily did not observe that the attentions she found so agreeable were
being offered to her niece also by another impersonal pronoun. As she
would herself have said, "naturally," when they went here and there
together, the two elders often sat down to rest awhile when Claudia and
Lenox did not feel the need of it.
