
"I don't clean the shoes," replied the fellow, shaking his head. "I call
the porter;" and he did so.

"That is just what Sir Modava told me," added Scott.

But Sayad had opened his master's valise, placed his toilet articles on the
bureau, and brushed his coat, which he had taken off. He arranged
everything with good taste, and smiled expansively every time Louis looked
at him. The shoes of all four were polished in time; and they were ready to
begin their explorations of the city, though it was rather late in the day.

"What time is dinner, Moro?" asked Scott.

"Seven o'clock, sahib," replied the boy; and he was more of a boy than a
man.

"What time are the other meals?"

"Meals?" queried Moro.

"What time is breakfast?"

"Bring sahib coffee at six in the morning; breakfast at nine; tiffin at
one."

"What's that last one, Moro?"

"We had tiffin at Suez, and it means luncheon," interposed Morris.

"I didn't hear the word; but it is all right, and tiffin it is after this
time. Come; are you going down-stairs, fellows?"

"There is a public sitting-room down-stairs, and we will find that first."

The four servants followed them when they went down-stairs. None of the
party had yet gone to the public room except Sir Modava, though Lord
Tremlyn soon joined him. Their attendants stopped outside the doors.

"We are going to the tailor's now," said the Hindu gentleman. "As you are
aware, we lost all our clothes except what we had on, and we must order a
new supply."

"May we go with you?" asked Louis.

"Certainly; if you desire to do so. You may find something to amuse you on
the way, as we shall walk; for we want to get our sea-legs off," replied
Sir Modava. "It is only five o'clock here, and we have two hours before
dinner-time. Ah, here is Miss Blanche."

She was followed by her servant, who was decidedly a nuisance to her,
though he retreated from her room as soon as he had put things in order,
and remained within call outside the door. Louis invited her to take a walk
with them, and she went up-stairs to consult her mother. She returned in a
few minutes, ready to go out; and she was as radiant as a fairy in her
light costume.

They passed out of the hotel; and the first thing that attracted Louis's
attention was a palanquin. It was not a new thing to the travellers, for
they had seen such conveyances in Constantinople and elsewhere.

[Illustration: "The young millionaire walked by the side of the vehicle."
--Page 155.]

"You must ride in that palanquin, Miss Blanche," said Louis; and he told
Sayad to have it brought up to the door.

It was a compartment like a box, about seven feet long, with a pair of
sliding doors at the side. It was balanced on a pole, with braces above and
below it. It appeared to be so poised, with the pole above the centre of
gravity, that it could not be turned over. The four bearers were coolies,
with bare legs, cotton turbans on their heads, and not otherwise overloaded
with clothing; but they were dressed like all the coolies about the streets
and in the boats of the harbor.

The fair young lady had never been in a palanquin, though she had seen
them, and she was pleased with the idea of the ride. It was dropped down
upon its four legs, or feet, and Louis assisted her to the interior. It was
provided with cushions, and Sir Modava instructed her to recline so that
she could see out of the open doors. The young millionaire walked by the
side of the vehicle, while the others all followed, with their servants at
a respectful distance.

"How do you like the motion, Miss Blanche?" asked Louis, after they had
gone a short distance.

"It is not as uneasy as the gait of a camel, though I can feel every step
of the bearers. But I should prefer a shigram, if it only had a
better name," replied she.

"You can call it a brougham, or simply a carriage, if you prefer. We are
not here to learn the Indian languages, and we can take our choice; and we
can talk 'good old United States,' in speaking of things," suggested Louis.
"There! what will you call that vehicle, Miss Blanche?"

"That is called a gharri" interposed Sir Modava, who was within
hearing.

The vehicle was such as none of the Americans had ever seen. It was a sort
of two-wheeled cart, with a top like an old-fashioned chaise, in which a
man was seated, while a rough-looking fellow rode in front.

"I should say it was an ox-cart, so far as the team is concerned," said
Scott.

"Those are not oxen; they are called bullocks in this country. As you see,
they have humps like a camel, though much smaller, in front of which is the
yoke," the Hindu knight explained.

"But they don't drive oxen in the United States with a pair of rope reins,
as this fellow does," said Scott.

"I have seen them do so in North Carolina," added Morris, who had travelled
in the South with his parents.

"I give it up, and it's all right. But what is that man in the cart? Is he
a Grand Mogul?"

"Hardly," replied Sir Modava, laughing. "The driver is the lowest caste of
laborers, who works for fivepence a day, and supports his family on it. The
man inside is the cook of a Parsee merchant I happen to know, and probably
he is going to market to buy supplies for the family. But here we are at
the tailor's. You can continue your ramble, and your servants can tell you
the way, and what the buildings are."

The two gentlemen entered the tailor's shop; for there are no stores here
any more than in London.




                                 CHAPTER XVII

                     A HOSPITAL FOR THE BRUTE CREATION


The live boys did not care much for the buildings, though most of those of
a public character were architecturally very fine. Around a large open
space they found the Town Hall, the Mint, and all the great mercantile
establishments. At the time of the young people's visit, it was almost
