of the planter. "I meant to kill him, and get away with the horses."

"Perhaps you would have done so."

"I do it for sure."

"Now, where are the robbers?" asked Warren.

"In the house. We don't see any for more'n half an hour. I think they
looked part of the house over to find the money, and then went
up-stairs to hunt for it," replied Phil, who appeared to be an
intelligent fellow, far superior to the rest of them.

"Very well; you may get on the horses, and ride down the avenue till
you meet the colonel," added the son of the planter. "Now, Sergeant, we
will find the condition of things in the house."

The negroes led all the horses down an inclined plane into the cellar.
This was not an uncommon device in large cities to economize space; but
the planter had caused it to be built for just such an emergency as the
present, and he had made his escape in this manner from the estate. The
terrified servants mounted the horses in the cellar, and entered the
avenue by the way Warren and the sergeant had left it.

The two scouts passed out of the stable by the same door. Keeping
behind the outbuildings, they reached the side of the mansion. Passing
entirely around it, they looked in at every window very cautiously; but
were unable to see a single guerilla on the lower floor. By an outside
door they went into the cellar of the dwelling. They found several
places where the earth had been dug up, but not a man was to be seen.

"Now, Warren, I am going up-stairs; and I should like to have you
return to the avenue, and bring up the rest of our party as quickly as
possible," said Fronklyn in a low tone.

"Up-stairs!" exclaimed the planter's son. "Do you mean to throw away
your life?"

"Not if I know myself; but I wish the lieutenant was here," replied the
sergeant, who had noted the stairs that led to the next floor.

"I will do as you say, Sergeant; but I hardly expect to find you alive
when I come back," answered Warren.

"I believe I can take care of myself; and I think these ruffians have
put themselves just where we want them," said Fronklyn, recalling the
strategy at Mr. Halliburn's mansion.

Warren left the cellar by the same way they had entered, and made his
way around the out-buildings to the avenue. Fronklyn stole up the
stairs, after he had removed his shoes, and looked into half a dozen
rooms on the first floor. The carpets had been partly torn up, the
furniture overturned and broken up, the closets ransacked, and abundant
other evidence that the search for money or other valuables had been
completed in this part of the mansion.

On the floors of the second story he could hear the tramp of shoes, the
cracking and snapping of furniture, and the rough speech of coarse men.
The search for money was still in progress; and the planter's son was
sure the marauders would not find that which they were seeking. The
money might be safe, but that was certainly not the case with the
mansion and furniture.

In the great hall, in a corner behind the front door, the sergeant
found a large steel safe, with its door wide open, and entirely empty.
The planter had evidently removed his valuables, including his books
and papers, to what he believed was a more secure depository for them.
The robbers had drawn it out from the corner, plainly to search behind
it for the hidden treasure. Fronklyn opened the front door of the
mansion, and then deposited himself behind the safe, the house door
concealing him on the open side.

His carbine was in condition for immediate use, and he had taken a
revolver from the horse he had ridden belonging to the trooper who had
perished in the river. The noise up-stairs continued, and he had become
somewhat impatient for the appearance of the rest of the party. He was
inclined to "open the ball;" but he concluded that it would be a piece
of rashness for him to do so, and he refrained from doing anything.
Between the door and the safe he obtained a full view of the head of
the staircase.

"There comes the planter!" shouted some one in the hall above.

"Hang him!" yelled another.

"Down-stairs all together!" cried the first speaker, who was perhaps
the leader of the ruffians.

He was the first to appear at the landing. Several voices repeated the
cry to hang the colonel. At that moment a shot was heard, and the first
ruffian came tumbling down the steps. The next instant the one behind
him shared his fate, and both of them lay motionless at the foot of the
stairs.

A moment later Deck rushed in through the open door, followed by the
three riflemen.




CHAPTER XXIX

A NEW METHOD OF OPERATIONS


The fall of the two ruffians evidently created a panic among the
robbers, for they all retreated from the head of the staircase. They
could not see the person who had fired the shots. Fronklyn had used the
heavy revolver of the trooper, reserving his carbine for more difficult
practice. There was a pause, for no more victims were in sight.

"You are in a dangerous position, Lieutenant Lyon," said the sergeant,
as soon as Deck rushed into the hall.

"Where are you, Sergeant?" asked the officer, as he retired from his
exposed situation.

"Behind the safe," replied Fronklyn. "Ask one of the planter's sons if
there are any other stairs from above."

"Another staircase at the rear of the hall," answered Warren.

"Go there quick!" said Deck, as soon as he had mastered the situation.
"If any one attempts to come down, shoot him on the instant! But let
them surrender if they will do so."

"Surrender!" exclaimed Harlan in disgust. "I don't feel exactly like
letting one of the men that want to hang my father surrender."

"Let them surrender!" replied Deck very decidedly.

"From my position I could manage the whole of them," interposed the
sergeant.

"You are in a safe place to do so," added the lieutenant.

"Some of the party ought to look out for the outside of the house, or
the ruffians will escape from the windows," suggested the sergeant.

"Colonel Hickman is out-doors, with his negroes, to keep watch of the
