
CHAPTER XXXIV.

A PARTING WORD FOR BOY.


Upon the satin seat of a chair in the corner of the drawing-room, lie
six white Lima beans, and three small red-spotted apples. Wild fruit
they are, cast by a superannuated crab, spared by the woodman's axe
because it stands on the verge of the orchard. The apple-pickers never
look under it for gleanings. The beans were pulled from a frost-bitten
vine in the garden, and shelled with difficulty, the pods being tough,
and Boy's fingers tender. Both trophies secured, they were brought
into the house, deposited in the safest place Boy's ingenuity could
devise, and, alas! forgotten in the hurry of catching the "twain."
There was no room for them in Boy's long-suffering pockets. They
bulged to the bursting point with chestnuts, also the spoil of the
grasping little fingers.

Boy is city-born and city-bred, and a day in the country is better
than a thousand in street and park. A day in the woods, when chestnuts
and walnuts hustle down with every breath of air, and the hollows are
knee-deep with painted leaves, has joys the eager tongue trips over
itself in the endeavor to recount. Boy and Boy's mother took the six
o'clock train to town last night. This morning, throwing open the
parlor blinds, I espy the six flat, white beans and the three
red-speckled crab-apples. They were so much to the owner; except for
the value imparted by association with the dancing blue eyes and the
tight clutch of fingers that had green stains on them when the wrestle
with the pods was over, they are so much more than worthless to
everybody else--that there is infinite pathos in the litter. It is
picturesque and poetic.

There will be no poetry, picturesqueness or pathos in the litter when
Boy is older by a year or two. His leavings in outlandish places will
become "trash," and still later on "rubbish" and "hateful." At twelve
years of age he will be a "hulking boy," and convicted of bringing
more dirt into the house upon one pair of soles than three pairs of
hands can clean up. Eyes that fill now in surveying the tokens of his
recent occupations and his lordly disregard of conventionalities, will
flash petulantly upon books left, face downward, over night, on the
piazza floor; muddy shoes kicked into the corner of the hall; the
half-whittled cane and open knife on the sofa, and coats and caps
everywhere except upon the hooks intended for them.

I once heard a grown-up beauty declare in the presence and hearing of
a half-grown brother, that, "every boy should be put under a barrel at
fourteen, and kept there until he was twenty, out of the sight of his
kindred and acquaintances."

"Up to twenty-one he is an unmitigable nuisance!" concluded the belle,
with the vanity of one who has put the case smartly.

The lad listened to the tirade without the twitch of a
muscle--stolidity that proved him to be well used to such flaying.
Three out of four boys in that family "turned out badly," and were
cried down by a scandalized community for disgracing a decent and
godly ancestry. Hearing this, I recollected the beauty and the barrel,
and speculated sadly whether or not this were the key to the enigma.

It generally happens that the grown-up sister has less patience with
the growing brother than any other member of the household. From
principle and from inclination, and, I am inclined to add, from
nature, she "sits upon" Boy habitually.

Ungrateful Lady Mary Wortley Montagu called her quondam lover,
Alexander Pope--

   "A sign-post likeness of the human race:
    That is, at once resemblance and disgrace."

In her visions of the coming man, the sister resents the truth that
Boy belongs to the same species and sex, or persists in judging him by
this standard. In the "freshness" of his age and kind, he is skeptical
as to her good looks and other fascinations, and takes wicked
satisfaction in giving her to understand that he, at least, "is not
fooled by her tricks and manners." If her "nagging" is a thorn under
his jacket, his cool disdain is a grain of sand inside of her slipper.

What looks like natural antipathy between big sisters and little
brothers is but one of several reasons why home is so often less like
home to the boys than to the rest of the family.

I have in my mind's eye a distinct picture of the quarters allotted to
a promising college-lad in the mansion of a wealthy father, and which
I saw by accident. Each of the three accomplished sisters had her own
bed-chamber, fitted up according to her taste. A spacious sitting-room
on the second floor, with windows on the sunny front and at the side,
was common to the trio. There were flowers, workstands, desks, easels,
bookshelves, lounging and sewing chairs, pictures selected by each;
porti√©res in the doorways and costly rugs upon the polished floor.
Up two flights of stairs, on the same floor with the servants, the
brother was domiciled in a low-browed, sunless back-room, overlooking
kitchen-yards and roofs. A dingy ingrain carpet was worn thin in
numerous places; no two pieces of furniture were even remotely related
to one another in style or age. The wall-paper hung here and there in
strips; the windows were dim with dirt; dust lay thickly in every
corner; a counterpane of dubious complexion had a dark, wide-spreading
stain in the centre.

It is true, I admit, that the place reeked with stale cigar smoke, and
that the infirm table propped for security against the wall, groaned
under a collection of juvenile "properties," the heterogeneity of
which, defies my pen and memory. But, bestow a wild boy in such
lodgings as he might find in a low tavern, and he will treat them
accordingly. He is more observant than his mother imagines, and more
sensitive than his sisters would believe. Too proud to betray the
sense of humiliation engendered by appointments unsuited to his
station and education, he proceeds to be "comfortable" and "jolly" in
his own way.

To return to our own Boy--who, my heart misgives me, lifted up his voice
and wept sore last night upon discovering that the hard-won beans and
scarlet-speckled apples were left behind--his loving mother has hung his
nursery walls with good engravings and artistically-colored pictures, in
the conviction that a child's taste for art is formed early and for
long. Heaven grant that she may keep true to this principle in all
matters pertaining to his upbringing, and in judicious dependence upon
the influence of external impressions upon the immature mind of her
offspring!

Is our bigger boy, then, so rooted and grounded in right tastes and
right feeling as to be proof against the atmosphere of the
worst-located and worst-furnished room covered by his father's roof?
How far will the mother's assertion that he is the apple of her eye
and dearest earthly possession go, when balanced against the
object-lesson of quarters which are the household hospital of
incurables, in the line of beds, tables, stools and candlesticks? If
his sister's room is adorned with exquisite etchings and choice
paintings, while his is the refuge for chromos that have had their
day--will he not draw his own inferences? If his mother never climbs
to the sky-parlor to see that the careless housemaid does her duty in
sweeping, dusting and picking-up, does not he divine why his chamber
is systematically neglected?

Many a shrewd fellow has marked the progress of an ageing or shabby
article of furniture, from the guest-chamber, through the family rooms
upward, until it settles for life, or good behavior, in his apartment,
and felt a dull pang at heart that he would not confess. Many another
fellow, as shrewd and more reckless, has flung out passionately at
