first time--an immense little fib."

"An immense little fib?" Fleda felt weak; she was glad of the support of
her seat.

"An immense big one, then!" said Mrs. Gereth irritatedly. "You don't in
the least 'hate' Owen, my darling. You care for him very much. In fact,
my own, you're in love with him--there! Don't tell me any more lies!"
cried Mrs. Gereth with a voice and a face in the presence of which Fleda
recognized that there was nothing for her but to hold herself and take
them. When once the truth was out, it was out, and she could see more
and more every instant that it would be the only way. She accepted
therefore what had to come; she leaned back her head and closed her eyes
as her companion had done just before. She would have covered her face
with her hands but for the still greater shame. "Oh, you're a wonder, a
wonder," said Mrs. Gereth; "you're magnificent, and I was right, as soon
as I saw you, to pick you out and trust you!" Fleda closed her eyes
tighter at this last word, but her friend kept it up. "I never dreamed
of it till a while ago, when, after he had come and gone, we were face
to face. Then something stuck out of you; it strongly impressed me, and
I didn't know at first quite what to make of it. It was that you had
just been with him and that you were not natural. Not natural to me,"
she added with a smile. "I pricked up my ears, and all that this might
mean dawned upon me when you said you had asked nothing about Mona. It
put me on the scent, but I didn't show you, did I? I felt it was in
you, deep down, and that I must draw it out. Well, I have drawn it,
and it's a blessing. Yesterday, when you shed tears at breakfast, I was
awfully puzzled. What has been the matter with you all the while? Why,
Fleda, it isn't a crime, don't you know that?" cried the delighted
woman. "When I was a girl I was always in love, and not always with such
nice people as Owen. I didn't behave as well as you; compared with you I
think I must have been horrid. But if you're proud and reserved, it's
your own affair; I'm proud too, though I'm not reserved--that's what
spoils it. I'm stupid, above all--that's what I am; so dense that I
really blush for it. However, no one but you could have deceived me. If
I trusted you, moreover, it was exactly to be cleverer than myself. You
must be so now more than ever!" Suddenly Fleda felt her hands grasped:
Mrs. Gereth had plumped down at her feet and was leaning on her knees.
"Save him--save him: you can!" she passionately pleaded. "How could
you not like him, when he's such a dear? He is a dear, darling;
there's no harm in my own boy! You can do what you will with him--you
know you can! What else does he give us all this time for? Get him away
from her; it's as if he besought you to, poor wretch! Don't abandon him
to such a fate, and I'll never abandon you. Think of him with that
creature, that future! If you'll take him I'll give up everything.
There, it's a solemn promise, the most sacred of my life! Get the better
of her, and he shall have every stick I removed. Give me your word, and
I'll accept it. I'll write for the packers to-night!"

Fleda, before this, had fallen forward on her companion's neck, and the
two women, clinging together, had got up while the younger wailed on the
other's bosom. "You smooth it down because you see more in it than there
can ever be; but after my hideous double game how will you be able to
believe in me again?"

"I see in it simply what must be, if you've a single spark of pity.
Where on earth was the double game, when you've behaved like such a
saint? You've been beautiful, you've been exquisite, and all our trouble
is over."

Fleda, drying her eyes, shook her head ever so sadly. "No, Mrs. Gereth,
it isn't over. I can't do what you ask--I can't meet your condition."

Mrs. Gereth stared; the cloud gathered in her face again. "Why, in the
name of goodness, when you adore him? I know what you see in him," she
declared in another tone. "You're right!"

Fleda gave a faint, stubborn smile. "He cares for her too much."

"Then why doesn't he marry her? He's giving you an extraordinary
chance."

"He doesn't dream I've ever thought of him," said Fleda. "Why should he,
if you didn't?"

"It wasn't with me you were in love, my duck." Then Mrs. Gereth added:
"I'll go and tell him."

"If you do any such thing, you shall never see me again,--absolutely,
literally never!"

Mrs. Gereth looked hard at her young friend, showing she saw she must
believe her. "Then you're perverse, you're wicked. Will you swear he
doesn't know?"

"Of course he doesn't know!" cried Fleda indignantly.

Her interlocutress was silent a little. "And that he has no feeling on
his side?"

"For me?" Fleda stared. "Before he has even married her?"

Mrs. Gereth gave a sharp laugh at this. "He ought at least to appreciate
your wit. Oh, my dear, you are a treasure! Doesn't he appreciate
anything? Has he given you absolutely no symptom--not looked a look, not
breathed a sigh?"

"The case," said Fleda coldly, "is as I've had the honor to state it."

"Then he's as big a donkey as his mother! But you know you must account
for their delay," Mrs. Gereth remarked.

"Why must I?" Fleda asked after a moment.

"Because you were closeted with him here so long. You can't pretend at
present, you know, not to have any art."

The girl hesitated an instant; she was conscious that she must choose
between two risks. She had had a secret and the secret was gone. Owen
had one, which was still unbruised, and the greater risk now was that
his mother should lay her formidable hand upon it. All Fleda's
tenderness for him moved her to protect it; so she faced the smaller
peril. "Their delay," she brought herself to reply, "may perhaps be
Mona's doing. I mean because he has lost her the things."

Mrs. Gereth jumped at this. "So that she'll break altogether if I keep
them?"

Fleda winced. "I've told you what I believe about that. She'll make
scenes and conditions; she'll worry him. But she'll hold him fast;
she'll never give him up."

Mrs. Gereth turned it over. "Well, I'll keep them, to try her," she
finally pronounced; at which Fleda felt quite sick, as if she had given
everything and got nothing.




XII


"I must in common decency let him know that I've talked of the matter
with you," she said to her hostess that evening. "What answer do you
wish me to write to him?"

"Write to him that you must see him again," said Mrs. Gereth.

Fleda looked very blank. "What on earth am I to see him for?"

