
That was a rather more ticklish task, and the men crouched and stole
along in silence. They had no idea what they might meet.

It was fortunate for them that they were quiet. Otherwise they would
have gotten into very serious trouble indeed.

They stole up the sandy beach a short ways, feeling their way along and
getting further and further away from the sea. They were struggling
through soft dry sand.

And suddenly Clif, who was in front, saw something loom up before him, a
dark line. And he put out his hand to touch it.

He found that the sand rose gradually into a sort of drift or bank. It
was high, and seemed to reach for some distance.

The sailors stopped abruptly, and Clif crept softly forward, feeling
along with his hands; suddenly the men heard him mutter a startled
exclamation under his breath.

"Men," he whispered, "we're in a terrible fix; I ran into a gun!"

"A gun!"

"Yes--a big one. We've struck a Spanish battery, and we must be near
some town!"

The sailors stared at him aghast; and then suddenly came a startling
interruption--one that fairly made their blood grow chill.

"Who goes there?"

It was a loud, stern hail in Spanish, and it seemed to come from almost
beside them!

Quick as a flash the Americans dropped, crouching close together in the
darkness. They could hear the beating of each others' hearts.

There were several moments of agonizing suspense; the Spaniard who had
shouted out was evidently awaiting a reply. And then suddenly he
repeated his challenge.

"Who goes there?"

And a moment later came a sound of hurrying footsteps.

"What's the matter?" Clif heard a voice demand.

He was the only one in the party who understood Spanish, and knew what
was said. But it was plain to the rest that it was a conversation
between a sentry and an officer.

"I heard a footstep, senor capitan!" cried the man. "Quidada! Take care!
It's very near."

There was a moment's pause.

"You must be mistaken," said the officer.

"I am not mistaken," repeated the man firmly. "Santa Maria, my ears do
not deceive me. You said to be watchful, for you have heard firing."

To that the Americans had listened in trembling silence; but the next
made them jump. "I will light this lantern," said the officer.

And the instant they heard it Clif rose silently to his feet; the men
did likewise, and began to creep softly off to one side.

But careful as they were they could not help the grinding sound of their
footsteps in the sand, and it caught the quick ear of the Spaniard.

"Hear it!" he cried. "Por dios, again! Somebody is stealing upon us!"

And an instant later the air was rent by a sharp crack of a rifle--the
sentry had fired!

There was wild confusion at once, and the unfortunate castaways were
aghast. For an instant Clif thought of charging the battery--with four
men. But he realized the folly of that.

"Quick!" he cried, "let us hide. Forward!"

Lights were flashing and men shouting and running about behind the sand
wall just in front of them, but the sailors were still unseen. They
broke into a run and fairly flew down the shore.

They fancied the whole Spanish company was at their heels; but after
they had run for some distance they found that they had not been
pursued.

For the enemy were so taken by surprise at the sudden alarm that they
were if possible more frightened than the Americans.

And so the men stopped for breath.

They stared at each other, as if hardly able to realize the peril into
which they had so suddenly been plunged.

"I think that was the quickest adventure I ever had in my life,"
muttered Clif.

The suddenness of it made him laugh; they had almost walked into a
Spanish fort.

But it was no laughing matter, certainly; it was a confounded piece of
ill-luck.

"For they'll be watching for us now!" muttered Clif. "I'm afraid that
will settle us."

"They'll follow our footsteps!" exclaimed one of the sailors.

That was so, and it was an unpleasant prospect; it was plain that if the
Americans wished to find any safety they must get some distance away
from that battery.

"We'll make one more effort to get back into the country," muttered
Clif.

And amid silence and anxious suspense they once more started up the
sloping seashore.

They crept along as it seemed by inches. But fortunately they did not
run across any more "guns." When they came across an embankment it was
of solid earth and marked the end of the beach.

And there were some trees and bushes there, so the Americans began to
feel more comfortable. For all they knew they might in the darkness have
been strolling into a town.

But they were apparently out in the open country, there seemed to be no
people and no houses near. So they started boldly forward.

It was then late at night, a dark and damp and windy night; so they were
not likely to find many people wandering about.

"What we want to do," Clif said, "is to get back in the country a while
where we can hide until morning. Then if we can find some Cubans we'll
be all right."
