upon him. First, his uncle had practically disowned him, he had
been rebuffed in his attempt to obtain employment, and now he was
arrested, and on his way to the station-house, charged with fighting
and disorderly conduct in the streets.

To make matters worse and heighten his humiliation, as he was
walking along, shrinking from observation, he met his cousin,
Clarence Plantagenet, in company with another boy, somewhat older,
dressed also in the height of the fashion.

Clarence regarded Ben in amazement, and turned away his head in a
disgust which he did not attempt to conceal.

"He will tell Uncle Nicholas," thought our unfortunate hero, "and he
will think I have been doing something disgraceful."

"Come along, ye young rapscallion!" said the policeman, roughly,
"I'll soon attind to your case."




                           CHAPTER VII.

                       A STRANGE ADVENTURE.


Under different circumstances Ben might have been interested in his
first view of a police station. But, standing before the bar in the
custody of a policeman, he felt too much troubled in mind to notice
his surroundings. As another prisoner was under examination, fifteen
minutes elapsed before Ben's turn came.

"What is the charge against this boy?" asked the sergeant.

"I caught him fightin' in the streets," said the officer. "He was
hittin' that b'ye yonder," indicating Mike Rafferty.

Mike, who looked emphatically like a hard case, tried to appear like
a respectable, well-behaved boy, who had been set upon by a young
ruffian.

"What's your name?" asked the sergeant, addressing Mike.

"Mike Rafferty, yer honor," answered Mike, thinking it best to be as
respectable as possible.

"Did this boy strike you?"

"Yes, and he did, your honor, and if you don't believe me just ax
any of them b'yes," indicating his companions. "Tommy Burke, didn't
you see him hit me?"

"That will do. What did he hit you for?"

"Faith, and I don't know," said Mike, shrugging his shoulders.

"Did you hit him first?"

"No, I didn't do nothing to him," answered Mike, virtuously.

"I think you have been here before," said the sergeant, whose memory
was good.

"I don't remember it," said Mike, cautiously, not thinking it
politic to contradict the sergeant.

"Officer, do you know anything of the boy you have brought in?"

"Oh, yes, I've known him a long time. He's wan of the gang,"
answered the policeman, glibly.

Just then a gentleman came forward, whom, much to Ben's delight, he
remembered as the keeper of a dry-goods store in Sunderland. Bowing
to the sergeant, he said, respectfully:

"I know this boy, and I know that the policeman is under a great
mistake. Will you allow me to say what I know about him?"

"Go on, sir."

"So far from his being a member of any city gang, he lives in the
country, and it is extremely doubtful if the policeman ever saw him
before. He only came to the city yesterday."

"He's wan of the gang," persisted the officer, sullenly. "I've seen
him ivery day for the last three months."

"Mr. Sergeant," said the former speaker, "this officer is guilty of
willful falsehood. I know the boy as well as I know my own son, and
I know that he has passed the last three months in the country."

"The boy is discharged," said the officer. He added, sharply:
"Officer Flynn, I expect the truth from you in future. The boy
you have arrested is much more respectable in appearance than his
accuser, and, under the circumstances, I cannot attach any credit to
your charge against him. Be more careful in future."

With sullen reluctance, the officer, who is a type of a considerable
number on the force, but not of all, released Ben.

Our hero walked up to the gentleman whose testimony had been of so
much value to him, and warmly thanked him.

"I was in a bad scrape," he said, "and I don't know how I would have
come out of it if you had not spoken for me."

"I chanced to see you in charge, and followed as soon as I could,"
said Mr. Woodbury. "What luck are you meeting with in New York, Ben?"

"Not much, yet; but don't say anything to mother about your meeting
me here, or she may be worried. I shall make every effort to get
something to do here. If I can't, I may be obliged to go home."

"Well, Ben, I wish you good luck. I must now leave you, as I have
several business calls to make."

Ben emerged from the station-house feeling that he had made a lucky
escape. The boys who had followed him (Mike and his friends) had
vanished, on finding that things did not turn out as they expected,
fearing that they might get into trouble themselves.

"I see," said Ben to himself, "that I must keep my eyes wide open in
New York. I used to think that an innocent person need not fear the
police, but I don't find it exactly so."

He strolled back to Broadway, and mingled once more with the busy
crowds. The same thought came to him, as to so many in his position,
"Everybody seems to have something to do except me. Why am I alone
idle?"

When Ben reached the Metropolitan Hotel he paused for a moment at
the entrance. As he stood there a gentleman passed out hurriedly.
As his eyes fell upon Ben his face lighted up, and a sudden plan
presented itself to his mind.

"Boy," he said, "do you live in New York?"

"I expect to, if I can find anything to do."

