facing Wall Street. He inquired the name and found it was Trinity
Church. The Scranton meeting-house could easily have been tucked away in
one corner of the large edifice, and as far as height was concerned, it
was but an infant compared with a six-footer.

He walked still further down Broadway, till he reached a green park,
which he found was called the Battery. Feeling somewhat fatigued, he sat
down on a bench near the sea-wall and looked over toward Governor's
Island. Craft of different sizes were passing, and Jed was interested
and exhilarated by the spectacle.




CHAPTER XXVIII.

A STRANGE COMMISSION.


Jed's companion on the seat was a sallow-faced, black-bearded man. Jed
merely glanced at him, but presently became aware that he had become the
object of the sallow man's scrutiny.

Finally the latter moved rather nearer Jed, and showed a disposition to
be sociable.

"A fine day, young man," he began.

"Yes, sir."

"And a fine view we have before us," went on the stranger, pointing to
the harbor and the numerous craft that were passing in both directions.
"However, I suppose it is quite familiar to you?"

"No, sir; I am a stranger in the city."

"Indeed!" and here the stranger allowed his gaze to rest on the small
gripsack that Jed had placed on the seat beside him. "Perhaps you have
come in quest of work?"

"Yes, sir," answered Jed.

"Have you found anything yet?"

"No, sir, but I have only been here since yesterday morning. Do you know
of any situation that I could fill?"

"Well, no, no permanent position," answered the other deliberately. "I
might give you a chance to earn," here he hesitated, "two dollars this
evening. But perhaps that would not be worth your while."

"Yes, sir, I should be glad to earn even that," said Jed eagerly.

"Then perhaps I may employ you. Can you row a boat?"

"Yes, sir. I think so. I have rowed on a pond up in Scranton."

"Then you can probably row here. I would row part of the way myself."

"When do you want me?" asked Jed.

"Not till late this evening. I will explain when the time comes."

Jed was disappointed. He had hoped to do the work at once, and receive
the money. Then he could buy himself some supper, for he was already
hungry. He found that his appetite was just as regular as if he were
earning a living income, instead of being impecunious and without work.

"At what time shall I meet you, sir?"

"At eleven o'clock, here."

"Yes, sir," answered Jed, wondering what he was to do during the
intervening time.

As he had no money, he must defer eating till then, and it occurred to
him that he would hardly feel able to row any considerable distance
unless refreshed by food. Could he venture to ask a part of the sum he
was to earn in advance? He decided to do so.

"I am going to ask a favor," he said hurriedly. "I have been robbed of
all my money, and I have not enough to buy my supper. If you let me have
half a dollar on account----"

He feared that this proposal would be distasteful to his companion, but
the sallow-faced man did not seem offended.

"Perhaps," he said thoughtfully, "I had better keep you with me, and let
you eat supper with me."

"Very well, sir," said Jed, feeling relieved.

The other looked relieved.

"It is half-past five," he said. "We may as well start now."

He rose leisurely from his seat, and Jed followed him. He walked to the
head of the Battery, and keeping near the piers, led the way to a humble
tavern called "The Sailor's Rest."

"This will do," he said. "It is not very fashionable, but they can give
us a comfortable meal."

Certainly the interior presented a great contrast to the Astor House,
where Jed had lunched, or rather dined. The floor was sanded, the tables
were unprovided with tablecloths. There was a bar on one side of the
room, over which presided a stout bartender with mottled cheeks and a
dirty white apron.

"Where is the restaurant?" asked Jed's companion.

"In there," answered the bartender with a jerk of his finger in the
direction of a back room.

With a nod the sallow-faced man beckoned Jed to follow him. Opening a
door, he led the way into a room provided with four tables only. On each
table was a small bell.

Jed and his guide sat down, and the latter rang the bell.

A dirty-faced man, with a beard of several days' growth, made his
appearance.

"We want some supper."

"What'll you have?"

"What can we have?"

"Beefsteak, ham and eggs."

"What else?"

"Eggs without."

"Without what?"

"Ham."

The sallow man shrugged his shoulders.
