part, as tribute to his illustrious name; but he was of a prudent nature
and declined. What if the town should laugh! "I guess I won't," said he.

But Mary, regardless of maternal cacklings, sped after the doctor as he
turned his horse.

"O doctor!" she besought, "let me be the first settler's wife! Please,
please let me be Mary Oldfield!"

The doctor was glad enough. All the tides of destiny were surging his
way. Even when he paused, in his progress, to pull the Crane boy's
tooth, it seemed to work out public harmony. For the victim, cannily
anxious to prove his valor, insisted on having the operation conducted
before the front window; and after it was accomplished, the squads of
boys waiting at the gate for his apotheosis or down-fall, gave an
unwilling yet delighted yell. He had not winced; and when, with the fire
of a dear ambition still shining in his eyes, he held up the tooth to
them, through the glass, they realized that he, and he only, could with
justice take the crown of that most glorious day. He must ride inside
the elephant.

So it came to pass that when the procession wound slowly up from the
cross-road, preceded by the elephant, lifting his trunk at rhythmic
intervals, Nicholas Oldfield saw his little Mary, her eyes shining and
her cheeks aglow, sitting proudly upon a sledge, drawn by the handsomest
young man in town. A pang may have struck the old man's heart, realizing
that Phil Marden was so splendid in his strength, and that he wore so
sweet a look of invitation; but he remembered Mary's vow and was
content. A great pride and peace enwrapped him when the procession
halted at the Flat-Iron Lot, and the minister, lifting up his voice,
explained to the townspeople why they were called upon to pause. The
name of Oldfield sounded clearly on the air.

"Now," said the minister, "let us pray." The petition went forth, and
Mr. Oldfield stood brooding there, his thoughts running back through a
long chain of ancestry to the Almighty, Who is the fount of all.

When heads were covered again, and this little world began to surge into
the church, young Nick's Hattie moved closer to her husband and shot out
a sibilant whisper:--

"Did you know that?--about the Flat-Iron Lot?"

Young Nick shook his head. He was entirely dazed.

"Well," continued Hattie, full of awe, "I guess I never was nearer my
end than when I let myself be go-between for Freeman Henry. I wonder
father let me get out alive."

The minister's address was very short and unpretending. He dwelt on the
sacredness of the past, and all its memories, and closed by saying that,
while we need not shrink from signs of progress, we should guard against
tampering with those ancient landmarks which serve as beacon lights, to
point the brighter way. Hearing that, every man steeled his heart
against Memory-of-Me clocks, and resolved to vote against them. Then the
minister explained that, since he had been unable to prepare a suitable
address, Mr. Oldfield had kindly consented to read some precious records
recently discovered by him. A little rustling breath went over the
audience. So this amiable lunacy had its bearing on the economy of life!
They were amazed, as may befall us at any judgment day, when grays are
strangely alchemized to white.

Mr. Oldfield, unmoved as ever, save in a certain dominating quality of
presence, rose and stood before them, the records in his hands. He read
them firmly, explaining here and there, his simple speech untouched by
finer usage; and when the minister interposed a question, he dropped
into such quaintness of rich legendry that his hearers sat astounded. So
they were a part of the world! and not the world to-day, but the
universe in its making.

It was long before Nicholas concluded; but the time seemed brief. He sat
down, and the minister took the floor. He thanked Mr. Oldfield and then
went on to say that, although it might be informal, he would suggest
that the town, with Mr. Oldfield's permission, place an inscription on
the boulder in the Flat-Iron Lot, stating why it was to be held
historically sacred. The town roared and stamped, but meanwhile Nicholas
Oldfield was quietly rising.

"In that case, pa'son," said he, "I should like to state that it would
be my purpose to make over that lot to the town to be held as public
land forever."

Again the village folk outdid themselves in applause, while Young Nick
muttered, "Well, I vum!" beneath his breath, and Hattie replied,
antiphonally, "My soul!" These were not the notes of mere surprise. They
were prayers for guidance in this exigency of finding a despised
intelligence exalted.

The celebration went on to a victorious close. Who shall sing the
sweetness of Isabel North, as she sat by the log-cabin door, placidly
spinning flax, or the horror of the moment when, redskins swooping down
on her and settlers on them, the ghost swept in and put them all to
flight? Who will ever forget the exercises in the hall, when the
"Suwanee River" was sung by minstrels, to a set of tableaux representing
the "old folks" at their cabin door, "playin' wid my brudder" as a game
of stick-knife, and the "Swanny" River itself by a frieze of white
pasteboard swans in the background? There were patriotic songs,
accompanied by remarks laudatory of England; since it was justly felt
that our mother-land might be wounded if, on an occasion of this sort,
we fomented international differences by "America" or the reminiscent
triumph of "The Sword of Bunker Hill." A very noble sentiment pervaded
Tiverton when, at twilight, little groups of tired and very happy people
lingered here and there before "harnessing up" and betaking themselves
to their homes. The homes themselves meant more to them now, not as
shelters, but as sacred shrines; and many a glance sought out Nicholas
Oldfield standing quietly by--the reverential glance accorded those who
find out unsuspected wealth. Young Nick approached his father with an
awkwardness sitting more heavily upon him than usual.

"Well," said he, "I'm mighty glad you gi'n 'em that lot."

Old Nicholas nodded gravely, and at that moment Hattie came up, all in a
flutter.

"Father," said she quite appealingly, "I wisht you'd come over to
supper. Luella an' Freeman Henry'll be there. It's a great day, an'"--

"Yes, I know 't is," answered Nicholas kindly. "I'm much obleeged, but
Mary's goin' to eat with me. Mebbe we might look in, along in the
evenin'. Come, Mary!"

Mary, very sweet in her plain dress and white kerchief, was talking
with young Marden, her husband for the day; but she turned about
contentedly.

"Yes, gran'ther," said she, without a look behind, "I'm coming!"




THE END OF ALL LIVING


The First Church of Tiverton stands on a hill, whence it overlooks the
little village, with one or two pine-shaded neighborhoods beyond, and,
when the air is clear, a thin blue line of upland delusively like the
sea. Set thus austerely aloft, it seems now a survival of the day when
men used to go to meeting gun in hand, and when one stayed, a lookout by
the door, to watch and listen. But this the present dwellers do not
remember. Conceding not a sigh to the holy and strenuous past, they
