world has changed!"

"Friends have not," murmured Mount.

"No, no, you are quite right, Jack," said Renard, hastily.

"Then who the devil cares how the world may change," snapped Mount.
"Come, Cade, old friend, sit you here in the sweet grass and you and I
will wager straws on the jockeys' colours yonder, while our young
gentleman here lightly goes a-courting!"

I did not choose to notice Mount's remark, knowing that he meant no
offence, so I left the pair sitting on the sod and climbed the
remaining half of the slope alone.

Now, no sooner had I reached the top of the knoll than I perceived
Silver Heels, sitting upon a rock, reading a letter; and when I drew
near, my moccasins making no sound, I could not help but see that it
was my letter she perused so diligently. It gratified me to observe
that she apparently valued the instructions in my letter, and I
trusted she intended to profit by them, for Heaven knew she needed
admonition and the judicious counsel of a mature intellect.

"Silver Heels," I began, kindly.

She started, then crushed the letter to a ball, thrusting it into her
bosom.

"Oh, Michael, you are insufferable!" she cried.

"What!" I exclaimed, astonished.

Her eyes filled and she sprang up.

"I know not whether to laugh or cry, so vexed am I!" she stammered,
and called me booby and Paul Pry, drying her eyes the while her tongue
upbraided me.

"I am not spying," said I, hotly; "don't pretend that scrawl was a
love-letter, for I know it to be my own!"

"Ah--you did come spying!" she flashed out, stamping her foot
furiously.

"Lord! was there ever such a spiteful maid!" I cried. "I came here to
have a word with you concerning our journey this night. I care not a
penny whistle for your love-letters. Can you not understand that?"

She turned somewhat pale and stood still. Her under-lip quivered
between her teeth.

"Yes," she said, slowly, "I understand."

I had not meant to speak harshly, and I told her so. She nodded,
scarcely listening. Then I spoke of our coming journey, which, though
it galled me to say so, I explained to her was nothing less than a
flight.

She acquiesced, saying she was ready, and that she only longed to
leave the town forever. She said that she had known nothing but
unhappiness here, and that the memory of it would always be abhorrent,
which surprised me, as I had understood that the gentleman-god dwelt
hereabouts. However, I said nothing to disturb her or endanger her
docility, and we discussed our plans reasonably and with perfect
calmness.

I was pleased to see that she already appeared to be in better health.
Rouge and patch had disappeared; her colour was better; her eyes
brighter; her lips redder. Also, her gown was simpler and more
pleasing to me, and her hair bore no extravagant towers, but was
sweetly puffed and rolled from her white forehead. Still, her arms
were more frail than I liked to see, and there rested a faint bluish
shadow under each eye.

"How came you to find me out, here in my retreat?" she asked, slowly.

"Mr. Bevan told me," I replied, watching her.

"Poor Mr. Bevan," she murmured; "how jealous you were of him."

"He is a splendid fellow," I declared, much ashamed.

"So you are already friends," she observed, in a musing way.

"I trust so," I replied, fervently.

"Is it not sudden?" she asked.

But I would not commit myself.

"Silver Heels," I said, "does it not seem good to be together again
here in the sunshine?"

"Ah, yes!" she cried, impetuously, then stopped.

Doubtless she was thinking of the gentleman-god.

I sat down on the grass beside her and began pulling buttercups. One I
held under her white chin to see if she still loved butter.

"I love all that I ever loved," she said, leaning forward over her
knees to pluck a tiny blue bud in the grass.

"Do you remember that day you bit me in the school-room?" I asked,
with youthful brutality.

The crimson flooded her temples. She involuntarily glanced at my left
hand; the scar was still there, and she covered her eyes tightly with
her hands.

"Oh! Oh! Oh!" she murmured, in horror. "What a savage I was! No
wonder you hated me--"

"Only at moments," I said, magnanimously; "I always liked you, Silver
Heels."

Presently she drew her hands from her eyes and touched her flushed
cheeks with the blue blossom thoughtfully.

"Michael," she said, "I--I never told you, but I was very glad when
you came to explain to me that night in the pantry."

"Well," said I, stiffly, "you certainly concealed your pleasure. Lord,
child, how you scorned me!"

"I know it," she muttered, in quick vexation; "I was a perfect fool.
You see, I--I was hurt so deeply that it frightened me--"

"You ought to have known that I meant nothing," said I. "Mrs. Hamilton
tormented me till I--I--well, whatever I did was harmless. Anyway, it
was done because I thought I loved you--I mean like a lover, you
know--"

"I know," said Silver Heels.

"After that," said I, smiling, "I knew my own mind."

"And I knew mine," said Silver Heels.

"And now I know the difference between hurt vanity and love," I added,
