noticed with profundity that disappointment made people selfish; she
marvelled at the serenity--it was the poor woman's only one--of what
Marian took for granted: her own state of abasement as the second-born,
her life reduced to mere inexhaustible sisterhood. She existed, in that
view, wholly for the small house in Chelsea; the moral of which
moreover, of course, was that the more one gave oneself the less of one
was left. There were always people to snatch at one, and it would never
occur to them that they were eating one up. They did that without
tasting.

There was no such misfortune, or at any rate no such discomfort, she
further reasoned, as to be formed at once for being and for seeing. You
always saw, in this case, something else than what you were, and you
got, in consequence, none of the peace of your condition. However, as
she never really let Marian see what she was, Marian might well not
have been aware that she herself saw. Kate was accordingly, to her own
vision, not a hypocrite of virtue, for she gave herself up; but she was
a hypocrite of stupidity, for she kept to herself everything that was
not herself. What she most kept was the particular sentiment with which
she watched her sister instinctively neglect nothing that would make
for her submission to their aunt; a state of the spirit that perhaps
marked most sharply how poor you might become when you minded so much
the absence of wealth. It was through Kate that Aunt Maud should be
worked, and nothing mattered less than what might become of Kate in the
process. Kate was to burn her ships, in short, so that Marian should
profit; and Marian's desire to profit was quite oblivious of a dignity
that had, after all, its reasons--if it had only cared for them--for
keeping itself a little stiff. Kate, to be properly stiff for both of
them, would therefore have had to be selfish, have had to prefer an
ideal of behaviour--than which nothing, ever, was more selfish--to the
possibility of stray crumbs for the four small creatures. The tale of
Mrs. Lowder's disgust at her elder niece's marriage to Mr. Condrip had
lost little of its point; the incredibly fatuous behaviour of Mr.
Condrip, the parson of a dull suburban parish, with a saintly profile
which was always in evidence, being so distinctly on record to keep
criticism consistent. He had presented his profile on system, having,
goodness knew, nothing else to present--nothing at all to full-face the
world with, no imagination of the propriety of living and minding his
business. Criticism had remained on Aunt Maud's part consistent enough;
she was not a person to regard such proceedings as less of a mistake
for having acquired more of the privilege of pathos. She had not been
forgiving, and the only approach she made to overlooking them was by
overlooking--with the surviving delinquent--the solid little phalanx
that now represented them. Of the two sinister ceremonies that she
lumped together, the marriage and the interment, she had been present
at the former, just as she had sent Marian, before it, a liberal
cheque; but this had not been for her more than the shadow of an
admitted link with Mrs. Condrip's course. She disapproved of clamorous
children for whom there was no prospect; she disapproved of weeping
widows who couldn't make their errors good; and she had thus put within
Marian's reach one of the few luxuries left when so much else had gone,
an easy pretext for a constant grievance. Kate Croy remembered well
what their mother, in a different quarter, had made of it; and it was
Marian's marked failure to pluck the fruit of resentment that committed
them, as sisters, to an almost equal fellowship in abjection. If the
theory was that, yes, alas, one of the pair had ceased to be noticed,
but that the other was noticed enough to make up for it, who would fail
to see that Kate couldn't separate herself without a cruel pride? That
lesson became sharp for our young lady the day after her interview with
her father.

"I can't imagine," Marian on this occasion said to her, "how you can
think of anything else in the world but the horrid way we're situated."

"And, pray, how do you know," Kate inquired in reply, "anything about
my thoughts? It seems to me I give you sufficient proof of how much I
think of you. I don't, really, my dear, know what else you've to do
with!"

Marian's retort, on this, was a stroke as to which she had supplied
herself with several kinds of preparation, but there was, none the
less, something of an unexpected note in its promptitude. She had
foreseen her sister's general fear; but here, ominously, was the
special one. "Well, your own business is of course your own business,
and you may say there's no one less in a position than I to preach to
you. But, all the same, if you wash your hands of me for ever for it, I
won't, for this once, keep back that I don't consider you've a right,
as we all stand, to throw yourself away."

It was after the children's dinner, which was also their mother's, but
which their aunt mostly contrived to keep from ever becoming her own
luncheon; and the two young women were still in the presence of the
crumpled table-cloth, the dispersed pinafores, the scraped dishes, the
lingering odour of boiled food. Kate had asked, with ceremony, if she
might put up a window a little, and Mrs. Condrip had replied without it
that she might do as she liked. She often received such inquiries as if
they reflected in a manner on the pure essence of her little ones. The
four had retired, with much movement and noise, under imperfect control
of the small Irish governess whom their aunt had hunted out for them
and whose brooding resolve not to prolong so uncrowned a martyrdom she
already more than suspected. Their mother had become for Kate--who took
it just for the effect of being their mother--quite a different thing
from the mild Marian of the past: Mr. Condrip's widow expansively
obscured that image. She was little more than a ragged relic, a plain,
prosaic result of him, as if she had somehow been pulled through him as
through an obstinate funnel, only to be left crumpled and useless and
with nothing in her but what he accounted for. She had grown red and
almost fat, which were not happy signs of mourning; less and less like
any Croy, particularly a Croy in trouble, and sensibly like her
husband's two unmarried sisters, who came to see her, in Kate's view,
much too often and stayed too long, with the consequence of inroads
upon the tea and bread-and-butter--matters as to which Kate, not
unconcerned with the tradesmen's books, had feelings. About them,
moreover, Marian was touchy, and her nearer relative, who observed
and weighed things, noted as an oddity that she would have taken any
reflection on them as a reflection on herself. If that was what
marriage necessarily did to you, Kate Croy would have questioned
marriage. It was a grave example, at any rate, of what a man--and such
a man!--might make of a woman. She could see how the Condrip pair
pressed their brother's widow on the subject of Aunt Maud--who wasn't,
after all, their aunt; made her, over their interminable cups,
chatter and even swagger about Lancaster Gate, made her more vulgar
than it had seemed written that any Croy could possibly become on such
a subject. They laid it down, they rubbed it in, that Lancaster Gate
was to be kept in sight, and that she, Kate, was to keep it; so that,
curiously, or at all events sadly, our young woman was sure of being,
in her own person, more permitted to them as an object of comment than
they would in turn ever be permitted to herself. The beauty of which,
too, was that Marian didn't love them. But they were Condrips--they had
grown near the rose; they were almost like Bertie and Maudie, like
Kitty and Guy. They talked of the dead to her, which Kate never did; it
being a relation in which Kate could but mutely listen. She couldn't
indeed too often say to herself that if that was what marriage did to
you----! It may easily be guessed, therefore, that the ironic light of
such reserves fell straight across the field of Marian's warning. "I
don't quite see," she answered, "where, in particular, it strikes you
that my danger lies. I'm not conscious, I assure you, of the least
'disposition' to throw myself anywhere. I feel as if, for the present,
I have been quite sufficiently thrown."

"You don't feel"--Marian brought it all out--"as if you would like to
marry Merton Densher?"

Kate took a moment to meet this inquiry. "Is it your idea that if I
should feel so I would be bound to give you notice, so that you might
step in and head me off? Is that your idea?" the girl asked. Then, as
her sister also had a pause, "I don't know what makes you talk of Mr.
Densher," she observed.

"I talk of him just because you don't. That you never do, in spite of
