to buy as much in that day--and he offered to let Jim take them and go and
get something to eat at the grocery.

They decided he should buy two smoked red herrings and a cent's worth of
crackers, and these were what Jim brought back after he had been gone so
long that Pony thought he would never come. He had stopped to get some
apples off one of the trees at his mother's house, and he had to watch his
chance so that she should not see him, and then he had stopped and taken
some potatoes out of a hill that would be first-rate if they could get
some salt to eat them with, after they had built a fire somewhere and
baked them.

They thought it would be a good plan to dig one of these little caves just
under the edge of the bank, and make a hole in the top to let the smoke
out; but they would have to go a good way off so that the other fellows
could not see them, and they could not wait for that. They divided the
herrings between them, and they each had two crackers and three apples,
and they made a good meal.

Then they went to a pump at the nearest house, where the woman said they
might have a drink, and drank themselves full. They wanted awfully to ask
her for some salt, but they did not dare to do it for fear she would make
them tell what they wanted it for. So they came away without, and Jim said
they could put ashes on their potatoes the way the Indians did, and it
would be just as good as salt.

They ran back to the river bank, and ran along up it till they were out of
sight of the boys on the shore below, and then they made their oven in it,
and started their fire with some matches that Jim Leonard had in his
pocket, so that if he ever got lost in the woods at night he could make
a fire and keep from freezing. His tooth had stopped aching now, and he
kept telling such exciting stories about Indians that Pony could not seem
to get the chance to ask why Bunty Williams should take after the boys
with his shotgun and bulldog if he had given up the watermelon patch and
only wanted it for seed.

The question lurked in Pony's mind all the time that they were waiting for
the potatoes to bake, but somehow he could not get it out. He did not feel
very well, and he tried to forget his bad feelings by listening as hard as
he could to Jim Leonard's stories. Jim kept taking the potatoes out to see
if they were done enough, and he began to eat them while they were still
very hard and greenish under the skin. Pony ate them, too, although he was
not hungry now, and he did not think the ashes were as good as salt on
them, as Jim pretended. The potato he ate seemed to make him feel no
better, and at last he had to tell Jim that he was afraid he was going to
be sick.

Jim said that if they could heat some stones, and get a blanket anywhere,
and put it over Pony and the stones, and then pour water on the hot
stones, they could give him a steam bath the way the Indians did, and it
would cure him in a minute; they could get the stones easy enough, and he
could bring water from the river in his straw hat, but the thing of it was
to get the blanket.

He stood looking thoughtfully down at Pony, who was crying now, and
begging Jim Leonard to go home with him, for he did not believe he could
walk on account of the pain that seemed to curl him right up. He asked Jim
if he believed he was beginning to have the ague, but Jim said it was more
like the yellow janders, although he agreed that Pony had better go home,
for it was pretty late, anyway.

He made Pony promise that if he would take him home he would let him get
a good way off before he went into the house, so that Pony's father and
mother should not see who had brought him. He said that when he had got
off far enough he would hollo, and then Pony could go in. He was
first-rate to Pony on the way home, and helped him to walk, and when the
pain curled him up so tight that he could not touch his foot to the
ground, Jim carried him.

Pony could never know just what to make of Jim Leonard. Sometimes he
was so good to you that you could not help thinking he was one of the
cleverest fellows in town, and then all of a sudden he would do something
mean. He acted the perfect coward at times, and at other times he was not
afraid of anything. Almost any of the fellows could whip him, but once he
went into an empty house that was haunted, and came and looked out of the
garret windows, and dared any of them to come up.

He offered now, if Pony did not want to go home and let his folks find out
about the melon patch, to take him to his mother's log-barn, and get a
witch-doctor to come and tend him; but Pony said that he thought they had
better keep on, and then Jim trotted and asked him if the jolting did not
do him some good. He said he just wished there was an Indian medicine-man
around somewhere.

They were so long getting to Pony's house that it was almost dusk when
they reached the back of the barn, and Jim put him over the fence. Jim
started to run, and Pony waited till he got out of sight and holloed; then
he began to shout, "Father! Mother! O mother! Come out here! I'm sick!"

It did not seem hardly a second till he heard his mother calling back:
"Pony! Pony! Where are you, child? Where are you?"

"Here, behind the barn!" he answered.

Pony's mother came running out, and then his father, and when they had put
him into his own bed up-stairs, his mother made his father go for the
doctor. While his father was gone, his mother got the whole story out of
Pony--what he had been doing all day, and what he had been eating--but as
to who had got him into the trouble, she said she knew from the start it
must be Jim Leonard.

After the doctor came and she told him what Pony had been eating, without
telling all that he had been doing, the doctor gave him something to make
him feel better. As soon as he said he felt better she began to talk very
seriously to him, and to tell him how anxious she had been ever since she
had seen him going off in the morning with Jim Leonard at the head of that
crowd of boys.

"Didn't you know he couldn't be telling the truth when he said the man had
left his watermelon patch? Didn't any of the boys?"

"No," said Pony, thoughtfully.

"But when he pretended that he shouldn't know the right patch, and wanted
to turn back?"

"We didn't think anything. We thought he just wanted to get out of going.
Ought they let him turn back? Maybe he meant to keep the patch all to
himself."

His mother was silent, and Pony asked, "Do you believe that a boy has a
right to take anything off a tree or a vine?"

"No; certainly not."

"Well, that's what I think, too."

"Why, Pony," said his mother, "is there anybody who thinks such a thing
can be right?"

"Well, the boys say it's not stealing. Stealing is hooking a thing out of
a wagon or a store; but if you can knock a thing off a tree, or get it
through a fence, when it's on the ground already, then it's just like
gathering nuts in the woods. That's what the boys say. Do you think it
is?"

"I think it's the worst kind of stealing. I hope my boy doesn't do such
things."

"Not very often," answered Pony, thoughtfully. "When there's a lot of
