flooring of the entire court was of stone; there was not even the usual
vine sprawling over the walls.

Men had died in this house; not always in bed, which is to say,
naturally.  Some had died struggling in the gloomy corridors, in the
grand salon, on the staircase leading to the upper stories.  In the
Valois's time it had witnessed many a violent night; for men had held
life in a careless hand, and the master of fence had been the
law-giver.  Three of the House of Périgny had closed their accounts
thus roughly.  The grandsire and granduncle of the present marquis,
both being masters of fence, had succumbed in an attempt to give law to
each other.  And the apple of discord, some say, had been the Duchesse
de Valentinois.  The third to die violently was the ninth marquis,
father of the present possessor of the title.  History says that he
died of too much wine and a careless tongue.  Thus it will be seen that
the blood in the veins of this noble race was red and hot.

Children, in mortal terror, scampered past the hôtel; at night sober
men, when they neared it, crossed the street.  Few of the Rochellais
could describe the interior; these were not envied of their knowledge.
It had been tenanted but twice in thirty years.  Of the present
generation none could remember having seen it cheerful with lights.
The ignorant abhor darkness; it is the meat upon which their
superstition feeds.  To them, deserted houses are always haunted, if
not by spirits at least by the memory of evil deeds.

The master of this house of dread was held in awe by the citizens to
whom he was a word, a name to be spoken lowly, even when respect
tinctured the utterance.  Stories concerning the marquis had come from
Paris and Périgny, and travel, the good gossip, had distorted acts of
mere eccentricity into deeds of violence and wickedness.  The nobility,
however, did not share the popular belief.  They beheld in the marquis
a great noble whose right to his title ran back to the days when a
marquisate meant the office of guarding the marshes and frontiers for
the king.  Besides, the marquis had been the friend of two kings, the
lover of a famous beauty, the husband of the daughter of a Savoy
prince.  These three virtues balanced his moral delinquencies.  To the
popular awe in which the burghers held him there was added a large
particle of distrust; for during the great rebellion he had served
neither the Catholics nor the Huguenots; neither Richelieu, his enemy,
nor De Rohan, his friend.  Catholics proclaimed him a Huguenot,
Huguenots declared him a Catholic; yet, no one had ever seen him attend
mass, the custom of good Catholics, nor had any heard him pray in
French, the custom of good Huguenots.  What then, being neither one nor
the other?  An atheist, whispered the wise, a word which was then
accepted in its narrowest cense: that is to say, Monsieur le Marquis
had sold his soul to the devil.

Périgny, it is not to be denied, was a sinister sound in the ears of a
virtuous woman.  To the ultra-pious and the bigoted, it was a letter in
the alphabet of hell.  Yet, there was in this grim chain of evil repute
one link which did not conform with the whole.  The marquis never
haggled with his tradesmen, never beat his servants or his animals, and
opened his purse to the poor with more frequency than did his religious
neighbors.  Those who believed in his total wickedness found it
impossible to accept this incongruity.

For ten years the hôtel had remained in darkness; then behold! but a
month gone, a light was seen shining from one of the windows.  The
watch, upon investigation, were informed that Monsieur le Marquis had
returned to the city and would remain indefinitely.  After this, on
several occasions the hôtel was lighted cheerfully enough.  Monsieur le
Marquis's son entertained his noble friends and the officers from Fort
Louis.  There was wine in plenty and play ran high.  The marquis,
however, while he permitted these saturnalia, invariably held aloof.
It was servants' hall gossip that the relations existing between father
and son were based upon the coldest formalities.  Conversation never
went farther than "Good morning, Monsieur le Marquis" and "Good
morning, Monsieur le Comte."  The marquis pretended not to understand
when any referred to his son as the "Chevalier du Cévennes."  It was
also gossiped that this noble house was drawing to its close; for the
Chevalier had declined to marry, and was drinking and gaming heavily;
and to add to the marquis's chagrin, the Chevalier had been dismissed
from court, in disgrace,--a calamity which till now had never fallen
upon the House of Périgny.


The marquis was growing old.  As he sat before the fire in the grand
salon, the flickering yellow light playing over his features, which had
a background of moving, deep velvet-brown shadows, he might have been
the theme of some melancholy whim by Rubens, a stanza by Dante.  His
face was furrowed like a frosty road.  Veins sprawled over his hands
which rested on the arms of his chair, and the knuckles shone like
ivory through the drawn transparent skin.  The long fingers drummed
ceaselessly and the head teetered; for thus senility approaches.  His
lips, showing under a white mustache, were livid and fallen inward.
The large Alexandrian nose had lost its military angle, and drooped
slightly at the tip: which is to say, the marquis no longer acted, he
thought; he was no longer the soldier, but the philosopher.  The
domineering, forceful chin had the essentials of a man of justice, but
it was lacking in that quality of mercy which makes justice grand.
Over the Henri IV ruff fell the loose flesh of his jaws.  Altogether,
it was the face of a man who was practically if not actually dead.  But
in the eyes, there lay the life of the man.  From under jutting brows
they peered as witnesses of a brain which had accumulated a rare
knowledge of mankind, man's shallowness, servility, hypocrisy, his
natural inability to obey the simplest laws of nature; a brain which
was set in motion always by calculation, never by impulse.  They were
grey eyes, bold and fierce and liquid as a lion's.  None among the
great had ever beaten them down, for they were truthful eyes, almost an
absolute denial of the life he had lived.  But truth to the marquis was
not a moral obligation.  He was truthful as became a great noble who
was too proud and fearless of consequences to lie.  In his youth he had
been called Antinous to Henri's Caesar; but there is a certain type of
beauty which, if preyed upon by vices, becomes sardonic in old age.

At his elbow stood a small Turkish table on which were a Venetian bell
and a light repast, consisting of a glass of weakened canary and a
plate of biscuits spread sparingly with honey.  Presently the marquis
drank the wine and struck the bell.  Jehan, the marquis's aged valet,
entered soon after with a large candelabrum of wax candles.  This he
placed on the mantel.  Even with this additional light, the other end
of the salon remained in semi-darkness.  Only the dim outline of the
grand staircase could be seen.

Over the mantel the portrait of a woman stood out clearly and
definitely.  It represented Madame la Marquise at twenty-two, when
Marie de Médicis had commanded the young Rubens to paint the portrait
of one of the few women who had volunteered to share her exile.  Madame
lived to be only twenty-four, happily.

"Jehan, light the chandelier," said the marquis.  His voice, if high,
was still clear and strong.  "Has Monsieur le Comte ventured forth in
this storm?"

"Yes, Monsieur; but he left word that he would return later with a
company of friends."

"Friends?" The marquis shrugged.  "Is that what he calls them?  When do
these grasping Jesuits visit me?"

"At eight, Monsieur.  They are due this moment, unless they have failed
to make the harbor."

"And they bring the savage?  Good.  He will interest me, and I am dying
of weariness.  I shall see a man again.  Arrange some chairs next to
me, bring a bottle of claret, and a thousand livres from the steward's
chest.  And listen, Jehan, let Monsieur le Comte's servant give orders
to the butler for his master.  I forbid you to do it."

