consideration. I may add that I was put to considerable expense in
hiring a horse to pursue Bernard. This and some other items amount to
about five dollars, which I shall be glad if you will remit to me, as my
means are straitened and I cannot bear the loss.

“Yours sincerely,

“Ezekiel Snowdon.”

“What have you to say to this?” asked Mr. McCracken severely.

“Only that Mr. Snowdon is unfit to teach, and is as brutal as he dares
to be. I was fully justified in running away. I don’t allow any man to
horsewhip me.”

“So you abused his son, Sep----” and Mr. McCracken referred to the
letter to refresh his memory as to the name.

“Septimus? He is worse, if anything, than his father.”

“Do you expect me to send you to another school, where you can have your
own way?”

“No; I would prefer to earn my own living.”

“Are you still with the lunatic?”

“Mr. Penrose is no lunatic, though he has a cousin who is trying to get
him into an insane asylum in order to gain possession of his money.”

“Very plausible! I suppose he tells you so. Are you still with him?”

“No, sir. I am with a miner from Colorado--a Mr. Stackpole.”

“Is he the desperado referred to by Mr. Snowdon in his letter?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Upon my word, I congratulate you on your choice of associates. Where is
he now?”

“In New York, at the Grand Union Hotel. I have been staying there with
him.”

“Has he adopted you?”

“No, sir. Mr. McCracken, there is one question I would like to ask you.”

“What is it?”

“You are my guardian. Have you charge of my property for me?”

“No. Who told you that I had?” demanded Mr. McCracken suspiciously.

“No one, but I thought my father might have left something.”

“He left about a hundred and fifty dollars, but it was gone long ago.”

“And have you been paying my expenses out of your own pocket ever
since?”

“Yes,” answered Mr. McCracken, but he looked somewhat embarrassed.

“Then I thank you for your liberality, sir. I don’t like to impose upon
it, and would like to make my own living.”

“That sounds very well, but what can you do?”

“I don’t know yet, but I am sure I can earn my board. I am young and
strong.”

“Where did you get that gold watch?” asked Mr. McCracken, as Bernard
drew it to consult the time.

“It was given me by a firm of bankers in Albany--Murdock & Co.”

“What induced them to give it to you?”

“I helped them to recover some bonds which had been stolen from them.”

“Humph! You seem to be fond of adventures.”

“The adventure was forced upon me.”

“Let me know what you want.”

“If you could help me to find a place where I can earn a living I should
feel deeply indebted to you, and it would save you from supporting me
out of your own pocket.”

“I will think of it. Where are you staying?”

“At the Grand Union Hotel.”

“Who is paying your bills?”

“Mr. Joshua Stackpole.”

“You can come to my house. In a few days I shall probably find you a
place.”

“Thank you, sir. Where do you live?”

Mr. McCracken gave an address on Lexington Avenue.

“I will go there this afternoon.”

“I shall be home at five. You may present yourself then.”

Bernard was about to leave the office when Mr. McCracken called him
back.

“Wait a minute. Did you notice what Mr. Snowdon said about his expense
in getting you back?”

“Yes, sir,” answered Bernard with a smile. “Do you think he expended
five dollars?”

“No, sir. I know he did not. The horse he hired is about twenty-five
years old, and he can have it whenever he please for seventy-five
cents.”

“So Mr. Snowdon wishes to make a little profit out of the transaction.”

“So it appears.”

“Very well, that will do.”

The next day Mr. Snowdon received the following letter:

“Dear Sir:

“I have delayed answering your letter till I could see my ward. He
called on me this morning. He charges you with an attempt to horsewhip
for insufficient cause. Into the merits of this controversy between you
I will not enter. I doubt if it will be advisable to send him back to
Snowdon Institute, and at his request I shall find him some employment.

“As to the charge you make for expenses in pursuing him I think you have
greatly overcharged. I inclose two dollars, which Bernard tells me is
