
"Pardon me, I meant from a social point of view only.  I admit we would
not be equals in the eye of the Presbyter."

And then followed a scene that reminds me to this day of some broken,
fantastic dream, a fragment from some bewildering nightmare.




IX

For suddenly I saw his eyes widen and flash with anger and
apprehension.  Quick as a passing sunshadow, his hand swept the
candelabrum from the table.  He made a swift backward spring toward the
door, but he was a little too late.  The darkness he had created was
not intense enough, for there was still the ruddy glow from the logs;
and the bosom of his dress-shirt made a fine target.  Besides, the eyes
that had peered into the window were accustomed to the night.

Blang!  The glass of the window shivered and jingled to the floor, and
a sharp report followed.  The rogue cried out in fierce anguish, and
reeled against the wall.  William whipped out his revolver, but, even
from his favorable angle, he was not quick enough.  The hand that had
directed the first bullet was ready to direct the second.

All this took place within the count of ten.  The girl and I sat
stiffly in our chairs, as if petrified, it was all so swiftly
accomplished.

"Drop it!" said a cold, authoritative voice, and I saw the vague
outlines of Haggerty's face beyond the broken window-pane.

William knew better than to hesitate.  His revolver struck the floor
dully, and a curse rolled from his lips.  Immediately a heavy body
precipitated itself against the door, which crashed inward, and an
officer fearlessly entered, a revolver in each hand.  This tableau,
which lasted fully a minute, was finally disturbed by the entrance of
Haggerty himself.

"Don't be alarmed, Miss," he said heartily; "it's all over, I'm sorry
for the bullet, but it had to be done.  The rascal has nothing more
serious than a splintered bone, I am a dead shot.  A fine
night!"--triumphantly.  "It's been a long chase, and I never was sure
of the finish.  You're the cleverest rogue it has been my good fortune
to meet this many a day.  I don't even know who you are yet.  Well,
well! we'll round that up in time."

Not till the candles again sputtered with light, and William was
securely handcuffed and disarmed, did I recollect that I possessed the
sense of motion.  The smoke of powder drifted across the flickering
candles, and there was a salty taste on my tongue.

"Horrible!" cried the girl, covering her eyes.

The master rogue and his valet were led out into the assembly-room, and
we reluctantly followed.  I saw it all now.  When Haggerty called up
central at the club, he ascertained where the last call had been from,
and, learning that it came from Hollywood Inn, he took his chance.  The
room was soon filled with servants and stable-hands, the pistol-shot
having lured them from their beds.  The wounded man was very pale.  He
sat with his uninjured hand tightly clasped above the ragged wound, and
a little pool of blood slowly formed at his side on the floor.  But his
eyes shone brightly.

"A basin of water and some linen!" cried the girl to Moriarty.  "And
send all these people away."

"To yer rooms, ivery one of ye!" snapped Moriarty, sweeping his hands.
"'Tis no place for ye, be off!"  He hurried the servants out of the
room, and presently returned with a basin of water, some linen and balm.

We watched the girl as she bathed and bandaged the wounded arm; and
once or twice the patient smiled.  Haggerty looked on approvingly, and
in William's eyes there beamed the gentle light of reverence.  It was
a picture to see this lovely creature playing the part of the good
Samaritan, moving here and there in her exquisite gown.  Ah, the tender
mercy!  I knew that, come what might, I had strangely found the right
woman, the one woman.

[Illustration: We watched the girl as she bathed and bandaged the
wounded arm.]

"You're a good little woman," said the rogue, his face softening; "and
a good woman is the finest thing God ever placed upon earth.  Had I
only found one!"  He turned whimsically toward me.  "Are you engaged to
marry this little woman?"

"No."

"Surely you love her!"

"Surely I do!"  I looked bravely at the girl as I spoke.

But she never gave any sign that she heard.  She pinned the ends of the
bandages carefully.

"And what brought you to this?" asked Haggerty, looking down at his
prisoner.

The prisoner shrugged.

"You've the making of a fine man in you," went on Haggerty generously.
"What caused you to slip up?"

"That subject is taboo," replied the thief.  "But I want to beg your
pardon for underestimating your cunning."

"It was all due to a chance shot at the telephone."

"I kept you guessing."

"Merrily, too.  My admiration is wholly yours, sir," returned Haggerty,
picking up the telephone exchange-book.  He rang and placed his lips to
the transmitter, calling a number.  "Hello!  Is this the chief of the
Blankshire police?  Yes?  Well, this is Haggerty.  That idea I hinted
to you was a mighty good one.  Prepare two strong cells and have a
doctor on hand.  What?  Oh, you will find your horse and carriage at
Moriarty's.  Good-by!"

My money was handed over to me.  I returned it to my wallet, but
without any particular enthusiasm.

"It's a bad business, William," said I.

"It's all in the game, sir,"--with a look at Haggerty that expressed
infinite hatred.  "In our business we can't afford to be careless."

"Or to talk too much," supplemented his master, smiling.  "Talk, my
friend, rounds me up with a bullet in the arm, and a long sojourn
behind stone walls.  Never talk.  Thank you, Miss Hawthorne, and you,
too, Mr. Comstalk, for the saving grace of humor.  If it were possible,
I should like to give Miss Hawthorne the pick of the jewels.  This is a
sordid world."

"Ye'er car-r is coming!" shouted Moriarty, running to the window.

So the girl and I passed out of Hollywood Inn, leaving Haggerty with
his mysterious prisoners.  I can't reason it out, even to this day, but
I was genuinely sorry that Haggerty had arrived upon the scene.  For
