So on that day they began the new life together, trusting that they
could live it faithfully to the end, but truly resolved to part
again for ever if real danger came near them.

They believed in themselves and in each other. Maria had faith in
a higher power from which she was to receive strength; Castiglione
had little or nothing of this, but he said to himself plainly that
if he broke his word he would die for it on the same day, and he
loved mere life enough to think the forfeit a heavy one.

They counted upon themselves and upon each other. There was
nothing to suggest that quite external circumstances might
influence their lives to make the task easier or more difficult
than they anticipated. Most certainly neither believed that there
could be moments ahead which would be harder to bear than those
through which they had already lived.

When Castiglione went away that afternoon they had agreed that he
should come again on the next day but one, and once again before
he went back to Milan, and that he should at once take steps
to exchange into the Piedmont Lancers, if possible, as his old
regiment was likely to remain in Rome fully eighteen months longer.




CHAPTER VII


If Giuliana Parenzo had been one of those nervous, sensitive
women who are always thinking about themselves and fancying that
their friends are on the point of betraying them, she would have
noticed a little change in Maria’s manner after Castiglione’s visit
to Rome. It was not that Maria was at all less fond of her than
before, or less affectionate, or apparently less glad to see her.
It was much more subtle than that. There is a great difference
between a hungry man and a man who merely has an appetite. The one
must have food, the other is only pleased to have it. Giuliana’s
friendship had long been a necessity to Maria, but it now sank to
the condition of being merely an added satisfaction in her life.
Formerly she would not have given it up for anything else; but now,
if she could have been forced to choose between Castiglione and
Giuliana, she would have given up her friend.

The Marchesa, however, was not a sensitive or nervous woman, and
she noticed nothing of the change that had taken place. She was
therefore very much surprised when her husband spoke to her about
Maria. It was late in the afternoon, some days after Castiglione
had gone back to Milan, and Parenzo had come home tired from the
Foreign Office and was smoking in his wife’s dressing-room, which
was his favourite resort at that hour. Like many busy women,
Giuliana had her writing-table there, in order to be safe from
interruption, and she was occupied with some notes which had to be
finished before dinner, while her husband sat in a low straw chair
watching her, and devising a new costume for their approaching trip
to England. He had always considered it his especial mission to
superintend his wife’s dress, and his taste was admirable. He was a
small wiry man with a neat reddish beard, not much hair on the top
of his head, and a single eyeglass. But he had an energetic nose
and forehead, and a singularly pleasant smile.

Giuliana finished one of her notes and looked up, and instantly the
smile came into his face, for he was quite as much in love with her
as when he had married her. She looked pleased, and nodded to him
before taking another sheet of paper.

‘I wanted to ask you about Maria Montalto,’ he said suddenly,
arresting her attention.

Giuliana looked a little surprised, and laid down her pen.

‘Yes, dear. What do you wish to know about her?’

‘You are just as intimate with her as ever, are you not?’ he
inquired.

‘Oh, yes! What could come between us? Why do you ask?’

‘Because if you are as good friends as you always used to be, I
think you had better tell her that people are talking about her. I
like her, too, and it is a great pity that anything disagreeable
should be said, especially if there is no ground for it.’

‘I’m sure there is none,’ said Giuliana promptly. ‘What is the
gossip about her?’

‘That she is seeing too much of Baldassare del Castiglione.’

‘He is in Milan, my dear. How can she see much of him? What
nonsense! Really, Mondo, you should not repeat such stuff to me!
It’s too absurd!’

Parenzo’s first name was Sigismondo, of which Mondo is the
diminutive. He shook his head quietly at his wife’s rebuke.

‘I know he is in Milan,’ he answered. ‘But he was here for a
fortnight a while ago, and people are saying that they met every
day. When he did not go to see her early in the afternoon, they met
in quiet corners and walked together.’

‘I suppose that by “people” you mean Teresa Crescenzi,’ laughed
Giuliana. ‘She is the mother of all gossip, you know.’

‘It was de Maurienne who told me,’ rejoined Sigismondo.

‘That’s the same thing!’ Giuliana laughed again.

‘Oh, is it? I did not know. You don’t say so!’

Parenzo seemed amused and interested. Monsieur de Maurienne was a
second secretary of the French Embassy, a rich man with artistic
tastes, who gave out that if he were ordered to any other post he
would leave the service and continue to live in Rome.

‘Teresa means to marry him,’ Giuliana explained. ‘I daresay she
will. Of course, the story about Maria comes from her. There is not
a word of truth in it. Castiglione is gone to Milan and may not
come back for years.’

‘My dear, I’m always ready to take your opinion in such matters.
But this afternoon Casalmaggiore--you know who I mean?’

‘The Colonel of Piedmont Lancers?’

‘Yes. He dropped in to see me at the Foreign Office about a
special passport for a friend of his, and he happened to say that
Castiglione had asked to exchange back into his old regiment, and
that the matter would certainly be arranged, as every one liked him
so much. The Colonel was very curious to find out whether there
was a lady in the case, and what her name might be. He seems to
have plenty of curiosity, Casalmaggiore! I said I knew nothing
about Castiglione’s love affairs, and I did not refer him to Teresa
Crescenzi, for he was the last man she tried to marry before de
Maurienne! That was all.’

Giuliana looked at her husband gravely.

‘I did not know that Castiglione wished to come to Rome,’ she said.
‘I doubt if Maria knows it, and I’m almost sure she will not be
pleased.’
