
Mrs. Eddy has herself created all these personal grandeurs and
autocracies--with others which I have not (in this article) mentioned.
They place her upon an Alpine solitude and supremacy of power and
spectacular show not hitherto attained by any other self-seeking
enslaver disguised in the Christian name, and they persuade me that,
although she may regard “self-deification as blasphemous,” she is as
fond of it as I am of pie.

She knows about “Our Mother’s Room” in the Supreme Church in
Boston--above referred to--for she has been in it. In a recently
published North American Review article, I quoted a lady as saying Mrs.
Eddy’s portrait could be seen there in a shrine, lit by always-burning
lights, and that C.S. disciples came and worshiped it. That remark hurt
the feelings of more than one Scientist. They said it was not true, and
asked me to correct it. I comply with pleasure. Whether the portrait was
there four years ago or not, it is not there now, for I have
inquired. The only object in the shrine now, and lit by electrics--and
worshiped--is an oil-portrait of the horse-hair chair Mrs. Eddy used
to sit in when she was writing Science and Health! It seems to me that
adulation has struck bottom, here.

Mrs. Eddy knows about that. She has been there, she has seen it, she has
seen the worshippers. She could abolish that sarcasm with a word. She
withholds the word. Once more I seem to recognize in her exactly the
same appetite for self-deification that I have for pie. We seem to be
curiously alike; for the love of self-deification is really only the
spiritual form of the material appetite for pie, and nothing could be
more strikingly Christian-Scientifically “harmonious.”

I note this phrase:

“Christian Science eschews divine rights in human beings.”

“Rights” is vague; I do not know what it means there. Mrs. Eddy is not
well acquainted with the English language, and she is seldom able to say
in it what she is trying to say. She has no ear for the exact word, and
does not often get it. “Rights.” Does it mean “honors?” “attributes?”

“Eschews.” This is another umbrella where there should be a torch; it
does not illumine the sentence, it only deepens the shadows. Does she
mean “denies?” “refuses?” “forbids?” or something in that line? Does she
mean:

“Christian Science denies divine honors to human beings?” Or:

“Christian Science refuses to recognize divine attributes in human
beings?” Or:

“Christian Science forbids the worship of human beings?”

The bulk of the succeeding sentence is to me a tunnel, but, when I
emerge at this end of it, I seem to come into daylight. Then I seem to
understand both sentences--with this result:

“Christian Science recognizes but one God, forbids the worship of human
beings, and refuses to recognize the possession of divine attributes by
any member of the race.”

I am subject to correction, but I think that that is about what Mrs.
Eddy was intending to convey. Has her English--which is always difficult
to me--beguiled me into misunderstanding the following remark, which she
makes (calling herself “we,” after an old regal fashion of hers) in her
preface to her Miscellaneous Writings?

“While we entertain decided views as to the best method for elevating
the race physically, morally, and spiritually, and shall express these
views as duty demands, we shall claim no especial gift from our divine
organ, no supernatural power.”

Was she meaning to say:

“Although I am of divine origin and gifted with supernatural power, I
shall not draw upon these resources in determining the best method of
elevating the race?”

If she had left out the word “our,” she might then seem to say:

“I claim no especial or unusual degree of divine origin--”

Which is awkward--most awkward; for one either has a divine origin or
hasn’t; shares in it, degrees of it, are surely impossible. The idea of
crossed breeds in cattle is a thing we can entertain, for we are used to
it, and it is possible; but the idea of a divine mongrel is unthinkable.

Well, then, what does she mean? I am sure I do not know, for certain. It
is the word “our” that makes all the trouble. With the “our” in, she is
plainly saying “my divine origin.” The word “from” seems to be intended
to mean “on account of.” It has to mean that or nothing, if “our” is
allowed to stay. The clause then says:

“I shall claim no especial gift on account of my divine origin.”

And I think that the full sentence was intended to mean what I have
already suggested:

“Although I am of divine origin, and gifted with supernatural power, I
shall not draw upon these resources in determining the best method of
elevating the race.”

When Mrs. Eddy copyrighted that Preface seven years ago, she had long
been used to regarding herself as a divine personage. I quote from Mr.
F. W. Peabody’s book:

“In the Christian Science Journal for April, 1889, when it was her
property, and published by her, it was claimed for her, and with her
sanction, that she was equal with Jesus, and elaborate effort was made
to establish the claim.”

“Mrs. Eddy has distinctly authorized the claim in her behalf, that she
herself was the chosen successor to and equal of Jesus.”

The following remark in that April number, quoted by Mr. Peabody,
indicates that her claim had been previously made, and had excited
“horror” among some “good people”:

“Now, a word about the horror many good people have of our making the
Author of Science and Health ‘equal with Jesus.’”

Surely, if it had excited horror in Mrs. Eddy also, she would have
published a disclaimer. She owned the paper; she could say what she
pleased in its columns. Instead of rebuking her editor, she lets him
rebuke those “good people” for objecting to the claim.

These things seem to throw light upon those words, “our [my] divine
origin.”

It may be that “Christian Science eschews divine rights in human
beings,” and forbids worship of any but “one God, one Christ”; but, if
that is the case, it looks as if Mrs. Eddy is a very unsound Christian
Scientist, and needs disciplining. I believe she has a serious
malady--“self-deification”; and that it will be well to have one of the
experts demonstrate over it.

Meantime, let her go on living--for my sake. Closely examined,
painstakingly studied, she is easily the most interesting person on the
planet, and, in several ways, as easily the most extraordinary woman
that was ever born upon it.


