
Miss Boutts stared. "Gayeties?" said she.

"What else? I never knew people so absorbed, although I fail to see why
I should be wholly excluded. Or have the fashions changed, and was I
expected to call first--"

Miss Boutts, who was not particularly quick of apprehension, here threw
back her head and gave a musical laugh, which was out of tune with her
drawling nasal voice and abundant slang.

"You innocent!" she cried. "Where have you been? I suppose you have been
imagining us at dances and dinners and teas and things. Why, we have
only danced twice in two whole years. It's cards, my dear. We are card
mad, the whole bunch of us, old and young, women and girls. Mrs. Leslie
and Anabel Colton are about the only exceptions, at least in our set.
But I fancy the whole town has got it. We play morning, noon, and
night--literally. Those who have no servants--and that question gets
worse instead of better--don't make their beds for days, and their
husbands get dinner at any old hour. Those who have a servant or two
belong to six clubs at least. I belong to every one of them, and two
meet in the morning."

It had been Isabel's turn to stare. The older people had always played
bézique or whist, but rather somnolently of an evening. She wondered if
the old gambling spirit had broken out again, and asked if they were
playing poker or monté. Miss Boutts looked at her with positive scorn.

"You girls that go to Europe and stay there too long get fearfully
behind things. Poker! Monte! We play bridge and five hundred." Then her
genuine affection for Isabel overcame her contempt. "We have spoken
often of asking you to join the clubs," she added, sweetly. "But there
isn't a vacancy at present."

"I couldn't think of it. Chickens and cards don't rhyme. What do you
play for--money?"

"No!" The scorn returned to her voice. "We are still too provincial for
that. San Francisco is ahead of us there. We don't even have real big
prizes--just a dinky little spoon sitting up on the mantel-piece to
excite us as if it was a tiara. I've won a whole bunch of them. They're
better than nothing and mean a lot of fun. I'm as proud as punch of
them."

"And the men?" asked Isabel. Did they play, too? Miss Boutts replied
that they were too busy in the daytime, but were asked once a week to a
"bang-up" affair. Their other evenings they spent at the lodges--"or any
old place," added Miss Boutts, who had no brothers, and a very busy
father. When Isabel asked her if she had not the natural yearning of her
age and sex for beaux, she shrugged her shoulders and replied:

"Rather. But where are you going to find them here? Pa won't live in the
city, and all the young men run away. Once in a while I visit in San
Francisco, and we go down to all the new plays, so I suppose I'll meet
my fate in time. Meanwhile, as there's nothing doing in that line here,
cards are a mighty fine substitute for beaux, and no mistake."

Isabel had been glad to be rid of her, and of her other old friends, who
did call in due course. Anabel had not returned and was the worst of
correspondents. So it had fallen out that she had held no real converse
with youth until Gwynne's advent, and she accepted it with delight, and
shook her head with young triumph in being able to interest him--or in
joy of the sparkling air; she hardly knew which.

       *       *       *       *       *

As Gwynne left his room the Japanese "chambermaid," who had been about
to knock, informed him that Miss Otis awaited him below. He ran
down-stairs and found her still on her horse. Abe held another horse by
the bridle.

"It is nine o'clock--" began Isabel, but Gwynne interrupted her, rarely
apologetic.

"I hardly slept. There was such an infernal racket. A theatrical
troupe--"

"There generally is. How do you like your horse?"

Gwynne examined the horse, and was good enough to remark that it was a
credit to California. Then he added: "It did not occur to me last
night--my luggage is expressed to the ranch and I haven't my
riding-togs--" Then he reddened at Isabel's gay laugh and Abe's
suppressed smile.

"Oh, well," said Isabel, as she sprang from her horse. "The bloods will
be too busy to notice as we ride down Main Street, and after that it
won't matter."

She went with him into the dining-room of the hotel, a room scrupulously
clean, but with no attempt at decoration beyond the various
advertisements of beer on the white walls. There was a long table down
the middle of the room and a great many small ones. Most of the latter
were empty, although two beside the door were covered with steaks and
eggs and coffee and rolls. One man, who had evidently finished, had
swung his chair about, tipped it against the wall, and was addressing a
political monologue to his toothpick.

Gwynne led Isabel to a table in a corner by a window, and indicated the
company occupying more than half of the long table.

"'Busted,' was the word they used, and I cannot think of a better one to
describe them. I talked with the men in the bar, and later wandered into
the parlor where the women were, some tearful, others indignant. One
had an infant, and there were several small children running about,
although it was midnight. The soubrette was chewing gum and
anathematizing Rosewater as the 'jayest town on the slope,' and others
were calling for the blood of the manager, who had absconded with the
receipts of an unprofitable week. They interested me, as all your weird
specimens do, and I found them a surprisingly decent lot, considering
that it is the cheapest sort of a vaudeville troupe. That poor little
woman with the red eyes and the parti-colored hair is the mother of the
infant. I saw one of the children carrying it about the hall as I left
my room. She wears spangled tights--she told me with a lively regret at
the prospect of pawning them--and shoots balls from the head of that
young man that looks like a parson. And the soubrette--all my ideals are
shattered! Look at her."

The soubrette had a lank young body neatly attired in a store suit and
shirt-waist. Her face was sallow and her black hair as lank as her body,
but her eyes were keen and bright, and she was indisputably respectable.
She was drinking her coffee with both elbows on the table and listening
with a sort of indifferent sympathy to an elderly untidy woman who was
sniffling.

"Drop it," she shot out, finally. "'Tain't worth it. The landlord's
given us a free breakfast, anyhow, and it's more'n most of 'em does.
We'll get back to 'Frisco somehow, and will run into Jake first thing.
I'll give him a slice of my mind right in the thickest of the
Tenderloin. You just shut up and be thankful you ain't got no kids."

"She is positively discouraging," said Gwynne, as he attacked his
excellent breakfast. "I thought that the frozen surface of the American
woman thawed on the stratum soubrette."

"The class is not always remarkable for its asceticism," said Isabel,
dryly. "I often lunch here, and see many varieties. The leading lady is
generally a large voluptuous person with a head like a hay-stack seen
through the wrong end of an opera-glass, and some of the soubrettes are
all hats and eyes and wriggling grace. The men are what we call 'tough,'
