and that, and leaning over the throng packed about him. Because of a
passing train the two could not hear a sound.

"A Socialist!" exclaimed Montague, wonderingly. "What do they want?"

"I'm not sure," said the other. "They want to overthrow the government."

The train passed, and then the man's words came to them: "They force
you to build palaces, and then they put you into tenements! They force
you to spin fine raiment, and then they dress you in rags! They force
you to build jails, and then they lock you up in them! They force you
to make guns, and then they shoot you with them! They own the political
parties, and they name the candidates, and trick you into voting for
them--and they call it the law! They herd you into armies and send you
to shoot your brothers--and they call it order! They take a piece of
coloured rag and call it the flag and teach you to let yourself be
shot--and they call it patriotism! First, last, and all the time, you
do the work and they get the benefit--they, the masters and owners, and
you--fools--fools--fools!"

The man's voice had mounted to a scream, and he flung his hands into
the air and broke into jeering laughter. Then came another train, and
Montague could not hear him; but he could see that he was rushing on in
the torrent of his denunciation.

Montague stood rooted to the spot; he was shocked to the depths of his
being--he could scarcely contain himself as he stood there. He longed
to spring forward to beard the man where he stood, to shout him down,
to rebuke him before the crowd.

The Major must have seen his agitation, for he took his arm and led him
back from the throng, saying: "Come! We can't help it."

"But--but--," he protested, "the police ought to arrest him."

"They do sometimes," said the Major, "but it doesn't do any good."

They walked on, and the sounds of the shrill voice died away. "Tell
me," said Montague, in a low voice, "does that go on very often?"

"Around the corner from where I live," said the other, "it goes on
every Saturday night."

"And do the people listen?" he asked.

"Sometimes they can't keep the street clear," was the reply.

And again they walked in silence. At last Montague asked, "What does it
mean?"

The Major shrugged his shoulders. "Perhaps another civil war," said he.




CHAPTER II


Allan Montague's father had died about five years before. A couple of
years later his younger brother, Oliver, had announced his intention of
seeking a career in New York. He had no profession, and no definite
plans; but his father's friends were men of influence and wealth, and
the doors were open to him. So he had turned his share of the estate
into cash and departed.

Oliver was a gay and pleasure-loving boy, with all the material of a
prodigal son in him; his brother had more than half expected to see him
come back in a year or two with empty pockets. But New York had seemed
to agree with Oliver. He never told what he was doing--what he wrote
was simply that he was managing to keep the wolf from the door. But his
letters hinted at expensive ways of life; and at Christmas time, and at
Cousin Alice's birthday, he would send home presents which made the
family stare.

Montague had always thought of himself as a country lawyer and planter.
But two months ago a fire had swept away the family mansion, and then
on top of that had come an offer for the land; and with Oliver
telegraphing several times a day in his eagerness, they had taken the
sudden resolution to settle up their affairs and move to New York.

There were Montague and his mother, and Cousin Alice, who was nineteen,
and old "Mammy Lucy," Mrs. Montague's servant. Oliver had met them at
Jersey City, radiant with happiness. He looked just as much of a boy as
ever, and just as beautiful; excepting that he was a little paler, New
York had not changed him at all. There was a man in uniform from the
hotel to take charge of their baggage, and a big red touring-car for
them; and now they were snugly settled in their apartments, with the
younger brother on duty as counsellor and guide.

Montague had come to begin life all over again. He had brought his
money, and he expected to invest it, and to live upon the income until
he had begun to earn something. He had worked hard at his profession,
and he meant to work in New York, and to win his way in the end. He
knew almost nothing about the city--he faced it with the wide-open eyes
of a child.

One began to learn quickly, he found. It was like being swept into a
maelstrom: first the hurrying throngs on the ferry-boat, and then the
cabmen and the newsboys shouting, and the cars with clanging gongs;
then the swift motor, gliding between trucks and carriages and around
corners where big policemen shepherded the scurrying populace; and then
Fifth Avenue, with its rows of shops and towering hotels; and at last a
sudden swing round a corner--and their home.

"I have picked a quiet family place for you," Oliver had said, and that
had greatly pleased his brother. But he had stared in dismay when he
entered this latest "apartment hotel"--which catered for two or three
hundred of the most exclusive of the city's aristocracy--and noted its
great arcade, with massive doors of bronze, and its entrance-hall,
trimmed with Caen stone and Italian marble, and roofed with a vaulted
ceiling painted by modern masters. Men in livery bore their wraps and
bowed the way before them; a great bronze elevator shot them to the
proper floor; and they went to their rooms down a corridor walled with
blood-red marble and paved with carpet soft as a cushion. Here were six
rooms of palatial size, with carpets, drapery, and furniture of a
splendour quite appalling to Montague.

As soon as the man who bore their wraps had left the room, he turned
upon his brother.

"Oliver," he said, "how much are we paying for all this?"

Oliver smiled. "You are not paying anything, old man," he replied.
"You're to be my guests for a month or two, until you get your
bearings."

"That's very good of you," said the other; "--we'll talk about it
later. But meantime, tell me what the apartment costs."

And then Montague encountered his first full charge of New York
dynamite. "Six hundred dollars a week," said Oliver.

He started as if his brother had struck him. "Six hundred dollars a
week!" he gasped.

"Yes," said the other, quietly.

It was fully a minute before he could find his breath. "Brother," he
exclaimed, "you're mad!"

