She bent impulsively and kissed his hands, freed herself with a
breathless laugh, and turned and fled.

For a long time her lover stood there, motionless, downcast, clenched
fists in his pockets, face to face with the past. And that which lay
behind him was that which lies behind what is commonly known to the
world as the average man.




CHAPTER X

DUSK


The Masked Dance was to begin at ten that evening; for that reason
dinner had been served early at scores of small tables on the terrace, a
hilarious and topsy-turvy, but somewhat rapid affair, because everybody
required time for dressing, and already throughout the house maids and
valets were scurrying around, unpacking masks and wigs and dainty
costumes for the adorning of the guests at Roya-Neh.

Toward nine o'clock the bustle and confusion became distracting;
corridors were haunted by graceful flitting figures in various stages of
deshabille, in quest of paraphernalia feminine and maids to adjust the
same. A continual chatter filled the halls, punctuated by smothered
laughter and subdued but insistent appeals for aid in the devious
complications of intimate attire.

On the men's side of the house there was less hubbub and some quiet
swearing; much splashing in tubs, much cigarette smoke. Men entered each
other's rooms, half-clad in satin breeches, silk stockings, and ruffled
shirts, asking a helping hand in tying queue ribbons or adjusting
stocks, and lingered to smoke and jest and gossip, and jeer at one
another's finery, or to listen to the town news from those week-enders
recently arrived from the city.

The talk was money, summer shows, and club gossip, but financial rumours
ruled.

Young Ellis, in pale blue silk and wig, perched airily, on a table,
became gloomily prophetic concerning the steady retirement of capital
from philanthropic enterprises hatched in Wall Street; Peter Tappan saw
in the endlessly sagging market dire disaster for the future digestions
of wealthy owners of undistributed securities.

"Marble columns and gold ceilings don't make a trust company," he
sneered. "There are a few billionaire gamblers from the West who seem to
think Wall Street is Coney Island. There'll be a shindy, don't make any
mistake; we're going to have one hell of a time; but when it's over the
corpses will all be shipped--ahem!--west."

Several men laughed uneasily; one or two old line trust companies were
mentioned; then somebody spoke of the Minnisink, lately taken over by
the Algonquin.

Duane lighted a cigarette and, watching the match still burning, said:

"Dysart is a director. You can't ask for any more conservative citizen
than Dysart, can you?"

Several men looked around for Dysart, but he had stepped out of the
room.

Ellis said, after a silence:

"That gambling outfit from the West has bedevilled one or two good
citizens in Gotham town."

Dr. Bailey shrugged his big, fat shoulders.

"It's no secret, I suppose, that the Minnisink crowd is being talked
about," he grunted.

Ellis said in a low but perfectly distinct voice:

"Neither is it any secret that Jack Dysart has been hit hard in National
Ice."

Peter Tappan slipped from his seat on the table and threw away his
cigarette:

"One thing is sure as soubrettes," he observed; "the Clearing House
means to get rid of certain false prophets. The game law is off
prophets--in the fall. There'll be some good gunning--under the laws of
New Jersey."

"I hope they'll be careful not to injure any marble columns or ruin the
gold-leaf on the ceilings," sneered Ellis. "Come on, some of you
fellows, and fix the buckle in this cursed stock of mine."

"I thought fixing stocks was rather in your own line," said Duane to the
foxy-visaged and celebrated manipulator, who joined very heartily in the
general and unscrupulous laugh.

A moment later, Dysart, who had heard every word from the doorway,
walked silently back to his own room and sat down, resting his temples
between his closed fists.

The well-cut head was already silvery gray at the temples; one month had
done it. When animated, his features still appeared firm and of good
colour; relaxed, they were loose and pallid, and around the mouth fine
lines appeared. Often a man's hands indicate his age, and his betrayed
him, giving the lie to his lithe, straight, graceful figure. The man had
aged amazingly in a month or two.

Matters were not going very well with him. For one thing, the Half-Moon
Trust Company had finally terminated all dealings with the gorgeous
marble-pillared temple of high finance of which he was a director. For
another, he had met the men of the West, and for them he had done things
which he did not always care to think about. For another, money was
becoming disturbingly scarce, and the time was already past for selling
securities.

During the last year he had been vaguely aware of some occult hostility
to himself and his enterprises--not the normal hostility of business
aggression--but something indefinable--merely negative at first, then
more disturbing, sinister, foreboding; something in the very air to
which he was growing more sensitive every day.

By all laws of finance, by all signs and omens, a serious reaction from
the saturnalia of the last few years was already over-due. He had felt
it, without alarm at first, for the men of the West laughed him to scorn
and refused to shorten sail. They still refused. Perhaps they could not.
One thing was certain: he could scarcely manage to take in a single reef
on his own account. He was beginning to realise that the men with whom
rumour was busy were men marked down by their letters; and they either
would not or could not aid him in shortening sail.

For a month, now, under his bland and graceful learning among the
intimates of his set, Dysart had been slowly but steadily going to
pieces. At such moments as this it showed on the surface. It showed now
in his loose jaw and flaccid cheeks; in the stare of the quenched eyes.

He was going to pieces, and he was aware of it. For one thing, he
recognised the physical change setting in; for another, his cool,
selfish, self-centred equanimity was being broken down; the rigorous
bodily r√©gime from which he had never heretofore swerved and which alone
enabled him to perform the exacting social duties expected of him, he
