
       *       *       *       *       *

At last the dinner was at an end. Farris served the coffee and set the
silver lamp and cigarettes on the library table, and retired.

Luminous red shadows from the fireplace played over wall and
ceiling--the same fireplace where Desboro had made his offering--as
though flame could purify and ashes end the things that men have done!

In her frail dinner gown of lace, she lay in a great chair before the
blaze, gazing at nothing. He, seated on the rug beside her chair, held
her limp hand and rested his face against it, staring at the ashes on
the hearth.

And this was marriage! Thus he was beginning his wedded life--here in
the house of his fathers, here at the same hearthstone where the dead
brides of dead forebears had sat as his bride was sitting now.

But had any bride ever before faced that hearth so silent, so
motionless, so pale as was this young girl whose fingers rested so
limply in his and whose cold palm grew no warmer against his cheek?

What had he done to her? What had he done to himself--that the joy of
things had died out in her eyes--that speech had died on her lips--that
nothing in her seemed alive, nothing responded, nothing stirred.

Now, all the bitterness that life and its unwisdom had stored up for him
through the swift and reckless years, he tasted. For that cup may not
pass. Somewhere, sooner or later, the same lips that have so lightly
emptied sweeter draughts must drain this one. None may refuse it, none
wave it away until the cup be empty.

"Jacqueline?"

She moved slightly in her chair.

"Tell me," he said, "what is it that can make amends?"

"They--are made."

"But the hurt is still there. What can heal it, dear?"

"I--don't know."

"Time?"

"Perhaps."

"Love?"

"Yes--in time."

"How long?"

"I do not know, Jim."

"Then--what is there for me to do?"

She was silent.

"Could you tell me, Jacqueline?"

"Yes. Have patience--with me."

"With you?"

"It will be necessary."

"How do you mean, dear?"

"I mean you must have patience with me--in many ways. And still be in
love with me. And still be loyal to me--and--faithful. I don't know
whether a man can do these things. I don't know men. But I know
myself--and what I require of men--and of you."

"What you require of me I can be if you love me."

"Then never doubt it. And when I know that you have become what I
require you to be, you could not doubt my loving you even if you wished
to. Then you will know; until then--you must believe."

He sat thinking before the hearth, the slow flush rising to his temples
and remaining.

"What is it you mean to do, Jacqueline?" he asked, in a low voice.

"Nothing, except what I have always done. The business of life remains
unchanged; it is always there to be done."

"I mean--are you going to--change--toward me?"

"I have not changed."

"Your confidence in me has gone."

"I have recovered it."

"You believe in me still?"

"Oh, yes--yes!" Her little hand inside his clenched convulsively and her
voice broke.

Kneeling beside her, he drew her into his arms and felt her breath
suddenly hot and feverish against his shoulder. But if there had been
tears in her eyes they dried unshed, for he saw no traces of them when
he kissed her.

"In God's name," he whispered, "let the past bury its accursed dead and
give me a chance. I love you, worship you, adore you. Give me my chance
in life again, Jacqueline!"

"I--I give it to you--as far as in me lies. But it rests with you, Jim,
what you will be."

His own philosophy returned to mock him out of the stainless mouth of
this young girl! But he said passionately:

"How can I be arbiter of my own fate unless I have all you can give me
of love and faith and unswerving loyalty?"

"I give you these."

"Then--as a sign--return the kiss I give you--now."

There was no response.

"Can you not, Jacqueline?"

"Not--yet."

"You--you can not respond!"

"Not--that way--yet."

"Is--have I--has what you know of me killed all feeling, all tenderness
in you?"

"No."

