already somewhat flushed with the punch and with his own success; and
says he, with that occasional and over-flourishing bow of his:

"To divinity nothing is impossible; therefore, the ladies, ever divine,
may venture all things."

"Which is why I venture to decline," remarked Lana. But he was set upon
it, and would not be denied; and he began a most flowery little speech
with the ladies as his inspiration:

"Poetry and grace in mind and body is theirs by nature," said he, "and
they have but to open the rosy petals of their lips to enthrall us all
with gems of----"

"Lord!" said Mrs. Bleecker, laughing, "I have never writ a verse in my
life save on my sampler; and if I were to open the rosy petals of my
lips, I should never have done a-giggling. But I'll do it, Mr. Boyd, if
you think it will enthrall you."

"As for me," quoth Angelina Lansing, "I require a workshop to
manufacture my gems. It follows that they are no true gems at all, but
shop-made paste. Ask Lana Helmer; she is far more adept in sugaring
refusals."

All turned smilingly toward Lana, who shrugged her shoulders, saying
carelessly:

  "I must decline!
  The Muses nine
  No sisters are of mine.
  Must I repine
  Because I'm not divine,
  And may not versify some pretty story
  To prove to you my own immortal glory?
  Make no mistake. Accept; don't offer verses.
  Kisses received are mercies--given, curses!"

Said Boyd instantly:

"A thousand poems for your couplets! Do you trade with me, Miss Helmer?"

"Let me hear your thousand first," retorted the coquette disdainfully,
"ere I make up my mind to be damned."

Major Parr said grimly:

"With what are we others to trade, who can make no verses? Is there not
some more common form of wampum that you might consider?"

"A kind and unselfish heart is sound currency," said Lana smiling and
turning her back on Boyd; which brought her to face Lois.

"Do make a toast in verse for these importunate gentlemen," she said,
"and bring the last laggard to your feet."

"I?" exclaimed Lois in laughing surprise. Then her face altered subtly.
"I may not dream to rival you in beauty. Why should I challenge you in
wit?"

"Why not? Your very name implies a nationality in which elegance,
graceful wit, and taste are all inherent." And she curtsied very low to
Lois.

For a moment the girl stood motionless, her slender forefinger crook'd
in thought across her lips. Then she glanced at me; the pink spots on
her cheeks deepened, and her lips parted in a breathless smile.

"It will give me a pleasure to do honour to any wish expressed by
anybody," she said. "Am I to compose a toast, Euan?"

I gazed at her in surprise; Major Parr said loudly: "That's the proper
spirit!"

And, "Write for us a toast to love!" cried Boyd.

But Lana coolly proposed a toast to please all, which, she explained, a
toast to love would not by any means.

"And surely that is easy for you," she added sweetly, "who of your
proper self please all who ever knew you."

"Write us a patriotic toast!" suggested Captain Simpson, "----A jolly
toast that all true Americans can drink under the nose of the British
King himself."

"That's it!" cried Captain Franklin. "A toast so cunningly devised that
our poor fellows in the Provost below, and on that floating hell, the
'Jersey,' may offer it boldly and unrebuked in the very teeth of their
jailors! Lord! But that would be a rare bit o' verse--if it could be
accomplished," he added dubiously.

Lois stood there smiling, thinking, the tint of excitement still
brilliant in her cheeks.

"No, I could not hope to contrive such a verse----" she mused aloud.
"Yet--I might try----" She lifted her grey eyes to mine as though
awaiting my decision.

"Try," said I--I don't know why, because I never dreamed she had a
talent for such trifles.

For a second, as her eyes met mine, I had the sensation of standing
there entirely alone with her. Then the clamour around us grew on my
ears, and the figures of the others again took shape on every side.

And "Try!" they cried. "Try! Try!"

"Yes," she said slowly. "I will try----" She looked up at me. "----If
you wish it."

"Try," I said.

Very quietly she turned and passed behind the punch bowl and into the
next room, but did not close the door. And anybody could see her there,
seated at the rough pine table, quill in hand, and sometimes
motionless, absorbed in her own thoughts, sometimes scratching away at
the sheet of paper under her nose with all the proper frenzy of a very
poet.

We had emptied the punch bowl before she reappeared, holding out to me
the paper which was still wet with ink. And they welcomed her lustily,
glasses aloft, but I was in a cold fright for fear she had writ nothing
extraordinary, and they might think meanly of her mind, which, after
all, I myself knew little of save that it was sweet and generous.

But she seemed in no manner perturbed, waiting smilingly for the noise
to quiet. Then she said:

"This is a toast that our poor tyrant-ridden countrymen may dare to
offer at any banquet under any flag, and under the very cannon of New
York."

She stood still, absent-eyed, thinking for a moment; then, looking up
at us:

"It is really two poems in one. If you read it straight across the page
as it is written, then does it seem to be a boastful, hateful Tory
verse, vilifying all patriots, even His Excellency--God forgive the
thought!

