"I don't believe I can, and you know there are the lovers and the
diamond ring"--laughing.

"Oh, dear! Can you believe any of it? And the surprise that I'm not
going to be pleased with. It isn't that Willard has fallen in love, he
is going to have his three years' cruise first. Oh, were you much
frightened, Phil? It was dreadful, and no one can tell where the boys
took the disease. I can't help feeling sorry for the poor mother if she
is a humbug, it is such a sad Christmas for her, and was Louie much
frightened?"

"Oh, she almost went into hysterics and I was afraid she'd give us all
away, but I did manage to get her off safely, and bound her by the most
solemn promises not to mention the escapade at home. It wasn't the right
thing for us to do of course, but mischief always looks so tempting to
you and if we keep silence no harm will be done. It wasn't as bad as
they thought."

A shudder went over Zay's slight figure.

"And I am so glad you didn't worry yourself ill," Phillipa rejoined with
real feeling.

"Phil, can't you stay to dinner and see mother? She's lying down
now--there have been so many calls. Father brought home the German
nurse, who measures off her time in a very funny manner, and he escorts
mother down stairs and up again as if he was a young lover."

"No, dear, thank you. When I come back the rush will be over and we will
have a good time. I've twenty things to do and start at nine tomorrow.
Good-by and have just the most splendid time, as I shall have. So good
luck for a fortnight," and they kissed each other warmly.




CHAPTER VIII

A STRANGE CONFESSION


The girl who had been wrongfully accused was not so light hearted. Mrs.
Dane still preserved her suspicious aspect, and of course the whole
school was eager for every bit of news. Lilian said nothing to her
mother about the talk, she seemed rather fretful and uneasy, as if she
was annoyed by the girl's presence.

So on Thursday afternoon she went out for a walk. Just beyond the gate
she saw Edith Trenham coming toward her.

"Oh, were you going out? Let us walk together, then. I have so much to
say to you? Did you think it queer?"

"I know now," said Lilian. "It was dreadful!"

"I had to go home for some important school papers, and just slipped in
and out again when you saw me. Of course I did not want it spoken of.
Mother has been very careful keeping the windows on that side of the
house closed. Claire has never had any of the infantile diseases. The
woman thought it measles at first, but they are so particular in the
schools, now. We closed today. Mother is going to shut up the house for
awhile and board at Mrs. Lane's while they fumigate and burn up. The
authorities have ordered the old house torn down. I think not a great
many people visited her, though they did at first. I only hope the
little girl will not die. Mother spoke to the oldest one that morning
and she said her brothers were very ill and that her mother thought she
would have a doctor, but it was too late when he came. Oh, I hope there
will not be any more cases."

"It would be terrible if they died like that. Our classes are dismissed
as well, I believe there was a great fright among the girls, and just at
Christmas time, too."

"Will you go down with me tomorrow and have a look at the stores? This
has upset our plans. I wanted you and your mother to come and take
Christmas dinner with us."

"Mother doesn't seem at all well. I doubt if she could go out, and I
couldn't leave her for pleasure."

"Well, some other time; and how are you getting along? I suppose you
have vacation as well?"

"Oh yes. Madame thinks I shall acquire French easily. She reads French
verses so splendidly, and I am doing well in Latin, but oh, there are
such stores of reading! It is a hardship to tear myself away, and poetry
just enchants me--well, when it is high and fine. I have begun 'The
Idylls of the King.' Oh it must be just glorious to write such poetry!"

"It is a rare gift, and it is something to be able to read and
appreciate."

"I sometimes envy the girls who have so much leisure, yet they seem not
to improve it. But then--oh, you don't know how lovely it is here, how
much there is to interest and satisfy. Of course I'm not quite
satisfied at present," and Lilian gave a light laugh, "but the town is
so truly beautiful and the house--I wonder if it is silly but I walk
about at times and do enjoy the soft rugs, the handsome furniture, the
pictures, the beautiful bits of art scattered around, and oh, the books!
There never was anything like it in my life before, and if I go back to
comparative poverty, which I suppose I shall some day, for I never can
earn any thing like this, it will linger in my mind as a journey to some
enchanting place. There is so much to learn all the time. Not merely out
of books but the sweet and gracious things one can do; Mrs. Barrington
is so lovely. Am I tiring you with these visionary things?"

"No, my dear girl, I am glad you can enjoy them and treasure them up
without a feeling of envy. We cannot all of us abound in this world's
goods, but we can be glad someone has them and is willing to share them
with us, at least, allow us to look on."

"I'm going to study every day and get on as fast as possible. I'm
longing for the time when I can earn money and have a little home of our
own. I wish"--then she paused and recovering herself after a moment,
resumed--"I wish to make some nice friends in my own walk in life, among
those who really love to work and bring about results."

"And I am sure you will do it. And loving whatever is fine and true and
gracious shapes one's character. God has given us the sense of enjoyment
and he means us to make the best use of it that we can. Oh, we must turn
about. See how far we have walked, and there is a baby crescent moon."

The dun white of the sky was thinning into blue and here and there a
star pricked through. It was clear and crisp yet the air had a fragrance
of the cedars and spruces. They hurried along, and Lilian promised to
meet her friend tomorrow for another walk. She had never been an
effusive girl, but she could talk so easily to Edith and in the
interchange she could throw off the things that annoyed or depressed
her.

So they said good-night and she entered the pretty vestibule where she
had first seen Mrs. Barrington. Her heart gave a quick bound as she
thought of that lady's confidence in her truth. Mrs. Dane must sometime
be convinced of her injustice.

She ran lightly up the stairs, wondering a little that her mother's room
should be in darkness. Crossing over to the match safe she stumbled over
something on the floor and struck a light in half terror.

"Oh mother! mother!" she cried to the prostrate figure. Then in sudden
