
CHAPTER XVI

The maid stole into the house, wondering if she had been seen.  She
wanted to be loyal to this girl, but she was tired of the life; she
wanted to be her own mistress, and the small fortune offered her would
put her on the way to realize her ambition.  What had she not seen and
been of life since she joined the great detective force!  Lady's maid,
cook, ship stewardess, flash woman, actress, clerk, and a dozen other
employments.  Her pay, until she secured some fat reward, was but
twelve hundred a year; and here was five thousand in advance, with the
promise of five thousand more the minute her work was done.  And it was
simple work, without any real harm toward Florence as far as she was
concerned.  The whole thing rested upon one difficulty; would Jones
permit the girls to leave the house?

One day Florence found Susan sitting in a chair, her head in her hands.

"Why, Susan, what's the matter?" cried Florence.

"I don't know what is the matter, dear, but I haven't felt well for two
or three days.  I'm dizzy all the time; I can't read or sew or eat or
sleep."

"Why didn't you tell me?" said Florence, reproachfully.  She rang for
the detective-maid.  "Ella, I don't know anything about doctors
hereabouts."

"I know a good one, Miss Florence.  Shall I send for him?"

"Do; Susan is ill."

Jones was not prepared for treachery in his own household; so when he
heard that a doctor had been called to attend Susan he was without the
least suspicion that he had been betrayed.  More than this, there had
been no occasion to summon a doctor in the seven years Mr. Hargreave
had lived there.  So Jones went about his petty household affairs
without more thought upon the matter.  The maid had been recommended to
him as one of the shrewdest young women in the detective business.

The doctor arrived.  He was a real doctor; no doubt of that.  He
investigated Susan's condition--brought about by a subtle though not
dangerous poison--and instantly recommended the seashore.  Susan was
not used to being confined to the house; she was essentially an
out-of-doors little body.  The seashore would bring her about in no
time.  The doctor suggested Atlantic City because of its mildness
throughout the year and its nearness to New York.

"I'm afraid she'll have to go alone," said Jones gravely.

"I shan't stir!" declared Susan.  "I shan't leave my girl even if I am
sick."  Susan caught Florence's hand and pressed it.

"Would you like to go with her, Florence?" asked Jones, with a shy
glance at the strange doctor.  The shy glance was wasted.  The doctor
evinced no sign that it mattered one way or the other to him.

"It is nothing very serious now," he volunteered.  "But it may turn out
serious if it is not taken care of at once."

"What is the trouble?" inquired Jones, who was growing fond of Susan.

"Weak heart.  Sunshine and good sea air will strengthen her up again.
No, no!" as Jones drew forth his wallet.  "I'll send in my bill the
first of the month.  Sunshine and sea air; that's all that's necessary.
And now, good day."

All very businesslike; not the least cause in the world for any one to
suspect that a new trap was being set by the snarers.  The maid
returned to the sewing-room, while Florence coddled her companion and
made much of her.

Jones was suspicious, but dig in his mind as he would he could find no
earthly reason for this suspicion save that this attribute was now
instinctive, that it was always near the top.  If Susan was ill she
must be given good care; there was no getting around this fact.  Later,
he telephoned several prominent physicians.  The strange doctor was
recommended as a good ordinary practitioner and in good standing; and
so Jones dismissed his suspicions as having no hook to hang them on.

His hair would have tingled at the roots, however, had he known that
this same physician was one of the two who had signed the document
which had accredited Florence with insanity and had all but succeeded
in making a supposition a fact.  Nor was Jones aware of the fact that
the telephone wire had been tapped recently.  So when he finally
concluded to permit Florence to accompany Susan to Atlantic City he
telephoned to the detective agency to send up a trusty man, who was
shadowed from the moment he entered the Hargreave home till he started
for the railway station.  He became lost in the shuffle and was not
heard from till weeks later, in Havana.  The Black Hundred found a good
profit in the shanghaing business.

Susan began to pick up, as they say, the day after the arrival at
Atlantic City, due, doubtless, to the cessation of the poison she had
been taking unawares.  The two young women began to enjoy life for the
first time since they had left Miss Farlow's.  They were up with the
sun every day and went to bed tired but happy.  No one bothered them.
If some stray reporter encountered their signatures on the hotel
register, he saw nothing to excite his reportorial senses.  All this,
of course, was due to Norton's policy of keeping the affair out of the
papers.

Following Jones' orders, they made friends with none.  Those about the
hotel--especially the young men--when they made any advances were
politely snubbed.  Every night Florence would write to her good butler
to report what had taken place during the day, and he was left to judge
for himself if there was anything to arouse his suspicions.  He, of
course, believed the two were covertly guarded by the detective he had
sent after them.

When Braine called on Olga he found his doctor there.

"Well, what's the news?" he asked.

"I had better run down and inquire how the young lady is progressing,"
said the doctor, who was really a first-rate surgeon and who had
performed a number of skilled operations upon various members of the
Black Hundred anent their encounters with the police.  "I've got Miss
Florence where you want her.  It's up to you now."

"She ought to be separated from her companion.  We have left them alone
for a whole week, so Jones will not worry particularly.  A mighty
curious thing has turned up.  Before Hargreave's disappearance not a
dozen persons could recollect what Jones looked like.  He was rarely
ever in sight.  What do you suppose that signifies?"

"Don't ask me," shrugged the man of medicine.  "I shouldn't worry over
Jones."

"But we can't stir the old fool.  We can't get him out of that house.
I've tried to get that maid to put a little something in his coffee,
but she stands off at that.  She says that she did as she agreed in
regard to Florence, but her agreement ended there.  We have given the
jade five thousand already and she is clamoring for the balance."

"Have you threatened her?" asked Olga.

Braine smiled a little.  "My dear woman, it is fifty-fifty.  While I
have a hold on her, it is not quite so good as she has on me.  We are
not dealing with an ordinary servant we could threaten and scare.  No,
