"It’s the subject I’ve always had to listen to from men.  Perhaps that
is why I thought—when you spoke so amiably of my—my——"

"Beauty," added Warner frankly, "—because it is beauty, Philippa.  But
I meant only to express the pleasure that it gave to a painter—yes, and
to a man who can admire without offense, and say so quite as honestly."

The girl slowly raised her eyes.

"You speak very pleasantly to me," she said.  "Are other American men
like you?"

"You ought to know.  Aren’t you American?"

"I don’t know what I am."

"Why, I thought—your name was Philippa Wildresse."

"I am called that."

"Then Monsieur Wildresse isn’t a relation?"

"No.  I wear his name for lack of any other.... He found me somewhere,
he says....  In Paris, I believe....  That is all he will tell me."

"Evidently," said Warner in his pleasant, sympathetic voice, "you have
had an education somewhere."

"He sent me to school in England until I was sixteen.... After that I
became cashier for him."

"He gave you his name, and he supports you.... Is he kind to you?"

"He has never struck me."

"Does he protect you?"

"He uses me in business....  I am too valuable to misuse."

The girl looked down at her folded hands.  And even Warner divined what
ultimate chances she stood in the Cabaret de Biribi.

"When I’m in Ausone again, I’ll come to see you," he said pleasantly.
"—Not to make love to you, Philippa," he added with a smile, "but just
because we have become such good friends out here in the Lys."

"Yes," she said, "friends.  I shall be glad to see you. I shall always
try to understand you—whatever you say to me."

"That’s as it should be!" he exclaimed heartily. "Give me your hand on
it, Philippa."

She laid her hand in his gravely.  They exchanged a slight pressure.
Then he glanced at his watch, rose, and picked up the pole.

"I’ve got to drive to Saïs in time for dinner," he remarked.  "I’m
sorry, because I’d like to stay out here with you."

"I’m sorry, too," she said.

The next moment the punt shot out into the sunny stream.




                              *CHAPTER IV*


Warner and the girl Philippa reëntered the Cabaret de Biribi together
the uproar had become almost deafening.  Confetti was thrown at them
immediately, and they advanced all a-flutter with brilliant tatters.

The orchestra was playing, almost everybody was dancing, groups at
tables along the edge of the floor sang, clinked glasses, and threw
confetti without discrimination.  The whole place—tables, floor,
chandeliers, and people—streamed with multi-colored paper ribbons.
Waiters swept it in heaps from the dancing floor.

Philippa entered the cashier’s enclosure and dismissed the woman in
charge.  Seated once more on her high chair she opened her reticule and
produced a small mirror.  Then she leaned far over her counter toward
Warner.

"Is it permitted me to powder my nose?" she whispered with childlike
seriousness; but she laughed when he did, and, still laughing, made him
a gay little gesture of adieu with her powder puff.

He stood looking at her for a moment, where she sat on her high chair
behind the cage, intently occupied with her mirror, oblivious to the
tumult around her. Then, the smile still lingering on his features, he
turned to look for his new acquaintance, Halkett.


Old man Wildresse sidled up to the cashier’s desk, opened the wicket,
and went inside.  Philippa, still using her tiny mirror, was examining a
freckle very seriously.

"Eh, bien?" he growled.  "Rien?"

"Nothing!"

"Drop that glass and talk!" he said harshly.

She turned and looked at him.

"I tell you it was silly to suspect such a man!" she said impatiently.
"In my heart I feel humiliated that you should have set me to spy on
him——"

"What’s that!"

"No, I’ve had enough!  I don’t like the rôle; I never liked it!  Are
there no police in France——"

"Little idiot!" he said.  "Will you hold your tongue?"

"It is a disgusting métier——"

"Damnation!  Hold your tongue!" he repeated. "We’ve got to do what the
Government tells us to do, haven’t we?"

"Not I!  Never again——"

"Yes, you will!  Do you hear?  Yes, you will, or I’ll twist your neck!
Now, I’m going to keep my eye on that other gentleman.  Granted that the
man you pumped is all right, I’m not so sure about the other, who seems
to be an Englishman.  I’m going over to stand near him.  By and by I’ll
address him.  And if I wink at you, leave your caisse with Mélanie,
come over, and sit at their table again——"

"No!"

"Yes, you will!"

"No!"

"Yes, you will.  And you’ll also contrive it so the Englishman asks you
to dance.  Do you hear what I say?  And you’ll find out where he comes
from, and when he arrived in Ausone, and where he is going, and whatever
else you can worm out of him!"  He glared at her.  "Disobey if you
