of the corridor was a door.  He did not care where it led so long as it
led outside this evil-smelling den.  He found the room empty opposite
Jameson's.  He went in quietly.  The shabby waiter followed him,
soft-footed as a cat.

"A bottle of Old Tom," said Thomas.

The waiter nodded and slipped out.  He saw the sleeper in the other
room, and gently closed the door.

"Gink in number two wants a bottle o' gin.  He's th' kind.  Layer o'
ale an' then his quart.  Th' real souse."

"So that's his game, huh?" said the bartender.  "How's th' gink in
number four?"

"Dead t' th' world."

"Tip th' Sneak.  There may be a chancet t' roll 'em both.  Here y' are.
Soak 'im two-fifty."

Half an hour longer Thomas waited.  Then he rose and tiptoed to the
door, drawing it back without the least sound.  Jameson's had not
latched.  Taking a deep long breath (strange, how one may control the
heart by this process!) Thomas crossed the corridor and entered the
other room; entered prepared for any emergency.  If Jameson awoke, so
much the worse for him.  The gods owe it to the mortals they keep in
bondage to bestow a grain of luck here and there along the way to
Elysium or Hades.  His cabin-mate's stentorian breathing convinced the
trespasser that it was the stupidest, heaviest kind of sleep.

For a moment he looked down at the man contemptuously.  To have
befuddled his brain at such a time!  Or was it because the wretch knew
that he, Thomas, would not dare cry out over his loss?  He stepped
behind the sleeping man.  He wanted to fall upon him, beat him with his
fists.  Ah, if he had not found him!

The night, fortunately, was warm and thick.  Jameson had carelessly
thrown open his coat and vest.  Underneath he wore the usual
sailor-jersey.  Thomas steeled his arms.  With one hand he pulled the
roll collar away from the man's neck and with the other sought for the
string: sought in vain.  The light, the four drab walls, the haze of
tobacco smoke, all turned red.

"Where is it, you dog?  Quick!"  Thomas shook the man.  "Where is it?
Quick, or I'll throttle you!"

"Lemme 'lone!"  Jameson sagged toward the table again.

Thomas bent him back ruthlessly and plunged a hand into the inside
pocket of the man's coat.  The touch of the chamois-bag burned like
fire.  He pulled it out and transferred it to his own pocket and made
for the door.  He did not care now what happened.  Found!  Woe to any
one who had the ill-luck to stand between him and the exit.

Outside the door stood the shabby waiter, grinning cheerfully.  He was
accompanied by a hulking, shifty-eyed creature.

"Roll 'im, ol' sport?  Caught in th' act, huh?" gibed the waiter.

Thomas had the right idea.  He struck first.  The waiter crashed
against the wall.  The hulking, shifty-eyed one fared worse.  He went
down with his face to the cracks in the floor.  Thomas dashed for the
exit.




CHAPTER V

Outside he found himself in a kind of court.  He ran about wildly, like
a rat in a trap.  He plumped into the alley, accidentally.  Down this
he fled, into the street.  A voice called out peremptorily to him to
stop, but he went on all the faster, swift as a hare.  He doubled and
circled through this street and that until at last he came out into a
broad, brilliant thoroughfare.  An iron-pillared railway reared itself
skyward and trains clamored past.  Bloomsbury: millions of years and
miles away!  He would wake up presently, with the sunlight (when it
shone) pouring into his room, and the bright geraniums on the outside
window-sill bidding him good morning.

He was on the point of rushing up the station stairway, when he espied
a cab at the far corner.  A replica of a London cab, something which
smacked of home; he could have hugged for sheer joy the bleary-eyed
cabby who touched his rusty high hat.

"Free?"

"Free 's th' air, bo.  Where to?"

"Pier 60, White Star Line.  How much?"--quite his old-time self again.

"Two dollars,"--promptly.

"All right.  And hurry!"  Thomas climbed in.  He was safe.

As the crow flies it was less than a ten-minutes' jog from that corner
to Pier 60.  Thomas had not gone far; he had merely covered a good deal
of ground.  Cabby drove about for three-quarters of an hour and then
drew up before the pier.

Back to his cabin once more, weak as a swimmer who had breasted a
strong tide.  He opened his trunk and rammed the chamois-bag into the
toe of one of his patent-leather boots.  In the daytime he would wear
it about his neck, but each night back into the shoe it must go.  He
flung himself on the bunk, not to sleep, but to think and wonder.

Meantime there was great excitement in the dive.  The waiter was
rocking his body, wailing and holding his jaw.  His companion was
sitting on the floor.  In the wine-room two policemen and a thick-set,
black-mustached man in a derby hat were asking questions.

"Robbed!" moaned Jameson.

The man in the derby hat shook him roughly.  "Robbed o' what, y' soak?"

"Robbed!"

"Mike," said the man in the derby, "put th' darbies on th' Sneak.
We'll get something for our trouble, anyhow.  An' tell that waiter t'
put th' brakes on his yawp.  Bring him in here.  Now, you, what's
happened?"

"Why, the gink in uniform comes in . . ."

The bartender interrupted.  "A gink dressed like a ship-steward comes
in an' orders ale.  Drinks five glasses.  Goes out int' th' wine-room
'cross th' hall an' orders a bottle o' gin.  An' next I hears Johnny
howlin' murder.  Frame-up, Mr. Haggerty.  Nothin' t' do with it, hones'
t' Gawd!  Th' boss ain't here."

Jameson lurched toward the bartender.  "Young lookin'?  Red cheeks?
'Old himself like a sojer?"

"That's 'im," agreed the bartender.

"What were y' robbed of?" demanded Haggerty.

Jameson looked into a pair of chilling blue eyes.  His own wavered
drunkenly.  "Money."
