
"Thank God for my thousand lances!" he said, lifting his eyes to the
yellowing sky between the houses in the narrow street. "Thank God!
Thank God!"

Now, across the intersections of streets and alleys beyond where they
stood, policemen and Garde cavalry were shooting into doorways,
basements, and up the sombre, dusky lanes, the dry crack of their
service revolvers re-echoing noisily through the street.

Toward the Boulevard below, a line of police and of cavalrymen
blocked the rue Vilna; and, beyond them, the last of the mob was being
driven from the Café des Bulgars, where the first ambulances were
arriving and the police, guarding the ruins, were already looking out
of windows on the upper floors.

A cavalryman came clattering down the rue Vilna, gesticulating and
calling out to Sengoun and Neeland to take their ladies and depart.

"Get us a taxicab--there's a good fellow!" cried Sengoun in high
spirits; and the cavalryman, looking at their dishevelled attire,
laughed and nodded as he rode ahead of them down the rue Vilna.

There were several taxicabs on the Boulevard, their drivers staring up
at the wrecked café. As Neeland spoke to the driver of one of the
cabs, Ilse Dumont stepped back beside the silent girl whom she had
locked in the bedroom.

"I gave you a chance," she said under her breath. "What may I expect
from you? Answer me quickly!--What am I to expect?"

The girl seemed dazed:

"N-nothing," she stammered. "The--the horror of that place--the
killing--has sickened me. I--I want to go home----"

"You do not intend to denounce me?"

"No--Oh, God! No!"

"Is that the truth? If you are lying to me it means my death."

The girl gazed at her in horror; tears sprang to her eyes:

"I couldn't--I couldn't!" she stammered in a choking voice. "I've
never before seen death--never seen how it came--how men die!
This--this killing is horrible, revolting!" She had laid one trembling
little hand on Ilse Dumont's bare shoulder. "I don't want to have you
killed; the idea of death makes me ill! I'm going home--that is all I
ask for--to go home----"

She dropped her pretty head and began to sob hysterically, standing
there under the growing daylight of the Boulevard, in her tattered
evening gown.

Suddenly Ilse Dumont threw both arms around her and kissed the
feverish, tear-wet face:

"You weren't meant for this!" she whispered. "You do it for money. Go
home. Do anything else for wages--anything except this!--Anything, I
tell you----"

Neeland's hand touched her arm:

"I have a cab. Are you going home with her?"

"I dare not," she said.

"Then will you take this Russian girl to her home, Sengoun?" he asked.
And added in a low voice: "She is one of your own people, you know."

"All right," said Sengoun blissfully. "I'd take the devil home if you
asked me! Besides, I can talk to her about my regiment on the way.
That will be wonderful, Neeland! That will be quite wonderful! I can
talk to her in Russian about my regiment all the way home!"

He laughed and looked at his friend, at Ilse Dumont, at the drooping
figure he was to take under his escort. He glanced down at his own
ragged attire where he stood hatless, collarless, one sleeve of his
evening coat ripped open to the shoulder.

"Isn't it wonderful!" he cried, bursting out into uncontrollable
laughter. "Neeland, my dear comrade, this has been the most
delightfully wonderful night of my entire life! But the great miracle
is still to come! Hurrah for a thousand lances! Hurrah! Town taken by
Prince Erlik! Hurrah!"

And he seized the young girl whom he was to escort to her
home--wherever that hazy locality might be--and carried her in his
arms to the taxicab, amid encouraging shouts of laughter from the line
of cavalrymen who had been watching the proceedings from the corner of
the rue Vilna.

That shout of Gallic appreciation inflamed Sengoun: he reached for his
hat, to lift and wave it, but found no hat on his head. So he waved
his tattered sleeve instead:

"Hurrah for France!" he shouted. "Hurrah for Russia! I'm Sengoun, of
the Terek!--And I am to have a thousand lances with which to explain
to the Germans my opinion of them and of their Emperor!"

The troopers cheered him from their stirrups, in spite of their
officers, who pretended to check their men.

"Vive la France! Vive la Russie!" they roared. "Forward the Terek
Cossacks!"

Sengoun turned to Ilse Dumont:

"Madame," he said, "in gratitude and admiration!"--and he gracefully
saluted her hand. Then, to his comrade: "Neeland!"--seizing both the
American's hands. "Such a night and such a comrade I shall never
forget! I adore our night together; I love you as a brother. I shall
see you before I go?"

"Surely, Sengoun, my dear comrade!"

"Alors--au revoir!" He sprang into the taxicab. "To the Russian
Embassy!" he called out; and turned to the half fainting girl on the
seat beside him.

"Where do you live, my dear?" he asked very gently, taking her icy
hand in his.




CHAPTER XXXIV

SUNRISE


When the taxicab carrying Captain Sengoun and the unknown Russian girl
had finally disappeared far away down the Boulevard in the thin grey
haze of early morning, Neeland looked around him; and it was a scene
unfamiliar, unreal, that met his anxious eyes.

The sun had not yet gilded the chimney tops; east and west, as far as
he could see, the Boulevard stretched away under its double line of
trees between ranks of closed and silent houses, lying still and
