touched, because it appeared that this visitor was a seer, the sole
composer of a mighty tome which is to be found in the public
library, and is known as the “Eternal Bible.”

So here I was, strolling along quite as a matter of course with my
strange acquaintance. I saw that he was looking about, and I
prepared for questions, and wondered what they would be. I thought
that he must naturally be struck by such wonders as automobiles and
crowded street-cars. I failed to realize that he would be thinking
about the souls of the people.

Said he, at last: “This is a large city?”

“About half a million.”

“And what quarter are we in?”

“The shopping district.”

“Is it a segregated district?”

“Segregated? In what way?”

“Apparently there are only courtesans.”

I could not help laughing. “You are misled by the peculiarities of
our feminine fashions--details with which you are naturally not
familiar--”

“Oh, quite the contrary,” said he, “I am only too familiar with
them. In childhood I learned the words of the prophet: ‘Because the
daughters of Zion are haughty, and walk with stretched forth necks
and wanton eyes, walking and mincing as they go, and making a
tinkling with their feet; therefore the Lord will smite with a scab
the crown of the head of the daughters of Zion, and the Lord will
discover their secret parts. In that day the Lord will take away the
bravery of their tinkling ornaments about their feet, and their
cauls, and their round tires like the moon, the chains, and the
bracelets, and the mufflers, the bonnets, and the ornaments of the
legs, and the headbands, and the tablets, and the earrings, and nose
jewels, the changeable suits of apparel, and the mantles, and the
wimples, and the crisping pins, the glasses, and the fine linen, and
the hoods, and the veils. And it shall come to pass that instead of
sweet smell there shall be stink; and instead of a girdle a rent;
and instead of well set hair, baldness; and instead of a stomacher a
girding of sackcloth; and burning instead of beauty.’”

From the point of view of literature this might be great stuff; but
on the corner of Broadway and Fifth Street at the crowded hours it
was unusual, to say the least. My companion was entering into the
spirit of it in a most alarming way; he was half chanting, his voice
rising, his face lighting up. “‘Thy men shall fall by the sword, and
thy mighty in the war. And her gates shall lament and mourn; and she
being desolate shall sit upon the ground.’”

“Be careful!” I whispered. “People will hear you!”

“But why should they not?” He turned on me a look of surprise. “The
people hear me gladly.” And he added: “The common people.”

Here was an aspect of my adventure which had not occurred to me
before. “My God!” I thought. “If he takes to preaching on street
corners!” I realized in a flash--it was exactly what he would be up
to! A panic seized me; I couldn’t stand that; I’d have to cut and
run!

I began to speak quickly. “We must get across this street while we
have time; the traffic officer has turned the right way now.” And I
began explaining our remarkable system of traffic handling.

But he stopped me in the middle. “Why do we wish to cross the
street, when we have no place to go?”

“I have a place I wish to take you to,” I said; “a friend I want you
to meet. Let us cross.” And while I was guiding him between the
automobiles, I was desperately trying to think how to back up my
lie. Who was there that would receive this incredible stranger, and
put him up for the night, and get him into proper clothes, and keep
him off the soap-box?

Truly, I was in an extraordinary position! What had I done to get
this stranger wished onto me? And how long was he going to stay with
me? I found myself recalling the plight of Mary who had a little
lamb!

Fate had me in its hands, and did not mean to consult me. We had
gone less than a block further when I heard a voice, “Hello!
Billy!” I turned. Oh, Lord! Oh, Lord! Of all the thankless
encounters--Edgerton Rosythe, moving picture critic of the Western
City “Times.” Precisely the most cynical, the most profane, the most
boisterous person in a cynical and profane and boisterous business!
And he had me here, in full daylight, with a figure just out of a
stained glass window in St. Bartholomew’s Church!



VII


“Hello, Billy! Who’s your good-looking friend?” Rosythe was in full
sail before a breeze of his own making.

How could I answer. “Why--er--”

The stranger spoke. “They call me Carpenter.”

“Ah!” said the critic. “Mr. Carpenter, delighted to meet you.” He
gave the stranger a hearty grip of the hand. “Are you on location?”

“Location?” said the other; and Rosythe shot an arrow of laughter
towards me. Perhaps he knew about the vagaries of my Aunt Caroline;
anyhow, he would have a fantastic tale to tell about me, and was
going to exploit it to the limit!

I made a pitiful attempt to protect my dignity. “Mr. Carpenter has
just arrived,” I began&&

“Just arrived, hey?” said the critic. “Oviparous, viviparous, or
oviviparous?” He raised his hand; actually, in the glory of his wit,
he was going to clap the stranger on the shoulder!

But his hand stayed in the air. Such a look as came on Carpenter’s
face! “Hush!” he commanded. “Be silent!” And then: “Any man will
join in laughter; but who will join in disease?”

“Hey?” said Rosythe; and it was my turn to grin.

“Mr. Carpenter has just done me a great service,” I explained. “I
got badly mauled in the mob--”

“Oh!” cried the other. “At the Excelsior Theatre!” Here was
something to talk about, to cover his bewilderment. “So you were in
it! I was watching them just now.”

“Are they still at it?”

“Sure thing!”

“A fine set of boobs,” I began--

