taught that girl to hate the very name of Harrod--hate every foot of
forest that the Harrod game keepers patrol. She wouldn't cross my
threshold to save her life."

"I don't understand, but--it's all right--whatever you say, Jim."

"I'll tell you the whole business some day. But where I'm going to take
you now is into a brand new camp which I ordered built last spring. It's
within a mile of the State Forest border. Eve won't know that it's
Harrod property. I've a hatchery there and the State lets me have a man
in exchange for free fry. When I get there I'll post my man.... It will
be a roof for to-night, anyway, and breakfast in the morning, whenever
you're ready."

"How far is it?"

"Only about three miles east of here."

"That's the thing to do, then," said Stormont bluntly.

He dropped one sopping-wet sleeve over his horse's neck, taking care not
to touch the saddle. He was thinking of the handful of gems in his
pocket; and he wondered why Darragh had said nothing about the empty
case for which he had so recklessly risked his life.

What this whole business was about Stormont had no notion. But he knew
Darragh. That was sufficient to leave him tranquil, and perfectly
certain that whatever Darragh was doing must be the right thing to do.

Yet--Eve had swum Star Pond with her mouth filled with jewels.

When she had handed the morocco box to Quintana, Stormont now realised
that she must have played her last card on the utterly desperate chance
that Quintana might go away without examining the case.

Evidently she had emptied the case before she left her room. He
recollected that, during all that followed, Eve had not uttered a single
word. He knew why, now. How could she speak with her mouth full of
diamonds?

A slight sound from the shore caused him to turn. Eve was coming toward
him in the dusk, moving painfully on her wounded feet. Darragh's flannel
shirt and his hunting coat buttoned around her slender waist clothed
her.

The next instant he was beside her, lifting her in both arms.

As he placed her in the saddle and adjusted one stirrup to her bandaged
foot, she turned and quietly thanked Darragh for the clothing.

"And that was a brave thing you did," she added, "--to risk your life
for my father's property. Because the morocco case which you saved
proved to be empty does not make what you did any the less loyal and
gallant."

Darragh gazed at her, astounded; took the hand she stretched out to him;
held it with a silly expression on his features.

"Hal Smith," she said with perceptible emotion, "I take back what I once
said to you on Owl Marsh. No man is a real crook by nature who did what
you have done. That is 'faithfulness unto death'--the supreme
offer--loyalty----"

Her voice broke; she pressed Darragh's hand convulsively and her lip
quivered.

Darragh, with the morocco case full of jewels buttoned into his hip
pocket, stood motionless, mutely swallowing his amazement.

What in the world did this girl mean, talking about an empty case?

But this was no time to unravel that sort of puzzle. He turned to
Stormont who, as perplexed as he, had been listening in silence.

"Lead your horse forward," he said. "I know the trail. All you need do
is to follow me." And, shouldering his rifle, he walked leisurely into
the woods, the cartridge belt sagging en bandouliere across his
woollen undershirt.


II

When Stormont gently halted his horse it was dawn, and Eve, sagging
against him with one arm around his neck, sat huddled up on her saddle
fast asleep.

In a birch woods, on the eastern slope of the divide, stood the log
camp, dimly visible in the silvery light of early morning.

Darragh, cautioning Stormont with a slight gesture, went forward,
mounted the rustic veranda, and knocked at a lighted window.

A man, already dressed, came and peered out at him, then hurried to open
the door.

"I didn't know you, Captain Darragh----" he began, but fell silent under
the warning gesture that checked him.

"I've a guest outside. She's Clinch's step-daughter, Eve Strayer. She
knows me by the name of Hal Smith. Do you understand?"

"Yes, sir----"

"Cut that out, too. I'm Hal Smith to you, also. State Trooper Stormont
is out there with Eve Strayer. He was a comrade of mine in Russia. I'm
Hal Smith to him, by mutual agreement. Now do you get me, Ralph?"

"Sure, Hal. Go on; spit it out!"

They both grinned.

"You're a hootch runner," said Darragh. "This is your shack. The
hatchery is only a blind. That's all you have to know, Ralph. So put
that girl into my room and let her sleep till she wakes of her own
accord.

"Stormont and I will take two of the guest-bunks in the L. And for
heaven's sake make us some coffee when you make your own. But first come
out and take the horse."

They went out together. Stormont lifted Eve out of the saddle. She did
not wake. Darragh led the way into the log house and along a corridor to
his own room.

"Turn down the sheets," whispered Stormont. And, when the bed was ready:
"Can you get a bath towel, Jim?"

Darragh fetched one from the connecting bath-room.

"Wrap it around her wet hair," whispered Stormont. "Good heavens, I wish
there were a woman here."

"I wish so too," said Darragh; "she's chilled to the bone. You'll have
to wake her. She can't sleep in what she's wearing; it's almost as damp
as her hair----"

He went to the closet and returned with a man's morning robe, as soft as
fleece.

"Somehow or other she's got to get into that," he said.
