"It is bad when we think about it, I know," returned Mrs. Partridge.
"It looks very bad! But I try and put that view of it out of my mind.
When I leave them in the morning they say they will be good children.
At dinner time I sometimes find them all fast asleep or playing about.
I never find them crying, or at all unhappy. Jane loves the younger
ones, and keeps them pleased all the time. In the evening, when I get
back from my work, there is generally no one awake but Jane. She has
given them the bread and milk I left for their suppers, and undressed
and put them to bed."

"Dear little girl! What a treasure she must be!" I could not help
saying.

"She is, indeed. I don't see how I could get along without her."

"You could not get along at all."

"Oh, yes, ma'am, I could. Some way would be provided for me," was the
confident reply.

I looked into the poor woman's face with wonder and admiration. So
patient, so trustful, and yet so very poor. The expression of her
countenance was beautiful in its calm religious hope, and it struck me
more than ever as familiar.

"Did I ever see you before, Mrs. Partridge?" I asked.

"Indeed, ma'am, I don't know. I am sure I have seen you somewhere. No,
now I recollect; it is your likeness to a young schoolmate that makes
your face so familiar. How much you do favour her, now I look at you
more closely."

"What was her name?" I asked.

"Her name was Flora S----."

"Indeed! Why, that was my name!"

"Your name! Did you go to Madame Martier's school?"

"I did."

"And can you indeed be my old schoolmate, Flora S----?"

"My maiden name was Flora S----, and I went to Madame Martier's. Your
face is also familiar, but how to place you I do not know."

"Don't you remember Helen Sprague?"

"Helen Sprague! This can't be Helen Sprague, surely! Yes! I remember
now. Why, Helen?" and I stepped forward and grasped her hand. "I am
both glad and sorry to see you. To think that, after the lapse of
fifteen years, we should meet thus! How in the world is it that fortune
has been so unkind to you? I remember hearing it said that you had
married very well."

"I certainly never had cause to regret my marriage," replied Mrs.
Partridge, with more feeling than she had yet shown. "While my husband
lived I had every external blessing that I could ask. But, just before
he died, somehow or other he got behind-hand in his business, and after
his death, there being no one to see to things, what he left was seized
upon and sold, leaving me friendless and almost penniless. Since then,
the effort to get food and clothes for my children has been so constant
and earnest, that I have scarcely had time to sit down and grieve over
my losses and sufferings. It is one perpetual struggle for life. And
yet, though I cannot now keep the tears from my eyes, I will not say
that I am unhappy. Thus far, all things necessary for me have come. I
yet have my little flock together, and a place that bears the sacred
name of home."

I looked into Helen's face, over which tears were falling, and wondered
if I were not dreaming. At school she had been the favourite of all,
she was so full of good humour, and had such a cheerful, peace-loving
spirit. Her parents were poor, but respectable people, who died when
Helen was fifteen years old. She was then taken from school, and I
never saw her afterward until she came to my house in the capacity of a
washerwoman, hundreds of miles away from the scenes of our early years.

"But can't you find easier work than washing?" I asked. "Are you not
handy with your needle?"

"The only work I have been able to get has been from the clothing men,
and they pay so little that I can't live on it."

"Can you do fine sewing?" I asked.

"Yes, I call myself handy with my needle."

"Can you make children's clothes?"

"Boy's clothes?"

"No. Girl's clothing."

"Oh, yes."

"I'm very much in want of some one. My children are all in"--rags and
tatters I was going to say, but I checked myself--"are all in need of
clothes, and so far I have not been able to get anybody to sew for me.
If you like, I will give you three or four weeks' sewing at least."

"I shall be very glad to have it, and very thankful for your kindness
in offering it to me," returned Mrs. Partridge, rising from her chair,
and adding as she did so--

"But I must be getting home. It is nearly dark, and Jane will be
anxious to see me back again."

I handed her the seventy-five cents she had earned for washing for me
during a whole day. Promising to come over and see me early in the
morning about the sewing, she withdrew, and I was left again to my own
reflections.

"If ever a murmurer and complainer received a severe rebuke, it is I!"
was the first almost audible thought that passed through my mind. "To
think that I, with my cup full and running over with blessings, should
make myself and all around me unhappy, because a few minor things are
not just to my satisfaction, while this woman, who toils like a slave
from morning until night, and who can hardly procure food and clothing
for her children, from whom she is almost constantly separated, is
patient and hopeful, makes me feel as if I deserved to lose what I have
refused to enjoy."

On the next morning Mrs. Partridge called quite early. She cut and
fitted several frocks for the children, at which work she seemed very
handy, and then took them home to make. She sewed for me five weeks,
and then got work in another family where I recommended her. Since
then, she has been kept constantly employed in sewing, at good prices,
by about six families. In all of these I have spoken of her and created
an interest in her favour. The mere wages that she earns is much less
than what she really receives. All her children's clothes are given to
her, and she receives many a bag of meal and load of coal without
knowing from whence it comes. In fact, her condition is more
comfortable in every way than it was, and, in fact, so is mine. The
lesson of patience I learned from Mrs. Partridge in my first, and in
many subsequent interviews, impressed itself deeply upon my mind, and
caused me to look at and value the good I had, rather than fret over
the few occurrences that were not altogether to my wishes. I saw, too,
how the small trouble to me had been the means of working out a great
good to her. My need of a washerwoman, about which I had been so
annoyed, and the temporary want of a seamstress which I had
experienced--light things as they should have been--led me to search
about for aid, and, providentially, to fall upon Mrs. Partridge, who
needed just what it was in my power to do for her.

Whenever I find myself falling into my old habit, which I am sorry to
say is too frequently the case, I turn my thoughts to this poor woman,
who is still toiling on under heavy life-burdens, yet with meekness and
patience, and bowing my head in shame, say--

"If she is thankful for the good she has, how deep should be my
gratitude!"




I DIDN'T THINK OF THAT!


MR. LAWSON, the tailor, was considered a very good member of society.
He was industrious, paid what he owed, was a kind husband and father
and a pleasant and considerate neighbour. He was, moreover, attached to
the church, and, by his brethren in the faith, considered a pious and
good man. And, to say the truth, Mr. Lawson would compare favourably
with most people.

One day as Mr. Lawson stood at his cutting board, shears in hand, a
poorly dressed young woman entered his shop, and approaching him,
asked, with some embarrassment and timidity, if he had any work to give
out.

"What can you do?" asked the tailor, looking rather coldly upon his
visitor.

"I can make pantaloons and vests," replied the girl.

"Have you ever worked for the merchant tailors?"

"Yes, sir, I worked for Mr. Wright."

"Hasn't he any thing for you to do?"

"No, not just now. He has regular hands who always get the preference."

"Did your work suit him?"

"He never found fault with it."

"Where do you live?"

"In Cherry street," replied the young woman.

"At No.--."

Mr. Lawson stood and mused for a short time.

"I have a vest here," he at length said, taking a small bundle from a
shelf, "which I want by tomorrow evening at the latest. If you think
you can make it very neatly, and have it done in time, you can take it."

