
"I have to take a long ride, on business, which must be done
early in the day."

"When will you be back?"

"Not before nightfall."

"But going on another business journey!" said Mrs. Rossitur.
"You have but just these few hours come home from one."

"Cannot breakfast be ready?"

"Yes, uncle Rolf," said Fleda, bringing her bright face before
him  "ready at half-past five, if you like  now that I am to
the fore, you know."

He clasped her to his breast and kissed her again, but with a
face so very grave that Fleda was glad nobody else saw it.

Then Charlton went, averring that he wanted at least a night
and a half of sleep between two such journeys as the one of
that day and the one before him on the next  especially as he
must resign himself to going without anything to eat. Him also
Fleda laughingly promised that, precisely half an hour before
the stage time, a cup of coffee and a roll should be smoking
on the table, with whatever substantial appendages might be
within the bounds of possibility, or the house.

"I will pay you for that beforehand with a kiss," said he.

"You will do nothing of the kind," said Fleda, stepping back;
"a kiss is a favour taken, not given  and I am entirely
ignorant what you have done to deserve it."

"You make a curious difference between me and Hugh," said
Charlton, half in jest, half in earnest.

"Hugh is my brother, Captain Rossitur," said Fleda, smiling 
"and that is an honour you never made any pretensions to."

"Come, you shall not say that any more," said he, taking the
kiss that Fleda had no mind to give him.

Half laughing, but with eyes that were all too ready for
something else, she turned again to Hugh, when his brother had
left the room, and looked wistfully in his face, stroking back
the hair from his temples with a caressing hand.

"You are just as you were when I left you!" she said, with
lips that seemed too unsteady to say more, and remained
parted.

"I am afraid so are you," he replied; "not a bit fatter. I
hoped you would be."

"What have you been smiling at so this evening?"

"I was thinking how well you talked."

"Why, Hugh! you should have helped me  I talked too much."

"I would much rather listen," said Hugh. "Dear Fleda, what a
different thing the house is with you in it!"

Fleda said nothing, except an inexplicable little shake of her
head, which said a great many things; and then she and her
aunt were left alone. Mrs. Rossitur drew her to her bosom,
with a look so exceeding fond that its sadness was hardly
discernible. It was mingled, however, with an expression of
some doubt.

"What has made you keep so thin?"

"I have been very well, aunt Lucy  thinness agrees with me."

"Are you glad to be home again, dear Fleda?"

"I am very glad to be with you, dear aunt Lucy!"

"But not glad to be home?"

"Yes, I am," said Fleda; "but somehow  I don't know  I
believe I have got a little spoiled  it is time I was at
home, I am sure. I shall be quite glad after a day or two,
when I have got into the works again. I am glad now, aunt
Lucy."

Mrs. Rossitur seemed unsatisfied, and stroked the hair from
Fleda's forehead, with an absent look.

"What was there in New York, that you were so sorry to leave?"

"Nothing, Ma'am, in particular," said Fleda, brightly; "and I
am not sorry, aunt Lucy  I tell you, I am a little spoiled
with company and easy living  I am glad to be with you
again."

Mrs. Rossitur was silent.

"Don't you get up to uncle Rolf's breakfast, to-morrow, aunt
Lucy."

"Nor you."

"I sha'n't, unless I want to; but there'll be nothing for you
to do; and you must just lie still. We will all have our
breakfast together when Charlton has his."

"You are the veriest sunbeam that ever came into a house,"
said her aunt, kissing her.


CHAPTER XI.


"My flagging soul flies under her own pitch."
DRYDEN.


Fleda mused as she went up stairs, whether the sun were a
luminous body to himself or no, feeling herself at that moment
dull enough. Bright was she, to others? nothing seemed bright
to her. Every old shadow was darker than ever. Her uncle's
unchanged gloom  her aunt's unrested face  Hugh's unaltered,
delicate, sweet look, which always, to her fancy, seemed to
write upon his face, "Passing away!"  and the thickening
prospects whence sprang the miasm that infected the whole
moral atmosphere  alas, yes!  "Money is a good thing,"
thought Fleda; "and poverty need not be a bad thing, if people
can take it right; but if they take it wrong!"

With a very drooping heart, indeed, she went to the window.
Her old childish habit had never been forgotten; whenever the
moon or the stars were abroad, Fleda rarely failed to have a
talk with them from her window. She stood there, now, looking
out into the cold, still night, with eyes just dimmed with
tears  not that she lacked sadness enough, but she did lack
spirit enough to cry. It was very still; after the rattle and
confusion of the city streets, that extent of snow-covered
country, where the very shadows were motionless  the entire
absence of soil and of disturbance  the rest of nature  the
breathlessness of the very wind  all preached a quaint kind
of sermon to Fleda. By the force of contrast, they told her
what should be; and there was more yet  she thought that by
the force of example, they showed what might be. Her eyes had
not long travelled over the familiar old fields and fences
before she came to the conclusion that she was home in good
time  she thought she had been growing selfish, or in danger
of it; and she made up her mind she was glad to be back again
among the rough things of life, where she could do so much to
smooth them for others, and her own spirit might grow to a
polish it would never gain in the regions of ease and
pleasure. " To do life's work!" thought Fleda, clasping her
hands  "no matter where  and mine is here. I am glad I am in
my place again  I was forgetting I had one."

It was a face of strange purity and gravity that the moon
shone upon, with no power to brighten as in past days; the
shadows of life were upon the child's brow. But nothing to
brighten it from within! One sweet, strong ray of other light
suddenly found its way through the shadows, and entered her
heart. "The Lord reigneth! let the earth be glad!" and then
the moonbeams, pouring down with equal ray upon all the
unevenness of this little world, seemed to say the same thing
over and over. Even so! Not less equally his providence
touches all  not less impartially his faithfulness guides.
"The Lord reigneth! let the earth be glad!" There was
brightness in the moonbeams now that Fleda could read this in
them; she went to sleep, a very child again, with these words
for her pillow.

It was not six, and darkness yet filled the world, when Mr.
Rossitur came down stairs, and softly opened the sitting-room
door. But the home fairy had been at work; he was greeted with
such a blaze of cheerfulness as seemed to say what a dark
place the world was everywhere but at home; his breakfast-
table was standing ready, well set and well supplied; and even
as he entered by one door, Fleda pushed open the other, and
came in from the kitchen, looking as if she had some strange
spirit-like kindred with the cheery, hearty glow which filled
both rooms.

"Fleda!  you up at this hour!"

"Yes, uncle Rolf," she said, coming forward to put her hands
upon his; "you are not sorry to see me, I hope."

But he did not say he was glad; and he did not speak at all;
he busied himself gravely with some little matters of
preparation for his journey. Evidently, the gloom of last
night was upon him yet. But Fleda had not wrought for praise,
and could work without encouragement; neither step nor hand
slackened, till all she and Barby had made ready was in nice
order on the table, and she was pouring out a cup of smoking
coffee.

"You are not fit to be up," said Mr. Rossitur, looking at her;
"you are pale, now. Put yourself in that arm-chair, Fleda, and
go to sleep; I will do this for myself."
