thousand dollars, to which it was proposed to remove, as soon as
furniture, on the way from New Orleans, should arrive. The first
story of this house was already fitted up as a store; and, as the
object of Mrs. Lloyd was to get into business in a small way, the
purchase of the property was made, in order as well to obtain a good
location as to make a safe investment. With the thousand dollars
that remained, it was proposed to lay in a small stock of fancy
dry-goods.

In the few interviews held with Mrs. Lloyd by the merchant, he was
struck with the beautiful harmony of her character, and especially
with her womanly dignity. As for the eldest daughter, something
about her had charmed him from the very beginning. And now when, for
the first time, this interesting family were his guests for a social
evening--when he saw their characters in a new aspect--and when he
felt, through the quick sympathy of a generous nature, how grateful
and happy they were--he experienced a degree of satisfaction such as
never pervaded the breast of any man whose love of mere gain was the
measure of his good-will toward others.

How different was the social sphere in the house of Mr. Jones on
that evening! The brow of the husband and father was clouded, and
his lips sealed in silence; or if words were spoken, they were in
moody tones, or uttered in fretfulness and ill-nature. The wife and
children caught from him the same repulsive spirit, and, in their
intercourse one with the other, found little sympathy or affection.
There was a chilling shadow on the household of the merchant; it
fell from the monster form of his expanding selfishness, that was
uplifted between the sunlight of genuine humanity and the neighbour
he would not regard. Alas! on how many thousands and thousands of
households in our own land rests the gigantic shadow of this
monster!

"Will it pay?" is the eager question we hear on all sides, as we
mingle in the business world.

"Has it paid?" Ah, that is the after-question! Reader, is the
monster's shadow in your household? If so, it has not paid.




THE LAY PREACHER.


WHETHER the Rev. Andrew Adkin had or had not a call to preach, is
more than we can say. Enough, that he considered it his duty to
"hold forth" occasionally on the Sabbath; and when "Brother Adkin"
saw, in any possible line of action, his duty, he never took counsel
of Jonah.

Brother Adkin kept a store in the town of Mayberry, and being a man
of some force of character, and not, by any means, indifferent to
this world's goods, devoted himself to business during the six days
of the week with commendable assiduity. It is not the easiest thing
in the world to banish, on the Sabbath, all concern in regard to
business. Most persons engaged in trade, no matter how religiously
inclined, have experienced this difficulty. Brother Adkin's case
did, not prove an exception; and so intrusive, often, were these
worldly thoughts and cares, that they desecrated, at times, the
pulpit, making the good man's voice falter and his hands tremble, as
he endeavoured, "in his feeble way," to break the bread of life.

He had his own trials and temptations--his own stern "exercises of
mind," going to the extent, not unfrequently, of startling doubts as
to the reality of his call to preach.

"I don't see much fruit of my labour," he would sometimes say to
himself, "and I often think I do more harm than good."

Such thoughts, however, were usually disposed of, as suggestions of
the "adversary."

A week in the life of Brother Adkin will show the peculiar
influences that acted upon him, and how far his secular pursuits
interfered with and marred his usefulness as a preacher.

Monday morning had come round again. He had preached twice on the
Sabbath--once to a strange congregation, and with apparent good
effect, and once to a congregation in Mayberry. In the latter case,
he was favoured with little freedom of utterance. The beginning of
the secular week brought back to the mind of Mr. Adkin the old
current of thought, and the old earnest desire to get gain in
business. On the Sabbath he had taught the people that love was the
fulfilment of the law,--now, he had regard only to his own
interests; and, although he did not adopt the broad, unscrupulous
maxim, that all is fair in trade, yet, in every act of buying and
selling, the thought uppermost in his mind was, the amount of gain
to be received in the transaction.

"What are you paying for corn to-day?" asked a man, a stranger to
Mr. Adkin.

"Forty-eight cents," was answered.

"Is this the highest market rate?" said the man.

"I bought fifty bushels at that price on Saturday," replied Mr.
Adkin.

Now, since Saturday, the price of corn had advanced four cents, and
Mr. Adkin knew it. But he thought he would just try his new customer
with the old price, and if he chose to sell at that, why there would
be so much gained.

"I have forty bushels," said the man.

"Very well, I'll take it at forty-eight cents. Where is it?"

"My wagon is at the tavern."

"You may bring it over at once. My man is now at leisure to attend
to the delivery."

The corn was delivered and paid for, and both parties, for the time
being, were well satisfied with the transaction.

The day had nearly run to a close, and Mr. Adkin was in the act of
estimating his gains, when the man from whom he had purchased the
corn entered his store.

"Look here, my friend," said the latter speaking rather sharply,
"you paid me too little for that corn."

"How so?" returned Mr. Adkin, in well-affected surprise.

"You was to pay the highest market price," said the man.

"I offered you forty-eight cents."

"And I asked you if that was the highest rate, didn't I?"

"I told you that I had bought fifty bushels at that price on
Saturday."

"Oh, ho! Now I comprehend you," said the man, with a sarcastic curl
of his lip. "I was recommended to you as a preacher, and one who
would deal fairly with me. I asked you a plain question, and you
purposely misled me in your answer, to the end that you might get my
corn at less than the market value. You have cheated me out of
nearly two dollars. Much good may it do you!"

And saying this, he turned on his heel and left the store. Mr. Adkin
was, of course, no little disturbed. The charge of dishonesty in
dealing at first aroused his indignation; but as he grew calmer and
thought over the affair, his conscience troubled him. As a Christian
man, and especially as a Christian minister, he could not reconcile
his dealing with strict gospel requirements. The more he reflected,
the more closely he brought his conduct to the standard of Christian
principles, the less was he satisfied with himself. The final result
was, a determination to go to the man on the next morning, and pay
him the balance due him on the market price of his corn. But, when
he sought for him, he was not to be found, having gone back to his
home, a few miles from the village.

On the next day he sent for a bill, which had been standing a good
while. His clerk brought back some impertinent and altogether
unsatisfactory answer.

"Did Mr. Giles say that?" he asked, his eyes flashing indignantly.

"His exact words," replied the clerk.

"Very well. I'll not send to him again," said Mr. Adkin. "He thinks,
because I am a preacher, that he can treat me as he pleases, but
I'll let him know that being a preacher doesn't make me any the less
a man, nor any the less inclined to protect myself."

So Mr. Giles was served with a summons, to answer for debt, before
the week was out.

On the day following, a certain lady, a member of the congregation
in Mayberry to which he preached, whenever, from sickness or other
causes, the regular minister was absent, came into Mr. Adkin's
store. Her manner was considerably excited.

"There's a mistake in your bill, Mr. Adkin," said she, in rather a
sharp tone of voice.

"If so, Mrs. Smith, the remedy is a very simple one," replied Mr.
Adkin. Her manner had disturbed him, yet he concealed the
disturbance under a forced suavity of manner. "Where does the
mistake lie?"

"Why, see here. You've got me charged with six yards of muslin and
five pounds of butter that I never got!"

"Are you certain of this, Mrs. Smith?"

"Certain! Be sure I'm certain! D'ye think I'd say I hadn't the
things, if I had them? I'm not quite so bad as that, Mr. Adkin!"

"Don't get excited about the matter, Mrs. Smith. We are all liable
to mistakes. There's an error here, either on your side or mine, if
it is my error, I will promptly correct it."

"Of course it's your error. I never had either the muslin or the
butter," said Mrs. Smith, positively.

Mr. Adkin turned to his ledger, where Mrs. Smith's account was
