
“Oh, yes; he is supposed to be worth about three hundred thousand. But
what good is that to me? I was looking over my books this afternoon,
and, including this five hundred, there is just fifteen hundred dollars
due me now, that I ought to have, but can’t get it. To a man doing a
large business it would not be much; but to one with my limited means,
it is a good deal. And this is all in the hands of five individuals, any
one of whom could pay immediately, and feel not the least inconvenience
from it.”

“Are you much pressed for money just now, George?”

“I have a note in bank of three hundred, which falls due to-morrow, and
one of two hundred and fifty on Saturday. Twenty-five dollars at least
will be required to pay off my hands; and besides this, our quarter’s
rent is due on Monday, and my shop rent next Wednesday. Then there are
other little bills I wanted to settle, our own wants to be supplied,
&c.”

“Why don’t you call on those persons you spoke of; perhaps they would
pay you?”

“I have sent their bills in, but if I call on them so soon I might
perhaps affront them, and cause them to take their work away; and that
I don’t want to do. However, I think I shall have to do it, let the
consequence be what it may.”

“Perhaps you could borrow what you need, George, for a few days.”

“I suppose I could; but see the inconvenience and trouble it puts me
to. I was so certain of getting Hillman’s money to meet these two notes,
that I failed to make any other provision.”

“That would not have been enough of itself.”

“No, but I have a hundred on hand; the two together would have paid
them, and left enough for my workmen too.”

As early as practicable the next morning Mr. Allison started forth to
raise the amount necessary to carry him safely through the week. He
thought it better to try to collect some of the amounts owing to him
than to borrow. He first called on a wealthy merchant, whose annual
income was something near five thousand.

“Good morning, Mr. Allison,” said he, as that individual entered his
counting-room. “I suppose you want some money.”

“I should like a little, Mr. Chapin, if you please.”

“Well, I intended coming down to see you, but I have been so busy that
I have not been able. That carriage of mine which you did up a few weeks
ago does not suit me altogether.”

“What is the matter with it?”

“I don’t like the style of trimming, for one thing; it has a common look
to me.”

“It is precisely what Mrs. Chapin ordered. You told me to suit her.”

“Yes, but did she not tell you to trim it like General Spangler’s?”

“I am very much mistaken, Mr. Chapin, if it is not precisely like his.”

“Oh! no; his has a much richer look than mine.”

“The style of trimming is just the same, Mr. Chapin; but you certainly
did not suppose that a carriage trimmed with worsted lace, would look as
well as one trimmed with silk lace?”

“No, of course not; but there are some other little things about it that
don’t suit me. I will send my man down with it to-day, and he will show
you what they are. I would like to have it to-morrow afternoon, to take
my family out in. Call up on Monday, and we will have a settlement.”

Mr. Allison next called at the office of a young lawyer, who had
lately come into possession of an estate valued at one hundred thousand
dollars. Mr. Allison’s bill was three hundred dollars, which his young
friend assured him he would settle immediately, only that there was a
slight error in the way it was made out, and not having the bill with
him, he could not now correct it.

He would call on Mr. Allison with it, sometime during the next week, and
settle it.

A Custom-House gentleman was next sought, but his time had been so much
taken up with his official duties, that he had not yet been able to
examine the bill. He had no doubt but it was all correct; still, as he
was not accustomed to doing business in a loose way, he must claim Mr.
Allison’s indulgence a few days longer.

Almost disheartened, Mr. Allison entered the store of the last
individual who was indebted to him for any considerable amount, not
daring to hope that he would be any more successful with him than with
the others he had called on. But he was successful; the bill, which
amounted to near one hundred and fifty dollars, was promptly paid, Mr.
Allison’s pocket, in consequence, that much heavier, and his heart that
much lighter. Fifty dollars was yet lacking of the sum requisite for
that day. After calling on two or three individuals, this amount was
obtained, with the promise of being returned by the middle of the next
week.

“I shall have hard work to get through to-day, I know,” said he to
himself, as he sat at his desk on the following morning.

“Two hundred and fifty dollars to be raised by borrowing. I don’t know
where I can get it.”

To many this would be a small sum, but Mr. Allison was peculiarly
situated. He was an honest, upright mechanic, but he was poor. It was
with difficulty he had raised the fifty dollars on the day previous.
Although he had never once failed in returning money at the time
promised, still, for some reason or other, everybody appeared unwilling
to lend him. It was nearly two O’clock and he was still a hundred
dollars short.

“Well,” said he to himself, “I have done all I could, and if Hall won’t
renew the note for the balance, it will have to be protested. I’ll go
and ask him, though I have not much hope that he will do it.”

As he was about leaving his shop for that purpose, a gentleman entered
who wished to buy a second-hand carriage. Mr. Allison had but one, and
that almost new, for which he asked a hundred and forty dollars.

“It is higher than I wished to go,” remarked the gentleman. “I ought to
get a new one for that price.”

“So you can, but not like this. I can sell you a new one for a hundred
and twenty-five dollars. But what did you expect to pay for one?”

“I was offered one at Holton’s for seventy-five; but I did not like it.
I will give you a hundred for yours.”

“It is too little, indeed, sir: that carriage cost three hundred dollars
when it was new. It was in use a very short time. I allowed a hundred
and forty dollars for it myself.”

“Well, sir, I would not wish you to sell at a disadvantage, but if you
like to, accept of my offer I’ll take it. I’m prepared to pay the cash
down.”

Mr. Allison did not reply for some minutes. He was undecided as to what
was best.

“Forty dollars,” said he to himself, “is a pretty heavy discount. I
am almost tempted to refuse his offer and trust to Hall’s renewing the
note. But suppose he won’t--then I’m done for. I think, upon the whole,
I had better accept it. I’ll put it at one hundred and twenty-five, my
good friend,” said he, addressing the customer.

“No, sir; one hundred is all I shall give.”

“Well, I suppose you must have it, then; but indeed you have got a
bargain.”

“It is too bad,” muttered Allison to himself, as he left the bank after
having paid his note. “There is just forty dollars thrown away. And why?
Simply because those who are blessed with the means of discharging their
debts promptly, neglect to do so.”

“How did you make out to-day, George?” asked his wife, as they sat at
the tea-table that same evening.

“I met my note, and that was all.”

“Did you give your men anything?”

“Not a cent. I had but one dollar left after paying that. I was sorry
for them, but I could not help them. I am afraid Robinson’s family will
suffer, for there has been sickness in his house almost constantly for
the last twelvemonth. His wife, he told me the other day, had not been
out; of her bed for six weeks. Poor fellow! He looked quite dejected
when I told him I had nothing for him.”

At this moment; the door-bell rang and a minute or two afterwards, a
young girl entered the room in which Mr. and Mrs. Allison were sitting.
Before introducing her to our readers, we will conduct them to the
interior of an obscure dwelling, situated near the outskirts of the
city. The room is small, and scantily furnished, and answers at once
for parlour, dining-room, and kitchen. Its occupants, Mrs. Perry and her
daughter, have been, since the earliest dawn of day, intently occupied
with their needles, barely allowing themselves time to partake of their
frugal meal.

“Half-past three o’clock!” ejaculated the daughter, her eyes glancing,
as she spoke, at the clock on the mantelpiece. “I am afraid we shall not
get this work done in time for me to take it home before dark, mother.”

“We must try hard, Laura, for you know we have not a cent in the house,
and I told Mrs. Carr to come over to-night, and I would pay her what I
owe her for washing. Poor thing! I would not like to disappoint her, for
I know she needs it.”

Nothing more was said for near twenty minutes, when Laura again broke
the silence.

“Oh, dear!” she exclaimed, “what a pain I have in my side!” And for a
moment she rested from her work, and straightened herself in her chair,
to afford a slight relief from the uneasiness she experienced. “I
wonder, mother, if I shall always be obliged to sit so steady?”
