
“‘Your mother?’ I suggested.

“‘Can only weep with me. I have no adviser, and my heart beats so wildly
all the time, that thought confuses itself whenever it makes an effort
to see the right direction. Fear of a public trial suggests passive
endurance of wrong on my part; but an innate sense of justice cries out
against this course, and urges me to resistance.’

“‘If you are innocent,’ said I, firmly, ‘in the name and strength of
innocence defend yourself! All that a woman holds dearest is at stake.
If they drive you to this great extremity, do not shrink from the
trial.’

“‘But what hope have I in such a trial if false witnesses come up
against me?’

“‘God and justice are stronger than all the powers of evil,’ said I.

“‘They might be, in your case,’ she answered, mournfully; ‘for you have
made God your friend, and justice your strong tower. But I--what have I
to hope for in God? He has not been in all my thoughts; and now will He
not mock at my calamity?’

“‘No--no, my unhappy friend!’ I answered. ‘He never turns from any; it
is we who turn from Him. His tender mercy is over all His works. All
human souls are alike precious in His eyes. If you trust in Him, you
need not fear your bitterest enemies.’

“‘How shall I trust in him?’

“She bent towards me eagerly.

“‘In the simple work of doing right,’ said I.

“‘Doing right?’

“She did not clearly understand me.

“Do you think it would be right to let a charge of crime lie,
unrepelled, against you; a great crime, such as is alleged--destroying
your good name, and throwing a shadow of disgrace over your children!’

“‘No,’ was her unhesitating reply.

“‘Then it would be wrong for you to suffer a divorce to issue on the
ground of infidelity, without a defence of yourself by every legal means
in your power. Do right, then, in so defending yourself, and trust in
God for the result.’

“I shudder at the bare thought of a public trial,’ she answered.

“‘Don’t think of anything but right action, said I. If you would have
the Hosts of Heaven on your side, give them power by doing the right;
and they will surely achieve for you the victory over all your enemies.
Have any steps been taken by Mr. Dewey?’

“‘I fear so.’

“‘How long is it since your husband entertained this purpose?’

“‘I think it has been growing in his mind ever since that unhappy affair
at Saratoga.’

“As she said this, her thoughts seemed to turn aside upon something
else, and she sat looking down upon the floor in a state of deep
abstraction. At last, taking a long breath, she looked up, and said with
trembling lips and a husky voice,

“‘I have something more to tell you. There is another aspect to this
miserable affair.’

“And she drew forth a crumpled letter.

“‘I found this, sealed, and directed, lying on the floor of my husband’s
room, two days ago. It is in his hand writing; addressed to a lady
in New York, and signed R. D. I will read you its contents.’ And she
unfolded the letter, and read:

“‘My dearest Caroline,’ it began; and then went on for a few paragraphs,
in a lover-like strain; after which, the divorce from the writer’s wife
was referred to as a thing of speedy attainment, there being little fear
of opposition on her part, as he had given her to understand that he had
witnesses ready to prove her criminal conduct; if she dared to resist
his will in the matter. ‘A few months of patient waiting, dearest
Caroline,’ was the concluding sentence, ‘and then for that happy
consummation we have so long desired.’

“‘What do you think of that?’ asked poor Delia, looking almost wildly
into my face.

“‘I think,’ said I, ‘that you hold in your hands the means of safety.
Your husband will not dare to force you into a defensive position, when
he learns that you have this document in your possession. It would tell
strongly against him and his perjured witnesses if produced in court.
Then take heart, my friend. This worst evil that you dreaded will
not come to pass. If a divorce is granted, it will have to be on some
different allegation.’

“She grasped my hand, and said, ‘Oh, do you think so? Do you think so?’”

“‘I am sure of it,’ was my confident answer. ‘Sure of it. Why the man
would only damage his cause, and disgrace himself, by venturing into a
trial with a witness like this against him.’”

“‘Oh, bless you for such confidently assuring words!’ and the poor
creature threw herself forward, and laid her face upon my bosom. For
the first time she wept, and for a season, oh how wildly! You will not
wonder that my tears fell almost as fast as hers.

“‘I turned in my despair to you,’ she said, on growing calm, ‘you whom
I loved, and almost revered, in the earlier and better days of my life,
and my heart tells me that I have not turned in vain. Into the darkness
that surrounded me like the pall of death, a little light has already
penetrated.’”

“May it shine unto the perfect day!” I answered fervently.

“And, dear husband! it will shine,” said Constance, a glow of enthusiasm
lighting up her face, and giving it a new beauty, “even unto the perfect
day! Not the perfect day of earthly bliss--for I think the sun of that
day has gone down never to rise again for her--but the perfect day of
that higher life, which to many comes not, except through the gates of
tribulation.”



CHAPTER XXII.



I was shocked and distressed by the painful revelation which Mrs. Dewey
had made to Constance. A sadder history in real life I had never heard.

A few days after this memorable visit to the Allen House, a note was
received by my wife, containing this single word, “Come,” and signed
Delia.

“Any change in the aspect of affairs?” I inquired of Constance on her
return.

“Yes. Mrs. Dewey has received notice, in due form, of her husband’s
application for a divorce.”

“What has she done?”

“Nothing yet. It was to ask my advice as to her best course that she
sent for me.”

“And what advice did you give her?”

“I gave none. First, I must consult you.”

I shook my head and replied,

“It will not do for me to be mixed up in this affair, Constance.”

Worldly prudence spoke there.

My wife laid her hand upon my arm, and looking calmly in my face, said,

“The right way is always a safe way.”

“Granted.”

“It will be right for you to give such advice as your judgment dictates,
and therefore safe. I do not know much about law matters, but it occurs
to me that her first step should be the employment of counsel.”

“Is her father going to stand wholly aloof?” I inquired.

“Yes, if she be resolved to defend herself in open court. He will not
sanction a course that involves so much disgrace of herself and family.”

“Has she shown him the letter you saw?”

“No.”

“Why?”

“I think she is afraid to let it go out of her hands.”

“She might trust it with her father, surely,” said I.

“Her father has been very hard with her; and seems to take the worst for
granted. He evidently believes that it is in the power of Dewey to prove
her guilty; and that if she makes any opposition to his application for
a divorce, he will hold her up disgraced before the world.”

“This letter might open his eyes.”

“The letter is no defence of her; only a witness against him. It does
not prove her innocence. If it did, then it would turn toward her a
father’s averted face. In court its effect will be to throw doubt
upon the sincerity of her husband’s motives, and to show that he had a
reason, back of alleged infidelity, for wishing to be divorced from his
wife.”

“I declare, Constance!” said I, looking at my wife in surprise, “you
have taken upon yourself a new character. I think the case is safe in
