obliged to him for his information--which was of course incorrect. But
I am very glad to hear it nevertheless. Other people's sweethearts, you
know, are 'tabooed'--sacred ground--not to be approached without danger
to all concerned. But now--if you will allow me, I think I shall claim
you for mine."

Whatever look the words may have, they did not sound rude. They were
said with a careless half-amused, half gentle manner, which might leave
his hearer in doubt whether the chief purpose of them were not to fall
pleasantly on her ear and drive away any disagreeable remainders of
Phil's insolence. But Faith scarce heard him. She was struggling with
that unbidden pain, and trying with all the simplicity and truth of her
nature and with the stronger help she had learned to seek, to fight it
down. She had never thought such an utterly vain thought as that
suggested in Phil's words; in her humility and modesty she chid herself
that it should have come into her head even when other people's words
had forced it there. Her humility was very humble now. And in it she
quietly took up with the good she had, of which her roses were even
then breathing sweet reminders in her face; putting from her all
thought of good that did not belong to her and she could not deserve.

The uncertain light favoured her well, or Dr. Harrison would have seen
too much of her face-play. They had been going on and on, and the
doctor had been as usual talking, and she had managed now and then to
seem to give an answer--she never remembered to what; and her part in
the conversation all along had been so modestly small that the doctor
hardly knew when or whether she had ceased to comprehend him. But they
emerged at last upon the lawn, where Faith was taken possession of and
marched off by the old Judge, nothing loth.

The doctor casting about for another fish to throw his line at, spied
Reuben Taylor, standing alone, and eying as Mr. Linden and Faith had
done the gay scene about the house, now gay with the many-coloured
lamps.

"Well, my man," said the doctor easily accosting him as he stood there,
"you did very well this afternoon. How long have you been at the
school?"

Reuben made answer with his usual respectful courtesy.

"Are you a friend of Miss Derrick's?"

"I think Miss Derrick is my friend, sir," said Reuben with a little
flush.

"Is she?" said the doctor. "Well don't you think that comes to the same
thing?"

"No sir."

"No? What's the difference? I'm not examining you now--I am asking for
information."

"I think you must know, sir," said Reuben, respectfully but firmly,
after a glance at his questioner.

"Do you?" said the doctor laughing slightly. "Well, if you are not her
friend, it don't signify. I was going to remark to you, if you were,
that ladies don't generally care to have their private affairs talked
about, and however much you may know, it is not always worth while to
tell it."

"I neither know nor have said anything, Dr. Harrison," said Reuben,
drawing himself up a little, and looking full in the doctor's face.

"You're Reuben Taylor, aren't you?"

"Yes sir--I'm not anybody else though."

"No," said the doctor carelessly. "Well, it isn't necessary you should
be, for present purposes. I heard you quoted as authority just now, on
something which touched that lady's affairs, whose friend you say you
are not--and I think, your friend though she may be, she was not
particularly gratified with your interference."

"Miss Faith knew it was a wrong quotation," said Reuben quietly.

"You are sure of that?"

"Quite sure, sir--if it was anything about her which ought not to have
said."

"Don't know that it was," said the doctor; "it's well enough sometimes
to set people right when they are wrong--what I say is, that ladies
don't always thank one for it."

Reuben flushed a little.

"You don't know me, Dr. Harrison," he said--"I can't expect you to take
my word; but I have nothing to add to it."

"And I have nothing to add to mine," said the doctor lightly. "I heard
you quoted--that's all; I supposed you would know what for."

"Who did you hear, sir?"

"Don't know, really," said the doctor--"only he was a rude fellow--if
you can tell one by such a description among your mates, it was he."

And the doctor strolled away.

Reuben on his part seemed to recognize the description, for taking a
sort of intuitive bee-line through people and trees, he suddenly
brought up with the question,

"Phil Davids, what have you been saying about me?"

"I s'pose you think folks have nothing to do but talk about you now.
You're a long way out!"--was the careless answer.

"What did you say I said?" said Reuben.

"I never heard you say anything, as I know, that was worth tellin'
over. When I do, I'll let somebody know it, I tell you."

"I suppose that means that you won't answer my question," said Reuben.
"What I want to know is, not what I said, but what you say I said."

"About what?"

"About Miss Faith Derrick."

"I don't say you said nothing about her--I never heard you call her
name, as I know."

"Like enough," said Reuben, with a sort of resolute patience; "but what
did you say I said that had to do with her in any way?"

"Who do you think you air?" said Phil.

"I tell you what, Phil Davids," said Sam Stoutenburgh, who had heard
the last question or two, "if you don't keep your tongue off Miss
Derrick, I'll pitch you up into a pine tree so far that you'll see
stars before you come down--or I'm not Stoutenburgh nor stout,
neither!" and Sam--who was a little of a young giant--backed Phil up
against the tree that was nearest in a sort of preparatory way that was
rather breathless. Phil however was as tough as shoe leather.

"Suppos'n you keep eyes off her, then," said he struggling. "It's a
poor rule that don't work both ways."

"What have you been about?" said Sam,--"come, own up for once--just to
try how it feels."

"What have you?" said Phil. "I aint up to half as many shines as you,
Sam Stoutenburgh."

"I should think not!" said Sam disdainfully.

"O let him alone, Sam!" said Reuben--"what's the use?"

"Little enough use--" said Sam, "or matter either,--everybody knows
Phil Davids. Pity he wouldn't make his own acquaintance!" And releasing
his prisoner Sam turned disdainfully and Reuben sorrowfully towards the
house. But Reuben did not go very near. A wistful look or two towards
the lighted front and the clustering guests, and he paused, leaving Sam
to go on alone.

Sam's bashfulness was happily not of the uncompromising kind, therefore
he not only found Faith, but she found him--ready to claim her
promise--the very moment she was ready to go.

"But I don't know whether the wagon is here, Sam," said Faith. Other
wagons were come, and driving off, and a little procession of colours
was setting forth on foot, up and down the street from Judge
Harrison's. The hall was full of people, getting hoods on and taking
leave.

"Well, Miss Faith," said Sam, "we can walk to where it ought to be, and
if it isn't there maybe you'll let me go further."

"But I can't go without seeing my mother, Sam, and I don't know where
she is."

"Sam Stoutenburgh!" said Mr. Linden's voice, while the speaker laid
both hands on the boy's shoulders, "what are you about?"

"Miss Faith said I might go as far as the wagon with her, sir," said
Sam looking down.

"The wagon is not here," said Mr. Linden,--"Mr. Skip is probably
asleep."

"Then I may see you home, Miss Faith?" was the joyous comment.

"Sam Stoutenburgh!" said Mr. Linden again, preventing Faith's reply,
and giving Sam a gentle shake. "Isn't one favour a day enough for you?"
he added presently.

"No sir!" said Sam boldly.

"I suppose I must give way before a blue ribband," said Mr. Linden
smiling, yet as if he was much inclined to lift Sam out of the way.
"Miss Faith, the matter is in your hands."

But Faith did not smile, and looked, or was it his fancy?--ever so
little careworn.

"What matter, Mr. Linden?" she said simply.
