   And the fugitive moment refuses to stay.
   The arrow is flown--the moment is gone;
   The millennial year
   Rushes on to our view, and eternity's here.

   "O that each, in the day of his coming, may say,
   I have fought my way through;
   I have finished the work thou didst give me to do.
   O that each from his Lord may receive the glad word,
   Well and faithfully done!
   Enter into my joy, and sit down on my throne."



CHAPTER VIII.



The first morning of the new year turned out as bright as could be
desired for the great sleigh-riding expedition; the very day for it.
And in the very mood for it were the people who were to go. Not but
somewhat of last night's gravity hung about Faith's bright face; the
one did no hurt to the other; for the best brightness is always sure to
be grave, and the best gravity is almost sure to be bright, on some
side. However there was nothing contemplative about the character of
things this morning; there was too much action afoot. Such an army of
meats and drinks, with all sorts of odd ends and varieties, from the
shoes to the fishing-net, and such an array of apples and
sugarplums!--to marshal and order them all in proper companies and
ranks, wanted a general! But Faith was by no means a bad general, and
up to the act of stowing the sleigh, at which point the things were
made over to Mr. Linden and Mr. Skip, her part was well done. And Mr.
Linden found in the course of his part of the business that Mrs.
Derrick and Faith had followed a lead of their own.

There had been a pretty packing and tying up and labelling at the
table, before the sleigh-packing began,--Faith's busy little fingers
went in and out with great dexterity; and either Mr. Linden thought it
was pleasant to her--or knew it was pleasant to him, to have them so
engaged; for though he stood by and talked to her, and laughed at her,
he let the said little fingers have their way; except when they touched
some harsh bit of string, or rough bit of paper, or unmanageable
package, and then his own interfered. It was a bright packing
up--without a shadow, at least that could be called such. But once or
twice, when with some quick movement of Faith's hand the diamonds
flashed forth their weird light suddenly,--she did see that Mr.
Linden's eyes went down, and that his mouth took a set which if not of
pain, was at least sad. It never lasted long--and the next look was
always one of most full pleasure at her. But the second time, Faith's
heart could hardly bear it. She guessed at the why and the what; but
words were too gross a medium to convey from spirit to spirit the touch
that love could give and pain bear. She watched her chance; and when
one of Mr. Linden's hands was for a moment resting on a package that
the other was busied in arranging, suddenly laying the jewelled hand on
his, Faith's lips kept it company.

"Faith!" he said. And then as if he saw it all, he did not say another
word, only held her for a minute in a very, very close embrace. But
then he whispered,

"Faith--you must give me that in another way."

Faith appeared to have exhausted her ammunition, for she only answered
by hiding her face.

"Faith"--Mr. Linden repeated.

She looked up slowly, blushing all over; and her very doubtful face
seemed to negative the whole proceeding. But then an irrepressible
little laugh began to play.

"I wouldn't do it," she said unsteadily,--"at least, I don't know that
I would--if I hadn't wished so very much to give you something
to-day;--and I have nothing else!--"

And nerving herself desperately, Faith laid one hand on Mr. Linden's
shoulder and slightly raising herself on her toes, did bestow on his
lips as dainty a kiss as ever Santa Claus brought in his box of New
Year curiosities. But she was overcome with confusion the moment she
had done it, and would have rushed off if that had been possible.

"Let me go"--she said hastily--"let me go!"--

In answer to which, she was held as securely fast as she ever had been
in her life. Covering and hiding all of her face that she could, Faith
renewed her request, in a comical tone of humility--as if she didn't
deserve it.

"I never felt less inclined to let you go!"

"There is all that work to be done," said Faith, by way of possibly
useful suggestion.

"Mignonette, will you remember your new lesson?"

She whispered softly, "No.--It was only Santa Claus."

"Not Campaspe?"

"No--Certainly not!"

"You remember," said Mr. Linden, "that when--'Cupid and Campaspe played
at cards for kisses, Cupid paid.'--I was unavoidably reminded of
that. But you may go on with your work,--you know what happens when
lessons are learned imperfectly." And liberty for her work she had; no
more.

"Child," said her mother coming in, "are you ready for your lunch?"

"Why no, mother," said Faith with a little laugh,--"of course not! but
I can take it as I go on. There's a good deal of 'sorting' to do yet. I
hope the sleigh is big."

"Take it as you go on, indeed!" said Mrs. Derrick. "You've got to stop
and eat, child,--you can't live till night with nothing but other
folk's dinners."

Faith however declared she could not stop to eat; and she contrived
to carry on both the rival occupations together; and even to make right
sure that no one else should attempt to live upon anything more
etherial than sandwiches and pumpkin pie. She drank her coffee in the
intervals of tying packages and writing labels, and ran about with a
sandwich in one hand and a basket in the other; filling Mr. Linden's
cup and putting tempting platefuls in his way. But he was as busy as
she,--spending much of his time at the barn, where Squire
Stoutenburgh's pretty little box sleigh was in process of filling with
cloaks, buffalo robes, and commodities! At last everything was in, and
Mr. Linden came to announce that fact to Faith,--furs and hood were
donned, and the sleigh was off with its whole load.

Bright, bright the snow was, and blue the shadows, and fair the white
expanse of hill and meadow, all crisp and sparkling. Everybody was
out--which was not wonderful; but so well had Mr. Linden disposed and
covered up his packages, that all anybody could see was that he and
Faith were taking a sleigh-ride,--which was not wonderful either. And
before long they left the more frequented roads, and turned down the
lane that led to the dwelling of Sally Lowndes. How different it looked
now, from that summer evening when Faith had gone there alone. What a
colouring then lay on all the ground that was now white with sunlight
and blue with shade! And also, what a difference in the mental
colouring. But Jerry, travelling faster than her feet had done, soon
brought them to the house. Mr. Linden buckled the tie, and helped
Faith to emerge from the buffalo robes; the winter wind blowing fresh
from the sea, and sweeping over the down till Jerry shook his blanket
in disapproval.

"Now my little counsellor," said Mr. Linden, "what does your wisdom say
should go in here--besides this basket of substantiate? I think you
know more of these people than I do?"--And the surf in its cold
monotony, said--"Anything warm!"

"Mother has put in a shawl for Sally," said Faith, getting out the
package;--(it was one that Mrs. Derrick found she could do
without,)--"and a little paper of tea,--tea is Sally's greatest
delight,--here it is!"

Sally's abode was in nothing different from the run of poor houses in
the country; unpainted of course, outside and inside; a rag carpet on
the floor, a gay patchwork coverlet on the bed. Sally herself was in
the rocking-chair before a little wood fire. But there was not the look
of even poor comfort which may sometimes be seen; want, that told of
lack of means and that also went deeper, was visible in everything.

"I've come to wish you a happy new year, Sally," said Faith brightly.

"Laws! I wonder where it's to come from!" said Sally. "If wishin' I
would fetch it--I've wished it to myself till I'm tired. Happy new
years don't come to all folks. Aint that--How do you do, sir!--aint it
the gentleman Jenny told of? that fell down at Mr. Simlins' door?"

"And got up again?" said Mr. Linden. "Yes, I presume I am the very
person Jenny told of. I remember that Jenny was very kind to me, too.
Where is she?"

"O she's to Mr. Simlinses all along! she's got a good place; she knows
when she's comfortable. She don't think of me stayin' here all alone."

"But aren't you comfortable, Sally?" said Faith.

"I should like to know how I would be! Folks that is comfortable
thinks all the world is like them! If they didn't they'd help."

"Well what is the first thing that would help to make you comfortable?"
said Mr. Linden.

Sally looked at him, up and down.

"I'd like to see a speck o' somebody's face now and then. I mope and
mope, till I wish I'd die to get rid of it! You see, sir, I aint as I
used to was; and my family aint numerous now. There's no one lives in
this house over my head but me and a girl what stays by me to do
chores. Aint that a life for a spider?"

Faith had been stealthily unfolding the shawl and now put it round
Sally's shoulders. "Will that help to make you comfortable?" she said
gently.

"Laws!" said Sally--"aint that smart! That's good as far as it goes.
Where did that come from?"

