betraying himself to the soldier from whom he had just escaped. His sorrow
was not diminished, when, a few minutes later, he heard the shouts of the
third soldier, who, by hard running across the fields, had reached the
ford before him.

"Shoot him! Shoot him! He's a Yankee!" bellowed the grayback on the shore.

Tom was appalled at these words, and wondered how the soldier could have
found out that he was a Yankee; but when he recalled the fact that he had
entertained him with Yankee Doodle at their last meeting, the mystery
became less formidable.

"Shoot him! He's a Yankee!" shouted Secesh on the bank of the stream.

"We've left our guns on shore," replied Secesh in the water.

"I'm very much obliged to you for that," said Tom to himself, as he
grasped his paddle, and set the boat over towards the right bank of the
river.

No doubt the rebels in the water, when they saw with what facility the
boatman moved the bateau in the swift tide, as compared with his futile
efforts farther up the stream, were fully satisfied of the truth of their
companion's assertion. Tom decided to run the gauntlet between the right
bank and the soldier nearest to that shore. He paddled the bateau with all
his vigor, until he had obtained the desired position.

The graybacks in the water, realizing that they were engaged on an errand
of peace and humanity, had left their muskets on shore. They were,
therefore, comparatively harmless; but the one on shore had reached the
ford, and picking up one of the muskets of his companions, without threat
or warning, fired. It was lucky for Tom that he was not a Tennessee
sharpshooter, nor a Texas ranger, for the shot passed harmlessly over him.
The soldier dropped the gun, and picked up the other, which he instantly
discharged, and with better aim than before, for the ball struck the
bateau, though not within four feet of where Tom stood.

"Don't waste your powder, if you can't shoot better than that," shouted
one of the soldiers in the water. "You'll hit us next."

"Stop him, then! Stop him!" replied the grayback on the shore. "Kill him
if you can."

Tom was paddling with all his might to pass the ford before the soldier
nearest to him should reach a position in which he could intercept the
boat. The rebel was an enterprising fellow, and the soldier boy's chances
were growing amazingly small. Secesh had actually reached a place where he
could make a dash at the boat. There he stood with a long bowie-knife
between his teeth, and with both hands outstretched, ready to seize upon
the unfortunate bark. He looked grim and ferocious, and Tom saw that he
was thoroughly in earnest.

It was a trying situation for a boy of Tom's years, and he would fain have
dodged the issue. That bowie-knife had a wicked look, though it was mild
and tame compared with the savage eye of the rebel who held it. As it was
a case of life and death, the fugitive braced himself up to meet the
shock. Taking his position in the stern of the boat, he held the paddle in
his left hand, while his right firmly grasped his revolver. It was either
"kill or be killed," and Tom was not so sentimental as to choose the
latter rather than the former, especially as his intended victim was a
secessionist and a rebel.

"Keep off, or you are a dead man," shouted Tom, as he flourished his
pistol so that his assailant could obtain a fair view of its calibre, and
in the hope that the fellow would be willing to adopt a politician's
expedient, and compromise the matter by retiring out of range.

"Tew kin play at that game. This yere tooth-pick will wipe you out,"
coolly replied the fellow, as he made a spring at the boat.

"Stand off!" screamed Tom, as he raised the pistol, and fired.

It was a short range, and Tom would have been inexcusable if he had missed
his aim. The rebel struck his chest with his right hand, and the bowie
knife dropped from his teeth; but with his left hand he had grasped the
gunwale of the boat, and as he sunk down in the shallow water, he pulled
the bateau over on one side till the water poured in, and threatened to
swamp her. Fortunately the wounded man relaxed his hold, the boat righted,
and Tom commenced paddling again with all his strength and skill.

The other soldier in the water, as soon as he discovered where Tom
intended to pass, hastened over to assist his associate. The shouts of
their companion on shore had fully fired their southern hearts, and both
of them were ten times as zealous to kill or capture a Yankee, as they had
been to save a Virginian. When the wounded man clutched the boat, the
other was not more than ten feet from him, but farther down the stream.
His associate fell, and he sprang forward to engage in the affray.

"Stand off, or you are a dead man!" yelled Tom, with emphasis, as he plied
his paddle with renewed energy, for he saw that the man could not reach
him.

The bateau passed them both, and Tom began to breathe easier. The second
rebel, finding he could not capture or kill the detested Yankee, went to
the assistance of his companion. The soldier boy suspended his exertions,
for the danger seemed to be over, and gazed with interest upon the scene
which was transpiring in the water just above him. He was anxious to know
whether he had killed the rebel or not. There was something awful in the
circumstances, for the soldier boy's sensibilities were too acute to
permit him to take a human life, though it was that of an enemy, without
producing a deep impression upon his mind. Perhaps, in the great battle in
which he had been a participant, he had killed several rebels; if he had
done so, he had not seen them fall. This was the first man he had
consciously killed or wounded, and the fact was solemn, if not appalling,
to the young soldier.

As the rebel raised his companion from the water he seemed to be dead, and
Tom was forced to the conclusion that he had killed him. He had done the
deed in self-defence, and in the strict line of duty. He could not be
blamed even by his enemies for the act. He felt no exultation, and hoped
from the bottom of his heart that the man was prepared to meet his Maker,
into whose presence he had been so suddenly summoned.

Tom had heard the boys in Pinchbrook talk lightly about killing rebels,
and he had talked so himself; but the reality was not so pleasant as it
had seemed at a distance. He was sorry for the poor fellow, and wished he
had not been obliged to kill him. It was terrible to him, even in battle,
to take a human life, to slay a being created in the image of God, and for
whom Christ lived and died.

While he was indulging in these sad reflections, he heard a bullet whistle
near his head. The Secesh soldier on the shore had loaded up his
companions' muskets, and was doing his best to bring down the lucky
fugitive. His last shot was not a bad one, and Tom could not help
thinking, if the grayback should hit him, that he would not waste any fine
feelings over him. He did not like the sound of those whizzing bullets,
and as he had never boasted of his courage, he did not scorn to adopt
precautionary measures. The water was three inches deep in the bottom of
the bateau; but Tom deemed it prudent to lie down there until the current
should bear him out of the reach of the rebel bullets.

He maintained this recumbent posture for half an hour or more, listening
to the balls that frequently whistled over his head. Once he ventured to
raise his head, and discovered, not one man, but a dozen, on the shore,
which accounted for the rapid firing he heard. When he looked up again,
his bateau had passed round a bend, and he was no longer exposed to the
fire of the enemy.

From his heart Tom thanked God for his escape. He was religiously grateful
for the aid which Providence had rendered him, and when he thought how
near he had stood to the brink of destruction, he realized how narrow the
span between the Here and the Hereafter. And the moral of his reflections
was, that if he stood so near to the open gate of death, he ought always
to live wisely and well, and ever be prepared to pass the portals which
separate time from eternity.

Tom's thoughts were sad and heavy. He could not banish from his mind the
face of the rebel, as he raised his hand to his breast, where he had
received his mortal wound. That countenance, full of hate and revenge,
haunted him for weeks afterwards, in the solitude of his tent, and on his
midnight vigils as a sentinel.

As he sat in the boat, thinking of the events of the morning, and
listening to the mournful rippling of the waters, which, to his subdued
soul, sounded like the requiem of his victim, he was challenged from the
shore again.

"Who comes there!"

Tom jumped up, and saw a sentinel on the bank pointing his gun at him. He
surveyed the form with anxious interest; but this time he had nothing to
fear, for the soldier wore the blue uniform of the United States army.

"Friend," replied he, as he grasped his paddle.

"Come ashore, or I'll put a bullet through you," added the sentinel.

"Don't do it!" said Tom, with energy. "Can't you see the colors I wear."

"Come ashore, then."

"I will."

The soldier boy worked his paddle with vigor and skill, and it was
astonishing to observe with what better success than when invited to land
by the grayback up the river. The guard assisted him in landing and
securing his boat.

"Who are you?" demanded he, as he gazed at Tom's wet and soiled garments.

"I was taken prisoner at Bull Run, and came back on my own hook."

"Perhaps you were, but you can't pass these lines," said the soldier.

Tom was sent to the Federal camp, and passed from one officer to another,
till he was finally introduced to General Banks, at Harper's Ferry. He was
questioned in regard to his own adventures, the country he had passed
through, and the troops of the enemy he had seen. When, to use his own
expression, he had been "pumped dry," he was permitted to rest a few days,
and then forwarded to his regiment.




CHAPTER XXIV.

BUDD'S FERRY.


Though Tom Somers had been absent from the regiment only a fortnight, it
