miserable, that Daisy's heart misgave her. She drew near.

"Molly--" said her sweet little voice, "would you like your tea now? the
water is boiling."

Molly signified that she would.

"Would you like to have me make it?" said Daisy doubtfully, quite afraid
of venturing too far or too fast. But she need not have been afraid.
Molly only pointed with her finger to a wall cupboard and said as
before,--"In there."

The way was clear for Daisy, time or no time. She went to the cupboard.
It was not hard to find the few things which Molly had in constant use.
The tea-pot was there, and a paper of tea. Daisy made the tea, with a
good deal of pleasure and wonder; set it to draw, and brought out
Molly's cup and saucer and plate and knife and spoon. A little sugar she
found too; not much. She put these things on the low table which was
made to fit Molly's condition. She could have it before her as she sat
on the floor.

"I don't see any milk for your tea, Molly."

"Milk? no. It's all gone," said Molly.

"I am sorry. You'll have to take your tea without milk then. Here it is.
I hope it is good."

Daisy poured out a cup, set the sugar beside it, and cut slices of
sponge cake. She was greatly pleased at being allowed to do it. Molly
took it as a very natural thing, and Daisy sat down to enjoy the
occasion a few minutes longer, and also to give such attentions as she
could.

"Won't you have some?" said Molly.

"No, I thank you. Mamma does not let me drink tea, except when I am
sick."

Molly had discharged her conscience, and gave herself now to her own
enjoyment. One cup of tea was a mere circumstance; Daisy filled and
refilled it; Molly swallowed the tea as if cupfuls had been mouthfuls.
It was a subject of question to Daisy whether the poor creature had had
any other meal that day; so eager she was, and so difficult to satisfy
with the sponge cake. Slice after slice; and Daisy cut more, and put a
tiny fresh pinch of tea into the tea-pot, and waited upon her with
inexpressible tenderness and zeal. Molly exhausted the tea-pot and left
but a small remnant of the cake. Daisy was struck with a sudden fear
that she might have been neglected and really want things to eat. How
could she find out?

"Where shall I put this, Molly?" she said, taking the plate with the
morsel of cake. "Where does it go?"

"In there--" said Molly.

"Here?--or here?" touching the two doors of the cupboard.

"'Tother one."

So Daisy opened the other door of the cupboard, just what she wanted to
do. And there she saw indeed some remnants of food, but nothing more
than remnants; a piece of dry bread and a cold muffin, with a small bit
of boiled pork. Daisy took but a glance, and came away. The plate and
cup and saucer she set in their place; bid good-bye to Molly, and ran
out.

Time indeed! The sun was sending long slant bright beams against the
cottage-windows and over the pony chaise, and the groom had got the
pony's head turned for home, evidently under the impression that Daisy
was staying a long time. A little fearful of consequences if she got
home after sundown, Daisy gathered up her reins and signified to Loupe
that he was expected to move with some spirit.

But Daisy was very happy. She was thoroughly at home now with Molly; she
was fairly admitted within the house and welcome there; and already she
had given comfort. She had almost done as Nora said; as near as possible
she had taken tea with Molly. Besides, Daisy had found out what more to
do for her. She thought of that poor cupboard with mixed feelings; not
pity only; for next day she would bring supplies that were really
needed. Some nice bread and butter--Daisy had seen no sign of
butter,--and some meat. Molly needed a friend to look after her wants,
and Daisy now had the freedom of the house and could do it; and joyfully
she resolved that she would do it, so long as her own stay at Melbourne
should be prolonged. What if her getting home late should bring on a
command that would put a stop to all this!

But nobody was on the piazza or in the library when she got home. Daisy
went safely to her own room. There was June all ready to dress her; and
making good speed, that business was finished and Daisy ready to go down
to the dinner-table at the usual time.




CHAPTER XIV.


She was a little afraid of questions at the dinner-table; but it
happened that the older people were interested about some matter of
their own and she was not noticed at all. Except in a quiet way by Mr.
Randolph, who picked out nuts for her; and Daisy took them and thought
joyfully of carrying a testament to Molly's cottage and teaching her to
read it. If she could do but that--Daisy thought she would be happy.

The evening was spent by her and Preston over engravings again. Some new
ones were added to the stock already chosen for tableaux; and Preston
debated with her very eagerly the various questions of characters and
dresses. Daisy did not care how he arranged them, provided she only was
not called upon to be Priscilla to Alexander Fish, or Esther to Hamilton
Rush. "I will not, Preston--" she insisted quietly; and Preston was in
difficulty; for as he truly said, it would not do to give himself all
the best pieces.

The next day, after luncheon, a general conclave assembled, of all the
young people, to determine the respective parts and hold a little
rehearsal by way of beginning. Mrs. Sandford was there too, but no other
grown person was admitted. Preston had certainly a troublesome and
delicate office in his capacity of manager.

"What are you going to give me, Preston?" said Mrs. Stanfield's lively
daughter, Theresa.

"You must be Portia."

"Portia? let me see--O that's lovely! How will you dress me, Mrs.
Sandford? I must be very splendid--I have just been married, and I am
worth any amount of splendour. Who's to be Bassanio?--"

"George Linwood, I think. He must have dark hair, you know."

"What are wigs good for?" said Theresa. "But he has nothing to do but to
hold the letter and throw himself backward--he's surprised, you know,
and people don't stand straight when they are surprised. Only that, and
to look at Portia. I guess he can do it. Once fix him and he'll
stay--that's one thing. How will you dress Portia, Mrs. Sandford? Ah,
let me dress her!"

"Not at all; you must be amenable to authority. Miss Stanfield, like
everybody else."

"But what will you put on her, Mrs. Sandford? The dress is Portia."

"No, by no means; you must look with a very delicate expression, Miss
Theresa. Your face will be the picture."

"My face will depend on my dress, I know. What will it be, Mrs.
Sandford?"

"I will give you a very heavy and rich purple brocade."

"Jewels?"

"Of course. Mrs. Randolph lets us have whatever we want."

"That will do!" said Theresa, clapping her hands softly. "I am made up.
What are you going to do with Frederica?"

"She has a great part. She must be Marie Antoinette going from the
revolutionary tribunal."

"De la Roche's picture!" said Theresa.

"She's not dressed at all"--remarked Frederica coldly looking at the
engraving.

"Marie Antoinette needed no dress, you know," Theresa answered.

"But she isn't handsome there."

"You will be standing for her," said Mrs. Sandford. "The attitude is
very striking, in its proud, indignant impassiveness. You will do that
well. I must dress your hair carefully, but you have just the right hair
and plenty of it."

"Don't she flatter her!" whispered Theresa to Preston;--then aloud,
"How will you make up the rest of the tableau, Preston?"

"I am going to be that old cross-eyed woman--Alexander will be one of
the guards--George Linwood another, I think. Hamilton Rush must shake
his fist at the queen over my head; and Theresa, you must be this nice
little French girl, looking at her unfortunate sovereign with weeping
eyes. Can you get a tear on your cheek?"

"Might take an uncommon strong spoonful of mustard--" said Theresa--"I
suppose that would do it. But you are not going to let the spectators
come so near as to see drops of tears, I hope?"

"No matter--your eyes and whole expression would be affected by the
mustard; it would tell, even at a distance."

When they got through laughing, some one asked, "What is Daisy to be?"

"O, she is to be Priscilla here--I thought nobody but Daisy would care
about being a Puritan; but it is her chosen character."

"It'll be a pretty tableau," said Theresa.

"And what am I to be, Preston?" said Nora.

