
"I have," said Gypsy; "I've broken the water-nymph!"

"Is that all?" asked Mr. Simms, looking relieved; "why, how did it
happen?"

"I jumped on it."

"Jumped on it!"

"Yes; I'm sure I don't know what father'll say."

"Well, I must say you are a wonderful young person," said Mr. Simms,
proudly. "I'm sure I'm glad that's all. Don't you fret, my dear. Your
father won't care much about water-nymphs, when he has such a daughter."

"But he will," said Gypsy, who regarded Mr. Simm's compliments only as a
tiresome interruption to conversation, and by no means as entitled to any
attention; "he will be very sorry, and I am going to tell him right off.
Please, Mr. Simms, will you speak to him?"

"Remarkable development of veracity!" said Mr. Simms, as he bowed himself
away in his polite, old-fashioned way, and disappeared up the stairway
that led to the printing-rooms. It seemed to Gypsy, waiting there so
impatiently, as if her father would never come down. But come he did at
last, looking very much surprised to see her, and anxious to know if the
house were on fire, or if Winnie were drowned.

"No," said Gypsy, "nothing has happened,--I mean nothing of that sort.
It's only about me. I have something to tell you."

"I think I will walk home with you," said her father. "There isn't much
going on Saturday afternoons. Simms, you can lock up when you go home to
supper. I hope you haven't been giving your mother any trouble, or thrown
your ball into Mrs. Surly's windows again," he added, nervously, as they
passed out of the door and up the street together.

"No, sir," said Gypsy, faintly; "it's worse than that."

Mr. Breynton heaved a sigh, but said nothing.

"I know you think I'm always up to mischief, and I don't suppose I'll ever
learn to be a lady and know how not to break things, and I'm so sorry, but
I didn't suppose there was any harm in jumping off an apple-tree, and the
water-nymph went over and perhaps if you sent me to school or something
I'd learn better where they tie you down to a great board," said Gypsy,
talking very fast, and quite forgetting her punctuation.

"The water-nymph!" echoed Mr. Breynton.

"Yes," said Gypsy, dolefully; "right over, head-first--into the
pond--broken to smash!"

"Oh, Gypsy! that is too bad."

"I know it," interrupted Gypsy; "I know it was terribly
careless--terribly. Did you ever know anything so exactly like me? The
worst of it is, being sorry doesn't help the matter. I wish I could buy
you another. Won't you please to take my five dollars, and I'll earn some
more picking berries."

"I don't want your money, my child," said Mr. Breynton, looking troubled
and puzzled. "I'm sorry the nymph is gone; but somehow you do seem to be
different from other girls. I didn't know young ladies ever jumped."

Gypsy was silent. Her father and mother seemed to think differently about
these things. To her view, and she felt sure, to her mother's, the fault
lay in the carelessness of not finding out whether the image was in her
way. She could not see that she was doing anything wrong in going out
alone into an apple-tree, and springing from a low bough, upon the soft
grass. Very likely, when she was a grown-up young lady, with long dresses
and hair done up behind, she shouldn't care anything about climbing trees.
But that was another question. However, she had too much respect for her
father to say this. So she hung her head, feeling very humble and sorry,
and wondering if Mr. Simms couldn't plaster the nymph together somehow, he
was always so ready to do things for her.

"Well," said her father, after a moment's thought, in which he had been
struggling with a sense of disappointment at the destruction of his
statue, that would have made a less kind-hearted man scold.

"Well, it can't be helped; and as to the climbing trees, I suppose your
mother knows best. I am glad you came and told me, anyway--very glad. You
are a truthful child, Gypsy, in spite of your faults."

"I couldn't bear to tell lies," said Gypsy, brightening a little.

It is possible this was another one of the reasons why people had such a
habit of loving Gypsy. What do you think?




CHAPTER VII

JUST LIKE GYPSY


One afternoon Gypsy was coming home from the post-office. It was a rare
June day. The great soft shadows fell and faded on the mountains, and the
air was sweet with the breath of a hundred fields where crimson clovers
nodded in the sleepy wind. It seemed to Gypsy that she had never seen such
mellow sunlight, or skies so pure and blue; that no birds ever sung such
songs in the elm-trees, and never were butterflies so golden and brown and
beautiful as those which fluttered drowsily over the tiny roadside
clovers. The thought came to her like a little sudden heart-throb, that
thrilled her through and through, that this world was a very great world,
and very beautiful,--it seemed so alive and happy, from the arch of the
blazing sky down to the blossoms of the purple weeds that hid in the
grass. She wondered that she had never thought of it before. How many
millions of people were enjoying this wonderful day! What a great thing it
was to live in such a world, where everything was so beautiful and useful
and happy! The very fact that she was alive in it made her so glad. She
felt as if she would like to go off on the rocks somewhere, and shout and
jump and sing.

As she walked slowly along past the stores and the crowded tenement-houses,
swinging her little letter-basket on her arm, and dreaming away with her
great brown eyes, as such young eyes will always dream upon a summer's
day, there suddenly struck upon that happy thought of hers a mournful
sound.

It was a human groan.

It grated on Gypsy's musing, as a file grates upon smooth marble; she
started, and looked up. The sound came from an open window directly over
her head. What could anybody be groaning about such a day as this? Gypsy
felt a momentary impatience with the mournful sound; then a sudden
curiosity to know what it meant. A door happened to be open near her, and
she walked right in, without a second thought, as was the fashion in which
Gypsy usually did things. A pair of steep stairs led up from the bit of an
entry, and a quantity of children, whose faces and hands were decidedly
the worse for wear, were playing on them.

"How do you do?" said Gypsy. The children stared.

"Who lives here?" asked Gypsy, again. The children put their fingers in
their mouths.

"Who is that groaning so?" persisted Gypsy, repressing a strong desire to
box their ears. The children crawled a little further up-stairs, and
peered at her from between their locks of shaggy hair, as if they
considered her a species of burglar. At this moment a side door opened,
and a red-faced woman, who was wiping her hands on her apron, put her head
out into the entry, and asked, in rather a surly tone, what was wanted.

"Who is that groaning?" repeated Gypsy.

"Oh, that's nobody but Grandmother Littlejohn," said the woman, with a
laugh, "she's always groanin'clock."

"But what does she groan for?" insisted Gypsy, her curiosity nowise
diminished to see a person who could be "always groanin'clock," through
not only one, but many, of such golden summer days.

"Oh, I s'pose she's got reason enough, for the matter of that," said the
woman, carelessly; "she's broke a bone,--though she do make a terrible
fuss over it, and very onobligin'clock it is to the neighbors as has the
lookin'clock after of her."

"Broken a bone! Poor thing, I'm going right up to see her!" said Gypsy,
whose compassion was rising fast.

"Good luck to you!" said the woman, with a laugh Gypsy did not like very
much. It only strengthened her resolution, however, and she ran up the
narrow stairs scattering the children right and left.

Several other untidy-looking women opened doors and peered out at her as
she went by; but no one else spoke to her. Guided by the sound of the
groans, which came at regular intervals like long breaths, she went up a
second flight of stairs, more narrow and more dark than the first, and
turned into a little low room, the door of which stood open.

"Who's there!" called a fretful voice from inside.

"I," said Gypsy; "may I come in?"

"I don't know who you be," said the voice, "but you may come 'long ef you
want to."

Gypsy accepted the somewhat dubious invitation. The room was in sad
disorder, and very dusty. An old yellow cat sat blinking at a sunbeam, and
an old, yellow, wizened woman lay upon the bed. Her forehead was all drawn
and knotted with pain, and her mouth looked just like her voice--fretful
and sharp. She turned her head slowly, as Gypsy entered, but otherwise she
did not alter her position; as if it were one which she could not change
without pain.

"Good afternoon," said Gypsy, feeling a little embarrassed, and not
knowing exactly what to say, now she was up there.

"Good arternoon," said Grandmother Littlejohn, with a groan.

"I heard you groan out in the street," said Gypsy, rushing to the point at
once; "I came up to see what was the matter."

"Matter?" said the old woman sharply, "I fell down stairs and broke my
ankle, that's the matter, an'clock I wonder the whole town hain't heerd me
holler,--I can't sleep day nor night with the pain, an'clock it's matter
enough, I think."
