"Don't praise me, Meg, for I could box his ears this minute. I should
certainly have boiled over if I hadn't stayed among the nettles till I
got my rage under enough to hold my tongue. It's simmering now, so I
hope he'll keep out of my way," returned Jo, biting her lips, as she
glowered at Fred from under her big hat.

"Time for lunch," said Mr. Brooke, looking at his watch.
"Commissary-general, will you make the fire and get water, while Miss
March, Miss Sallie, and I spread the table? Who can make good coffee?"

"Jo can," said Meg, glad to recommend her sister. So Jo, feeling that
her late lessons in cookery were to do her honor, went to preside over
the coffee-pot, while the children collected dry sticks, and the boys
made a fire, and got water from a spring near by. Miss Kate sketched,
and Frank talked to Beth, who was making little mats of braided rushes
to serve as plates.

The commander-in-chief and his aids soon spread the table-cloth with an
inviting array of eatables and drinkables, prettily decorated with green
leaves. Jo announced that the coffee was ready, and every one settled
themselves to a hearty meal; for youth is seldom dyspeptic, and exercise
develops wholesome appetites. A very merry lunch it was; for everything
seemed fresh and funny, and frequent peals of laughter startled a
venerable horse who fed near by. There was a pleasing inequality in the
table, which produced many mishaps to cups and plates; acorns dropped
into the milk, little black ants partook of the refreshments without
being invited, and fuzzy caterpillars swung down from the tree, to see
what was going on. Three white-headed children peeped over the fence,
and an objectionable dog barked at them from the other side of the river
with all his might and main.

        [Illustration: "A very merry lunch it was."--Page 156.]

"There's salt here, if you prefer it," said Laurie, as he handed Jo a
saucer of berries.

"Thank you, I prefer spiders," she replied, fishing up two unwary little
ones who had gone to a creamy death. "How dare you remind me of that
horrid dinner-party, when yours is so nice in every way?" added Jo,
as they both laughed, and ate out of one plate, the china having run
short.

"I had an uncommonly good time that day, and haven't got over it yet.
This is no credit to me, you know; I don't do anything; it's you and Meg
and Brooke who make it go, and I'm no end obliged to you. What shall we
do when we can't eat any more?" asked Laurie, feeling that his trump
card had been played when lunch was over.

"Have games, till it's cooler. I brought 'Authors,' and I dare say Miss
Kate knows something new and nice. Go and ask her; she's company, and
you ought to stay with her more."

"Aren't you company too? I thought she'd suit Brooke; but he keeps
talking to Meg, and Kate just stares at them through that ridiculous
glass of hers. I'm going, so you needn't try to preach propriety, for
you can't do it, Jo."

Miss Kate did know several new games; and as the girls would not, and
the boys could not, eat any more, they all adjourned to the drawing-room
to play "Rigmarole."

"One person begins a story, any nonsense you like, and tells as long as
he pleases, only taking care to stop short at some exciting point, when
the next takes it up and does the same. It's very funny when well done,
and makes a perfect jumble of tragical comical stuff to laugh over.
Please start it, Mr. Brooke," said Kate, with a commanding air, which
surprised Meg, who treated the tutor with as much respect as any other
gentleman.

Lying on the grass at the feet of the two young ladies, Mr. Brooke
obediently began the story, with the handsome brown eyes steadily fixed
upon the sunshiny river.

"Once on a time, a knight went out into the world to seek his fortune,
for he had nothing but his sword and his shield. He travelled a long
while, nearly eight-and-twenty years, and had a hard time of it, till he
came to the palace of a good old king, who had offered a reward to any
one who would tame and train a fine but unbroken colt, of which he was
very fond. The knight agreed to try, and got on slowly but surely; for
the colt was a gallant fellow, and soon learned to love his new master,
though he was freakish and wild. Every day, when he gave his lessons to
this pet of the king's, the knight rode him through the city; and, as
he rode, he looked everywhere for a certain beautiful face, which he had
seen many times in his dreams, but never found. One day, as he went
prancing down a quiet street, he saw at the window of a ruinous castle
the lovely face. He was delighted, inquired who lived in this old
castle, and was told that several captive princesses were kept there by
a spell, and spun all day to lay up money to buy their liberty. The
knight wished intensely that he could free them; but he was poor, and
could only go by each day, watching for the sweet face, and longing to
see it out in the sunshine. At last, he resolved to get into the castle
and ask how he could help them. He went and knocked; the great door flew
open, and he beheld--"

          [Illustration: He went prancing down a quiet street]

"A ravishingly lovely lady, who exclaimed, with a cry of rapture, 'At
last! at last!'" continued Kate, who had read French novels, and admired
the style. "''Tis she!' cried Count Gustave, and fell at her feet in an
ecstasy of joy. 'Oh, rise!' she said, extending a hand of marble
fairness. 'Never! till you tell me how I may rescue you,' swore the
knight, still kneeling. 'Alas, my cruel fate condemns me to remain here
till my tyrant is destroyed.' 'Where is the villain?' 'In the mauve
salon. Go, brave heart, and save me from despair.' 'I obey, and return
victorious or dead!' With these thrilling words he rushed away, and
flinging open the door of the mauve salon, was about to enter, when he
received--"

                  [Illustration: "Oh, rise," she said]

"A stunning blow from the big Greek lexicon, which an old fellow in a
black gown fired at him," said Ned. "Instantly Sir What's-his-name
recovered himself, pitched the tyrant out of the window, and turned to
join the lady, victorious, but with a bump on his brow; found the door
locked, tore up the curtains, made a rope ladder, got half-way down when
the ladder broke, and he went head first into the moat, sixty feet
below. Could swim like a duck, paddled round the castle till he came to
a little door guarded by two stout fellows; knocked their heads together
till they cracked like a couple of nuts, then, by a trifling exertion of
his prodigious strength, he smashed in the door, went up a pair of stone
steps covered with dust a foot thick, toads as big as your fist, and
spiders that would frighten you into hysterics, Miss March. At the top
of these steps he came plump upon a sight that took his breath away and
chilled his blood--"

       [Illustration: A stunning blow from the big Greek lexicon]

"A tall figure, all in white with a veil over its face and a lamp in its
wasted hand," went on Meg. "It beckoned, gliding noiselessly before him
down a corridor as dark and cold as any tomb. Shadowy effigies in armor
stood on either side, a dead silence reigned, the lamp burned blue, and
the ghostly figure ever and anon turned its face toward him, showing the
glitter of awful eyes through its white veil. They reached a curtained
door, behind which sounded lovely music; he sprang forward to enter, but
the spectre plucked him back, and waved threateningly before him a--"

"Snuff-box," said Jo, in a sepulchral tone, which convulsed the
audience. "'Thankee,' said the knight politely, as he took a pinch, and
sneezed seven times so violently that his head fell off. 'Ha! ha!'
laughed the ghost; and having peeped through the key-hole at the
princesses spinning away for dear life, the evil spirit picked up her
victim and put him in a large tin box, where there were eleven other
knights packed together without their heads, like sardines, who all rose
and began to--"

                       [Illustration: He sneezed]

"Dance a hornpipe," cut in Fred, as Jo paused for breath; "and, as they
danced, the rubbishy old castle turned to a man-of-war in full sail. 'Up
with the jib, reef the tops'l halliards, helm hard a lee, and man the
guns!' roared the captain, as a Portuguese pirate hove in sight, with a
flag black as ink flying from her foremast. 'Go in and win, my
hearties!' says the captain; and a tremendous fight begun. Of course the
British beat; they always do."

"No, they don't!" cried Jo, aside.

"Having taken the pirate captain prisoner, sailed slap over the
schooner, whose decks were piled with dead, and whose lee-scuppers ran
blood, for the order had been 'Cutlasses, and die hard!' 'Bosen's mate,
take a bight of the flying-jib sheet, and start this villain if he don't
confess his sins double quick,' said the British captain. The Portuguese
held his tongue like a brick, and walked the plank, while the jolly tars
cheered like mad. But the sly dog dived, came up under the man-of-war,
scuttled her, and down she went, with all sail set, 'To the bottom of
the sea, sea, sea,' where--"

            [Illustration: The Portuguese walked the plank]

"Oh, gracious! what shall I say?" cried Sallie, as Fred ended his
rigmarole, in which he had jumbled together, pell-mell, nautical phrases
and facts, out of one of his favorite books. "Well they went to the
bottom, and a nice mermaid welcomed them, but was much grieved on
finding the box of headless knights, and kindly pickled them in brine,
hoping to discover the mystery about them; for, being a woman, she was
curious. By and by a diver came down, and the mermaid said, 'I'll give
you this box of pearls if you can take it up;' for she wanted to restore
the poor things to life, and couldn't raise the heavy load herself. So
the diver hoisted it up, and was much disappointed, on opening it, to
find no pearls. He left it in a great lonely field, where it was found
by a--"

"Little goose-girl, who kept a hundred fat geese in the field," said
Amy, when Sallie's invention gave out. "The little girl was sorry for
them, and asked an old woman what she should do to help them. 'Your
geese will tell you, they know everything,' said the old woman. So she
asked what she should use for new heads, since the old ones were lost,
and all the geese opened their hundred mouths and screamed--"

"'Cabbages!'" continued Laurie promptly. "'Just the thing,' said the
girl, and ran to get twelve fine ones from her garden. She put them on,
the knights revived at once, thanked her, and went on their way
rejoicing, never knowing the difference, for there were so many other
heads like them in the world that no one thought anything of it. The
knight in whom I'm interested went back to find the pretty face, and
learned that the princesses had spun themselves free, and all gone to be
married, but one. He was in a great state of mind at that; and mounting
the colt, who stood by him through thick and thin, rushed to the castle
to see which was left. Peeping over the hedge, he saw the queen of his
affections picking flowers in her garden. 'Will you give me a rose?'
