other on the bow of the boat, made a very long straddle, toppled over
into the water, and disappeared in the eddies.

"My boat-hook broke!" protested Morgan, holding up the implement, from
which the iron had drawn out; and after what had occurred on board of
the consort, he probably deemed it necessary to make an immediate
defence.

"Man overboard!" shouted several students in the ship; and immediately
there was an immense commotion on board of her.

Mr. Hamblin rose to the surface an instant later, and shouted for help.
The accident was observed from the Josephine, and the gig piped away in
double quick time.

"Up oars! Let fall! Give way!" shouted Robinson, in the first cutter, as
she drifted away from the gangway of the ship, without waiting for the
orders to be repeated by the coxswain.

A few vigorous strokes of the oars brought the cutter to the spot where
the professor was struggling with the dirty current. The bowmen seized
him by the collar, and the crew, after no little labor, owing to the
excitement of the unfortunate gentleman, succeeded in getting him into
the boat. He was placed in the stern sheets, and Robinson afforded him
such assistance as the circumstances would permit.

The gig, with Paul and Pelham on board, was darting through the current
towards the first cutter. It was too late to be of any service; but it
continued on its way, and the captain manifested his interest and
sympathy as well as he could. Mr. Hamblin pressed the water from his
hair, wiped his face with his wet handkerchief, and otherwise
endeavored to remove the effects of his involuntary bath. He seemed to
be, thus far, no worse for the disaster; but he directed Robinson to
return directly to the Josephine, for obvious reasons.

The two boats came alongside together; and this time the professor,
notwithstanding the discomfort of his condition, made no undue haste to
leave the cutter before she was properly secured.

"I am very sorry indeed for your misfortune, sir," said Paul, politely,
when he met Mr. Hamblin on deck.

"Perhaps you are!" replied he, rushing down the cabin stairs, bestowing
hardly a glance upon the sympathizing commander.

He went to his state-room, and made an entire change of his clothing.
The weather was warm, and he suffered no serious consequences.

"You are a very unfortunate person, Mr. Hamblin," said his associate
instructor, when the savant, clean and dry, emerged from the
state-room.

"It was done on purpose, Mr. Stoute," replied he, solemnly, with
compressed lips.

"O, no! It couldn't be!" protested the fat professor. "You are simply
unfortunate. First, a coil of rope falls on your head, and then you fall
overboard. You should be careful."

"Has that student been punished for throwing the rope upon me?"

"No, sir. I stood by during the investigation at the mainmast. It could
not be proved that the act was done on purpose; and, for my part, I did
not believe it was."

"I am very confident it was. I can read the expression on the faces of
the boys; and I am certain there is a conspiracy among them to knock out
my brains or drown me in the river."

"Boys will be boys, and they are very prone to look at the ludicrous
aspect of an accident," added the stout professor. "I should not give a
serious interpretation to any little signs of mirth I happened to see."

"Mr. Stoute, you allow yourself to be hoodwinked, deceived, overwhelmed,
by these artful boys. You should maintain more dignity in your
intercourse with them."

"There is a true and a false dignity, Mr. Hamblin. I shall endeavor to
avoid the one, and cling to the other," replied Mr. Stoute, warmly, but
good-naturedly.

"You are aware that I asked for the gig before I started for the ship?"
continued Mr. Hamblin, impressively.

"I am; and I was also aware that the first cutter had been appropriated
to the use of the instructors."

"I demanded the gig. It was refused. What did that mean?"

"It meant just what the captain said--that the principal required him to
furnish the first cutter for our use."

"That is not what it meant," persisted Mr. Hamblin. "The crew of the
first cutter had been instructed to tip me into the river. When I called
for the gig, it deranged the plan. I am only sorry that I did not refuse
to take the cutter, and insist upon having the gig; but I do not wish to
make trouble."

"But why did you ask for the gig?"

"Because I saw Morgan, who, I knew, belonged in the cutter, laughing
when the rope fell on my head. He would as lief drown me as not."

"I think you misjudge the boys."

"I am surprised that one who has been a teacher as long as you have does
not understand boys any better," replied Mr. Hamblin, coldly. "I am
satisfied that Kendall is at the bottom of all this mischief."

"I am very sure he is not," said Mr. Stoute, decidedly.

"The crew of the cutter had been prepared for their work."

It was surprising that two men who had been among boys so long took such
opposite views of them; but the difference of opinion was more in the
men than in the boys.

These events were the staple of conversation on deck and in the steerage
among the crew; and some of the better boys heard certain indefinite
remarks about "the first step" and "the second step," used by "our
fellows;" but no real friend of law and order discovered anything which
threw any new light upon the two misfortunes that had overtaken the
senior professor, though there was a suspicion that these were the first
and second steps hinted at by the doubtful ones.




CHAPTER X.

WHO WAS CAPTAIN OF THE JOSEPHINE?


Mr. Hamblin, as before intimated, did not sleep well on the night in
question. The burden of being called to the state department, and even
to the royal palaces of Belgium, was very trying to his nerves. When he
slept, it was only to dream of the great statesman and revolutionary
leader of the Low Countries, in the act of taking him by the hand or of
presenting him to his majesty Leopold, "Roi de Belge."

He prepared himself with great care, in his reflections, for the
stupendous occasion. He studied up courtly bows, and imagined just how
he would look when in the act of making one of them. He pictured to
himself various graceful gestures which he intended to use, in order to
impress upon the great man the dignity of his character. He arranged the
little tableau of his presentation to the king, with all the speeches,
interludes, and movements. If the king said certain things, he should
say certain other things in reply; and when the interview ended, he was
with becoming grace to back out of the royal presence.

Leopold, "Roi de Belge," would probably inform him that he had, either
directly or through his faithful minister, heard of the distinguished
Greek savant; that he had seen or heard of the Greek Grammar he had
published, the Greek Reader he had compiled, and the Anabasis he had
edited and annotated. It was more than probable that there were copies
of these learned and valuable works in the Royal Library; for no library
could be complete without them. If they were there, the king would
graciously inform him of the fact, as the highest compliment that could
be paid to his fame as a Greek scholar. To all this, with his left hand
upon his heart, with his right extended, palm prone, at an angle of
forty-five degrees with his perpendicular, his body bent in a courteous
but dignified bow, he was to reply that his majesty did him too much
honor. It would be necessary to deprecate, in some degree, the
distinguished consideration awarded to him, and to declare his own
unworthiness of the king's notice and favor.

Then, perhaps, the royal Leopold would present him a snuff-box, studded
with pearls, diamonds, and rubies,--monarchs have a habit of presenting
snuffboxes to men who do not take snuff,--in token of his princely
appreciation of the learning of the distinguished American professor.
Or, perhaps, "Le Roi de Belge" would inform him that he desired to
promote the study of the Greek language and literature in his kingdom,
and that he was graciously pleased to appoint him Inspector of Greek, or
Librarian of the Greek portion of the Royal Library, with no active duty
but that of collecting his salary of twenty thousand francs--liberal
princes, as rich as Leopold was reputed to be, often spent their money
more foolishly than this, in rewarding distinguished men of learning.

The learned gentleman did not feel a very strong confidence that the
king would thus reward his forty years' patient study of the Greek; but
if he should conclude to behave in this rather erratic but highly
honorable manner, it would give him a pleasant opportunity of waiting
upon Mr. Lowington in his cabin, and politely informing him that he
could no longer endure the insults of the Josephines, or countenance
their want of appreciation of the privilege of having such a professor
of Greek as he was; and that he felt compelled to resign his present
position, in order that "Le Roi de Belge" might avail himself of his
valuable services.

It would be delightful to make such a call upon the principal of the
academy squadron. It would be a grand occasion for a display of dignity.
He did not feel that such a pleasant event was likely to occur; but it
was not impossible. The fame of his Grammar and other works might have
come over the Atlantic while he was transplanting Greek roots in the
hard heads of stupid boys. He felt that he deserved some higher token of
public appreciation than had yet been bestowed upon him. Why should the
Secretary of Foreign Affairs send an autograph letter to him, unless
some especial notice was to be taken of him?

An audible voice seemed to say, "Go up higher, friend;" but, alas! that
