turned to me again and asked, 

"Where are you going to pass the vacation?"

I did not know, for Mrs. Sandford was obliged to be with her
sister still, so that I could not go to Melbourne.

"Well, if your new guardian thinks well of it  you can
consult him if it is necessary  and if he does not object,
you can be with me if you like. Preston has leave of absence
this summer, I believe; and he will be with us."

It was in effect arranged so. My aunt took me about the
country from one watering place to another; from Saratoga to
the White Mountains; and Preston's being with us made it a gay
time. Preston had been for two years at West Point; he was
grown and improved everybody said; but to me he was just the
same. If anything, not improved; the old grace and
graciousness of his manner was edged with an occasional
hardness or abruptness which did not use to belong to him; and
which I did not understand. There seemed to be a latent cause
of irritation somewhere.

However, my summer went off smoothly enough. September brought
me back to Mme. Ricard's, and in view of Miss Cardigan's late
roses and budding chrysanthemums. I was not sorry. I had set
my heart on doing as much as could be done in these next two
years, if two they must be.

I was the first in my room; but before the end of the day they
all came pouring in; the two older and the two younger girls.
"Here's somebody already," exclaimed Miss Macy as she saw me.
"Why, Daisy Randolph! is it possible that's you? Is it Daisy
Randolph? what have you done to yourself? How you have
improved!"

"She is very much improved," said Miss Bentley more soberly.

"She has been learning the fashions," said Miss Lansing, her
bright eyes dancing as good-humouredly as ever. "Daisy, now
when your hair gets long you'll look quite nice. That frock is
made very well."

"She is changed " said Miss St. Clair, with a look I could
not quite make out.

"No," I said,  "I hope I am not changed."

"Your dress is," said St. Clair.

I thought of Dr. Sandford's "L'habit c'est l'homme." "My
mother had this dress made," I said; "and I ordered the other
one; that is all the difference."

"You're on the right side of the difference, then," said Miss
St. Clair.

"Has your mother come back, Daisy?" Miss Lansing asked.

"Not yet. She sent me this from Paris."

"It's very pretty!" she said; with, I saw, an increase of
admiration; but St. Clair gave me another strange look. "How
much prettier Paris things are than American!" Lansing went
on. "I wish I could have all my dresses from Paris. Why,
Daisy, you've grown handsome."

"Nonsense!" said Miss Macy; "she always was, only you didn't
see it."

"Style is more than a face," remarked Miss St. Clair
cavalierly. Somehow I felt that this little lady was not in a
good mood towards me. I boded mischief; for being nearly of an
age, we were together in most of our classes, studied the same
things and recited at the same times. There was an opportunity
for clashing.

They soon ran off, all four, to see their friends and
acquaintances and learn the news of the school. I was left
alone, making my arrangement of clothes and things in my
drawer and my corner of the closet; and I found that some
disturbance, in those few moments, had quite disarranged the
thoughts in my heart. They were peaceful enough before. There
was some confusion now. I could not at first tell what was
uppermost; only that St. Clair's words were those that most
returned to me. "She has changed. "Had I changed? or was I
going to change? was I going to enter the lists of fashion
with my young companions, and try who would win the race? No
doubt my mother could dress me better than almost any of their
mothers could dress them; what then? would this be a triumph?
or was this the sort of name and notoriety that became and
befitted a servant of Jesus? I could not help my dresses being
pretty; no, but I could help making much display of them. I
could wear my own school plaid when the weather grew cooler;
and one or two others of my wardrobe were all I need show.
"Style is more than a face." No doubt. What then? Did I want
style and a face too? Was I wishing to confound St. Clair? Was
I escaping already from that bond and mark of a Christian, 
"The world knoweth us not"? I was startled and afraid. I fell
down on my knees by the side of my bed, and tried to look at
the matter as God looked at it. And the Daisy I thought He
would be pleased with, was one who ran no race for worldly
supremacy. I resolved she should not. The praise of God, I
thought, was far better than the praise of men.

My mind was quite made up when I rose from my knees; but I
looked forward to a less quiet school term than the last had
been. Something told me that the rest of the girls would take
me up now, for good and for evil. My Paris dress set me in a
new position, no longer beneath their notice. I was an object
of attention. Even that first evening I felt the difference.

"Daisy, when is your mother coming home?"  "Oh, she is gone
to China; Daisy's mother is gone to China!"  "She'll bring
you lots of queer things, won't she?"  "What a sweet dress!"
 "That didn't come from China?"  "Daisy, who's head in
mathematics, you or St. Clair? I hope you will get before
her!"

"Why?" I ventured to ask.

"Oh, you're the best of the two; everybody knows that. But St.
Clair is smart, isn't she?"

"She thinks she is," answered another speaker; "she believes
she's at the tip top of creation; but she never had such a
pretty dress on as that in her days; and she knows it and she
don't like it. It's real fun to see St. Clair beat! she thinks
she is so much better than other girls, and she has such a way
of twisting that upper lip of hers. Do you know how St. Clair
twists her upper lip? Look!  she's doing it now."

"She's handsome though, aint she?" said Miss Macy. "She'll be
beautiful."

"No," said Mlle. Genevieve; "not that. Never that. She will be
handsome; but beauty is a thing of the soul. She will not be
beautiful. Daisy, are you going to work hard this year?"

"Yes, mademoiselle."

"I believe you," she said, taking my face between her two
hands and kissing it.

"Who ever saw Mlle. Genevieve do that before!" said Miss Macy,
as the other left us. "She is not apt to like the scholars."

I knew she had always liked me. But everybody had always liked
me, I reflected; this time at school was the first of my
knowing anything different. And in this there now came a
change. Since my wearing and using the Paris things sent me by
my mother, which I dared not fail to use and wear, I noticed
that my company was more sought in the school. Also my words
were deferred to, in a way they had not been before. I found,
and it was lot an unpleasant thing, that I had grown to be a
person of consequence. Even with the French and English
teachers; I observed that they treated me with more
consideration. And so, I reflected within myself again over
Dr. Sandford's observation, "L'habit, c'est l'homme." Of
course, it was a consideration given to my clothes, a
consideration also to be given up if I did not wear such
clothes. I saw all that. The world knew me, just for the
moment.

Well, the smooth way was very pleasant. I had it with
everybody for a time.

My little room-mate and classmate St. Clair was perhaps the
only exception to the general rule. I never felt that she
liked me much. She let me alone, however; until one unlucky
day  I do not mean to call it unlucky, either  when we had,
as usual, compositions to write, and the theme given out was
"Ruins." It was a delightful theme to me. I did not always
enjoy writing compositions; this one gave me permission to
roam in thoughts and imaginations that I liked. I went back to
my old Egyptian studies at Magnolia, and wrote my composition
about "Karnak." The subject was full in my memory; I had gone
over and over and all through it; I had measured the enormous
pillars and great gateways, and studied the sculptures on the
walls, and paced up and down the great avenue of sphinxes.
Sethos, and Amunoph and Rameses, the second and third, were
all known and familiar to me; and I knew just where Shishak
had recorded his triumphs over the land of Judea. I wrote my
composition with the greatest delight. The only danger was
that I might make it too long.

One evening I was using the last of the light, writing in the
window recess of the school parlour, when I felt a hand laid
on my shoulders.

"You are so hard at work!" said the voice of Mlle. Genevieve.

"Yes, mademoiselle, I like it."

"Have you got all the books and all that you want?"

"Books, mademoiselle?"  I said, wondering.

"Yes; have you got all you want?"

