this ungentle treatment was bestowed upon him. Marian put her hand into
my vest pocket and took out my knife. She opened it, and was about to
find the rope that bound me, when the helmsman again interfered.

"Can't let you do it. Very sorry, but I can't. It would cost me all the
rest of the ribs in my body, and three on 'em's broke now."

"Will you let this young man be abused in this manner, you wretch?"
exclaimed Marian, whose gentle nature seemed to have assumed a new
phase.

"I can't help it, miss; 'tain't my fault. Mr. Whippleton's very ugly
this mornin'."

"You are a brute and a coward!" said she, reaching over me to the cords
that bound my wrists.

"Gorrificious!" shouted the negro. "You mustn't do that."

Mr. Whippleton suddenly sprang to his feet, awakened by the cry of
Peter. Rushing forward, he seized the arm of Marian, and dragged her
away from me. As the negro had intimated, he certainly was uncommon
ugly. His eyes were bloodshot, and his expression was savage.

"Let him alone," said he. "Let no one meddle with him."

"Mr. Whippleton, are you going to let him lie there in pain, with his
hands tied behind him?"

"That's just what I am going to do," said he, taking a bottle of
whiskey from under the seat, and pouring a quantity down his throat.

Perhaps he was afraid that his courage would fail him, if he were not
again fortified by the fiend which had doubtless inspired the evil deed
he had done to me.

"I can believe anything of you now, Mr. Whippleton," added Marian,
courageously.

"Believe anything you please, Miss Collingsby. You will have all you
want to do to think of yourself, without troubling your head about
Phil. I have taught him to mind his own business, and I am going to
repeat the lesson upon you. Go into the cabin!"

"Won't you release Philip--at least, untie his wrists?"

"No, I won't. Go into the cabin, and stay there. I don't mean to have
you on deck."

He moved towards her, and she was compelled to retire to the cabin in
order to escape further violence. I felt that I was alone then. My
worst, and it seemed to me then my last, catastrophe had come. I
regretted my blunder in going to sleep, and the future was dark and
uncertain.




CHAPTER XXV.

IN WHICH PHIL SUFFERS MUCH PAIN, AND MARIAN IS VERY RESOLUTE.


After my catastrophe, the course of the yacht had been altered, and I
found that she was now headed to the northward. As I raised my head to
change my painful position, I saw the east coast of the lake, not half
a mile distant. The breeze was very gentle, and it was a beautiful day.
The sun was shining brightly, and the ripple of the clear waters was
musical; but I was not in a condition to enjoy the glories of the
scene.

I was suffering with a severe pain in the head; but the defeat I had
sustained troubled me much more. I wondered, now it was too late, that
I had been so stupid as to go to sleep. I felt that I was as great a
blockhead as my persecutor had accused me of being, and I forgave him
for calling me one. I could not foresee the end of the adventure, or
the disastrous results of my mistake. Mr. Whippleton had doubtless been
fully alarmed by my statements in regard to his arrest. If he had
really sold his yacht, he did not deem it prudent to visit St. Joseph
in order to deliver it to the purchaser. He would not find it safe to
land at any of the towns on the lake, and I was satisfied that he would
make for some obscure port in Canada. He was a shrewd man, and would
not incur any needless risk.

As nearly as I could calculate the distance, he would have to run four
or five hundred miles to reach any point in Canada. The prospect was
not pleasing: I was fond of sailing, but not under the present
circumstances. The distance to be accomplished in such a boat would
require three days with a favorable wind; and it might take ten. I did
not believe Mr. Whippleton would be disposed to run at night, for the
whiskey, which he now used without restraint, could be more safely
enjoyed in port.

I hoped for some favorable circumstance which would turn the tide in my
favor. This was all I could do, for, with my hands securely tied behind
me, I was powerless. The skipper had renewed his devotions to the
bottle as soon as he waked, and it was possible that the liquor might
win the victory for me.

"Go and get us some breakfast, Peter," said Mr. Whippleton, after he
had taken a second dram, as he took the helm from the cook.

"Yes, sir," replied Peter, as he went forward.

"I hope you are satisfied now, Phil," added Mr. Whippleton, turning to
me with something like a chuckle, as though he had done a great thing.

"I am satisfied on one point," I replied.

"What's that?"

"That I was not mistaken in regard to your dealings with the firm."

"We won't discuss that question now," said he, with a sneer. "I have
used you well; I have done everything for you; I have given you all the
salary you asked, and given you a chance to get ahead."

"You have given me a chance to get a broken head," I replied, as he
paused to think what other good thing he had done for me.

"That's your own fault. After all I had done for you, I have my reward
in your ingratitude."

"Did you expect me to help you swindle the firm?" I demanded,
indignantly.

"You are not in condition just now to use hard words, and I advise you
to clap a stopper on that tongue of yours."

"If I say anything, I shall speak my mind. I know you now perfectly.
Last night I thought I might be mistaken about some things. Now I know
that you have swindled your partner, and I am not surprised to find
that you can handle a bludgeon as well as a pen."

"Better be civil, Phil," said he, biting his lip.

"I have nothing more to say. If you murder me, I shall feel that I have
tried to do my duty."

"I don't intend to murder you."

"I have no doubt you will if the occasion seems to require it. I shall
trust in God, and leave the crime with him."

He said no more then. When breakfast was ready, Peter relieved him at
the helm, and he went below. I heard him talking to Marian, and she
answered him with spirit. Though I could not distinguish her words, I
was sure that she was protesting against his cruelty to me. In about
half an hour he returned to the helm again, and my fair cousin followed
him, either with or without his permission.

"How do you feel, Phil?" she asked, taking her place by my side again,
and bathing my head with spirits, as before.

"I think my head feels a little better."

"Do you rest easily now?"

"Not very; I have to lie upon my hands or one of my arms."

"Mr. Whippleton, if you are not a brute, you will untie his hands," she
continued, appealing to the skipper.

"Then I am a brute," he answered, with a coarse grin.

"Why should you compel him to suffer pain?"

"I hope it will make him change his tone. He is as saucy and as
impudent as though he were the victor and I the vanquished."

"He will not be impudent again, if you will unloose him," added Marian,
in a gentle, pleading tone.

"Will he promise it?"

"You will--won't you, Philip?"

"I will promise not to say anything to him," I replied.

"He is willing to promise," continued she.

"Then I won't let him loose. He is an obstinate mule, and ready to kick
the one who does him a favor. Though I have been his best friend in
Chicago, he volunteers to hunt me down like a wild beast. He has his
reward."

"But what are you going to do with him?" inquired Marian.

"I intend to shoot him," replied Mr. Whippleton, as he took a draught
from his bottle, and then produced a revolver, with which he toyed as
though it had been a pet plaything. "I am prepared for the worst, and I
shall never be safe while he is above the sod."

"Would you be a murderer?" asked Marian, with horror.

"Phil says I would, and I may be obliged to verify his words."

"I did not think you were such a monster!" exclaimed my fair companion,
with a shudder.

