advantage of travel; for, in the present cruise, we shall visit all
the principal nations of Europe."

"What do they do in the ship?"

"Clyde desires to know what the boys do in the ship," added the lady.

"They learn good manners, for the first thing, madam. There are
fifteen officers in this vessel, and nine in each of the others. They
are all students, who take their rank according to their merit. The
best scholar in each is the captain, and so on."

"Does the captain manage the ship?" asked Clyde.

"Certainly."

"I should like to be the captain," exclaimed the young gentleman.

"Do you think you could manage the ship?" asked his mother, with a
smile which expressed the pride she felt in the towering ambition of
her son.

"I could, if any fellow could."

"Clyde is very fond of the sea; indeed, he worries me sadly by his
adventurous spirit," said his mother.

"I think it would do him good to go to sea," added the principal,
rather dryly.

"The students made a beautiful appearance in their boats to-day,"
continued Mrs. Blacklock. "It was really very, very wonderful."

"They handle the boats very well indeed, but their skill was only
acquired by long and careful training. As we have a considerable
number of visitors on board, madam, we will show you a little
seamanship. Captain Cumberland," he added, turning to the young
commander, who had been making himself agreeable to Miss Celia
Blacklock.

The captain asked the young lady to excuse him, and stepping up to the
principal, bowed gracefully, and raised his cap.

"He's a regular swell," said Clyde to his man.

"He's a young gentleman as is highly polished, which these naval
officers is generally," replied Jeems.

Mr. Lowington directed the captain to call all hands, and go through
the evolutions of loosing and furling, for the gratification of the
guests of the ship. Captain Cumberland bowed and raised his cap again
as he retired, and the principal hoped that Clyde would take a lesson
in good manners from him.

"Will you walk to the quarter-deck, Miss Blacklock," said the captain,
touching his cap to the young lady, to whom he had been formally
introduced by the principal. "We are going to loose and furl, and you
can see better there than here."

"With pleasure," replied Miss Celia. "But what did you say you were
going to do?"

"Loose and furl the sails," replied the captain, as he conducted the
fair miss to the quarter-deck, where they were followed by Mr.
Lowington and the rest of the party.

"Mr. Judson," said the commander.

"Here, sir," replied the first lieutenant.

"Call all hands to loose and furl."

"All hands, sir," responded Judson, touching his cap to his superior,
as all on board were required to do.

"They are all swells," said Clyde to his man.

"All hands, loose sails!" shouted the boatswain, as he blew the proper
blast on his whistle.

In a few moments every officer and seaman was at his station for the
manoeuvre indicated by the call. The students, aware that they were
simply to "show off," were fully determined to astonish the wondering
crowd on the decks.

"Stand by to lay aloft, the ready-men!" shouted the first lieutenant,
as he received the order from the captain.

It was repeated by the second lieutenant on the forecastle, the third
in the waist, and the fourth on the quarter-deck.

"All ready, sir!" reported the several officers.

"Lay aloft!"

At the command those whose duty it was to prepare the sails and
rigging for the manoeuvre sprang up the rigging, and in three
minutes the midshipman aloft reported that all was ready.

"Lay aloft, sail-loosers!" continued the first lieutenant.

The seamen, who were arranged in proper order on deck, the royal
yard men first, then those who belonged on the top-gallant yards, the
topsail, and the lower yards, placed in succession, so that each could
reach his station without passing others, leaped into the rigging, and
went up like so many cats.

"Man the boom tricing-lines!"

These are ropes by which the studding-sail booms, which lie on the
yards, are hauled up out of the way.

"Trice up!"

The studding-sail booms were drawn up.

"Lay out! Loose sails!"

The hands jumped upon the foot-ropes, and worked themselves out to
their places on the yards, where they loosed the sails, overhauled the
rigging, and made everything ready for the final evolution. The
midshipman in the tops reported to the officers on deck when the
preparations were completed, and the lieutenants on deck, in their
turn, reported to the first lieutenant.

"Let fall!" said the executive officer; and all, as one, the sails
dropped from the yards.

The precision of the movement called forth a demonstration of applause
from the visitors. Mr. Clyde Blacklock stood with his mouth open,
looking up at the students on the yards, but occasionally glancing at
the "swellish" first lieutenant, who seemed to be the master-spirit of
the occasion, because he spoke in a loud voice, while the captain, who
really controlled the evolutions, could hardly be heard, except by the
executive officer, to whom alone his order was given.

"Lay in! Lay down from aloft!" said the first lieutenant; and in a
moment more all hands were on deck again.

"Do you ever man the yards, sir?" asked a gentleman of the principal.

"Occasionally, sir--not often. You are aware that it requires some
preparation, for we are obliged to extend life-lines over the yards,"
replied Mr. Lowington. "We are not in condition to do it now. If we
should happen to be visited by the king at Copenhagen or Stockholm,
and had previous notice, we should certainly do it."

The crew were then required to go through the manoeuvre of furling
sails, which was performed with the same precision as the first
evolution, and to the great satisfaction of the guests, who were then
invited to visit the cabins and steerage of the ship.

"Mother, I like this thing," said Mr. Clyde Blacklock.

"It's all very, very fine, Clyde," replied the tender mother.

"And the ship's going up the Baltic, and then up the Mediterranean."

"Yes, Clyde."

"And I want to go in her."

"You, Clyde!"

"Yes, that's what I say."

"And be a sailor?"

"I always told you I wanted to be a sailor. Didn't that head master,
or whatever he is, say it would do me good to go to sea?"

"Perhaps he did, but I can't go with you, my dear."

"I don't want you to go with me. I'm not a baby!" protested the
indignant youth.

"But you are my only son, dear."

"If you had forty only sons, it would be all the same to me. I say I
want to go in this ship, and be a sailor."

Mrs. Blacklock was appalled, and was sorely disturbed by the
announcement of her son. The young gentleman insisted that he should
be entered at once as a member of the ship's company. He suggested to
his anxious mother that she could travel by land while he went by sea,
and that she could see him every time the ship went into port. The
lady appeared to see no alternative, but evidently felt compelled to
yield to her son's demand. It was plain enough, even to a casual
observer, that Clyde was the head of the family. Mrs. Blacklock
promised to speak to the principal, but she hoped he would not be
able to take her son. Before she had an opportunity to make the
application, the Orlando's bell rang for her passengers to return. The
sound seemed to be a relief to the lady; but Mr. Clyde put his foot
down just there, and upset all her hopes.

"Come, Clyde; the Orlando is ready to go," said she.

"Let her go," replied the hopeful son.

"But we must go on board."
