“You’ve got my stand.”

“Have I?” said Tom, not offering to move.

“Yes, you have.”

“Then I’m goin’ to keep it. ’Ere’s the ‘Express,’—latest news from the
seat of war.”

“Look here!” said the newsboy, menacingly, “if you don’t clear out, I’ll
make you.”

“Will you?” said Tom, independently, taking his measure, and deciding
that she could fight him. “I aint afraid of you!”

Her rival advanced, and gave her a push which nearly thrust her from the
sidewalk into the street. But he was rather astonished the next moment
at receiving a blow in the face from Tom’s fist.

“If you want to fight, come on!” said Tom, dropping her papers and
squaring off.

He was not slow in accepting the defiance, being provoked by the
unexpected blow, and aimed a blow at Tom’s nose. But Tom, who had some
rudimental ideas of boxing, while her opponent knew nothing of it,
fended off the blow, and succeeded in getting in another.

“Ho! ho!” laughed another boy, who had just come up; “you’re licked by a
gal.”

Bob, for this was the newsboy’s name, felt all the disgrace of the
situation. His face reddened, and he pitched in promiscuously,
delivering blow after blow wildly. This gave a decided advantage to Tom,
who inflicted considerably more damage than she received.

The fight would have gone on longer if a gentleman had not come up, and
spoken authoritatively: “What is all this fighting about? Are you not
ashamed to fight with a girl?”

“No, I aint,” said Bob, sullenly. “She took my place, and wouldn’t give
it up.”

“Is that true?” turning to Tom.

“I’ve got as much right to it as he,” said Tom. “I’ll give it to him if
I am a gal.”

“Don’t you know it is wrong to fight?” asked the gentleman, this time
addressing Tom.

“No, I don’t,” said Tom. “Wouldn’t you fight if a feller pitched into
you?”

This was rather an embarrassing question, but the gentleman said, “It
would be better to go away than to get into a fight.”

“He fit me.”

“It is bad enough for boys to fight, but it is worse for girls.”

“Don’t see it,” said Tom.

Had Tom been in a higher social position, it might have been suggested
to her that to fight was not ladylike; but there was such an incongruity
between Tom’s appearance and anything lady-like, that such an appeal
would have been out of place. The fact is, Tom claimed no immunity or
privilege on the score of sex, but regarded herself, to all intents and
purposes, as a boy, and strongly wished that she were one.

The gentleman looked at her, rather puzzled, and walked away, satisfied
with having stopped the fight.

Bob did not seem inclined to renew hostilities, but crossed the street,
and took his stand there. Tom, by right of conquest, held her place
until she had sold out her whole stock of papers.




                               CHAPTER VI
                        AN UNFASHIONABLE HOTEL.


Tom found at the end of the afternoon that her capital had increased
from twenty-five to fifty cents.

“Granny won’t get none of this,” she soliloquized, complacently. “It’s
all mine.”

Sitting on a doorstep she counted over the money with an entirely
different feeling from what she had experienced when it was to be
transferred to granny. Now it was all her own, and, though but fifty
cents, it made her feel rich.

“What shall I do with it?” thought Tom.

She had a square meal in the middle of the day; but several hours had
passed since then, and she felt hungry again; Tom did not see any
necessity for remaining hungry, with fifty cents in her possession. She
made her way, therefore, to another eating-house, where the prices were
the same with those at the one before mentioned, and partook of another
square meal, leaving out the pie. This reduced her capital to thirty
cents. She felt that she ought to save this, to start in business upon
in the morning. As a street-sweeper she required no capital except her
broom; but though Tom was not troubled with pride, she preferred to sell
papers, or take up some other street vocation. Besides, she knew that as
a street-sweeper on Broadway, she would be more likely to be discovered
by the old woman whom she was now anxious to avoid.

After eating supper Tom went out into the streets, not knowing exactly
how to spend her time. Usually, she had gone down into the court, or the
street, and played with the children of her own and neighboring tenement
houses. But now she did not care to venture back into the old locality.

So she strolled about the streets aimlessly, until she felt sleepy, and
began to consider whereabouts to bestow herself for the night. She might
have gone to the “Girls’ Lodging House,” if she had known of such an
institution; but she had never heard of it. Chance brought her to a
basement, on which was the sign,—

                         “LODGINGS—FIVE CENTS.”

This attracted Tom’s attention. If it had not been a cold night, she
would have been willing to sleep out, which would have been cheaper; but
it was a damp and chilly evening, and her dress was thin.

“Five cents won’t bust me!” thought Tom. “I’ll go in.”

She went down some steps, and opened a door into a room very
low-studded, and very dirty.

A stout woman, in a dirty calico loose-gown, was sitting in a chair,
with a fat, unhealthy-looking baby in her lap.

“What you want, little gal?” she asked.

“Where’s your lodgin’?” asked Tom.

“In back,” answered the woman, pointing to an inner room, partially
revealed through a half-open door. It was dark, having no windows, and
dirtier, if possible, than the front room. The floor was covered with
straw, for beds and bedsteads were looked upon as unnecessary luxuries
in this economical lodging-house.

“Is that the place?” asked Tom.

“Yes. Do you want to stop here to-night?”

Tom had not been accustomed to first-class hotels, still the
accommodations at granny’s were rather better than this. However, the
young Arab did not mind. She had no doubt she could sleep comfortably on
the straw, and intimated her intention of stopping.

“Where’s your money?” asked the woman.

The invariable rule in this establishment was payment in advance, and,
perhaps, considering the character of the customers, it was the safest
rule that could be adopted.

Tom took out her money, and counted out five cents into the woman’s
palm. She then put back the remainder in her pocket. If she had been
less sleepy, she might have noticed the woman’s covetous glance, and
been led to doubt the safety of her small fortune. But Tom was sleepy,
and her main idea was to go to bed as soon as possible.

“Lay down anywhere,” said the landlady, dropping the five cents into her
pocket.

Tom’s preparation for bed did not take long. No undressing was required,
for it was the custom here to sleep with the day’s clothes on. Tom
stowed herself away in a corner, and in five minutes was asleep.

It was but little after eight o’clock, and she was, at present, the only
lodger.

No sooner did her deep, regular breathing indicate slumber, than the
landlady began to indulge in various suspicious movements. She first put
down her baby, and then taking a lantern,—the only light which could
safely be carried into the lodging-room, on account of the straw upon
the floor,—crept quietly into the inner room.

“She’s fast asleep,” she muttered.

She approached Tom with cautious step. She need not have been afraid to
awaken her. Tom was a good sleeper, and not likely to wake up, unless
roughly awakened, until morning.

Tom was lying on her side, with her face resting on one hand.

The woman stooped down, and began to look for the pocket in which she
kept her money; but it was in that part of her dress upon which she was
lying. This embarrassed the woman somewhat, but an idea occurred to her.
She took up a straw, and, bending over, gently tickled Tom’s ear. Tom
shook her head, as a cat would under similar circumstances, and on its
being repeated turned over, muttering, “Don’t, granny!”

This was what her dishonest landlady wanted. She thrust her hand into
Tom’s pocket, and drew out the poor girl’s entire worldly treasure. Tom,
unconscious of the robbery, slept on; and the woman went back to the
front room to wait for more lodgers. They began to come in about ten,
