
"First rate. We shall initiate the candidates into the mysteries of a
horrible odor at the same time," replied Scott, as the officers entered
the rude building.

"A fellow that has been to sea three months needn't mind this," laughed
Jones.

"All right; place the O. L. M. outside of the building, the I. L. M.
inside, near the door," said Scott, as he turned over a fish-tub for
his own throne as C. B., and placed it at one end of the building,
while Wainwright, the D. C. B., located himself at the other end.

"Officers, to your stations; proceed to open a lodge of Bangwhangers.
Y. D. K., on my right; Q. D., on my left; R. P. F. and L. P. F., on my
left. Brother D. C. B., are you a Bangwhanger?"

"Of course I am."

"Bang!"

"Whang!"

"Who knows?"

"Eye, nose."

"Who knows?"

"Eighty-six noes."

"Right; come to my arms. How many officers in a lodge of Bangwhangers?"

"Eight; and nothing can be done with a less number," replied the D. C.
B., who answered all these questions, and named all the officers.

"Brother O. L. M., what are you?"

"I am the Outside Lookout Man," replied Hall, who had been called in to
answer.

"What do you do?"

"Keep a sharp lookout on the outside of the lodge."

"If any outsider approaches, what do you do?"

"Give him fits."

"Right; keep your weather eye open. Brother I. L. M., what are you?"

"The Inside Lookout Man."

"What do you do?"

"Keep a sharp lookout inside."

"If any outsider comes in, what do you do?"

"Kick him out."

"Suppose he is bigger than you are?"

"Give him a stick of candy, and tell him his grandmother is waiting for
him round the corner."

"Right; keep a stiff upper lip. Brother R. P. F., what are you?"

"The Right Pilot Fish."

"What do you do?"

"Stand on the starboard side of the candidate, and tow him round."

"Right; heave ahead, my hearty. Brother L. P. F., what are you?"

"The Left Pilot Fish."

"What do you do?"

"Stand on the port side of the candidate, and help tow him around."

"Right; stand by the hawser. Brother Q. D., what are you?"

"The Quill Driver."

"What do you do?"

"When anything is done, make a note of it."

"Right; mind your eye, my hearty. Brother Y. D. K., what are you?"

"The Yellow Dirt Keeper."

"What do you do?"

"Keep the money."

"Will you keep it?"

"I'll bet I will."

"Right; stand by the locker. Brother D. C. B., what are you?"

"The Deputy Chief Bangwhanger."

"What do you do?"

"Make faces at the C. B. when he is present, and take his place when he
is absent."

"Your duties are important--where do you sit?"

"Opposite the C. B."

"What for?"

"To help him keep up his dignity."

"How?"

"By making faces at him."

"What is the C. B.?"

"The Chief Bangwhanger."

"What does he do?"

"Bosses the job, and is the biggest toad in the puddle."

"Why is he like strong drink?"

"Because he goes to the head," replied the D. C. B., with a hideous
grimace, which made all the officers laugh.

"Right; you have said enough; clap a stopper on your jaw tackle," said
Scott. "The ship is under way, and the officers are at their stations."

Scott added that they had no time to spare, and the business must
proceed at once.

"Sail ho!" shouted the lookout, outside of the door.

"Sail ho!" repeated the one on the inside.

"Where away?" asked the C. B.

"Alongside now," replied the I. L. M.

"The name?"

"Clyde Blacklock; and he wants to come on board."

"Has he been instructed in the Rule of Three?" which meant the three
clauses of the obligation.

"Ay, ay, sir."

"Let him in."

The R. P. F. and the L. P. F. went out, and soon returned with Clyde
Blacklock between them. On his head, and drawn entirely over it, was a
white cap. A yard of cotton cloth had been purchased at Helsingfors,
which had been sewed up like a meal bag. This was pulled down over the
candidate's face, and the square end of it hung down in front of him,
having upon it, in letters cut out of black cloth, and sewed upon the
cotton, the mysterious device AT-VI., which, however, did not relate to
"Plantation Bitters."

"Hah! You have caught him!" exclaimed the C. B., in the most savage of
tones.

"Ay, ay, sir! We captured him outside, and in spite of his frantic
struggles, have brought him before you to be examined," replied the R.
P. F.

"What is he?" demanded Scott, in gruff notes.

"A vile Indian."

"Hah!"

"A 'ticklarly vile Indian."

"When was he caught?"

"At six."

"Has he been searched?"

"Not yet."

"Does he confess?"

"Not yet."

"Clyde Blacklock, answer me truly," said Scott, solemnly. "Did you
steal it?"

