from the water's edge. The river expanded into a lake before them, and
in their lap some cottages, and half-way up the hillside, among the
stunted pines, a much-galleried hotel, proclaimed a resort of fashion in
the heart of what seemed otherwise a wilderness. Indian huts sheathed in
birch-bark nestled at the foot of the rocks, which were rich in orange
and scarlet stains; out of the tops of the huts curled the blue smoke,
and at the door of one stood a squaw in a flame-red petticoat; others in
bright shawls squatted about on the rocks, each with a circle of dogs
and papooses. But all this warmth of color only served, like a winter
sunset, to heighten the chilly and desolate sentiment of the scene. The
light dresses of the ladies on the veranda struck cold upon the eye; in
the faces of the sojourners who lounged idly to the steamer's
landing-place, the passenger could fancy a sad resolution to repress
their tears when the boat should go away and leave them. She put off two
or three old peasant-women who were greeted by other such on the pier,
as if returned from a long journey; and then the crew discharged the
vessel of a prodigious freight of onions which formed the sole luggage
these old women had brought from Quebec. Bale after bale of the pungent
bulbs were borne ashore in the careful arms of the deck-hands, and
counted by the owners; at last order was given to draw in the plank,
when a passionate cry burst from one of the old women, who extended both
hands with an imploring gesture towards the boat. A bale of onions had
been left aboard; a deck-hand seized it and ran quickly ashore with it,
and then back again, followed by the benedictions of the tranquillized
and comforted beldam. The gay sojourners at Murray Bay controlled their
grief, and as Mr. Arbuton turned from them, the boat, pushing out, left
them to their fashionable desolation. She struck across to the southern
shore, to land passengers for Cacouna, a watering-place greater than
Murray Bay. The tide, which rises fifteen feet at Quebec, is the
impulse, not the savor of the sea; but at Cacouna the water is salt, and
the sea-bathing lacks nothing but the surf; and hither resort in great
numbers the Canadians who fly their cities during the fierce, brief
fever of the northern summer. The watering-place village and hotel is
not in sight from the landing, but, as at Murray Bay, the sojourners
thronged the pier, as if the arrival of the steamboat were the great
event of their day. That afternoon they were in unusual force, having
come on foot and by omnibus and calash; and presently there passed down
through their ranks a strange procession with a band of music leading
the way to the steamer.

"It's an Indian wedding," Mr. Arbuton heard one of the boat's officers
saying to the gentleman with the ex-military air, who stood next him
beside the rail; and now, the band having drawn aside, he saw the bride
and groom,--the latter a common, stolid-faced savage, and the former
pretty and almost white, with a certain modesty and sweetness of mien.
Before them went a young American, with a jaunty Scotch cap and a visage
of supernatural gravity, as the master of ceremonies which he had
probably planned; arm in arm with him walked a portly chieftain in black
broadcloth, preposterously adorned on the breast with broad flat disks
of silver in two rows. Behind the bridal couple came the whole village
in pairs, men and women, and children of all ages, even to brown babies
in arms, gay in dress and indescribably serious in demeanor. They were
mated in some sort according to years and size; and the last couple were
young fellows paired in an equal tipsiness. These reeled and wavered
along the pier; and when the other wedding guests crowned the day's
festivity by going aboard the steamer, they followed dizzily down the
gangway. Midway they lurched heavily; the spectators gave a cry; but
they had happily lurched in opposite directions; their grip upon each
other's arms held, and a forward stagger launched them victoriously
aboard in a heap. They had scarcely disappeared from sight, when, having
as it were instantly satisfied their curiosity concerning the boat, the
other guests began to go ashore in due order. Mr. Arbuton waited in a
slight anxiety to see whether the tipsy couple could repeat their
maneuver successfully on an upward incline; and they had just appeared
on the gangway, when he felt a hand passed carelessly and as if
unconsciously through his arm, and at the same moment a voice said,
"Those are a pair of disappointed lovers, I suppose."

He looked round and perceived the young lady of the party he had made up
his mind to have nothing to do with resting one hand on the rail, and
sustaining herself with the other passed through his arm, while she was
altogether intent upon the scene below. The ex-military gentleman, the
head of the party, and apparently her kinsman, had stepped aside without
her knowing, and she had unwittingly taken Mr. Arbuton's arm. So much
was clear to him, but what he was to do was not so plain. It did not
seem quite his place to tell her of her mistake, and yet it seemed a
piece of unfairness not to do so. To leave the matter alone, however,
was the simplest, safest, and pleasantest; for the pressure of the
pretty figure lightly thrown upon his arm had something agreeably
confiding and appealing in it. So he waited till the young lady, turning
to him for some response, discovered her error, and disengaged herself
with a face of mingled horror and amusement. Even then he had no
inspiration. To speak of the mistake in tones of compliment would have
been grossly out of place; an explanation was needless; and to her
murmured excuses, he could only bow silently. She flitted into the
cabin, and he walked away, leaving the Indians to stagger ashore as they
might. His arm seemed still to sustain that elastic weight, and a voice
haunted his ear with the words, "A pair of disappointed lovers, I
suppose"; and still more awkward and stupid he felt his own part in the
affair to be; though at the same time he was not without some obscure
resentment of the young girl's mistake as an intrusion upon him.

It was late twilight when the boat reached Tadoussac, and ran into a
sheltered cove under the shadow of uplands on which a quaint village
perched and dispersed itself on a country road in summer cottages; above
these in turn rose loftier heights of barren sand or rock, with here and
there a rank of sickly pines dying along their sterility. It had been
harsh and cold all day when the boat moved, for it was running full in
the face of the northeast; the river had widened almost to a sea,
growing more and more desolate, with a few lonely islands breaking its
expanse, and the shores sinking lower and lower till, near Tadoussac,
they rose a little in flat-topped bluffs thickly overgrown with stunted
evergreens. Here, into the vast low-walled breadth of the St. Lawrence,
a dark stream, narrowly bordered by rounded heights of rock, steals down
from the north out of regions of gloomy and ever-during solitude. This
is the Saguenay; and in the cold evening light under which the traveller
approaches its mouth, no landscape could look more forlorn than that of
Tadoussac, where early in the sixteenth century the French traders fixed
their first post, and where still the oldest church north of Florida is
standing.

The steamer lies here five hours, and supper was no sooner over than the
passengers went ashore in the gathering dusk. Mr. Arbuton, guarding his
distance as usual, went too, with a feeling of surprise at his own
concession to the popular impulse. He was not without a desire to see
the old church, wondering in a half-compassionate way what such a bit of
American antiquity would look like; and he had perceived since the
little embarrassment at Cacouna that he was a discomfort to the young
lady involved by it. He had caught no glimpse of her till supper, and
then she had briefly supped with an air of such studied unconsciousness
of his presence that it was plain she was thinking of her mistake every
moment. "Well, I'll leave her the freedom of the boat while we stay,"
thought Mr. Arbuton as he went ashore. He had not the least notion
whither the road led, but like the rest he followed it up through the
village, and on among the cottages which seemed for the most part empty,
and so down a gloomy ravine, in the bottom of which, far beneath the
tremulous rustic bridge, he heard the mysterious crash and fall of an
unseen torrent. Before him towered the shadowy hills up into the
starless night; he thrilled with a sense of the loneliness and
remoteness, and he had a formless wish that some one qualified by the
proper associations and traditions were there to share the satisfaction
he felt in the whole effect. At the same instant he was once more aware
of that delicate pressure, that weight so lightly, sweetly borne upon
his arm. It startled him, and again he followed the road, which with a
sudden turn brought him in sight of a hotel and in sound of a
bowling-alley, and therein young ladies' cackle and laughter, and he
wondered a little scornfully who could be spending the summer there. A
bay of the river loftily shut in by rugged hills lay before him, and on
the shore, just above high-tide, stood what a wandering shadow told him
was the ancient church of Tadoussac. The windows were faintly tinged
with red as from a single taper burning within, and but that the
elements were a little too bare and simple for one so used to the rich
effects of the Old World, Mr. Arbuton might have been touched by the
vigil which this poor chapel was still keeping after three hundred years
in the heart of that gloomy place. While he stood at least tolerating
its appeal, he heard voices of people talking in the obscurity near the
church door, which they seemed to have been vainly trying for entrance.

"Pity we can't see the inside, isn't it?"

"Yes; but I am so glad to see any of it. Just think of its having been
built in the seventeenth century!"

"Uncle Jack would enjoy it, wouldn't he?"

"O yes, poor Uncle Jack! I feel somehow as if I were cheating him out of
it. He ought to be here in my place. But I do like it; and, Dick, I
don't know what I can ever say or do to you and Fanny for bringing me."

"Well, Kitty, postpone the subject till you can think of the right
thing. We're in no hurry."

Mr. Arbuton heard a shaking of the door, as of a final attempt upon it,
before retreat, and then the voices faded into inarticulate sounds in
the darkness. They were the voices, he easily recognized, of the young
lady who had taken his arm, and of that kinsman of hers, as she seemed
to be. He blamed himself for having not only overheard them, but for
desiring to hear more of their talk, and he resolved to follow them back
to the boat at a discreet distance. But they loitered so at every point,
or he unwittingly made such haste, that he had overtaken them as they
entered the lane between the outlying cottages, and he could not help
being privy to their talk again.

"Well, it may be old, Kitty, but I don't think it's lively."

"It isn't exactly a whirl of excitement, I must confess."

"It's the deadliest place I ever saw. Is that a swing in front of that
cottage? No, it's a gibbet. Why, they've all got 'em! I suppose they're
for the summer tenants at the close of the season. What a rush there
would be for them if the boat should happen to go off and leave her
passengers!"

Mr. Arbuton thought this rather a coarse kind of drolling, and
strengthened himself anew in his resolution to avoid those people.

They now came in sight of the steamer, where in the cove she lay
illumined with all her lamps, and through every window and door and
crevice was bursting with the ruddy light. Her brilliancy contrasted
vividly with the obscurity and loneliness of the shore where a few
lights glimmered in the village houses, and under the porch of the
village store some desolate idlers--habitans and half-breeds--had
clubbed their miserable leisure. Beyond the steamer yawned the wide
vacancy of the greater river, and out of this gloomed the course of the
Saguenay.

"O, I hate to go on board!" said the young lady. "Do you think he's got
back yet? It's perfect misery to meet him."

"Never mind, Kitty. He probably thinks you didn't mean anything by it.
