"Possibly you are right; but it is only because she does not know me. If
she only knew me better--"

"She would dislike and despise you still more," said Donald, sharply.
"If she only knew that you set the Maud afire, she would love you as a
homeless dog likes the brickbats that are thrown at him."

"You will not tell her that, Don John?"

"I will not tell her, or any one else, if you behave yourself. Now I
want to ask some more questions."

"Go on, Don John."

"Where did you get the money you paid for the Juno?" demanded Donald,
with energy.

"Where did I get it?" repeated Laud, evidently startled by the question,
so vigorously put. "I told you where I got it."

"Tell me again."

"Captain Shivernock gave it to me."

"What for?"

"I can't tell you that."

"Why not?"

"Because it is a matter between the captain and me."

"I don't care if it is. You said you would answer all my questions, if I
would not prosecute."

"Questions about the Maud," explained Laud. "I have told you the secret
of my love--"

"Hang the secret of your love!" exclaimed Donald, disgusted with that
topic. "I meant all questions."

"But I cannot betray the secrets of Captain Shivernock. My honor--"

"Stick your honor up chimney!" interrupted Donald. "If you go back on
the agreement, I shall take the fire before Squire Peters. The question
I asked was, why Captain Shivernock gave you four or five hundred
dollars?"

"I wish I could answer you, Don John; but I do not feel at liberty to do
so just now. I will see the captain, and perhaps I may honorably give
you the information you seek."

"You needn't mince the matter with me. I know all about it now; but I
want it from you."

"All about what?" asked Laud.

"You needn't look green about it. Do you remember the Saturday when I
told you the Juno was for sale?"

"I do, very distinctly," answered Laud. "You were in the Juno at the
time."

"I was; we parted company, and you stood over towards the Northport
shore."

"Just so."

"Over there you met Captain Shivernock."

"I didn't say I did."

"But I say you did," persisted Donald. "For some reason best known to
himself, the captain did not want any one to know he was on Long Island
that night."

Laud listened with intense interest.

"Do you know what his reason was, Don John?"

"No, I don't. You saw his boat, and overhauled him near the shore."

"Well?"

"You overhauled him near the shore, and he gave you a pile of money not
to say that you had seen him."

"It is you who says all this, and not I," added Laud, with more spirit
than he had before exhibited. "My honor is not touched."

"I wish you wouldn't say anything more about your honor. It is like a
mustard seed in a haymow, and I can't see it," snapped Donald.

"You can see that I came honorably by the money."

"Honestly by it; I am satisfied on that point," replied Donald. "If I
had not been, I wouldn't have sold you the boat. You see I knew
something of Captain Shivernock's movements about that time. If I
hadn't, I wouldn't have believed that he gave it to you."

"Then you must have seen the captain at the same time."

"I didn't say I saw him," laughed Donald. "But the wind is breezing up,
and we are half way over to Brigadier Island. Come about, Laud."

The skipper acceded to the request, and headed the Juno for Belfast.




CHAPTER XIV.

CAPTAIN SHIVERNOCK'S JOKE.


Donald considered himself shrewd, sharp, and smart, because he had
induced Laud virtually to own that Captain Shivernock had given him the
money to purchase his silence, but Donald was not half so shrewd, sharp,
and smart as he thought he was.

"Mr. Cavendish, it's no use for us to mince this matter," he continued,
determined further to draw out his companion, and feeling happy now, he
was very respectful to him.

"Perhaps not, Don John."

"It can do no harm for you and me to talk over this matter. You saw
Captain Shivernock on that Saturday morning--didn't you?"

"Of course, if I say I did, you will not let on about it--will you?"

"Not if I can help it; for the fact is, I am in the same boat with
you."

"Then you saw the captain."

"Of course I did."

"But what was he doing down there, that made him so particular to keep
shady about it?"

"I haven't the least idea. It was the morning after Hasbrook was pounded
to a jelly in his own house; but I am satisfied that the captain had
nothing to do with it."

"I am not so sure of that," added Laud.

"I am. I went to the captain's house before he returned that day, and
both Sykes and his wife told me he had left home at four o'clock that
morning, and this was after the pounding was done. Besides, the captain
was over on Long Island when I saw him. If he had done the deed, he
would have got home before daylight, for the wind was fresh and fair.
Instead of that, he was over at Turtle Head when I first saw him. The
Juno got aground with him near Seal Harbor, which made him so mad he
would not keep her any longer. He was mad because she wasn't a
centre-boarder. I suppose after we parted he went over to the
Lincolnville or Northport Shore, and hid till after dark in Spruce
Harbor, Saturday Cove, or some such place. At any rate, I was at his
house in the evening, when he came home."

"The old fellow had been up to some trick, you may depend upon it,"
added Laud, sagely.

"I came to the conclusion that his desire to keep dark was only a whim,
for he is the strangest man that ever walked the earth."

"That's so; but why should he give me such a pile if he hadn't been up
to something?"

"And me another pile," added Donald. "We can talk this thing over
between ourselves, but not a word to any other person."

"Certainly; I understand. I am paid for holding my tongue, and I intend
to do so honorably."

"So do I, until I learn that there is something wrong."

"You have told me some things I did not know before, Don John,"
suggested Laud.

"You knew that the captain was down by Long Island."

"Yes, but I didn't know he was at Turtle Head; and I am satisfied now
that he is the man that shook up Hasbrook that night," continued Laud,
in meditative mood.

"Are you? Then I will let the whole thing out," exclaimed Donald.

"No, no! don't do that!" protested Laud. "That wouldn't be fair, at
all."

"I would not be a party to the concealment of such an outrage."

"You don't understand it. Hasbrook is a regular swindler."

"That is no reason why he should be pounded half to death in the middle
of the night."

"He borrowed a thousand dollars of Captain Shivernock a short time
before the outrage. The captain told him he would lend him the money if
