direct us to a blacksmith's?"

"There is one on this road, rather more than a quarter of a mile
farther."

"Thank you."

The other lady leaned over, and studied Florence. She had a worn,
faded, and fretful look; but some new expression lighted up her sallow
face.

"Oh," she sighed, "what a beautiful girl! Now, if I had a daughter like
that! I wonder if she lives in that forlorn old rookery?"

"A princess in disguise;" and the young man laughed.

"She was unusually lovely. At her age I had just such hair. But ah, how
one fades!"

The straggling auburn hair, very thin on the top, hardly looked as if
it had once been "like fine spun gold."

"The trial of my life has been not having a daughter."

Mrs. Duncan had heard this plaint very often from her half-sister,
who had married a widower nearly three times her age. He had made a
very liberal provision for her during her life, but at her death the
fortune reverted to his family again. She had always bewailed the fact
of having no children; but boys were her abomination. Mrs. Duncan's
house was too noisy, with its four rollicking boys; but now that George
was growing to manhood he became rather more endurable.

"I do not believe the child could have belonged there," she commenced
again.

"Because she was so pretty?" asked George.

"She doesn't look like a country girl."

"But some country girls are very handsome," said Mrs. Duncan.

"They do not possess this air of refinement generally. And did you
observe that she answered in a correct and ladylike manner?"

"Aunt Sophie is captivated. A clear case of love at first sight. Why
not adopt her?"

"It would be a charity to take her out of that hovel, if it is her
home."

"I shouldn't think of such a thing now, Sophie, with your poor health,"
said her sister.

There are some natures on which the least contradiction or opposition
acts instantly, rousing them to a spirit of defiance. For several
years Mrs. Duncan had urged her sister to adopt a child; but she had
never found one that answered her requirements. She was not fond
of the trouble of small children. Now that Mrs. Duncan had advised
contrarywise, Mrs. Osgood was seized with a perverse fit.

"I am sure I need a companion," she returned with martyr-like air.

"Take a young woman then, who can be a companion."

"Here is the blacksmith's," announced George. "I suppose you will have
to find some place of refuge;" and he laughed again gayly.

"Where can we go?"

George held a short conversation with the smith.

"My house is just opposite, and the ladies will be welcome," the latter
said. "It will take me about half an hour to repair your mishap."

George conducted them thither. The good woman would fain have invited
them in; but they preferred sitting on the vine-covered porch. Mrs.
Osgood asked for a glass of water. O Florence! if you had been there!

It happened after a while, that George and his mother walked down the
garden. Mrs. Green felt bound to entertain this stranger cast upon her
care, as she considered it.

Mrs. Osgood made some inquiries presently about the house they had
passed, with a small stream of water just below it.

"Why, that's Granny Kenneth's," said Mrs. Green.

"And who is the child,--almost a young lady?"

"Why, that must be Florence. Did she have long yeller curls? If she was
my gal she should braid 'em up decently. I wouldn't have 'em flyin'
about."

"And who is Florence?"

Mrs. Osgood's curiosity must have been very great to induce her to
listen to the faulty grammar and country pronunciations. But she
listened to the story from beginning to end,--Joe, and Joe's wife, and
all the children, figuring largely in it.

"And if Granny Kenneth'd had any sense, she would a bundled 'em all off
to the poor-house. One of the neighbors here did want to take Florence;
but law! what a time they made! She's a peart, stuck-up thing!"

If Florence had heard this verdict against all her small industries
and neatnesses and ladylike habits, her heart would have been almost
broken. But there are a great many narrow-minded people in this world,
who can see no good except in their own way.

Mrs. Osgood made no comments. Presently the carriage was repaired,
and the accidental guests departed. They had a long ride yet to take.
George asked if there was any nearer way of getting to Seabury.

"There's a narrer road just below Granny Kenneth's,--the little shanty
by the crick. It's ruther hard trav'lin', but it cuts off nigh on ter
three miles."

"I think we had better take it," said George. "Even that will give us a
five-miles drive."

So they passed the cottage again. This time Hal was feeding the
chickens; Kit and Charlie swinging upon an old dilapidated apple-tree;
and Florence sat by the open window, sewing.

"There's your princess!" exclaimed George with a laugh.

Florence colored a little at beholding the party again.

Mrs. Duncan had come to Seabury, a rather mountainous place, remarkable
for its pure air, for the sake of her youngest son, Arthur, who had
been ill with a fever. Mrs. Osgood took an odd fancy to accompany her.
The seven years of her widowhood had not been happy years, though she
had a house like a palace. When she first laid off mourning, she tried
Newport and Saratoga; but somehow she did not succeed in making a belle
of herself, and that rather mortified her.

Then she sank into invalidism; which tried everybody's patience sorely.

Leaning back in the carriage now, she thought to herself, "Yes, if I
only had some one of my own! Sister Duncan never did understand me,
or appreciate the delicacy of my constitution. Her nerves have been
blunted by those great rude boys. And that girl looks so refined and
graceful,--she would make a pleasant companion I am sure. But I should
want to take her away from her family: I never could consent to any
intimacy with them."

She ventured to broach her subject to Mrs. Duncan the next day. Perhaps
Mrs. Duncan had grown rather impatient with her sister's whims and
fancies; and she discouraged the plan on some very sensible grounds.
Mrs. Osgood felt like a martyr.

Yet the opposition roused her to attempt it. One day, a week afterward
perhaps, she hired a carriage, and was driven over to Madison. George
had gone back to the city, so there was no question of having him for
escort.

Granny Kenneth was much surprised at the appearance of so fine a lady.
She seized Dot, and scrubbed her face, her usual employment upon the
entrance of any one.

Mrs. Osgood held up her ruffled skirts as if afraid of contamination.

"Is your granddaughter at home?" was asked in the most languid of
voices.

"Flo, you mean? No: she hasn't come from school yet. Do walk in
and wait--that is--I mean--if you please," said Granny a good deal
flustered, while the little gray curls kept bobbing up and down.
"Here's a clean cheer;" and she gave one a whiff with her apron.

Poor Flossy. She had tried so hard to correct Granny's old-fashioned
words and pronunciations.

"Thank you. Miss Florence embroiders, I believe."

"Yes, she works baby-petticoats, and does 'em splendid."

And then Granny wondered if she, the fine lady, had any work for
Florence.

"How glad Flo'll be, and vacation coming so soon," she thought in the
depth of her tender old soul.

"And she's a genius at crochetin'! The laces and shawls and hoods she's
knit are a real wonder. They didn't do any thing of the kind in my
young days."

"You must find it pretty hard to get along," condescended Mrs. Osgood.

"Yes; but the Lord allers provides some way. Joe's gone in a
store,--Mr. Terry's. He's next to Florence," went on Granny in sublime
disregard of her pronoun.

Mrs. Osgood took an inventory of the little room, and waited rather
impatiently. Then she asked for a glass of water.

O Granny! how could you have been so forgetful! To take that old,
thick, greenish glass tumbler when Flossy's choice goblet stood on the
shelf above! And then to fill it in the pail, and let the water dribble!

