Christ led the one host, Satan the other. The Christians fought for
their faith, the heathen fought for their prey. Before the battle,
Hermann with his warriors had cast himself upon his knees and besought
the Lord Christ that He would be their leader. Therewith came the storm
of the heathen upon them, already certain of victory, for they were many
and the Christian number was small; Hermann, in his noble eagerness to
protect his poor people, not having had patience to wait for further
reinforcements. But the Christians stood immovable, like a wall, and the
heathen fell in heaps under their swords and spears. In the Christian
army there were twelve priests wearing white garments, who bore a white
banner with a red cross; and wherever the fight raged most madly,
thither they carried their banner, singing, "Kyrie Eleison, Christe
Eleison, Kyrie Eleison;" the Christian warriors dashing after them,
joining in the holy song, wielding their hacked swords, and with
irresistible force driving the heathen back. In vain the heathen sought
to slay the priests and to seize their white banner; every Christian
presented his breast as its bulwark against the foe. Whichever way the
banner turned, victory went with it. Louder and louder sounded the
"Kyrie Eleison," with more and more valour and joy of victory the
Christians pressed forward. Then one of the Wendish leaders, Zwentibold
by name, gathered once more the bravest of his people to make a stormy
effort for the banner of the cross. His rage of onset broke through some
ranks of the Christians; already he had penetrated to the near
neighbourhood of the priests; when a foot-soldier from among the
Christians manfully planted himself in his way and thrust his sharp
spear against the heathen's broad breast, so that the coat of chain
armour he had on was broken, and the spear pierced through his heart.
Now there was no stand made any longer; the heathen fled, and in terror
they cried out, "Christ has conquered! Christ has conquered!"

"'Duke Hermann looked about him to see the brave freiling who had done
such a deed of heroism; it was Henning, the freiling of Dageförde. For
his reward, Hermann dubbed the brave man knight upon the field of
battle, and Henning returned to his house as an ediling. Though but for
a little while. For Hermann was minded to profit by his victory and
compel his stubborn enemies to keep the peace in future. So he pushed on
with his army, now greatly reinforced, into the country of the Wends,
and Henning went with his Duke.

"'Not far from the Elbe there was a temple of the heathenish idol
Radegast; this temple stood within a strong fortress, called the
fortress of Radegast, where now the village of Radegast lies. The
heathen had collected and carried to this place all the treasures of the
prey they had seized in their plundering incursions. Hermann resolved to
storm this fortress, and therewith to destroy the bulwark of heathenism
on this side the Elbe. The heathen defended themselves with the bravery
of despair; many assaults were beaten back, and many a Christian fell in
death before the ramparts of the fortress. The tenth day of the siege,
the Christians held divine service and on their knees prayed the Lord of
hosts to give them victory. Then they rushed upon the place to take it
by storm; and among the foremost of those who clambered up the ramparts
of the fortress was Henning of Dageförde, who in order to inspirit the
Christians and terrify the heathen set up the field-song of the
Hünenburg--"Kyrie Eleison, Christe Eleison, Kyrie Eleison!" Just as he
had sung it through, an arrow from one of the enemy pierced his bold
heart; he fell to the ground in death, but as a dying conqueror, who has
gained the battle for Christ and with Christ. The fortress was won;
those of the heathen who would not yield were put to death. Hermann
dashed away a tear from his manly eye as he buried the brave Henning,
and he said to Hilmer, Henning's oldest son, a boy of sixteen, who had
come along to the war, "My son, you are early fledged. Your father was a
true Christian and a true Saxon; follow in his steps, and so long as I
live, I will be your father." Of all the enormous booty which Hermann
found in the Wendenburg Radegast, this noble man kept nothing for
himself. One half of the treasures he set apart, to rebuild with them
all the churches which the Wends had burned down; the other half he
distributed among his knights and warriors. Hilmer of Dageförde got his
share too, and indeed a double portion, one for himself and one for his
father. When he returned home, he took counsel with his mother what they
should do with it; and they agreed together that it should be used for
the glory of God. They erected a chapel in their own house, with an
altar and all the fittings of a church. Part of the money was applied to
this use, and with the remainder a chaplaincy was founded in the church
at Hermannsburg, which at that time was the only church in the whole
Oerze valley, with the stipulation that the chaplain should come every
Sunday to Dageförde and hold divine service in the chapel there. A
servant, with a led horse, must go to fetch him every time from
Hermannsburg, and bring him back thither again. This service at
Dageförde lasted till the Reformation. But when the evangelical faith
was preached in Hermannsburg by the valiant Pastor Grünhagen, who, as I
told you awhile ago in Tiefenthal, was converted to the pure Lutheran
doctrine by an artisan fellow who read him the little Lutheran
catechism, then this service at Dageförde ceased, because the possessors
of Dageförde held stiffly and firmly by the Catholic faith, and
obstinately rejected the pure doctrine. But now for a long time there
have been lords of Dageförde no more. The race died out; and when one
only of the family was left, he entered a Catholic cloister, where, in
the year 1616, he died. Then the reigning Duke gave the manor of
Dageförde to the lords of Lüneburg, and they again sold it to some
peasants, after they had divided the farm into two. So these farms have
again become what they were originally--peasant farms. God grant to the
present owners that they may stand firm and true to the pure faith of
our beloved church, that they may earnestly strive to be genuine
Christians and genuine Saxon peasants; then will it go well with them
and with those that come after them.'"




CHAPTER XII.


Meredith paused, half closed his book, was evidently pondering for a
minute, and then exclaimed, "I have learned something!"

"Why, so have we all," said his sister. "What now particularly?"

"I have got a hint."

"What about? There is no fortress for you to storm, and you do not want
the treasure."

"I think I should like to have lived in those times," Meredith went on.
"People were in earnest, Mr. Murray."

"Yes. So are some people in these times."

"But not the world generally; or only about making money. Then people
were in earnest about things worth the while."

"It does seem so from these stories," said Mr. Murray; "but, dear
Meredith, you may be equally in earnest about the same things now, and
with as good reason."

"Isn't it more difficult, sir, when nobody else, or only a few here and
there, think and feel with you?"

"Yes, more difficult; or rather, more easy to go to sleep; but so much
the greater need of men who are not asleep. What is your hint? I am
curious, with Miss Flora."

"The way that fellow spent his treasure, sir. I was thinking, wouldn't a
chapel--that is, a little church--a little free church, at Meadow Park
be a good thing? The nearest church is two miles off; we can drive to
it, but the people who have no horses cannot, and the poor people"----

Meredith got a variety of answers to this suggestion. His sister opened
her mouth for an outcry of dismay. Maggie clapped her hands with a burst
of joy. Esther stared; and a smile, very sweet and wise, showed itself
on Mr. Murray's lips.

"Quixotic!--ridiculous!" said Flora. "Isn't it, Mr. Murray? Ditto has
not money enough for everything, either. A church!--and then, I suppose,
a minister!"

"Is it a bad notion, Mr. Murray?" inquired Meredith.

"I should think not very."

"Is it extravagant?"

"Miss Flora thinks so."

"Well, Mr. Murray, think what it would cost!" cried the young lady.

"Not so much as a large evening party--that is, it ought not. I suppose
Meredith is not thinking of stone carvings and painted windows, but of a
neat, pleasant, pretty, plain house, where people can worship God and
hear the words of life."

"That is it exactly," said Meredith.

"Then I should say that one very fine evening entertainment would build
two."

"But the minister! he must be paid," said Flora.

"Yes, and I am not for starving a minister, either," said Mr. Murray.
"But what is Meredith to do with his income, Miss Flora?"

"That's just what I want to know," remarked Meredith in an undertone;
while Flora answered with some irritation--

"He can let it accumulate till he has made up his mind."

"'Riches kept for the owners of them, to their hurt,'" said Mr. Murray.
"Better not, Miss Flora. Remember, Meredith is only a steward. 'The
silver is mine, and the gold is mine,' saith the Lord of hosts."

"Do you mean, Mr. Murray, that we cannot do what we like with our
money?"

"You can do what you like with it, certainly."

"But I mean, isn't it right for us to do what we like with it?"

"I should like to do that," murmured Meredith.

"Miss Flora, the question is, rightly stated,--May a steward use his
lord's money for his own or his lord's pleasure?"

Flora coloured and pouted. "But that makes religion----Why, I never
thought religion was strict like that. Then it isn't right to buy
jewels or dresses?"

"Dresses--certainly."

"But I mean, rich dresses--dresses for company. And pictures--and
horses--and books--and"----

