will not grow better in a glare of artificial light than will your
camellias and azalias.

Always see for yourself that his last waking thoughts are pleasant;
that he shuts his eyes at peace with the world and in love with you;
that his feet are warm, his stomach easy, and his body not overloaded
with blankets and quilts; also, that the nursery is clean and freshly
aired. These are better prescriptions for sound slumber than all the
old wives’ fables of the excellent properties of that pernicious
drug—Soothing Syrup.


FARINA. 

    1 cup boiling water.
    1 cup fresh milk.
    1 large tablespoonful Hecker’s Farina, wet up with cold water.
    2 teaspoonfuls white sugar.
    A pinch of salt.

Stir the farina into the boiling water (slightly salted) in the
farina kettle (i. e., one boiler set within another, the latter
filled with hot water). Boil fifteen minutes, stirring constantly until
it is well-thickened. Then add the milk, stirring it in gradually, and
boil fifteen minutes longer. Sweeten, and give to the child so soon as
it is cool enough.

You may make enough in the morning to last all day; warming it up with
a little hot milk as you want it. Keep in a cold place. Some of the
finest children I have ever seen were reared upon this diet. Do not get
it too sweet, and cook it well. Be sure the farina is sweet and dry.


BARLEY.

It sometimes happens that milk disagrees with a delicate infant so
seriously that it is necessary to substitute some other article of diet
for a few days. I have known barley water to be used, in such cases,
with great success.

    2 cups boiling water.
    2 tablespoonfuls pearl barley—picked over and washed.
    A pinch of salt.
    2 teaspoonfuls white sugar—not heaping.

Soak the barley half an hour in a very little lukewarm water, and stir,
without draining, into the boiling water, salted very slightly. Simmer
one hour, stirring often, and strain before sweetening.


ARROWROOT. 

    1 cup of boiling water.
    1 cup fresh milk.
    2 teaspoonfuls best Bermuda arrowroot, wet with cold water.
    1 small pinch of salt.
    2 even teaspoonfuls white sugar, dissolved in the milk.

Stir the arrowroot paste into the salted boiling water; stir and boil
five minutes or until it is clear; add the sweetened milk, and boil ten
minutes, slowly, still stirring.

If the child has fever, or cannot digest milk, substitute hot water for
it. It is, however, a dangerous experiment to forbid milk altogether
for an infant. I should rather diminish the quantity, putting in, say,
one-third or one-fourth as much as the receipt names, and filling up
with boiling water.


RICE JELLY. 

    ½ cup whole rice, well-washed and soaked two hours in a little warm
        water; then added, with the water, to that in the kettle.
    3 pints cold water.
    1 small pinch of salt, put into the water.
    Sweeten to taste with loaf sugar.

Simmer the rice half an hour; then boil it until it is a smooth paste,
and the water is reduced one-half. Strain through double tarlatan,
sweeten, and give to the child.

This is an admirable preparation for an infant suffering with weakness
of the bowels. If there is no fever, you may put one-third part milk,
boiled with the rice. Give a few spoonfuls every hour or half hour.


MILK AND BREAD. 

    1 cup boiled milk.
    2 tablespoonfuls stale Graham bread.
    A very little sugar.

Crumble the bread into the boiled milk, sweeten, and when cool enough,
feed to the child with a spoon.


WHEATEN GRITS. 

    4 tablespoonfuls grits (cracked wheat) soaked in a little cold
        water one hour, and then put into the kettle.
    1 quart boiling water.
    1 cup milk.
    A pinch of salt.

Boil the soaked grits in the quart of water one hour, stirring up
often; add the milk and boil half an hour longer. Sweeten to taste, and
if the child is well, pour cream over it. This is designed for children
over a year old. It is slightly cathartic; especially if the milk be
omitted, and is most useful in regulating the bowels. When this can be
done without drugs, it is far better.


HOMINY AND MILK. 

    ½ cup small hominy.
    1 scant quart of cold water.
    Pinch of salt.

Boil one hour, stirring often. While hot, mix some soft with new milk,
sweeten to taste and feed to baby with a spoon.

This is also relaxing to the bowels, and should not be given if the
child is disposed to summer complaint.


GRAHAM HASTY PUDDING. 

    1 cup Graham flour, wet up with cold water.
    1 large cup boiling water and same quantity of milk.
    1 saltspoonful of salt.

Stir the wet flour into the boiling water, slightly salted. Boil
fifteen minutes, stirring almost constantly. Add the milk and cook,
after it has come again to a boil, ten minutes longer. Give with sugar
and milk for breakfast.

Eaten with cream, nutmeg, and powdered sugar, this is a good plain
dessert for grown people as well as children.


RICE FLOUR HASTY PUDDING

Is made as above, substituting two heaping tablespoonfuls rice flour
for the Graham.


MILK PORRIDGE.

    1 tablespoonful Indian meal } wet to a paste with cold
    1 tablespoonful white flour }   water.
    2 cups boiling water.
    2 cups milk.
    A good pinch of salt.

Boil the paste in the hot water twenty minutes; add the milk and cook
ten minutes more, stirring often.

Eat with sugar and milk, stirred in while hot.


MUSH AND MILK.

    1 cup Indian meal, wet up with cold water.
    2 quarts cold water.
    Salt to taste.

Boil two hours; stirring often with a wooden spoon or a stick.

To be eaten hot with milk and sugar.


CONDENSED MILK.

This is perhaps the safest substitute for the “good milk from one cow,”
which few mothers in town can procure. Keep the can in a cool place and
mix according to directions.



SUNDRIES.


CLEANING POTS, KETTLES, AND TINS.

Boil a double handful of hay or grass in a new iron pot, before
attempting to cook with it; scrub out with soap and sand; then set on
full of fair water, and let it boil half an hour. After this, you may
use it without fear. As soon as you empty a pot or frying-pan of that
which has been cooked in it, fill with hot or cold water (hot is best)
and set back upon the fire to scald thoroughly.

New tins should stand near the fire with boiling water in them, in
which has been dissolved a spoonful of soda, for an hour; then be
scoured inside with soft soap; afterward rinsed with hot water. Keep
them clean by rubbing with sifted wood-ashes, or whitening.

Copper utensils should be cleaned with brickdust and flannel.

Never set a vessel in the pot-closet without cleaning and wiping it
thoroughly. If grease be left in it, it will grow rancid. If set aside
