
“Oh, perhaps you think you can do it,” he said, handing her the tobacco
and papers. She took them and made a cigarette. “It took me a whole
day to learn to make bad ones, and this, is beautiful. But I will never
smoke it. I will keep this always.”

“You had better smoke it, if you want more,” she said.

“Will you make some more? I can’t smoke the first one!”

“Then smoke the last,” she said, offering him the things back.

“No, go on. I’ll smoke it.”

She lent herself to the idle humor of the time, and went on making
cigarettes till there were no more papers. From time to time she looked
up from this labor, and scanned the beautiful bay, which they had almost
wholly to themselves. They passed a collier lagging in the deep channel,
and signalling for a pilot to take her up to the town. A yacht, trim and
swift, cut across their course; the ladies on board waved a salutation
with their handkerchiefs, and Libby responded.

“Do you know them?” asked Grace.

“No!” he laughed. “But ladies like to take these liberties at a safe
distance.”

“Yes, that’s a specimen of woman’s daring,” she said, with a
self-scornful curl of the lip, which presently softened into a wistful
smile. “How lovely it all is!” she sighed.

“Yes, there’s nothing better in all the world than a sail. It is all the
world while it lasts. A boat’s like your own fireside for snugness.”

A dreamier light came into her eye, which wandered, with a turn of the
head giving him the tender curve of her cheek, over the levels of the
bay, roughened everywhere by the breeze, but yellowish green in the
channels and dark with the thick growth of eel-grass in the shallows;
then she lifted her face to the pale blue heavens in an effort that
slanted towards him the soft round of her chin, and showed her full
throat.

“This is the kind of afternoon,” she said, still looking at the sky,
“that you think will never end.”

“I wish it would n’t,” he answered.

She lowered her eyes to his, and asked: “Do you have times when you are
sorry that you ever tried to do anything--when it seems foolish to have
tried?”

“I have the other kind of times,--when I wish that I had tried to do
something.”

“Oh yes, I have those, too. It’s wholesome to be ashamed of not having
tried to do anything; but to be ashamed of having tried--it’s like
death. There seems no recovery from that.”

He did not take advantage of her confession, or try to tempt her to
further confidence; and women like men who have this wisdom, or this
instinctive generosity, and trust them further.

“And the worst of it is that you can’t go back and be like those that
have never tried at all. If you could, that would be some consolation
for having failed. There is nothing left of you but your mistake.”

“Well,” he said, “some people are not even mistakes. I suppose that
almost any sort of success looks a good deal like failure from the
inside. It must be a poor creature that comes up to his own mark. The
best way is not to have any mark, and then you’re in no danger of not
coming up to it.” He laughed, but she smiled sadly.

“You don’t believe in thinking about yourself,” she said.

“Oh, I try a little introspection, now and then. But I soon get through:
there isn’t much of me to think about.”

“No, don’t talk in that way,” she pleaded, and she was very charming
in her earnestness: it was there that her charm lay. “I want you to be
serious with me, and tell me--tell me how men feel when.”--

A sudden splashing startled her, and looking round she saw a multitude
of curious, great-eyed, black heads, something like the heads of boys,
and something like the heads of dogs, thrusting from the water, and
flashing under it again at sight of them with a swish that sent the
spray into the air. She sprang to her feet. “Oh, look at those things!
Look at them! Look at them!” She laid vehement hands upon the young man,
and pushed him in the direction in which she wished him to look, at some
risk of pushing him overboard, while he laughed at her ecstasy.

“They’re seals. The bay’s full of them. Did you never see them on the
reef at Jocelyn’s?”

“I never saw them before!” she cried. “How wonderful they are! Oh!” she
shouted; as one of them glanced sadly at her over its shoulder, and then
vanished with a whirl of the head. “The Beatrice Cenci attitude!”

“They ‘re always trying that,” said Libby. “Look yonder.” He pointed to
a bank of mud which the tide had not yet covered, and where a herd of
seals lay basking in the sun. They started at his voice, and wriggling
and twisting and bumping themselves over the earth to the water’s edge,
they plunged in. “Their walk isn’t so graceful as their swim. Would
you like one for a pet, Miss Breen? That’s all they ‘re good for since
kerosene came in. They can’t compete with that, and they’re not the kind
that wear the cloaks.”

She was standing with her hand pressed hard upon his shoulder.

“Did they ever kill them?”

“They used to take that precaution.”

“With those eyes? It was murder!” She withdrew her hand and sat down.

“Well, they only catch them, now. I tried it myself once. I set out at
low tide, about ten o’clock, one night, and got between the water
and the biggest seal on the bank. We fought it out on that line till
daylight.”

“And did you get it?” she demanded, absurdly interested.

“No, it got me. The tide came in, and the seal beat.”

“I am glad of that.”

“Thank you.”

“What did you want with it?”

“I don’t think I wanted it at all. At any rate, that’s what I always
said. I shall have to ask you to sit on this side,” he added, loosening
the sheet and preparing to shift the sail. “The wind has backed round a
little more to the south, and it’s getting lighter.”

“If it’s going down we shall be late,” she said, with an intimation of
apprehension.

“We shall be at Leyden on time. If the wind falls then, I can get a
horse at the stable and have you driven back.”

“Well.”

He kept scanning the sky. Then, “Did you ever hear them whistle for a
wind?” he asked.

“No. What is it like?”

“When Adams does it, it’s like this.” He put on a furtive look,
and glanced once or twice at her askance. “Well!” he said with the
reproduction of a strong nasal, “of course I don’t believe there’s
anything in it. Of course it’s all foolishness. Now you must urge me a
little,” he added, in his own manner.

“Oh, by all means go on, Mr. Adams,” she cried, with a laugh.

He rolled his head again to one side sheepishly.

“Well, I don’t presume it DOES have anything to do with the wind--well,
I don’t PRESUME it does.” He was silent long enough to whet an imagined
expectation; then he set his face towards the sky, and began a soft,
low, coaxing sibilation between his teeth. “S-s-s-s; s-s-s-s-s-s! Well,
it don’t stand to reason it can bring the wind--S-s-s-s-s-s-s; s-s-s-s.
Why, of course it ‘s all foolishness. S-s-s-s.” He continued to emit
these sibilants, interspersing them with Adams’s protests. Suddenly the
sail pulled the loose sheet taut and the boat leaped forward over the
water.

“Wonderful!” cried the girl.

“That’s what I said to Adams, or words to that effect. But I thought we
should get it from the look of the sky before I proposed to whistle for
it. Now, then,” he continued, “I will be serious, if you like.”

“Serious?”

“Yes. Didn’t you ask me to be serious just before those seals
interrupted you?”

“Oh!” she exclaimed, coloring a little. “I don’t think we can go back
to that, now.” He did not insist, and she said presently, “I thought the
sailors had a superstition about ships that are lucky and unlucky. But
you’ve kept your boat.”

“I kept her for luck: the lightning never strikes twice in the same
place. And I never saw a boat that behaved so well.”

“Do you call it behaving well to tip over?”

“She behaved well before that. She didn’t tip over outside the reef”

“It certainly goes very smoothly,” said the girl. She had in vain
recurred to the tragic motive of her coming; she could not revive it;
there had been nothing like expiation in this eventless voyage; it had
been a pleasure and no penance. She abandoned herself with a weak luxury
to the respite from suffering and anxiety; she made herself the good
comrade of the young man whom perhaps she even tempted to flatter her
farther and farther out of the dreariness in which she had dwelt; and if
any woful current of feeling swept beneath, she would not fathom it,
but resolutely floated, as one may at such times, on the surface. They
laughed together and jested; they talked in the gay idleness of such
