walked along slowly, the girl reviewing everything in the lively show 
before her; lips parting sometimes for a smile, but with no leisure for a 
word. Her companion watched her. They walked on and on; turned now hither 
and now thither; Rotha remained in a maze, only mechanically following 
where she was led. 

It was a fine afternoon, and all the world was out. Carriages, riders, 
foot travellers; everywhere crowds of people. Where was Mr. Digby going 
to make the communication he had come here to make? He doubted about it 
now, but if he spoke, where should it be? Not in this crowd, where any 
minute some acquaintance might see him and speak to him. With some 
trouble he sought out a resting place for Rotha from whence she could 
have a good view of one angle of a much travelled drive, and at the same 
time both of them were in a sort hid away from observation. Here they sat 
down; but if Rotha's feet might rest, her companion's mind was further 
and further from any such point of comfort. They had exchanged hardly any 
words since they set out; and now the difficulty of beginning what he had 
to say seemed greater than ever. There was a long silence. Rotha broke 
it; she did not know that it had been long. 

"Mr. Digby--there are a great many things I do not understand." 

"My case too, Rotha." 

"Yes, but you understand a great many things that I don't." 

"What is troubling you now, with a sense of ignorance?" 

"I see in a great many carriages two gentlemen dressed just alike, 
sitting together; they are on the back seat always, and they always have 
their arms folded, just alike; what are they?" 

"Not gentlemen, Rotha; they are footmen, or grooms." 

"What's the difference?" 

"Between footmen and grooms?" 

"No, no; between a gentleman and a man that isn't a gentleman?" 

"You asked me that once before, didn't you?" 

"Yes; but I don't make it out." 

"Why do you try?" 

"Why Mr. Digby, I like to understand things." 

"Quite right, too, Rotha. Well--the difference is more in the feelings 
and manners than in anything else." 

"Not in the dress?" 

"Certainly not. Though it is not like a gentleman to be improperly 
dressed." 

"What is 'improperly dressed.'" 

"Not nice and neat." 

"Nice and neat--clean and neat, you mean?" 

"Yes." 

"Then a gentleman may have poor clothes on?" 

"Of course." 

"Can anybody be poor and be a gentleman?" 

"Not anybody, but a gentleman may be poor, certainly, without ceasing  
to be a gentleman." 

"But if he was poor to begin with--could he be a gentleman then?" 

"Yes, Rotha," said her friend smiling at her; "money has nothing to do 
with the matter. Except only, that without money it is difficult for a 
boy to be trained in the habits and education of a gentleman." 

"Education?" said Rotha. 

"Yes." 

"You said, 'feeling and manners.'" 

"Well, yes. But you can see for yourself, that without education it would 
be hardly possible that manners should be exactly what they ought to be. 
A gentleman should give to everybody just that sort of attention and 
respect which is due; just the right words and the right tone and the 
fitting manner; how can he, if he does not understand his own position in 
the world and that of other people? and why the one and the other are 
what they are." 

"Then I don't see how poor people can be ladies and gentlemen," said 
Rotha discontentedly. 

"Being poor has nothing to do with it, except so far." 

"But that's far enough, Mr. Digby." 

He heard the disappointed ambition in the tone of the girl's words. 

"Rotha," he said kindly, "whoever will follow the Bible rules of good 
manners, will be sure to be right, as far as that goes." 

"Can one follow them without being a Christian?" 

"Well no, hardly. You see, the very root of them is love to one's 
neighbour; and one cannot have that, truly and universally, without 
loving Christ first." 

"Then are all gentlemen Christians?" 

The young man laughed a little at her pertinacity. 

"What are you so much concerned about it, Rotha?" 

"I was just thinking."--

And apparently she had a good deal of thinking to do; for she was quite 
silent for some time. And Mr. Digby on his part went back to his problem, 
how was he to tell Rotha what he had promised to tell her? From their 
somewhat elevated and withdrawn position, the moving scene before them 
was most bright and gay. An endless procession of equipages--beautiful 
carriages, stately horses, pompous attendants, luxurious pleasure-takers; 
one after another, and twos and threes following each other, a continuous 
stream; carriages of all sorts, landaus, Victorias, clarences, phaetons, 
barouches, close coaches, dog carts, carryalls, gigs, buggies. Now and 
then a country affair, with occupants to match; now a plain wagon with a 
family of children having a good time; now an old gentleman and his wife 
taking a sober airing; then a couple of ladies half lost in the depths of 
their cushions, and not having at all a good time, to judge by their 
looks; and then a young man with nobody but himself and a pair of fast 
trotting horses, which had, and needed, all his attention; and then a 
whirl of the general thing, fine carriages, fine ladies, fine gentlemen, 
fine servants and fine horses; in all varieties of combination. It was 
very pretty; it was very gay; the young foliage of early summer was not 
yet discouraged and dulled by the heat and the dust; the air was almost 
country sweet, and flowers were brilliant in one of the plantations 
within sight. How the world went by!-- 

Mr. Digby had half forgotten it and everything else, in his musings, when 
he was aroused, and well nigh startled, by a question from Rotha. 

"Mr. Digby--can I help my will?" 

He looked down at her. "What do you mean, Rotha?" 

"I mean, can I help my will? I asked mother one day, and she said I had 
better ask you." 

Rotha's eyes came up to his face with their query; and whatever it might 
import, he saw that she was in earnest. Grave and intent the girl's fine 
dark eyes were, and came up to his eyes with a kind of power of search. 

"I do not think I understand you." 

"Yes, you do. If I do not like something--do not want to be something--
can I help my will?" 

"What do you not want to be?" said Mr. Digby, waiving this severe 
question in mental philosophy. 

"Must I tell you?" 

"Not if you don't like; but I think it might help me to get at your 
difficulty, and so to get at the answer you want." 

"Mr. Digby, can a person want to do something, and yet not be willing?" 

"Yes," said he, in growing surprise. 

"Then, can he help not being willing?" 

"What is the case in hand, Rotha? I am wholly in the dark. I do not know 
what you would be at." 

To come nearer to the point was not Rotha's wish and had not been her 
purpose; she hesitated. However, the subject was one which exercised her, 
and the opportunity of discussing her difficulty with Mr. Digby was very 
tempting. She hesitated, but she could not let the chance go. 

"Mother wishes I would be a Christian," she said low and slowly. "And I 
wish I could, to please her; but I do not want to. Can I help my will? 
and I am not willing." 

There was a mixture of defiance and desire in this speech which instantly 
roused the somewhat careless attention of the young man beside her. 
Anything that touched the decision of any mortal in the great question of 
everlasting life, awoke his sympathies always to fullest exercise. It was 
not his way, however, to shew what he felt; and he answered her with the 
same deliberate calm as hitherto. Nobody would have guessed the quickened 
pulses with which he spoke. 

"Why do you not want to be a Christian, Rotha?" 

"I do not know," she answered slowly. "I suppose, I want to be free." 

"Go on a little bit, and tell me what you mean by being 'free.'" 

