This was the beginning of a new order of things, for Miss Orne carried
her energy into other matters besides gymnastics, and no one dared
oppose her when Madame shut her ears to all complaints, saying, "Obey
her in everything, and don't trouble me."

Pitchers of fresh milk took the place of tea and coffee; cake and pie
were rarely seen, but better bread, plain puddings, and plenty of fruit.

Rooms were cooled off, feather beds sent up garret, and thick curtains
abolished. Sun and air streamed in, and great cans of water appeared
suggestively at doors in the morning. Earlier hours were kept, and brisk
walks taken by nearly all the girls; for Miss Orne baited her hook
cleverly, and always had some pleasant project to make the wintry
expeditions inviting. There were games in the parlor instead of novels,
and fancy-work in the evening; shorter lessons, and longer talks on the
many useful subjects that are best learned from the lips of a true
teacher. A cooking class was started, not to make fancy dishes, but the
plain, substantial ones all housewives should understand. Several girls
swept their own rooms, and liked it after they saw Miss Orne do hers in
a becoming dust-cap; and these same pioneers, headed by Sally, boldly
coasted on the hill, swung clubs in the coach-house, and played tag in
the bowling-alley rainy days.

It took time to work these much-needed changes, but young people like
novelty; the old routine had grown tiresome, and Miss Orne made things
so lively and pleasant it was impossible to resist her wishes. Sally did
begin to straighten up, after a month or two of regular training; Maud
outgrew both corsets and backache; Nelly got a fresh color; Kitty found
her thin arms developing visible muscles; and Julia considered herself a
Von Hillern, after walking ten miles without fatigue.

But dear, fat Cordy was the most successful of all; and rejoiced greatly
over the loss of a few pounds when she gave up over-eating, long naps,
and lazy habits. Exercise became a sort of mania with her, and she was
continually trudging off for a constitutional, or trotting up and down
the halls when bad weather prevented the daily tramp. It was the desire
of her soul to grow thin, and such was her ardor that Miss Orne had to
check her sometimes, lest she should overdo the matter.

"All this is easy and pleasant now, because it is new," she said, "and
there is no one to criticise our simple, sensible ways; but when you go
away I am afraid you will undo the good I have tried to do you. People
will ridicule you, fashion will condemn, and frivolous pleasures make
our wholesome ones seem hard. Can you be steadfast, and keep on?"

"We will!" cried all the girls; but the older ones looked a little
anxious, as they thought of going home to introduce the new ways alone.

Miss Orne shook her head, earnestly wishing that she could impress the
important lesson indelibly upon them; and very soon something happened
which had that effect.

April came, and the snowdrops and crocuses were up in the garden beds.
Madame was able to sit at her window, peering out like a dormouse waking
from its winter sleep; and much did the good lady wonder at the blooming
faces turned up to nod and smile at her, the lively steps that tripped
about the house, and the amazing spectacle of her young ladies racing
round the lawn as if they liked it. No one knew how Miss Orne reconciled
her to this new style of deportment; but she made no complaint,--only
shook her impressive cap when the girls came beaming in to pay little
visits, full of happy chat about their affairs. They seemed to take a
real interest in their studies now, to be very happy; and all looked so
well that the wise old lady said to herself:--

"Looks are everything with women, and I have never been able to show
such a bouquet of blooming creatures at my breaking up as I shall this
year. I will let well enough alone, and if fault is found, dear Anna's
shoulders are broad enough to bear it."

Things were in this promising state, and all were busily preparing for
the May fête, at which time this class of girls would graduate, when the
mysterious events occurred to which we have alluded.

They were gathered--the girls, not the events--round the table one
night, discussing, with the deep interest befitting such an important
topic, what they should wear on examination day.

"I think white silk jerseys and pink or blue skirts would be lovely;
so pretty and so appropriate for the J. J. Club, and so nice for us to
do our exercises in. Miss Orne wants us to show how well we go together,
and of course we want to please her;" said Nelly taking the lead as
usual in matters of taste.

"Of course!" cried all the girls, with an alacrity which plainly showed
how entirely the new friend had won their hearts.

"I wouldn't have believed that six months could make such a difference
in one's figure and feelings," said Maud, surveying her waist with calm
satisfaction, though it was no longer slender, but in perfect proportion
to the rest of her youthful shape.

"I've had to let out every dress, and it's a mercy I'm going home, for I
shouldn't be decent if I kept on at this rate;" and Julia took a long
breath, proud of her broad chest, expanded by plenty of exercise, and
loose clothing.

"I take mine in, and don't have to worry about my buttons flying off, à
la Clara Peggotty. I'm so pleased I want to be training all the time,
for I'm not half thin enough yet," said Cordy, jumping up for a trot
round the room, that not a moment might be lost.

"Come, Sally, you ought to join in the jubilee, for you have done
wonders, and will be as straight as a ramrod in a little while. Why so
sober to-night? Is it because our dear Miss Orne leaves us to sit with
Madame?" asked Nelly, missing the gayest voice of the six, and observing
her friend's troubled face.

"I'm making up my mind whether I'd better tell you something or not.
Don't want to scare the servants, trouble Madame, or vex Miss Orne; for
I know she wouldn't believe a word of it, though I saw it with my own
eyes," answered Sally, in such a mysterious tone that the girls with one
voice cried,--

"Tell us, this minute!"

"I will; and perhaps some of you can explain the matter."

As she spoke, Sally rose and stood on the rug with her hands behind her,
looking rather wild and queer; for her short hair was in a toss, her
eyes shone large behind her round glasses, and her voice sank to a
whisper as she made this startling announcement:--

"I've seen a ghost!"

A general shiver pervaded the listeners, and Cordy poked her head under
the sofa pillows with a faint cry, while the rest involuntarily drew
nearer to one another.

"Where?" demanded Julia, the bravest of the party.

"On the top of the house."

"Good gracious! When, Sally?" "What did it look like?" "Don't scare us
for fun,"--cried the girls, undecided whether to take this startling
story in jest or earnest.

"Listen, and I'll tell you all about it," answered Sally, holding up her
finger impressively.

"Night before last I sat till eleven, studying. Against the rules, I
know; but I forgot, and when I was through I opened my window to air the
room. It was bright moonlight, so I took a stroll along the top of the
piazza, and coming back with my eyes on the sky I naturally saw the roof
of the main house from my wing. I couldn't have been asleep, could I?
yet, I solemnly declare I saw a white figure with a veil over its head
roaming to and fro as quietly as a shadow. I looked and looked, then I
called softly, but it never answered, and suddenly it was gone."

"What did you do? quavered Cordy, in a smothered voice from under the
pillow.

"Went straight in, took my lamp and marched up to the cupola. Not a sign
of any one, all locked and the floor dusty, for we never go there now,
you know. I didn't like it, but just said, 'Sally, go to bed; it's an
optical illusion and serves you right for studying against the rule.'
That was the first time."

"Mercy on us! Did you see it again?" cried Maud, getting hold of Julia's
strong arm for protection.

"Yes, in the bowling-alley at midnight," whispered Sally.

"Do shut the door, Kit, and don't keep clutching at me in that scary
way; it's very unpleasant," said Nelly, glancing nervously over her
shoulder as the six pairs of wide-opened eyes were fixed on Sally.

"I got up to shut my window last night, and saw a light in the alley. A
dim one, but bright enough to show me the same white thing going up and
down, with the veil as before. I'll confess I was nervous then, for you
know there is a story that in old times the man who lived here
wouldn't let his daughter marry the lover she wanted, and she pined away
and died, and said she'd haunt the cruel father, and she did. Old Mrs.
Foster told me all about it when I first came, and Madame asked me not
to repeat it, so I never did. I don't believe in ghosts, mind you, but
what on earth is it, trailing about in that ridiculous way?"

Sally spoke nervously and looked excited, for in spite of courage and
common sense she was worried to account for the apparition.

"How long did it stay?" asked Julia, with her arm round Maud, who was
trembling and pale.

"A good fifteen minutes by my watch, then vanished, light and all, as
suddenly as before. I didn't go to look after it that time, but if I see
it again I'll hunt till I find out what it is. Who will go with me?"

No one volunteered, and Cordy emerged long enough to say imploringly:--

"Do tell Miss Orne, or get the police;" then dived out of sight again,
and lay quaking like an ostrich with its head in the sand.

"I won't! Miss Orne would think I was a fool, and the police don't
arrest ghosts. I'll do it myself, and Julia will help me, I know. She is
the bravest of you, and hasn't developed her biceps for nothing," said
Sally, bent on keeping all the glory of the capture to themselves if
possible.

Flattered by the compliment to her arms, Julia did not decline the
invitation, but made a very sensible suggestion, which was a great
relief to the timid, till Sally added a new fancy to haunt them.
