am glad, at least, that you acknowledge that it takes a great stock of
vanity to go against all the fashions. Well, you don't look Quakerish
now!"

"You like the dress, then?"

"It's lovely," said Aunt Katrina, scanning every detail from the hat
to the shoe. "Expensive, of course?"

"Yes."

"And Lanse likes that?"

"He wishes me to dress richly; he says it's more becoming to me."

"I think that's so nice of him, he wants you to look, I suppose, as well
as you can" said Aunt Katrina, magnanimously. "And certainly you do
look a great deal better."

Whether Margaret looked better was a question whose answer depended upon
the personal taste of those who saw her; she looked, at least, very
different. The sumptuous wrap with its deep fringes, the lace of the
scarf, the general impression of costly fabrics and of color in her
attire, brought out the outlines of her face, as the curling waves of
her hair over her forehead deepened the blue of her eyes. On her white
arms now, at home in the evenings, bracelets gleamed, the flash of rings
came from her little hands; her slender figure trailed behind it rich
silks of various light hues.

"You are a beautiful object nowadays, Margaret," Lanse said more than
once. "Fancy your having known how, all this time, without ever having
used your talent!"

"It's my dress-maker's talent."

"Yes; she must have a great deal to carry out your orders."

He was especially pleased one evening. She came in, bringing his
newspaper, which had just arrived by the steamer; she was dressed in a
long gleaming gown of satin, with long tight sleeves; she wore a little
ruff of Venetian lace, there was a golden comb in her dark-hair. A fan
made of the bright plumage of some tropical bird lay against the satin
of her skirt; it hung by a ribbon from the broad satin belt, which,
fastened by a golden buckle, defined her slender waist.

"You look like a fine old engraving," he said.

She stood holding the paper towards him. But for a moment he did not
take it, he was surveying her critically; then he lifted his eyes to her
face, there was a smile in them. "You did it--do it--to please me?" he
said.

She did not answer.

"Because you think it your duty to do what I wish. And because, too, you
are a trifle afraid of me!" He laughed. "It would have an even better
effect, though, if you wouldn't take it quite so seriously; couldn't
you contrive to get a little pleasure out of it on your own account?--I
mean the looking so handsome."

She gave him the paper, and went across to her work-table. "I am
delighted to look handsome," she said.

"No, you're not. It was probably easier for you to dress as you used
to--plainly; more in accordance with your feelings, women like to be in
accordance. When they're completely satisfied, or very unhappy, they
brush their hair straight back from their faces. Well, yours curls
enough now!"

"The truth is, Madge, you're too yielding," he resumed after a short
silence. "I take advantage of it, of course--I always shall; but you
would get on a great deal better yourself, you might even have had more
influence over me (if you care about that), if you had been, if you were
now, a little less--patient."

"I suppose there's no use in my repeating that I'm not patient at all,"
answered Margaret. She was taking some balls of silk from the drawer.

"You want me to think it's self-control. Well, perhaps it is. But then,
you know, unbroken self-control--"

"Would you mind it if I should ask you not to discuss it--my
self-control?" Her hands were beginning to tremble.

"Put your hands in your pocket if you don't want me to see them," said
Lanse, laughing; "they always betray you--even when your voice is
steady. What a temper you've got--though you do curb it so tightly! At
least you're infinitely better off than you would have been if you had
happened to care for me. That's been the enormous blessing of your
life--your not caring; just supposing you had cared! You ought to be
very thankful; and you ought to reckon up your blessings every now and
then, for fear of forgetting some of them; we ought all to do that, I
think."

He said this with great gravity. Not that he felt in the least grave;
but it was a way Lanse had of amusing himself, once in a while,--to make
remarks of this sort with a very solemn face.

He looked at her for a moment or two longer as she sat with her eyes
bent upon her knitting. "You're in the right chair," he said at length,
"but you're sitting too straight. Won't you please take that footstool,
put your feet on it, and then lean back more? You long lithe women look
better that way."

She did not move.

"Come," he said, "you're furious; but you know you ought to humor me.
It's only that I want my picture more complete--that's all."

And then, with nervous quickness, she did what he asked.

It was upon the morning following this little conversation that Dr.
Kirby made his appearance at the house on the river and declared that he
could not "explain."

"Tell me without explaining," Margaret suggested.

But this at first seemed to the Doctor even more difficult than the
other alternative; it would have been so much more in accordance with
his sense of the fitness of things to ascend this stumbling-block which
had fallen in their path by means of a proper staircase, carpeted steps
of probabilities, things he had foreseen--intuitions. But in fact he had
foreseen nothing; he felt that he could not make a staircase. So he gave
one great hard bound.

"Garda is engaged," he announced. "To Lucian Spenser."

Margaret was greatly astonished. "I didn't know he was back," she said.

"He has only just come. She went up to Norfolk with my cousin, Sally
Lowndes"--here the Doctor stopped, gazing at Margaret inquiringly.

"Yes, I left it to you to decide about her going--don't you remember?"

"I decided wrongly. Sally was obliged to go, and anxious to take
Garda--I was in Charleston, and I allowed it. I had no business to!"
said the Doctor, slapping his knee suddenly and fiercely. "I distinctly
disapprove of much travelling for young girls--mere aimless gadding
about. But I have been corrupted, to a certain degree, by the new
nor--the new modern ideas that are making their way everywhere at
present; I could bury my head in a hay-stack! When did you hear from her
last?"

"I had a letter from Norfolk immediately after her arrival."

"Before she had met him. And nothing since?"

"Nothing."

"Yes, she said she should rather have me tell you than write herself."

"She thought you would be on her side."

"No, madam, no; she couldn't have thought that--that would be
impossible. But she was good enough to say that I should, in the
telling, be certain to make you laugh. And that was what she wanted."

Moisture glittered suddenly in his eyes as he brought this out. He
pretended it was not there, and searching for his handkerchief, he
coughed gruffly, complaining of "a cold."

"I certainly don't laugh," said Margaret. "But perhaps we need not be
so--so troubled about it, Doctor. The first thing now is to have her
come home."

"She's back in Charleston."

"Oh!"

"Yes. As soon as I received Sally's letter--she wrote at once--I started
immediately for Norfolk. I saw Mr. Spenser--in my quality of guardian it
was proper that I should see him. And I brought the two ladies home."

"And not Mr. Spenser too?"

"I don't know anything about Mr. Spenser!" Then, after a moment, "I
reckon he will follow," the Doctor murmured, dejectedly.

"And I--who thought he was in Venice!"

"He was in Venice until a few weeks ago. I don't know in the least what
brought him home. And I don't know in the least what brought him to
Norfolk, unless it was, as I was told, some insane fancy for sketching
the Dismal Swamp;--of all places in the world the miry old Dismal! And
to think that I should have let Garda go there, at just that moment!
It's a combination of fortuitous chances which seems to me absolutely
infernal!--I beg your pardon, madam"--here the Doctor rose, bowing
ceremoniously, with his hand on the broad expanse of beautifully
starched linen, which kept its place unmoved over his disturbed breast.
"It is not often that I am betrayed into language unsuited to a lady's
presence. I ask you to excuse me."

"You do not like Mr. Spenser," said Margaret.

The Doctor stared. "Do you?"

"I suppose it is not so much whether we like him, as whether we approve
of him for Garda. But I am afraid she would not listen to us even if we
should disapprove."

