     Richard Wagner, who, it seems, is also one of my students.
     Hornstein is still here, and pays me an exaggerated respect;
     for instance, when I want my waiter, he rises from table to
     summon him.... My portrait has been for a fortnight at the
     exposition. There has been a great crowd to see it. Von
     Launitz, the Frankfort Phidias, wants to take my bust....

                    December 23, 1855.

     ... A gentleman has written to me from Zurich to say that in
     the club to which he belongs my works are read with such
     admiration that the members are crazy to get a picture of me
     of any kind, nature, or description, and that the artist who
     takes it has but to forward it C. O. D.... You see that my
     fame is spreading like a conflagration, and not in
     arithmetical ratio either, but in geometric, and even
     cubic....

                    March 28, 1856.

     ... R., too, kissed my hand,--a ceremony to which I cannot
     accustom myself; yet it is one, I suppose, that forms part
     of my imperial dignity....

                    June 6, 1856.

     ... Becher sent his son and nephew here, and Baehr sent his
     son also, and that only that these young people may in their
     old age be able to boast that they had seen and spoken to
     me....

                    June 11, 1856.

     ... Professor Baehr, of Dresden, was here yesterday, and,
     penetrated with the most praiseworthy enthusiasm, wished to
     exchange his beautiful silver snuff-box for my forlorn old
     leather one. I refused, however. He told me of a certain
     Herr von Wilde, who was a perfect fanatic on the subject of
     my philosophy, and who, at the age of eighty-five, died with
     my name on his lips.

     My Buddha, re-gilded, glittering on his pedestal, gives you
     his benediction.

                    August 14, 1856.

     ... Four pages and a half of Tallendier about me.[5] You
     have seen it, I suppose. French chatter, personal details,
     etc., but where the devil did he hear that I am "tout etonné
     du bruit que font mes écrits dans le monde?" I am so little
     astonished, that Emden told Nordwall, to the latter's
     intense surprise, that I had predicted to him my future
     celebrity fully twenty years ago....

Now, mediocrity may, of course, be praised, but, as Balzac has put it,
it is never discussed. And Schopenhauer, in the matter of discussion,
came in for his full share. He was praised and abused by turn. Like
every prominent figure, he made a good mark to fire at. Certain critics
said that he had stolen from Fichte and Schelling everything in his
philosophy that was worth reading, others abused him personally; and
one writer, a woman with whom he had refused to converse, and who had
probably expected to pay her hotel bill with the protocol of his
conversation, wrote a quantity of scurrilous articles about him. But
censura perit, scriptum manet. The criticisms are forgotten, while
his work still endures and, moreover, grows each year into surer and
stronger significance.

Among his visitors at the time was M. Foucher de Carsil, and the
portrait which that gentleman subsequently drew of him is so graphic
that it is impossible to resist the temptation of making the following
extract:[6]--

     "When I first saw him, in 1859, at the Hôtel d'Angleterre, at
     Frankfort, he was then an old man, with bright blue and
     limpid eyes. His lips were thin and sarcastic, and about them
     wandered a smile of shrewd intelligence. His high forehead
     was tufted on either side with puffs of white hair that gave
     to his physiognomy, luminous as it was with wit and malice, a
     stamp of nobility and distinction. His garments, his lace
     jabot, his white cravat, reminded me of that school of
     gentlemen who lived toward the close of the reign of Louis
     XV. His manners were those of a man accustomed to the best
     society; habitually reserved and timid even to suspicion, he
     rarely entered into conversation with any save his intimates
     and an occasional sympathetic traveler. His gestures were
     abrupt, and in conversation they became at once petulant and
     suggestive. He avoided discussions and combats in words, but
     he did so that he might the better enjoy the charm of
     familiar conversation. When he did speak, his imagination
     embroidered on the heavy canvas of the German tongue the
     most subtle and delicate arabesques that the Latin, Greek,
     French, English, or Italian languages were capable of
     suggesting. Indeed, when he cared to talk, his conversation
     possessed swing and precision, and joined thereto was a
     wealth of citation, an exactitude of detail, and such
     tireless flow of wit, as held the little circle of his
     friends charmed and attentive until far into the night. His
     words, clear-cut and cadenced, captivated his listener
     wholly: they both pictured and analyzed, a tremulous
     sensitiveness heightened their fervor, they were precise and
     exact on every topic. A German, who had traveled extensively
     in Abyssinia, was so astonished at the minute details which
     he gave on the different species of crocodiles, and their
     customs, that he thought that in him he recognized a former
     companion.

     "Happy are they who heard this last survivor of the
     conversationalists of the eighteenth century! He was a
     contemporary of Voltaire and of Diderot, of Helvetius and of
     Chamfort; his brilliant thoughts on women, on the part that
     mothers hold in the intellectual qualities of their children;
     his theories, profoundly original, on the connection between
     will and mind; his views on art and nature, on the life and
     death of the species; his remarks on the dull and wearisome
     style of those who write to say nothing, or who put on a mask
     and think with the thoughts of others; his pungent
     reflections on the subject of pseudonyms, and on the
     establishment of a literary censure for those journals which
     permitted neologisms, solecisms, and barbarisms; his
     ingenious hypotheses on magnetic phenomena, dreams, and
     somnambulism; his hatred of excess of every kind; his love of
     order; and his horror of obscurantism, 'qui, s'il n'est pas
     un péché contre le Saint Esprit en est un contre l'esprit
     humain,' make for him a physiognomy entirely different from
     any other of this century."

A few tags and tatters of these conversations have been preserved by
Dr. Frauenstadt,[7] and in them Schopenhauer is discovered sprawled at
ease, and expressing himself on a variety of topics with a
disinvoltura and freedom of epithet which recalls the earlier
essayists. With them, as with him, periphrasis was avoided. Spades were
spades, not horticultural implements; and in one dialogue Frauenstadt
compliments his master in having, in breadth and reach of his polemic,
nothing in common with contemporary regard for ears polite. Citations
of this class, however, may well be omitted. A thinker in slippers, and
especially in puris naturalibus, is generally unattractive even to
those the least given to prudishness. But beyond certain instances of
this description, the scholar and man of the world is usually very
discernible. At times he is profound, at others vivacious; for
instance, he is asked what man would be if Nature, in making the last
step which leads to him, had started from the dog or the elephant; to
which he answers, in that case man would be an intelligent dog or an
intelligent elephant, instead of being an intelligent monkey. As may be
imagined, there was about Schopenhauer very little of the Sunday-school
theologian, and religion was in consequence seldom viewed by him from
an orthodox standpoint; when, therefore, Schleiermacher was quoted
before him to the effect that no man can be a philosopher who is not
religious, he observed very quietly, "No man who is religious can
become a philosopher,--metaphysics are useless to him, and no true
philosopher is religious; he is sometimes in danger, but he is not
fettered, he is free." Elsewhere he said, "Religion and philosophy are
like the two scales of a balance; the more one rises, the more does the
other descend."

In Schopenhauer's opinion, the greatest novels were "Tristram Shandy,"
"Wilhelm Meister," "Don Quixote," and the "Nouvelle Héloïse." To "Don
Quixote" he ascribed an allegorical meaning, but as an intellectual
romance he preferred "Wilhelm Meister" to all others. He believed in
clairvoyance, but not that man is a free agent; and it may be here
noted that, according to the most recent scientific opinion, man is a
free agent, at most, about once in twenty-four hours. "Everything
that happens, happens necessarily," he would say; and it was with this
maxim, of whose truth he had a variety of every-day examples, and with
the aid of the theory of the ideality of time, that he explained second
sight. "Everything is now that is to be," he said; "but with our
ordinary eyes we do not see it; the clairvoyant merely puts on the
spectacles of Time."

In the "Paränesen und Maximen," in which Schopenhauer chats quietly
with the reader and not with the disciple, many quaint and forcible
suggestions are to be found. For instance, among other things, he says,
"I accord my entire respect to any man who, when unoccupied, and
waiting for something, does not immediately begin to beat a tattoo with
his fingers, or toy with the object nearest his hand. It is probable
that such a man has thoughts of his own." His advice, too, on the
manner in which we should think and work is quite Emersonian in its
directness. It was, it may be added, the manner in which he thought and
worked, himself: "Have compartments for your thoughts and open but one
of them at a time; in this way each little pleasure you may have will
not be spoiled by some lumbering care; neither will one thought drive
out another, and an important matter will not swamp a lot of smaller
ones."

Such, vaguely outlined, was this great and interesting figure. With the
appearance of the "Parerga" his work was done. He lived ten years
longer in great seclusion, receiving only infrequent visits. "There,
where two or three are gathered together," he would say, and suggested
that his friends and believers should meet and consult without him.
Such literary labor as he then performed consisted mainly in
strengthening that which he had already written, and in making notes
and suggestions for future editions. At the age of seventy-two he died,
very peacefully though suddenly, leaving all his fortune to charitable
purposes.

In these pages no attempt has been made to enter into the details of
biography, for that pleasant task has been already well performed by
other and better equipped pens. The present writer has therefore only
sought to present such a view of Schopenhauer as might aid the general
reader to a clearer understanding of the doctrine which he was the
first to present, and which will be briefly considered in the next
