brown-skinned Calabrian girls as wives. And this makes one, who knows
something more about your country than you do, Luigione--though in a
less practical way I confess--this makes one think that they may be the
modern descendants of some Norman knightling who took Verbicaro for
himself one morning in the old days, and kept it; or perhaps even the
far-off progeny of one of those bright-eyed, golden-locked Goths who
made slaves of the degenerate Latins some thirteen centuries ago or
more, and treated their serfs indeed more like cattle than slaves until
almost the last of them were driven into the sea with their King Teias
by Narses. But a few were left in the southern fastnesses and in the
Samnite hills, and northward through the Apennines, scattered here and
there where they had been able to hold their own; and some, it is said,
forgot Theodoric and Witiges and Totila and Teias, and took service in
the Imperial Guard at Constantinople, as Harold of Norway and some of
our own hard-fisted sailor fathers did in later years.

Be that as it may--and no one knows how it was--the Children of the King
have yellow hair and blue eyes to this present time, and no one would
take them for Calabrians, nor for Sicilians, still less for
monkey-limbed, hang-dog mouthed, lying, lubberly Neapolitans who can
neither hand, reef nor steer, nor tell you the difference between a
bowline and a buntling, though you may show them a dozen times, nor
indeed can do anything but steal and blaspheme and be the foulest,
filthiest crew that Captain Satan ever shipped for the Long Voyage. Not
fit to slush down the mast of a collier, the best of them.

It must be a dozen years since Carmela died in that little house beyond
the cabbage garden. It was a glorious night in September--a strange
night in some ways, and not like other nights one remembers, for the
full moon had risen over the hills to the left, filling the world with a
transparent vapour of silver, so clear and so bright that the very light
seemed good to breathe as it is good to drink crystal water from a
spring. Verbicaro was all asleep behind Don Pietro Casale's house, and
in front, from the terrace before the guest-room, one could see the
great valley far below beyond the cabbages, deep and mysterious, with
silver-dashed shadows and sudden blacknesses, and bright points of white
where the moon's rays fell upon a solitary hut. And on the other side of
the valley, above Grisolia, a great round-topped mountain and on the top
of the mountain an enormous globe of cloud, full of lightning that
flashed unceasingly, so that the cloud was at one instant like a ball of
silver in the moonlight, and at the next like a ball of fire in
darkness. Not a breath stirred the air, and the strange thunderstorm
flashed out its life through the long hours, stationary and alone at its
vast height.

In the great silence two sounds broke the stillness from time to time;
the deep satisfied grunt of a pig turning his fattest side to the cobble
stones as he slept--and the long, low wail of a woman dying in great
pain.

The little room was very dark. A single wick burned in the boat-shaped
cup of the tall earthenware lamp, and there was little oil left in the
small receptacle. On the high trestle bed, upon the thinnest of straw
mattresses, decently covered with a coarse brown blanket, lay a pale
woman, emaciated to a degree hardly credible. A clean white handkerchief
was bound round her brow and covered her head, only a scanty lock or two
of fair hair escaping at the side of her face. The features were calm
and resigned, but when the pain of the death agony seized upon her the
thin lips parted and deep lines of suffering appeared about the mouth;
She seemed to struggle as best she could, but the low, quavering cry
would not be stifled--lower and more trembling each time it was renewed.

An old barefooted friar with a kindly eye and a flowing grey beard stood
beside her. He had done what he could to comfort her and was going away.
But she feebly begged him to stay a little longer. In an interval, while
she had no pain, she spoke to her boys.

"Ruggiero--Sebastiano--dear sons--you could not save me, and I am going.
God bless you. Our Lady help you--remember--you are Children of the
King--remember--ah."

She sighed heavily and her jaw fell as another sort of pallor spread
suddenly over her face. Poor Carmela was dead at last, after weeks of
sickness, worked to death, as the neighbours said, by Pietro Casale and
his wife Concetta.

She left those two boys, lean, poorly clad lads of ten and twelve years,
yellow haired and blue eyed, with big bones and hunger-pinched faces.
They could just remember seeing their father brought home dead with a
knife wound in his breast six years earlier. Now they took hands as
they looked at their dead mother with a sort of wondering gaze. There
were no tears, no cries of despair--least of all did they show any fear.

Old Padre Michele made them kneel down, still hand in hand, while he
recited prayers for the dead. The boys knew some of the responses,
learned by ear with small regard for Latinity, though they understood
what they were saying. When the monk got up they rose also and looked
again at the poor dead face.

"You have no relations, my children," said the old man.

"We are alone," answered the elder boy in a quiet, clear voice. "But I
will take care of Sebastiano."

"And I will help Ruggiero," said the younger in much the same tone.

"You are hungry?"

"Always," answered both together, without hesitation.

Padre Michele would have smiled, but the hungry faces and the mournful
tone told him how true the spoken word must be. He fumbled in the
pockets in the breast of his gown, and presently produced a few
shady-looking red and white sugar sweetmeats, bullet-like in shape and
hardness.

"It is all I have now, my children," said the old man. "I picked them up
yesterday at a wedding, to give them to a poor little girl who was ill.
But she was dead when I got there, so you may have them."

The lads took the stuff thankfully and crunched the stony balls with
white, wolfish teeth.

With Padre Michele's help they got an old woman from amongst the
neighbours to rouse herself and do what was necessary. When all was over
she took the brown blanket as payment without asking for it, smuggling
it out of the mean room under her great black handkerchief. But it was
day then, and Don Pietro Casale was wide awake. He stopped her in the
narrow part of the lane at the foot of his own staircase, and forcibly
undid the bundle, to the old woman's inexpressible discomfiture. He said
nothing, as he took it from her and carried it away, but his thin grey
lips smiled quietly. The old woman shook her fist at him behind his
back and cursed his dead under her breath. From Rome to Palermo, swear
at a man if you please, call him by bad names, and he will laugh at you.
But curse his dead relations or their souls, and you had better keep
beyond the reach of his knife, or of his hands if he have no weapon. So
the old woman was careful that Pietro Casale should not hear her.

"Managgia l'anima di chi t' Ã¨ morto!" she muttered, as she hobbled away.

Everything in the room where Carmela died belonged to Don Pietro, and he
took everything. He found the two boys standing together, looking across
the fence of the cabbage garden down at the distant valley and over at
the height opposite, beyond which the sea was hidden.

"Eh! You good-for-nothings!" he called out to them. "Is nothing done
to-day because the mother is dead? No bread to-night, then--you know
that."

"We will not work for you any more," answered Ruggiero, the elder, as
both turned round.

Don Pietro went up to them. He had a short stout stick in his hand,
tough and black with age, and he lifted it as though to drive them to
work. They waited quietly till it should please him to come to close
quarters, which he did without delay. I have said that he was a man of
few words. But the Children of the King were not like Calabrian boys,
children though they were. Their wolfish teeth were very white as they
waited for him with parted lips, and there was an odd blue light in
their eyes which is not often seen south of Goth-land.

They were but twelve and ten years old, but they could fight already, in
their small way, and had tried it many a time with shepherd lads on the
hill-side. But Don Pietro despised children and aimed a blow at
Ruggiero's right shoulder. The blow did not take effect, but a moment
had not passed before the old peasant lay sprawling on his back with
both the boys on top of him.

"You cannot hurt the mother now," said Ruggiero. "Hit him as I do,
Bastianello!"

And the four bony boyish fists fell in a storm of savage blows upon Don
Pietro Casale's leathern face and eyes and head and thin grey lips.

"That is for the mother," said Ruggiero. "Another fifty a-piece for
ourselves."

The wiry old peasant struggled desperately, and at last threw himself
free of them and staggered to his feet.

"Quick, Bastianello!" shouted Ruggiero.

In the twinkling of an eye they were over the fence and running at full
speed for the valley. Don Pietro bruised, dazed and half-blinded,
struggled after them, crashing through hedges and stumbling into ditches
while he shouted for help in his pursuit. But his heavy shoes hampered
him, and at best he was no match for them in speed. His face was covered
with purple blotches and his eyelids were swelling at a terrible rate.
Out of breath and utterly worn out he stood still and steadied himself
against a crooked olive-tree. He could no longer hear even the footsteps
of the lads before him.

They were beyond his reach now. The last of the Children of the King had
left Verbicaro, where their fathers had lived and died since darker ages
than Calabrian history has accurately recorded.




CHAPTER II.


"We shall never see him again," said Ruggiero, stopping at last and
looking back over the stone wall he had just cleared.

Sebastiano listened intently. He was not tall enough to see over, but
his ears were sharp.

"I do not hear him any more," he answered. "I hurt my hands on his
nose," he added, thoughtfully, as he glanced at his bruised knuckles.
