all the delights of those two enchanting evenings, would have filled
Jessie’s cup to overflowing. But since she might as well cry for the
moon she tried to get some comfort out of imagining it all as she
rumbled home in a snowstorm, and cried herself to sleep after giving
Laura a cheerful account of the rehearsal, omitting the catastrophe.

The sun shone next morning, hope woke again, and as she dressed
Jessie sung to keep her heart up, still trusting that some one would
remember her before the day was over. As she opened her windows the
sparrows welcomed her with shrill chirpings, and the sun turned the
snow-covered vine to a glittering network very beautiful to see as
it hung like a veil of lace over the dingy wall. Jessie smiled as
she saw it, while taking a long breath of the keen air, feeling
cheered and refreshed by these familiar comforters; then with a
brave, bright glance up at the clear blue sky she went away to the
day’s duties, little guessing what pleasant surprises were on their
way to reward her for the little sacrifices which were teaching her
strength, patience, and courage for greater ones by-and-by.

All the morning she listened eagerly for the bell, but nothing came;
and at two o’clock she went away to the dancing-class, saying to
herself with a sigh,--

“Every one is so busy, it is no wonder I’m forgotten. I shall hear
about the fun in the papers, and try to be contented with that.”

Though she never felt less like dancing, she was very patient with
her little pupils, and when the lesson was over sat resting a
moment, with her head still full of the glories of the Kirmess.
Suddenly Mademoiselle came to her, and in a few kind words gave her
the first of the pleasant surprises by offering her a larger salary,
an older class, and many commendations for her skill and
faithfulness. Of course she gratefully accepted the welcome offer,
and hurried home to tell Laura, forgetting her heavy heart, tired
feet, and disappointed hopes.

At her own door the second surprise stood waiting for her, in the
person of Mrs. Fletcher’s servant with a large box and a note from
Miss Fanny. How she ever got herself and her parcel up the long
stairs Jessie never knew, she was in such a frantic hurry to see
what that vast box could contain. She startled her sister by
bursting into the room breathless, flushed, and beaming, with the
mysterious cry of,--

“Scissors! quick, the scissors!”

Off went cords and papers, up flew the cover, and with a shriek of
rapture Jessie saw the well-known Hungarian costume lying there
before her. What it all meant she could not guess, till she tore
open the note and read these delightful words:--

DEAR JESS,--My cold is worse, and the doctor won’t let me go
to-night. Isn’t it dreadful? Our dance will be ruined unless you
will take my place. I know you will to oblige us, and have a lovely
time. Every one will be glad, you do it so much better than I can.
My dress will fit you, with tucks and reefs here and there; and the
boots won’t be much too large, for though I’m fat I have small feet,
thank goodness! Mamma will call for you at seven, and bring you
safely home; and you must come early to-morrow and tell me all about
it.

In the small box you will find a little token of our gratitude to
you for your kindness in helping us all so much. Yours ever,

FAN.

As soon as Jessie could get her breath and recover from this first
delightful shock, she opened the dainty parcel carefully tied up
with pink ribbons. It proved to be a crystal slipper, apparently
full of rosebuds; but under the flowers lay five-and-twenty shining
gold dollars. A little card with these words was tucked in one
corner, as if, with all their devices to make the offering as
delicate and pretty as possible, the givers feared to offend:--

“We return to our dear Princess the glass slipper which she lost at
the ball, full of thanks and good wishes.”

If the kind young persons who sent the fanciful gift could have seen
how it was received, their doubts would soon have been set at rest;
for Jessie laughed and cried as she told the story, counted the
precious coins, and filled the pretty shoe with water that the buds
might keep fresh for Laura. Then, while the needles flew and the gay
garments were fitted, the happy voices talked and the sisters
rejoiced together over this unexpected pleasure as only loving girls
could do.

“The sweetest part of all the splendid surprise is that they
remembered me just at the busiest time, and thanked me in such a
lovely way. I shall keep that glass slipper all my life, if I can,
to remind me not to despair; for just when everything seemed
darkest, all this good luck came,” said Jessie, with ecstatic skips
as she clanked the brass heels of her boots and thought of the proud
moment when she would join in the tzardas before all Boston.

Gentle Laura rejoiced and sympathized heartily, sewed like a busy
bee, and sent her happy sister away at seven o’clock with her
sweetest smile, never letting her suspect what tender hopes and
fears were hidden in her own heart, what longing and disappointment
made her days doubly sad and lonely, or how very poor a consolation
all the glories of the Kirmess would be for the loss of a friend who
had grown very near and dear to her.

No need to tell the raptures of that evening to little Jessie, who
enjoyed every moment, played her part well, and was brought home at
midnight ready to begin all over again, so inexhaustible is youth’s
appetite for pleasure.

To her great surprise, Laura was up and waiting to welcome her, with
a face so full of a new and lovely happiness that Jessie guessed at
once some good fortune had come to her also. Yes, Laura’s
well-earned reward and beautiful surprise had arrived at last; and
she told it all in a few words as she held out her arms
exclaiming,--

“He has come back! He loves me, and I am so happy! Dear little
sister, all your hard times are over now, and you shall have a home
again.”

So the dreams came true, as they sometimes do even in this
work-a-day world of ours, when the dreamers strive as well as hope,
and earn their rewards.

Laura had a restful summer at the seaside, with a stronger arm than
Jessie’s to lean upon, and more magical medicine to help her back to
health than any mortal doctor could prescribe. Jessie danced again
with a light heart,--for pleasure, not for pay,--and found the new
life all the sweeter for the trials of the old one. In the autumn
there was a quiet wedding, before three very happy people sailed
away to Italy, the artist’s heaven on earth.

“No roses for me,” said Jessie, smiling at herself in the mirror as
she fastened a spray of rosy ivy-leaves in the bosom of her fresh
white gown that October morning. “I’ll be true to my old friend; for
it helped me in my dark days, and now it shall rejoice with me in my
bright ones, and go on teaching me to climb bravely and patiently
toward the light.”




PANSIES


They are never alone that are accompanied with noble thoughts.--SIR
PHILIP SIDNEY.

“I’VE finished my book, and now what CAN I do till this tiresome
rain is over?” exclaimed Carrie, as she lay back on the couch with a
yawn of weariness.

“Take another and a better book; the house is full of them, and this
is a rare chance for a feast on the best,” answered Alice, looking
over the pile of volumes in her lap, as she sat on the floor before
one of the tall book-cases that lined the room.

“Not being a book-worm like you, I can’t read forever, and you
needn’t sniff at ‘Wanda,’ for it’s perfectly thrilling!” cried
Carrie, regretfully turning the crumpled leaves of the Seaside
Library copy of that interminable and impossible tale.

“We should read to improve our minds, and that rubbish is only a
waste of time,” began Alice, in a warning tone, as she looked up
from “Romola,” over which she had been poring with the delight one
feels in meeting an old friend.

“I don’t WISH to improve my mind, thank you: I read for amusement in
vacation time, and don’t want to see any moral works till next
autumn. I get enough of them in school. This isn’t ‘rubbish’! It’s
full of fine descriptions of scenery--”

“Which you skip by the page, I’ve seen you do it,” said Eva, the
third young girl in the library, as she shut up the stout book on
her knee and began to knit as if this sudden outburst of chat
disturbed her enjoyment of “The Dove in the Eagle’s Nest.”

“I do at first, being carried away by my interest in the people, but
I almost always go back and read them afterward,” protested Carrie.
“You know YOU like to hear about nice clothes, Eva, and Wanda’s were
simply gorgeous; white velvet and a rope of pearls is one costume;
gray velvet and a silver girdle another; and Idalia was all a
‘shower of perfumed laces,’ and scarlet and gold satin mask dresses,
or primrose silk with violets, so lovely! I do revel in ‘em!”

Both girls laughed as Carrie reeled off this list of elegances, with
the relish of a French modiste.

“Well, I’m poor and can’t have as many pretty things as I want, so
it IS delightful to read about women who wear white quilted satin
dressing-gowns and olive velvet trains with Mechlin lace sweepers to
them. Diamonds as large as nuts, and rivers of opals and sapphires,
and rubies and pearls, are great fun to read of, if you never even
get a look at real ones. I don’t believe the love part does me a bit
of harm, for we never see such languid swells in America, nor such
lovely, naughty ladies; and Ouida scolds them all, so of course she
doesn’t approve of them, and that’s moral, I’m sure.”

But Alice shook her head again, as Carrie paused out of breath, and
said in her serious way: “That’s the harm of it all. False and
foolish things are made interesting, and we read for that, not for
any lesson there may be hidden under the velvet and jewels and fine
