away. Marchetto returned to the original question.

"If it is worth so much, why do you not take it to one of the
embassies?" asked Balsamides at last. He had resolved that he would
prolong the discussion until twelve o'clock, judging that by midday the
negro would be on his way back to Yeni Köj, and that there would be no
further chance of seeing him. He therefore broached the subject of
Marchetto's trade with the foreigners, knowing that once upon this tack
the Jew would have endless stories and anecdotes to relate. But
Gregorios was not destined to stand in need of so much ingenuity. He
would never have made the attempt in which he was now engaged unless he
had anticipated success, and he was not surprised when a tall,
smooth-faced negro, of hideous countenance but exceedingly well dressed,
put his head into the shop. He saluted Gregorios and entered. Marchetto
touched his mouth and his fez with his right hand, but did not at first
rise from his seat upon the floor. Balsamides watched the man. He looked
about the shop, and then approached the old glass case in the corner. He
had hardly glanced at it when he turned and tried to catch Marchetto's
eye. The latter made an almost imperceptible motion of the head.
Gregorios was satisfied that the pantomime referred to the watch, which
was no longer in its place. He continued to talk with the Jew for a few
minutes, and then slowly rose from his seat.

"I see you have business with this gentleman," he said. "I have
something to do in the bazaar. I will return in half an hour."

The Lala seemed delighted, and politely made way for Gregorios to pass,
but Marchetto of course protested loudly that the negro's business could
wait. He accompanied Gregorios to the door, and with many inclinations
stood looking after him for a few moments. At a little distance
Gregorios pretended to be attracted by something exposed for sale, and,
pausing, looked furtively back. The Jew had gone in again. Then
Balsamides returned and entered a shop almost opposite to Marchetto's,
kept by another Spanish Hebrew of Saloniki, who made a specialty of
selling shawls,--a smart young fellow, with beady black eyes.

"Good morning, Abraham," he said. "Have you manufactured any new Kashmir
shawls out of old rags of borders and French imitations since I saw
you?"

Abraham smiled pleasantly, and began to unfold his wares. Before many
minutes the sound of angry voices was heard outside. Gregorios had
ensconced himself in a corner, whence he could see what went on without
being seen. The quarrelers were Marchetto and the Lala.

"Dog of a Jew!" screamed the black man in his high, cracked voice. "Will
you rob me, and then turn me out of your filthy den? You shall suffer
for it, you Saloniki beast!"

"Dog yourself, and son of a dog!" bellowed Marchetto, his big face
growing fiery red as he blocked the doorway with his bulky shoulders.
"Behold the gratitude of this vile wretch!" he cried, as though
addressing an audience. "Look at this insatiate jackal, this pork-eater,
this defiler of his father's grave! Oh! beware of touching what is
black, for the filth will surely rub off!"

Exasperated at the Jew's eloquent abuse, the Lala tried to push him back
into the shop, flourishing his light cane in his right hand. In a moment
a crowd collected, and the epithets of the combatants were drowned
amidst the jeers and laughter of the by-standers, delighted at seeing
the dandy keeper of a great harem in the clutches of the sturdy
Marchetto.

Abraham looked out, and then turned back to his customer.

"It is Selim," he said with a chuckle. "He has been trying to cheat
Marchetto again."

"Again?" repeated Gregorios, who had at last attained his end. "And who
is Selim, Abraham?"

"Selim? Everybody in the bazaar knows Selim, the most insolent,
avaricious, money-grabbing Lala in Stamboul. He is more like a Persian
than anything else. He is the Lala of Laleli Khanum Effendi, who lives
at Yeni Köj. They say she is a witch since her husband died," added
Abraham, lowering his voice.

"I have heard so," said Gregorios calmly. But in reality he was
triumphant. He knew now what had become of Alexander Patoff.

The noise outside was rapidly growing to an uproar. Gregorios slipped
quickly out of the shop and made his way through the crowd, for he felt
that it was time to put a stop to the quarrel. Many of the people knew
him, and knew that he was an officer and a man in authority; recognizing
him, they stopped yelling and made way for him.

"What is this?" he cried, violently separating Marchetto and the negro,
who were screaming insults at each other and shaking their fists in each
other's faces. "Stop this noise," he continued, "or I will send a score
of soldiers down to keep you in order. If the Lala is not satisfied, he
can go before the magistrate. So can Marchetto, if he likes.--Go!" he
said to the negro, pushing him away and scattering the crowd. "If you
have any complaints to make, go to the magistrate."

"Who are you?" asked the fellow, insolently.

"It is none of your business," answered Gregorios, dragging the man away
in the nervous grip of his white hand; then lowering his voice, he spoke
quickly in the man's ear: "Do you remember the Bairam, a year ago last
summer? If you are not quiet, I will ask you what became of the chain of
that watch, of the silver box, and especially of that beautiful ring
with the sapphire and two diamonds. Moreover, I may ask you what became
of a certain Frank Effendi, to whom they belonged,--do you understand?"

The man trembled in every joint, and a greenish livid hue seemed to
drive the blackness out of his face.

"I know nothing!" he gasped hysterically. But Balsamides let him go.

"Be quick," he said. "The watch will be paid for, but do not venture to
come to the bazaar again for some time. Fear nothing,--I have an eye to
your safety."

The last speech was perhaps somewhat ambiguous, but the man, being once
released, dived into a narrow passage and disappeared. The crowd of
Jews had shrunk into their shops again. Gregorios hastily concluded a
bargain with Abraham, and then returned to finish his conversation with
Marchetto. He found the latter mopping his forehead, and talking
excitedly to a couple of sympathetic Hebrews who had entered his place
of business. On seeing Balsamides they immediately left the shop.

"I have sent him away," said Gregorios. "He will not trouble you again."

"It is not my fault if the dog of a Turk is angry," answered Marchetto.

"I hardly know. He says he had left a watch with you to be sold, and
that now he can get neither the watch nor the money. You like to keep
your customers waiting when they have anything to sell, Marchetto. How
long is it since he gave you the watch?"

"On my head, it is only three weeks," answered the Jew. "How can I sell
a watch in three weeks and get the money for it? An Effendi took the
watch yesterday to show it to Vartan, the jeweler. He is a friend of
yours, Effendim; you first brought him here a long time ago. His name is
a strange name,--Cricks,--a very strange name, like the creaking of an
ungreased cart-wheel."

"Oh, did he take the watch? I will speak to him about it. He will pay
you immediately. How did the Lala come to have a watch to sell?"

"Allah bilir. He is always bringing me things to sell."

"Other things?"

"He showed me a gold chain one day in the winter. But it was not
curious, so he took it to a jeweler in the jeweler's tcharshee, who gave
him the value of the gold by weight."

"Who is he?" asked Gregorios, judging that he ought to show some
curiosity about the man.

"I cannot tell," answered the Jew.

"That means that you will not, of course. Very well. It is your affair.
Curiosity is the mother of deception. Will you give me the Rhodes for
ten pounds?"

They began to bargain again, but nothing was concluded on that day, for
Gregorios had got what he wanted, and was anxious to reach home and to
see me.

Patoff and I, as usual on Thursday, had made a trip up the Bosphorus,
and it was on this occasion that he first pointed out to me the hideous
negro. He proved to be the same man I had seen once before, on our very
first excursion. To-day he looked more ugly than ever, as he went ashore
at Yeni Köj. There was a malignity in his face such as I have never seen
equaled in the expression of any human being.

"I wonder what we shall find out," said Paul thoughtfully. "I have a
very strong belief that he is the fellow who sold the watch. If he is,
poor Alexander can have had but small chance of escape. Did you ever see
such a diabolical face? Of course it may be a mere fancy, but I cannot
rid myself of the thought."

"Balsamides will find out," I replied. "He can handle those fellows in
the bazaar as only an Oriental can."

It was not long before I heard the story of the morning's adventure from
Gregorios. I found him waiting for me and very impatient. He told his
tale triumphantly, dwelling on the fact that Marchetto himself had never
suspected that he was interested in the matter.

"And who is Laleli Khanum Effendi?" I inquired when he had finished.
"And how are we to get into her house?"

"You never heard of Laleli? You Franks think you know Constantinople,
but you know very little in reality. Laleli means 'a tulip.' A pretty
name, Tulip. Why not 'cabbage rose,' or 'artichoke,' or 'asparagus'?
Laleli is an extraordinary woman, my friend, and has been in the habit
of doing extraordinary things, ever since she poisoned her husband. She
is the sister of a very high and mighty personage, who has been dead
some time. She was married to an important officer in the government.
She was concerned in the conspiracy against Abdul Azis; she is said to
have poisoned her husband; she fell in her turn a victim to the
conspiracy against Murad, and, though not banished, lost all favor. She
managed to keep her fortune, however, which is very large, and she has
lived for many years in Yeni Köj. There are all sorts of legends about
her. Some say she is old and hideous, others declare that she has
preserved her beauty by witchcraft. There is nothing absurd which has
not been said of her. She certainly at one time exercised considerable
