
Wolverton, who was of a suspicious disposition, was led to think that
Sam had stolen the money from him. He could think of no other way in
which the boy could get possession of it.

He went home, and sought his sister Sally.

"Sally, where is Sam?"

"I don't know." Then, noticing the frown upon her brother's brow, she
inquired, "Is anything the matter?"

"I think there is. Sam has money."

"What do you mean? Where'd he get it, Aaron?"

"That's what I want to find out," and he told her of Sam's visit to the
store.

"Have you missed any money, Aaron?"

"Not that I know of. You haven't left any round?"

"No."

"It stands to reason the boy has taken money from one of us. Even if he
hasn't, whatever he has belongs to me by right, as I am takin' care of
him."

"Half of it ought to go to me," said Sally, who was quite as fond of
money as her brother.

"I don't know about that. But where's the boy?"

"I don't know. He may have gone over to see the Burtons. He's there most
of the time."

"I'll foller him."

Aaron Wolverton went into the shed, and came out with a horse-whip. He
did not keep a horse, but still he kept a whip. For what purpose Sam
could have told if he had been asked.

"If the boy's become a thief, I want to know it," said Wolverton to
himself.

Sam had really started on the way to the Burtons. His uncle struck his
trail, so to speak, and followed him. He caught up with his nephew about
half a mile away. Sam had thrown himself down on the ground under a
cotton-wood tree, and gave himself up to pleasant dreams of the
independence which manhood would bring. In his reverie he unconsciously
spoke aloud. "When I'm a man, Uncle Aaron won't dare to boss me around
as he does now."

The old man, creeping stealthily near, overheard the words, and a
malicious smile lighted up his wrinkled face.

"Oho, that's what he's thinkin' of already," he muttered. "What more?"

"I wish I could live with the Burtons," proceeded the unconscious Sam.
"They would treat a boy decently."

"So I don't treat him decently," repeated Wolverton, his small eyes
snapping.

He had by this time crawled behind the trunk of the tree under which Sam
was reclining.

"I sometimes think I'd like to run away and never come back," continued
Sam.

"You do, hey?" snarled Wolverton, as he stepped out from behind the
tree.

Sam jumped to his feet in dire dismay, and gazed at his uncle
panic-stricken.

"Did you just come?" he stammered. "I didn't hear you."

"No, I reckon not," laughed his uncle, with a queer smile. "So you want
to get quit of your aunt and me, do you?"

"I don't reckon to live with you always," faltered Sam.

"No; but you ain't a-goin' to leave us just yet. There's a little matter
I've got to inquire into."

Sam looked up inquiringly.

"What is it?"

"What did you go into Locke's store for?" demanded his uncle,
searchingly.

"I just went in to look round," answered Sam, evasively.

"You went to look at a fishing-pole," said Aaron Wolverton, sternly.

"What if I did?" asked Sam, plucking up a little courage.

"Did you have the money to buy it?"

"Ye--es," answered Sam, panic stricken.

"How much money have you got?"

"A dollar."

"Which you stole from me!" asserted Wolverton, with the air of a judge
about to sentence a criminal to execution.

"No, I didn't. It didn't come from your house."

"Where did it come from?"

"Mrs. Burton gave it to me--for my birthday."

"I don't believe it. It's one of your lies. Give it to me this instant."

Poor Sam became desperate. What! was he to lose the only money of any
account which he ever possessed? He was not brave, but he made a stand
here.

"You have no right to it," he said, passionately. "It's mine. Mrs.
Burton gave it to me."

"I tell you it's a lie. Even if she had done so I should have the right,
as your uncle, to take it from you. Give it to me!"

"I won't!" said Sam, desperately.

"Won't, hey?" repeated Wolverton, grimly. "Well, we'll see about that."

He raised the horse-whip, and in an instant Sam's legs--he was standing
now--felt the cruel lash.

"Won't, hey?" repeated his uncle. "We'll see."

"Help!" screamed Sam. "Will no one help me?"

"I reckon not," answered his uncle, mockingly, and he raised his whip
once more.

But before the lash could descend, it was snatched from him, and,
turning angrily, he confronted Bob Burton, fierce and indignant, and saw
Clip standing just behind him.




CHAPTER XI.

AN ANGRY CONFERENCE.


"You ought to be ashamed of yourself, you brute!" exclaimed Bob.

"Do you want me to thrash you, too?" snarled Wolverton, angrily.

"You can try, if you want to," returned Bob, contemptuously.

"Sam, what was he going to whip you for?" asked Bob, turning to his
unfortunate friend.

"I'll answer that question," said Wolverton, "though it's no concern of
yours. The boy has been robbing me."

"What have you to say, Sam?"

"It's not true."

"What do you charge him with taking, Mr. Wolverton?"

"A dollar."

"It's the one your mother gave me, Bob."

"To be sure! I saw her give it to you myself."

"He lies, and you swear to it," said Wolverton, with a sneer.

"Mr. Wolverton, you have brought a false charge against your nephew, and
you know it. If you don't care to take his word or mine, you can come
over to our house and ask my mother whether Sam's story is true."

"It doesn't matter whether it's true or false," said Wolverton,
doggedly. "Sam is under my charge, and I have a right to any money he
comes by."

"I always knew you were mean," said Bob, contemptuously, "but this is
ahead of anything I ever imagined. Do you still accuse Sam of robbing
you?"

"I don't know whether he did or not."

"You can easily satisfy yourself by calling on my mother."

"I mean to call on your mother, but it won't be on this business," said
Wolverton, opening his mouth and showing the yellow fangs which served
for teeth.
