
"We fled," replied I, "because we had not the slightest prospect of
ever being set free; on the contrary, every day showed us more clearly
that the Japanese were determined never to release us."

"Who told you that? Have I ever hinted to you that we would always
hold you prisoners?"

"The orders from the capital," replied I, "forboded no good."

"Whence do you know that?"

"The officer here present, whom we instructed in the Russian language,
gave us good ground to suppose so."

The governor now addressed several questions to this officer, which we
understood no better than his answers; we saw only that he was not a
little embarrassed, and grew red and white by turns.

The governor now turned to us again and commanded us to give him the
history of our flight, without omitting the most trivial circumstance.
We were obliged to tell him where we were each day, and make a sketch
of several localities, concerning which he seemed to be in some doubt.
After he had demanded of us whether some of the guards and servants
had not been privy to and aided our escape, he inquired in an earnest
manner, what was the precise object of our flight.

"To return to our native land," replied we.

"How would it have been possible to have carried out this project?"

"We intended to capture a boat somewhere along the coast, and venture
in it to the nearest Russian port."

"Could you not have guessed that as soon as your escape was known,
orders would be given immediately, to watch the coast and especially
all vessels."

"Yes, we expected that, but in the course of time our enterprise might
have succeeded when we least expected it."

"But," continued the governor, "you saw in your former journeys, that
the land was covered with mountains, among which it is very difficult
to travel, and that along the coast lie numberless villages, which
would render escape almost impossible. Your undertaking was
thoughtless and childish."

"And yet," replied I, "for six nights we wandered along the shore, and
through these villages, without being discovered by any one. At any
rate, we would leave no plan untried, let it be as thoughtless, or
even desperate as it may, to escape from our miserable lot, and as we
had an eternal imprisonment hovering over us, we determined either to
reach our homes, or find a grave among the mountains or beneath the
waves."

"Why was it necessary to go into the woods or on the sea in order to
die, when you could do it very easily here?"

"That would have been suicide, but if we venture our lives to win our
freedom, we could rely on the aid of God, and perhaps gain our end."

"Had you succeeded, what would you have said in Russia, concerning the
Japanese?"

"All that we have heard or seen, without adding or concealing any
thing."

"Do not you know that if you had escaped, the governor, and several
other officers would have lost their lives in consequence."

"We could well imagine that the guards would not have escaped
punishment, as that is customary in Europe, but we were not aware that
the Japanese laws were so cruel as to condemn innocent persons to
death."

"Is there a law in Europe which allows a prisoner to escape?"

"There is certainly no written law, but if he has not pledged his word
of honor, it is allowable for him to seize on any favorable
opportunity for flight."

With this equivocal explanation, the examination ended, and the
Governor now made a long speech, in which he said: If we were
Japanese, and had secretly left our prison, the consequences for us
would have been very serious; but as we were foreigners, and not
acquainted with the Japanese laws, and had, moreover, no object in
view which was injurious to the Japanese, but were influenced solely
by a desire to see again our native land, which is dearest to every
man; therefore, his good opinion of us remained unchanged. It was true
that he could not answer for the light in which the government would
regard our flight, but he would still hold himself devoted to our
interests, and endeavor to get permission for us to return to Russia;
but until our affairs were settled, we must, according to the Japanese
laws, return to prison, and be more carefully guarded than before.

After the governor had finished his speech, he left the hall, whilst
we were immediately bound, and led to a prison, which, like our former
ones, consisted of cages. I was put into a small one, whilst my
companions were confined together in one of a large size. They stood,
however, so near together, that we could converse very easily. Our
food was now given to us with a very sparing hand, and the sailors
continually complained of hunger. After supper, which we ate about
four o'clock, our prison was shut up, and as the walls were made of
boards, instead of lattice work, not a ray of light reached us after
that hour. As soon as it struck six o'clock, the guards came to
examine us, which they did very thoroughly, and if we were asleep woke
us, to answer to our names. On the fourth of May, we were again led
into the hall, at daybreak, where, as I received many hints, something
very important was this time to be determined. When we had taken our
places on the benches, which were prepared for us, they unloosened
our hands, but did not remove from our waists the rope, which we were
led by. The governor now repeated the questions he had before asked
us, and had the answers we gave, carefully explained. But now came the
most important question, which was, whether I considered my conduct as
right or wrong, and whether I thought I had acted properly towards the
Japanese or not.

"The Japanese," replied I, "forced us to the course we took, by first
taking us prisoners by stratagem, and then refusing to give credence
to our assertions."

The governor appeared very much astonished at my words; the capturing
of us, he said, was now a by-gone affair, about which it was useless
to say any thing; he merely wished to know whether I considered myself
innocent or guilty, as in the former case he could not lay our case
before the Emperor. All the objections I made, did no good; they only
made him angry, and he kept repeating the same question. At last as I
began to see what he was aiming at, and that he only had our interests
in view, I frankly confessed that we had not acted rightly, and that
our conduct merited punishment. He seemed very well satisfied with
this confession of mine, and we were told that our affairs were
prospering.

We were now led back to the house, where we had dwelt before our
flight, and treated very well. Besides our usual fare, they gave us
tea, and very good tobacco, and provided us, too, with combs,
handkerchiefs, and also curtains, to protect us against the gnats,
which were very troublesome. Besides these marks of good-will, they
gave us some Russian books to read, and pens, ink, and paper; but
when we expressed a wish to learn to write the Japanese tongue, they
told us that their laws expressly forbade them to teach Christians
their language. We never, however, received permission to take walks
again, but in order that we might enjoy the fresh air, the governor
ordered the doors of our dwelling to be left open from morning until
evening.

In this manner, with all our wants gratified, but with time hanging
heavy on our hands, we lived until the sixth of September. On that day
we were again conducted to the castle, and received the joyful
intelligence that the Diana was again at Kumachir, and treating with
the Japanese government for our liberation. Our joy, however, was of
short duration, for we received information in a letter from the
commander of the vessel, that in order to satisfy the Japanese, he was
obliged to return to Russia to procure from the government the
required avowal, that the acts of violence perpetrated in Japanese
territory, was done without their knowledge or consent. We were,
therefore, obliged to remain for another year, but during that time we
were treated with the greatest consideration.

In September following, word was brought to us that a Russian vessel
had again arrived in the Japanese waters, and a few days afterwards we
were informed that the negotiations had been successfully terminated,
and that we would soon begin our journey to Khakodade. From this time
forward, we were most hospitably entertained. Several officers, with
their children, visited us, and heartily wished us joy at our
liberation. The mayor of the town, also came to see us, and presented
us with a beautifully lacquered casket, filled with confectionary, as
a token of remembrance. On the following morning, amid the rejoicing
of the inhabitants, we left Matsmai, and after a journey of three
days, reached Khakodade, where the Diana soon afterwards arrived,
accompanied by a multitude of Japanese boats, tastefully ornamented.

On the morning of the fifth of October, an officer, in the most
respectful manner, presented me with my hat and sword, which, during
our imprisonment, had been carefully preserved. I was, however,
obliged to dress myself as the Japanese wished, namely, in a jacket,
and wide breeches of costly silk, which had been made expressly for
the occasion. The hat and sword must have made this dress appear
strange enough in the eyes of Europeans, but as it was all the same to
the Japanese, and since they had returned our arms, they had ceased to
regard us as prisoners. I willingly complied with their wishes, and
determined to present myself before my countrymen, in a costume in
which they would have some difficulty in recognizing me.

As every thing was ready for our departure, we went down to the shore,
accompanied by the governor and all the officers. Here we found a
magnificently decorated barge waiting for us, in which we embarked,
after having taken leave of a crowd of people, who wished us a
pleasant journey. A multitude of boats, laden with every thing
belonging to us, and numerous presents besides, shot from the shore,
and accompanied us to the vessel.

On board the Diana, the officers and men received us with a joy which
only brothers or bosom friends feel under such circumstances. As for
ourselves, when after an imprisonment of two years, two months, and
twenty-six days, we again found ourselves on board an imperial vessel
of war, and surrounded by our countrymen, we felt what can only be
felt, and not described. On the tenth of October we weighed anchor,
and with a favorable wind left the land of our sufferings, whose
inhabitants, nevertheless, we had learned to esteem and love.
