the ladies, instead of crooking his back over that writing," said
Hollis.

But the judge waved him aside. "For God's sake, Tennant, come out, and
see what you can do with Cicely! She is determined to go to that
murdering brother of yours in spite of--"

"Hold up, if you please, about my brother," said Paul, putting down his
pen.

"And Eve is abetting her;--says she will take her to-morrow."

"Not Miss Bruce? What has made her change so?--confound her!"

The judge had already started to lead the way back. But Hollis, who was
behind, touched Paul's arm. "I say, don't confound her too much, Paul,"
he said, in a low tone. "She is a remarkably clever girl. And she thinks
a lot of you."

"Sorry for her, then," answered Paul, going out. As Hollis still kept up
with him, he added, "How do you know she does?"

"Because I like her myself," answered Hollis, bravely. "When you're that
way, you know, you can always tell."

He fell behind. Paul went on alone.

When he reached the camp-fire, Cicely looked up. "Oh, you've come!"

"Yes."

"There are two of us now. Eve is on my side."

"So I have heard." He went to Eve, took her arm, and led her away almost
by force to the shadow at some distance from the fire. "What in the
world has made you change so?" he said. "Do you know--it's abject."

"Yes, it's abject," Eve answered. She could see him looking at her in
the dusky darkness; she had never been looked at in such a way before.
"It's brave, too," she added, trying to keep back the tears.

"I don't understand riddles."

"I think you understand mine." She had said it. She had been seized with
a sudden wild desire to make an end of it, to put it into words. The
overweight of daring which nature had given her drew her on.

"Well, if I do, then," answered Paul, "why don't you want to please me?"

She turned her head away, suffocated by his calm acceptance of her
avowal. "It would be of no use. And I want to make one woman happy; so
few women are happy!"

"Do you call it happy to have Ferdie knocking her about?"

"She does."

"And knocking about Jack, too?"

"I shall be there, I can take care of Jack."

"I see I can do nothing with you. You have lost your senses!"

He went back to Cicely. "Ferdie has his faults, Cicely, as we both know;
but you have yours too, you make yourself out too important. How many
other women do you think he has cared for?"

"Before he saw me, five hundred, if you like; five thousand."

"And since he saw you--since he married you?"

Cicely laughed happily.

"I will bring you something," said Paul. He went off to his tent.

Eve came rapidly to Cicely. "Don't believe a word he tells you!"

"If it is anything against Ferdie, of course I shall not," answered
Cicely, composedly.

The judge had followed Paul to his tent. He waited anxiously outside,
and then followed him back.

"I don't believe, after all, Cicely, that you are going to do what I
don't want you to do," said Paul, in a cheerful tone, as he came up. He
seemed to have abandoned whatever purpose he had had, for he brought
nothing with him--his hands were empty.

Cicely did not reply, she played with a curl of Jack's hair.

"Ferdie himself doesn't want you to go; you showed me his letter saying
so."

"Yes."

"Isn't that enough, then? Come, don't be so cold with me," Paul went on,
his voice taking caressing tones.

Cicely felt their influence. "I want to go, Paul, because that very
letter of Ferdie's makes me afraid," she said, wistfully; "I feel that
there is something behind, something I do not know."

"If there is, it is something which he does not wish you to know."

"That could never be; it is only because I am not with him; when I am
with him, he tells me everything, he likes to tell me."

"Will you take my word for it if I assure you that it is much better for
both of you, not only for yourself, but for Ferdie, that you stay here
awhile longer?"

"No," replied Cicely, hardening. Her "no" was quiet, but it expressed an
obstinacy that was immovable.

Paul looked at her. "Will you wait a week?"

"No."

"Will you wait three days?"

"I shall start to-morrow," replied Cicely.

"Read this, then." He took a letter from his pocket and held it towards
her, his name, "Paul Tennant, Esq.," clearly visible on the envelope in
the light of the flame.

But at the same instant Eve bent forward; she grasped his arm, drawing
his hand back.

"Don't you interfere," he said, freeing himself.

Eve turned to the judge. "Oh, take her away!"

"Where to? I relied upon Tennant; I thought Tennant would be able to do
something," said the old man, miserably.

Paul meanwhile, his back turned squarely to Eve, was again holding out
the letter to Cicely.

Cicely did not take it.

"I'll read it aloud, then." He drew the sheet from its envelope, and,
opening it, began, "'Dear old Paul--'"

Cicely put out both her hands,--"Give it to me." She took it hastily.
"Oh, how can you treat him so--Ferdie, your own brother!" Her eyes were
full of tears.

"I cared for him before you ever saw him," answered Paul, exasperated.
"What do you know about my feelings? Ferdie wishes you to stay here, and
every one thinks you exceedingly wrong to go--every one except Miss
Bruce, who seems to have lost her head." Here he flashed a short look at
Eve.

"I shall go!" cried Cicely.

"Because you think he cannot get on without you?"

"I know he cannot."

"Read the letter, then."

"No, take the letter away from her," said Eve. She spoke to Paul, and
her tone was a command. He looked at her; with a sudden change of
feeling he tried to obey her. But it was too late, Cicely had thrust the
letter into the bodice of her dress; then she rose, her sleeping child
in her arms. "Grandpa, will you come with me? Will you carry Jack?"

"I will take him," said Paul.

"No, only grandpa, please; not even you, Eve; just grandpa and I. You
may come later; in fifteen minutes." She spoke with a dignity which she
had never shown before, and they went away together, the old man
carrying the sleeping child.

"What was in that letter?" Eve demanded accusingly, as soon as they were
left alone.

"Well, another woman."

"Cruel!"

"Yes, it seems so now," said Paul, disturbed. "My one idea about it was
that it might make her less confident that she was all-important to him;
in that way we could keep her on here a while longer."

"Yes, with a broken heart."

"Oh, hearts! rubbish!--the point was to make her stay. You haven't half
an idea how important it is, and I can't tell you; she cannot go back to
him until I have been down there and--and changed some things, made new
arrangements."

"I think it the greatest cruelty I have ever heard of!" She hurried
through the woods towards the tents; Paul followed her.

The judge came out as they approached. "She is reading it," he said in a
whisper. "Tennant, I hope you know what you are about?"

"Yes; that letter will make her stay," answered Paul, decisively.
