and passed quite near him.

The captain could not tell whether the second lieutenant had spoken to
the deaf mute or not, but the latter hastened to the engine hatch, and
descended to the engine room. The Bronx was within less than a cable's
length of the Scotian, whose name could now be read on her stern, when
Mulgrum, apparently ordered by Lillyworth to do so, had hastened to the
engine hatch. Even on the bridge the noise of a scuffle could be heard
in the engine room, and the captain was sure that Sampson had been
obedient to his orders. Another minute or two would determine in what
manner the Scotian was to be captured, and Christy hastened down the
ladder to the deck.

As soon as his foot pressed the planks, he hastened to the engine hatch.
Calling to the engineer, he learned that the deaf mute had been knocked
senseless by Sampson, and lay on the sofa. He waited to hear no more,
but went forward where there were bell pulls on the deck, and rang two
bells to stop her. Then he gave some orders to the quartermaster, and
rang three bells to back her. The Bronx came alongside of the Scotian
as handsomely as though she had been a river steamer making one of
her usual landings. The hands who had been stationed for the purpose
immediately used their grappling irons, and the two vessels were fast
to each other.

"Boarders!--" the first lieutenant shouted at a sign from the captain;
but before he could complete the order, Pawcett, for we may now call him
by his right name, leaped on the bulwarks of the Bronx.

"This is a United States"--he began to say, but he was allowed to
proceed no farther, for the first lieutenant raised the revolver he
carried in his left hand, doubtless for this very purpose, and fired.

Pawcett did not utter another word, but fell back upon the deck of the
Bronx; where no one took any further notice of him.

"Boarders, away!" shouted the first lieutenant.

This time the sentence was finished, and the order was promptly
executed. Hardly a half minute had been lost by the attempt of Pawcett
to prepare the officers of the Scotian to do their duty; but he had said
enough to enable the ship's company to understand what he would have
said if he had finished his announcement. The officers and seamen were
both surprised, and there was a panic among the latter, though the
former rallied them in a moment. But they had lost all their chances,
and after an insignificant struggle, the deck of the steamer was in
possession of the boarders. The crew were driven forward by the
victorious "Bronxies" as Giblock called them. "Do you surrender?"
said Mr. Baskirk to the officer he took for the captain.

"I do not see that I have any other alternative," replied the commander
of the Scotian, politely enough, but it was evident that he was sorely
afflicted, and even ashamed of himself. "I understand now that I am the
victim of a Yankee trick."

"Allow me to introduce you to Captain Passford, commander of the United
States steamer Bronx," continued Mr. Baskirk, as Christy came on board
of the prize.

The captain of the Scotian retreated a pace as Christy stepped up
in front of him, and gracefully lifted his cap to the unfortunate
commander.

"I beg your pardon, sir, but did I understand you to say that this young
gentleman is the commander of the steamer alongside?" demanded the
captain, looking at Christy from head to foot.

"He is the commander, sir; Captain Passford," added Baskirk.

"May I be allowed to ask whom I have the honor to address?" Christy
began, lifting his cap again, as did the other also.

"Captain Dinsmore, at your service."

"I sincerely regret your personal misfortune while I rejoice at the
result of this action, as a loyal citizen of the United States," replied
Christy.

Then he invited the captain to his cabin.




CHAPTER XV

THE SCOTIAN BECOMES THE OCKLOCKONEE


As he went to the deck of the Bronx, the young commander sent the first
lieutenant on board of the prize to superintend the arrangements for
disposing of the ship's company. Captain Dinsmore was requested to
produce his papers, and Christy conducted him to his cabin. As his
father had advised him always to be on such occasions, he was studiously
polite, as in fact he was at all times. Whether the other captain was
usually so or not, he was certainly courteous in every respect, though,
with the heavy misfortune which had befallen him, it was vastly more
difficult for him to control his feelings, and conduct himself in a
gentlemanly manner. Captain Passford desired to understand in what
capacity the Scotian was approaching the American coast before he made
his final arrangements. After giving his guest, as he regarded him, or
rather treated him, a chair in his cabin, Christy called Dave, who had
followed him below.

"Will you excuse me a moment or two while I attend to a necessary duty?"
said he, turning to Captain Dinsmore, as he seated himself at the table.

"Certainly, captain; I am not so much in a hurry as I have been at other
times," replied the other with a rather sickly smile.

"Keep a sharp lookout for the Arran," Christy wrote on a piece of paper,
and handed it to the steward. "Give that to Mr. Flint."

Captain Passford had observed when he visited the deck of the Scotian
that she was well armed, and he had no doubt that her consort was
similarly provided for the business of war. It was therefore of the
highest importance that the Arran should not come unexpectedly upon the
Bronx at a time when she was hardly in condition to meet an enemy.

"Now, Captain Dinsmore, may I trouble you for your papers?" he
continued, turning to his guest, as he preferred to regard him.

"I admit your right to examine them under present circumstances,"
replied Captain Dinsmore, as he delivered the package to him.

"Perhaps we may simplify and abbreviate this examination to some extent,
sir, if you are so disposed," added Christy, as he looked the other full
in the face.

"I shall be happy to have you do so, Captain Passford," replied the
visitor in the cabin, with something like eagerness in his manner. "You
conduct yourself like a gentleman, sir, and I am not at all disposed to
embarrass you unnecessarily."

"Thank you, sir; I appreciate your courtesy."

"I am afraid it is not so much courtesy as it is desperation, for if I
should act in accordance with my feelings, I should blow my brains out
without any delay," said Captain Dinsmore. "I should not say as much as
this to any but a generous enemy; but I feel that I am ruined, and that
there is nothing more in the future for me."

Christy really sympathized with him, and could not help thinking how
he should feel if the situations were reversed. He realized that the
commander of the Scotian had been very careless in the discharge of
his duty in permitting any vessel to come alongside of her without
considering that she might be an enemy. This inefficiency was doubtless
the cause of his distress. Christy had kept uppermost in his mind the
advice of his father at the last moment before he sailed, and he asked
himself if, while the prisoner was thus exciting his sympathy and
compassion, the latter was not expecting the Arran would appear and
reverse the fortunes of war.

"I am sorry you take such a severe view of your situation," added the
captain of the Bronx. "But my first duty is to ascertain the character
of the vessel which you surrender."

"You shall have no doubt in regard to that, Captain Passford," answered
the commander of the Scotian, proudly. "I am not a dickering merchant,
trying to make money out of the situation of my country. The Scotian,
as you call her, is the Confederate steamer Ocklockonee, and here is my
commission as a lieutenant in the Confederate Navy," he added as he took
the document from his pocket and tendered it to his captor.

Christy looked at the paper, and then examined the other papers in
the packet. They left no doubt in his mind as to the character of the
Ocklockonee, if he had had any before. He folded up the commission and
politely returned it to the owner. The examination was completed so far
as he was concerned; but Captain Dinsmore did not seem to be satisfied,
though he made no complaint that anything was wrong in the proceedings.
He was evidently a very proud and high-strung man, and appeared to be
unable to reconcile himself to the situation.

"I am a ruined man!" he exclaimed several times; and when he looked at
the commander of the Bronx, measuring him from head to foot, as he had
already done several times, it seemed to increase his distress of mind,
and make him more nervous than before.

"While I regret that a brave man like yourself, captain, should be at
war with the government which I honor and love, I hope that personally
your future will be as bright as I am sure your merit deserves," said
Christy.

"If it had been a square and well-fought action, I should not feel
as I do about it. You will pardon me, and understand that I mean no
disrespect to you, captain, but I look upon myself as the victim of a
Yankee trick," said Captain Dinsmore, bitterly. "But please to consider
that I do not charge any blame or treachery upon you, sir."

"I think I can understand your feelings, sir; but I cannot see that in
resorting to strategy to save my men, my conduct has been in any manner
dishonorable," replied Christy, holding his head a little higher than
usual. "I should hold that I had been guilty of misconduct if I had
failed to take advantage of the circumstances under which I have
captured the Ocklockonee."

"I quite agree with you, Captain Passford. I should have done the same
thing myself if the opportunity had been presented to me," the guest
hastened to say. "But that does not in the least degree relieve me from
the consequences of my own negligence. When you are more at leisure,
I hope you will permit me to make an explanation of the situation in
which I was placed."
