  Till the drums of his ears were broken and his heart was dissolved for
      lack of breath.
  But the pearl is still there, at the bottom of the sea,
  And the sea is as blue as the sky in winter.
  This is the kasid of the fisherman of Oman
  Which Zehowah Bint ul Mahomed el Hamid
  Has made and sung for her lord, Khaled the Sultan.
  May Allah send him long life and many such hearts
  As the one which fell into the ocean
  When the sky was as blue as the sea in winter.'

'This is a new song,' said Khaled, when she had finished.

'Is it? I made it many months ago,' Zehowah answered. 'Does it please
you?'

'It is not very melodious, nor do I think there is much truth in the
matter of it. But I thank you, for it has served to pass the time.'

Zehowah laughed a little scornfully.

'I daresay you would prefer the song of a Persian nightingale,' she
said. 'Nevertheless my song is full of truth, though you cannot see it.
There are many who seek for things of great value and do not know when
they have found them because a crab has bitten their hands.'

'Verily,' thought Khaled, 'this is indeed the spirit of contradiction.'

But he was silent for a time, not wishing that she should think him
easily moved. In the meantime Zehowah played softly upon the little
instrument and Khaled watched her, wondering whether she were not
playing upon the strings of his heart, for her own pleasure, as
skilfully as her fingers ran upon the chords of the barbat. Many words
rose to his lips then, and he wished that he also had the science of
music that he might sing sweetly to her. Then he laughed aloud at his
own imagination, which was indeed that of a foolish youth.

'The lion roaring for a sweetmeat,' he thought, 'and the sword-hand
aching to scratch little tunes upon a lute!'

Zehowah turned suddenly when he laughed, and ceased from playing.

'I am glad that you are merry,' she said. 'I like laughter better than
reproaches and prefer it to gloomy forebodings of evil when none is at
hand.'

Khaled's face grew dark, and he looked again towards the door.

'If you will stay with me, you shall see that evil is not far off,' he
answered, for she had reminded him of what he was expecting, and he knew
that it was no jesting matter. 'But you shall please yourself in this as
in all other matters, though it were better for you to go now and shut
yourself up in an inner room and wait for the end. The night is
advancing, and all will soon be over.'

'Hear me, Khaled,' said Zehowah, speaking earnestly. 'If you bid me go,
I will go, or if you desire me to stay, I will remain with you. But if
you are indeed in danger, as you say, let us call up the guards and the
watchmen who sleep in the palace, that they may stand by you with their
swords and help you to fight if there is to be strife.'

'I will have no treacherous fellows about me,' Khaled answered, 'and
there are none here whom I can trust. My hour is coming and I will
fight this fight alone. But if you were such as I once hoped, I would
say: "Remain with me, so long as you are safe." Now, since Allah has
willed it thus, I say to you: "Go and seek safety where you can find
it." Go, therefore, Zehowah, and leave me alone, for I need no one
beside me, and you least of all.'

He turned away his head, lest she should see his face, and with his hand
made a gesture bidding her to leave him. She rose from her seat softly
and hung the barbat upon the wall with the other musical instruments,
looking over her shoulder to see whether he would call her back. But he
neither moved nor spoke, being resolved to venture all upon this trial,
for he knew that if she loved him even but a little, she would not leave
him alone in the extremity of danger.

Then she went towards the door of the room, turning her head to look at
him as she passed near him.

'Farewell,' she said. But he did not answer nor show that he heard her
voice.

As she lifted the curtain to go out, she lingered and gazed at him. He
sat motionless upon the carpet, upright against the wall, his sword
lying across his feet, his hands hidden under his sleeves, looking
towards her indeed but not seeming to see her.

'There can be no real danger,' she thought. 'Could any man sit thus,
expecting death, and refusing to let any one stand by him to fight with
him? Surely, he is playing with me, and setting a trap for me. But he
shall not catch me.'

She turned to go and the curtain was falling behind her when the night
wind from the open passage brought a sound to her ears from a far
distance. She started and listened, as camels do when they hear the
first moving of the hot wind. There were no voices in the noise, which
was low and dull, like the breathing of a great multitude and the soft
moving of feet, and altogether it was as the slow rising and falling
back of the sea upon the shores of Oman, when the great summer storm is
coming from the south-west.

Zehowah stood still a moment and drank in every murmur that reached her
from without. Then her face grew white and her lips trembled when she
thought of Khaled sitting alone on the other side of the curtain, with
his sword upon his feet, waiting for the end. She lifted the hanging a
little and looked at him again. He saw her, but made no sign. Even as
she looked, the distant murmur grew louder and she fancied that he moved
his head as though he heard it. Then she entered the room and came and
stood before him.

'There is a great multitude in the square before the palace,' she said.

'I know it,' he answered, calmly looking up to her face. 'It needed not
that you should tell me.'

'Will you not let me stay with you now?' asked Zehowah.

'Why should you stay here?' he asked with a pretence of indifference.
'Of what use are you to me? Take this sword. Can you strike with it?
Your wrist is feeble. Or take a bow from the weapons on the wall. Can
you draw the string? Your strength is sufficient for the lute, and your
skill for scratching the strings of the barbat. Go and save yourself. I
am alone and every man's hand is against me.'

Zehowah stood still in the room and hesitated, looking into his eyes for
something which she all at once desired with a hot thirst. At last she
spoke in an uncertain voice.

'Yet you said not long since that if I were such as you once hoped, you
would bid me remain.'

'I do not care,' he answered. 'Yet for your own sake, I advise you to go
away.'

'For my own sake!' she repeated, trying to speak scornfully, and turning
to go a second time.

But she did not reach the door. She stood still before the weapons which
hung upon the wall, and paused a moment and then took a sword from its
place. Khaled watched her. She grasped the hilt as well as she could
and swung the weapon in the air once with all her might. Then she
uttered a little cry of pain, for she had twisted her wrist. The sword
fell to the floor.

'He is right,' she said in a low tone, speaking aloud to herself. 'I am
weak and can be of no use to him.'

She went on once more towards the door, slowly, her head bent down, then
stopped and then looked back again. She feared that she might see a
smile on his face, but his eyes were grave and calm. Then he saw her
turn and lean against the wall as though she were suddenly weak. She hid
her face, and there was silence for a moment, and after that a low sound
of weeping filled the still room.

'Why do you shed tears?' Khaled asked presently. 'There is no danger for
you, I think. If you will go and shut yourself in the inner rooms you
will be safe.'

She turned fiercely and their eyes met.

'What do I care for myself?' she cried. 'Among so many deaths there is
surely one for me!'

Even as she spoke Khaled felt a cool breath upon his forehead, stirring
the stillness. He knew that it came from the beating of an angel's
wings. All his body trembled, his head fell forward a little and his
eyes closed.

'This is death,' he thought, 'and my fate has come. A little longer,
and she would have loved me.' But he did not speak aloud.

Again Zehowah's face was turned towards the wall, and still the sound of
her weeping filled the air, not subsiding and dying away, but rather
increasing with every moment.

'Life is not yet gone,' said Khaled in his heart. 'There is yet hope.'
For he no longer felt the cold breath on his forehead, and the trembling
had ceased for a moment.

He tried to speak aloud, but his lips could not form words nor his
throat utter sounds, and he was amazed at his weakness. A great despair
came upon him and his eyes were darkened so that he could not see the
lights.

'If only I could speak to her now, she might love me yet!' he thought.

The distant murmur from without was louder now and reached the room, and
he heard it. He tried with all his might to raise his hand, to lift his
head, to speak a single word.

'It may be that this is the nature of death,' he thought again, 'and I
am already dead.'

The noise from the multitude came louder and louder. Zehowah heard it
and her breath was caught in her throat. She looked up and saw that the
high window of the chamber was no longer quite dark. The day was
dawning. Then pressing her bosom with her hands she looked again at
Khaled. His head was bent upon his breast and he was so still that she
thought he had fallen asleep. A cry broke from her lips.
