
"I know. I've seen him here often."

"Have you?" asked Fred with interest. "So he comes here a good deal,
does he?"

"Yes, he comes here mostly alone, and goes into the woods. Once me and
another boy got into the boat and rowed while he was gone."

"I suppose he enjoys walking in the woods."

"It ain't that," said the boy significantly.

"What is it, then?" asked Fred, trying to repress his excitement.

"I think he's got business in the woods."

"What business can he have there?"

"I think he's got something hidden there."

"What makes you think so?"

"You won't tell him what I say, will you?"

"I saw him when he first came here. He had a bundle done up in paper.
He left the boat and went into the woods, and when he came back he
didn't have the paper."

"He may have had it in his pocket."

"No, he didn't. It was a big package, and if it had been in his pocket
it would have made it bulge out."

"I see you are quite an observing boy. I dare say you are right. What
do you think there was in the package?"

"I guess it was money. If I had a lot of money I wouldn't hide it in
the woods."

"Nor I," answered Fred, laughing.

"I'd buy a trunk and keep it inside."

"Somebody might open the trunk."

"Any way it would be safer than hiding it in the woods."

"I don't know but you are right. I hope the time will come when you and
I will have a lot of money to conceal."

"Is the man a friend of yours?" asked the boy.

"We are boarding at the same hotel. I have only known Mr. Bowman two
days."

"Is he from the States?"

"Yes. I believe he came from New York."

"Where do you come from?"

"I live in New York too."

"I'd like to see New York. I'd go there if my father would let me."

"I am not sure but you are better off here. Some boys have a hard time
making a living in New York."

"I thought everybody in New York was rich."

"If you ever come to New York you'll find out your mistake," rejoined
Fred, laughing.

"If you ain't a friend of Mr. Bowman, as you call him," said the boy,
lowering his vice, "I'll tell you something."

"I wish you would. Mr. Bowman is not a friend of mine, but there is no
one else to keep company with, so I go round with him."

"I know where he has hidden his money."

"Is this true?" asked Fred in excitement.

"Yes."

"But how did you find out?"

"One day I followed him. I dodged behind trees and kept out of sight.
Once he came near seeing me when he looked back, but I was just in
time. By and by he came to the place."

"What sort of a place?"

"Did I say I would tell you?" asked the boy shrewdly.

"No, but I will make it worth your while."

The boy eyed Fred with suspicion, and his manner became cold.

"Do you want to rob him?" he asked.

"No."

"Then why do you want to know where he has hid his money?"

Fred deliberated hurriedly. There was no way except to take the boy
into his confidence.

"I see you are an honest boy," he said, "and I like you better for it."

"That's all right, but why do you want me to tell you where Mr. Bowman
has hidden his money?"

"Can you keep a secret?"

"Is there a secret?"

"Yes; the package which this man has hidden contains bonds which he
stole from a New York banker."

"How do you know that?"

"Because I am sent to get them back, if possible. That is why I have
come to St. Victor, and that is why I have formed the acquaintance of
Mr. Bowman."

"Is this true?" asked the boy, not wholly without suspicion.

"Listen and I will tell you the story. I must be quick, for Mr. Bowman
may be back any minute."

"There he is now."

"Meet me to-morrow at ten in the morning just back of the place where
you were sitting when I took you on board the boat, and I will tell you
all. In the name of Mr. Wainwright I will agree to pay you a hundred
dollars, if by your help I recover the bonds."

"It's a bargain!" said the boy, his eyes sparkling.




CHAPTER XXXIII.

SUCCESS!

"Who is that boy?" asked Bowman carelessly, as he re-entered the boat.

"I don't know. He asked me to take him for a little row, and I was glad
to have him for company."

"I have been taking a stroll through the woods. In fact, I was brought
up in the woods," said Bowman with a laugh.

Fred understood that he was trying to give a plausible explanation of
his absence.

"I like the woods myself," he rejoined. "Do they extend far?"

"Not very far. I enjoyed my stroll in among the trees, even barren as
they are now of leaves, very much. It brought back to my mind my
schoolboy days."

Bowman seemed in quite good spirits. Evidently he had found that his
secret hiding-place had not been discovered.

"How much longer are you going to stay in St. Victor?" he asked after a
pause.

"I don't know," answered Fred slowly. "I may take a fancy to go away
any day."

"I wish I could go too. I am tired of this place."

"I suppose you are waiting for Mr. Sinclair to recover."

"Yes," answered Bowman, but there was hesitation in his tone.

A sudden suspicion entered Fred's mind. Was Bowman meditating giving
his confederate the slip, and deserting him, taking the bonds with him?
Had he perhaps taken the package from its hiding-place and got it
concealed about his person? A careful scrutiny satisfied Fred that this
was not the case. But it was quite possible that he would make another
visit the next day, and remove the bonds then.

"I must lose no time," he thought, "or I shall lose my opportunity."

They reached the hotel in time for dinner.

"What are you going to do this afternoon?" asked Bowman.

"I haven't thought particularly," answered Fred indifferently.

"Suppose we play poker? The landlord has a pack of cards."

"I don't know the game."

"It won't take long to learn. I will show you how it is played."
