"One never can tell what he will do," broke in Arden, raising himself a
little on his elbow, and facing his friend. His eyes were unnaturally
brilliant. "He is so eccentric. And Laura must have money--she must have
plenty--not that she is extravagant, but you know how she was brought up
in the Gerano's house, and I should never have thought of marrying her,
but for Uncle Herbert's money."

"You would both have been perfectly happy on a hundred a year," observed
Pietro. "People are when they love each other as you do."

Arden's face softened at once, and Ghisleri saw that he was thinking of
his wife. He was silent for a few moments.

"That is all very well," he said, suddenly rousing himself again. "That
might do so long as I should be there to make life smooth for her. But
when she is left alone--especially here--Ghisleri, I do not like to
think that she must live here after I am gone--"

"For Heaven's sake do not begin to talk in that way, Arden! It is
perfectly absurd. You only have a cold, after all!"

"Perhaps so. I believe I have something worse. Never mind! I was saying
that I could not bear to think of her living here without me. It is
quite true. No--it is not sentiment--something much more reasonable and
real. There are people here who hate us both, who positively hate us,
and who will make her life unbearable when there is no one to protect
her--the more so, if she is poor. And besides, you know what will happen
before long--oh, I cannot think of it!"

Ghisleri did not answer at once, for it was not clear to him how Arden
had discovered that he had enemies. But the latter waited for no answer,
and went on after a few seconds, still speaking excitedly.

"You see," he said, "how necessary it is that Harry should come--that
you should write to him--that he should be made to understand--he must
do something for Laura, Ghisleri--he really must."

There was something painful in the persistent repetition of the thought,
and then, oddly enough, Pietro started as he heard his own name
pronounced almost without an interval, immediately after that of Laura.
It sounded very strangely--Laura Ghisleri--he had never thought of it
before. A moment later he scorned himself for thinking of it at all.

"My dear Arden," he said, "you are really making yourself ill about
nothing. Put it all out of your mind for the present, and remember that
I am always ready if you need anything. You have only to send for me,
and besides, I shall come every day until you are quite well."

"Thank you, my dear fellow, you are a good friend. Perhaps you are
right. But as I lie here, thinking of all the possibilities--"

"You are beginning again," interrupted Ghisleri. "I must go away or you
will talk yourself into a fever."

At that moment Laura re-entered the room. She started a little when she
saw her husband's face.

"How do you find him?" she asked quickly of Ghisleri.

"He has a cold," answered the latter, cheerfully, "and perhaps there is
a little fever with it. I am going to leave him, for he ought to keep
quiet and not tire himself with too much talking."

He shook hands with Arden. Laura followed him out into the passage
beyond.

"He is very ill!" she exclaimed, in a low voice, touching his sleeve in
her excitement. "I can see it. He never looked like that."

"It may not be anything serious," answered Ghisleri. "But he ought to
see the doctor at once. I have a cab down stairs, and I will go and find
him and bring him here. Keep him quiet; do not let him talk."

"Yes. You are so kind."

She left him and went back to Arden's bedside. He was tossing uneasily
as though he could not find rest in any position, and the great round
spots on his cheeks had deepened almost to a purple colour. He scarcely
seemed to notice her entrance, but as she turned to move something on
the table, after smoothing his pillow, he caught her suddenly by the
skirt of her frock.

"Laura! Laura! do not go away!" he cried. "Do not leave me alone."

"No, love, I am not going," she answered gently, and sat down by his
side.

Ghisleri was not gone long. By a mere chance he found the doctor at
home, and brought him back. Then he waited in the drawing-room to hear
the result of the visit. The physician's face was graver when he
returned, and Laura was not with him.

"Is it anything serious?" asked Ghisleri.

"I am afraid so. I shall be better able to tell in a couple of hours.
The fever is very high, the other symptoms will develop before long, and
we shall know what it is."

"What do you think it might be?"

"It might be scarlet fever," answered the doctor. "I am afraid it is.
But say nothing at present. You should get a nurse at once, for some one
must sit up with him all night. I will send him something to take
immediately, and I will come back myself in about two hours."

They went away together, but when the doctor returned, he found Ghisleri
waiting for him in the street. It was now five o'clock and quite dark.
Pietro remained down stairs while the visit lasted.

"Well?" he asked, when the physician came down again.

"It is scarlet fever, as I was afraid--one of the most sudden cases I
ever knew. They have not got a nurse yet, the idea seems to frighten
Lady Herbert."

"I will see to it," said Ghisleri. "By the bye, it is contagious, is it
not? I have a visit to pay before dinner; ought I to change my
clothes?"

The doctor smiled. He did not know Ghisleri, and fancied that he might
be timid.

"It is not contagious yet," he answered, "or hardly at all. I do not
think there is any danger."

"There might be a little--even a very little, you think?" asked Pietro,
insisting.

"Of course it can do no harm to change one's clothes," replied the
other, somewhat surprised.

"You have told Lady Herbert exactly what must be done, I suppose. In
that case I shall not go up."

The doctor was confirmed in his suspicion that Ghisleri was afraid of
catching the fever, and got into his carriage, musing on the deceptive
nature of appearances. Pietro wrote a few words on his card, telling
Laura that he would be back before dinner time with the best nurse to be
found, and sent it up by the porter. Then he drove home as quickly as
possible, dressed himself entirely afresh, and went to see the Contessa
dell' Armi.

"I have come," he said, after the first greeting, "to tell you that you
will not see me for several days. Arden has got the scarlet fever, and I
shall be there taking care of him, more or less, until he is out of
danger."

"Can they not have a nurse for him?" asked Maddalena, raising her
eyebrows.

"There will be a nurse, too. I am going to get one now and take her
there."

"You do not seem anxious to consult me in the least," said the Contessa.
"You never do nowadays."

"What do you mean? Do you think this is a case of consulting any one? I
do not understand."

"Do you think you have any right to risk your life in this way? Do you
think you contribute to my happiness by doing it? And yet I have heard
you say that my happiness is first in your thoughts. Not that I ever
believed it."

"You are wrong," answered Ghisleri, gently. "I would do almost anything
for you."

"What a clever reservation--'almost' anything. You know that if you did
not put it in that way, I should tell you not to go near the Ardens
until there is no danger of catching the fever."

"Of course," assented Pietro.

"You ought not to be so diplomatic. You used to talk very differently.
Do you remember that evening by the waterfall at Vallombrosa? You have
changed since then."

Her classic face began to harden in the way he knew so well.

"There is no question of diplomacy," he said quietly. "Arden has been my
friend these ten years, and he is in very great danger. I mean to take
care of him as long as I am needed because I do not trust nurses, and
because Lady Herbert is anything but strong herself at the present time,
and may break down or lose her head. As for risking my life, there is no
risk at all in the matter. I have very little belief in contagion,
though the doctors talk about it."

"I suppose you have just seen him," observed the Contessa, who was
determined to find fault. "You do not seem to ask yourself whether I
share your disbelief."

"Since you ask," said Ghisleri, with a smile, "I admit that I changed my
clothes before coming to see you, for that very reason. Some people do
believe in danger of that kind."

"I am glad you admit it. So I am not to see you until Lord Herbert is
quite well again. I will not answer for the consequences. I have
something to say to you to-day. Are you in a hurry?"

"Not in the least."
