
"Where did you pass the night?"

"'Round here," he answered vaguely.

"You look as if you had been taking a long walk."

"You are very observing," said Colson, not over pleased.

"I always was. It pays a man--sometimes."

"I hear you've struck it rich," said Colson, not caring to take notice
of the other's significant tone.

"Found a nugget, they tell me," interpolated Ropes. "How big was it?"

"Weighs about seventy-five pounds!"

"That is luck!" said Colson, with a sickly smile. He could scarcely help
groaning as he thought of his loss.

"Well, yes, it is tolerable hefty. I reckon me and the boys will be able
to take it easy for a few years. But we came near losin' it, after
all."

"How's that?" Colson asked, but he did not venture to meet Obed's
glance.

"Some skunk saw us bringin' back the nugget, and prowled round till he
thought we was all asleep. Then he got into the cabin and carried it
off. That is, he thought he did, but we was a little too sharp for him.
We tied up a big rock in my handkerchief, and I guess he had a sweet
time carryin' it off."

"Ha, ha! A good joke!" said Colson, but his laughter was mirthless.

"I thought you'd enjoy the joke, squire," said Obed. "How I pity the
poor fellow! His arms must ache with luggin' the old rock. The best of
it is we know the fellow that took it."

"You do?" ejaculated Colson, his jaw dropping.

"Yes, Harry woke up just in the nick of time and saw him scootin' out of
the cabin. If I should tell the boys 'round here, I reckon they'd lynch
him!" added Obed quietly.

"Just so," assented Colson, but his face was of a sickly hue, and taking
Ropes by the arm he hurried him away.

"That fellow's well scared," said Obed, turning to his two young
companions. "I reckon he'll make himself scarce till we're out of the
way."




CHAPTER XXX.

THE TWO CONSPIRATORS.

Obed and the boys made arrangements to travel with the party sent by the
commissioner as an escort to the nugget and other sums intrusted to it
by different miners. The strong guard gave them a sense of security
which they would not have had under other circumstances.

They were all in high spirits. They were no longer penniless
adventurers, but, though not rich, were possessed of enough gold to make
them feel so. Now that they were well fixed they were all filled with a
strong desire to see their home across the sea.

"I suppose, Obed, you'll be getting married soon after you reach home?"
said Harry.

"The very first thing I shall do will be to pay off the mortgage on
dad's farm," said Mr. Stackpole. "I want to see him a free man, with a
home that can't be taken from him. Then I'll look after the other
matter."

"You are right, Obed. I only wish I had a father to help and care for,"
said Harry soberly.

"I've got a step-father," said Jack, "but I don't feel much like helping
him."

"You have a mother, Jack."

"Yes, but I shall have to be careful about giving her money, for her
husband would get it away from her before long."

"Well, boys, we won't borrow trouble before the time comes. For all I
know Suke Stanwood may have got tired of waitin' for me, and married
some other feller."

"In that case, Obed, I suppose you would die of a broken heart."

"Not much, but I don't mind sayin' that I should feel uncommon blue."

Two days elapsed before Obed and his party started on their return trip.
Meanwhile Colson and Ropes had disappeared. The boys had expected to see
them about the camp, but they had vanished.

"I wonder what has become of them?" said Harry, just as they were
starting.

"I reckon they're hatchin' some new mischief, wherever they are,"
returned Obed composedly. "You maybe sure they're not engaged in any
honest work."

"Perhaps Colson is trying to sell his nugget," suggested Jack with a
smile.

"He's welcome to all he can get for it," said Obed.

Obed was very near the truth in his conjecture. Their greed was excited
by thoughts of the nugget which our three friends had discovered, and
their brains were busied with plans for obtaining possession of it. The
chances didn't seem very encouraging. It was under strong escort, and it
would be sheer madness for the two to attack an armed party. It would
require a much larger force than they could command to make an attack at
all practicable.

With no special plans, but with the hope that something would turn up in
their favor, the two men started for Melbourne in advance of the
government party. They were indebted for the requisite funds to a
successful theft by Colson, who was an expert in his line. It is
unnecessary to chronicle their daily progress. We will look in upon them
on the fourth day.

They were making toilsome progress, over the boggy road, when all at
once they were confronted by three bushrangers headed by Fletcher.

"Surrender, or you are dead men!" exclaimed Fletcher, with a boldness
which will be easily understood when it is considered that his force
outnumbered the travellers two to one.

Neither Colson nor Ropes appeared to be frightened. Indeed, they were
looking for such an encounter.

"All right, gentlemen," said Ropes quietly. "We are quite ready to
surrender."

"Empty your pockets," was the next order.

"All right again!" said Ropes. "I am sorry to say we haven't much to
surrender."

"Is this all you have?" asked Fletcher, frowning when a pound and ten
shillings were delivered to him as their united contributions to the
bushrangers' fund.

"We haven't a penny more."

"Search them!" said Fletcher to his followers.

A search, however, failed to bring to light anything more.

"Why, you poor tramps!" exclaimed Fletcher in disgust. "You are unworthy
the attention of gentlemen."

"Perhaps not, captain," answered Colson. "May I have a word with you in
private?"

Not without suspicion Fletcher granted this unexpected request, and
stepped aside with Colson a few paces, taking care, however, to keep
near enough to his party to insure his safety.

"Well, what have you to say?" he asked abruptly.

"I have no money to give you," replied Colson, "but I have information
that will enable you to obtain a great deal."

"What is your object in telling me this?" demanded Fletcher, still
suspiciously.

"The fact is, my friend and I want to join with you in the enterprise,
and get a fair share of the booty."

"Do you wish to join our band, then?"

"Well, not permanently, but for a little while."

"Out with the information, then!"

"Will you agree to our terms?"

"What are they?"

"We want half of the prize."

"You are very modest," said Fletcher in a sarcastic tone. "How much will
it amount to?"

"Not far from a hundred thousand dollars."

Fletcher pricked up his ears. This was indeed a prize worth trying for.

"Give particulars," he said.

"A big nugget is on the way to Melbourne, or will be in a day or two. It
was found at Bendigo. I don't know how much it will net, but probably
