amongst their children, down to the youngest living heir, who was
Benjamin Slayback’s baby boy.

John Ralston pored over the paragraph till he knew it by heart. Then, as
soon as he proceeded to apply the terms to actual circumstances, he saw
that one-half of the whole fortune must go to Hamilton Bright, his
mother, and his sister, Hester Crowdie. Of the remaining half, he and
his mother would have half between them, or a quarter of the whole. The
smallest share would go to those who actually bore the name of
Lauderdale, for only the last quarter would remain to be distributed
between the two Alexanders, Charlotte, Katharine, and Charlotte’s child.
Robert Lauderdale had thus provided a little more liberally for
Katharine and himself than for most of the members of the family, since
they were to have, ultimately, more than a quarter of the whole. And
Alexander Junior would get one of the smallest shares. But it seemed
strange that the Brights should have so much, though it was just
possible that the old gentleman might have thought it wise to place a
large share in the hands of a trained man of business who would keep it
together.

On his side, Hamilton Bright had made the same calculations, and was as
near to losing his head with delight as his calm nature made possible.
He came up to Jack, and proposed that they should walk up town together
and discuss matters.

“I can’t,” answered Ralston. “I’ll go a bit of the way on foot, but my
mother wants to see me as soon as possible.”

They went out, followed by the envious eyes of many who had read the
paragraphs. In a few days they were both to have millions.

“Well,” said Ralston, when they were together on the pavement of Broad
Street, “it’s a queer will, isn’t it? I suppose we ought to congratulate
each other.”

“Wait till it’s all settled,” answered Bright, cautiously. “Not that
there’s going to be any difficulty, as far as I can see,” he added. “It
seems to be all right, and properly witnessed.”

“Oh--it’s all right enough. But if Alexander Junior can fight it, he
will. He’s come out worse than he expected. The only odd thing, to my
mind, is the name of the lawyer. Who is George W. Russell, anyway? Did
you ever hear of him?”

“Oh, yes--I know who he is. He’s a young chap who’s lately set up for
himself--real estate. I think I heard of his doing some work for uncle
Robert last year. He’s all right. And he’d be careful about the
witnessing and all that.”

“Yes--well--but why did uncle Robert go to him? Why didn’t he employ his
own lawyer--his regular one, I mean--or Henry Brett, or somebody one’s
heard of? I should think it would be more natural.”

“Probably he had made another will before, and didn’t like to tell his
own lawyer that he was making a new one. I’ve heard it said that old men
are queer about that. They don’t want any one to know that they’ve
changed their minds. When they do, they’re capable of going to any
shyster to get the papers drawn up. That’s probably what uncle Robert
did.”

“It’s a very just will in principle,” said Ralston. “I don’t know what
it will turn out in practice. I wonder what the estate is really worth.”

“Over eighty millions, anyhow. I know that, because Mr. Beman said he
had reason to be sure of it some time ago.”

“That gives us two twenty and you forty amongst you three. You didn’t
expect all that, Ham.”

“Expect it! I didn’t expect anything. The old gentleman never said a
word to me about it. Of course you were in a different position, your
mother being next of kin with old Alexander. But if Alexander Junior
broke the will--he can’t though, I’m certain--I shouldn’t get anything.
Of course--I think any will’s just that gives me a lot of money. And if
Alexander fights, I’ll fight, too.”

“He will, if he has an inch of ground to stand on. By the bye, if all
goes smoothly, I suppose you’ll retire from business, and I shall stop
clerking, and Crowdie will give up painting.”

“I don’t know,” answered Bright. “As for me, I think I shall stick to
the bank. There’ll be more interest in the thing when I’ve got a lot of
money in it. Crowdie? Oh--he’ll go on painting as long as he can see. He
likes it--and it isn’t hard work.”

They talked a little longer in the same strain, and then Ralston left
his friend and went up town by the Elevated, pondering deeply on the
situation. One thing seemed clear enough. However matters turned out,
whether Alexander Junior fought the will or not, Ralston and Katharine
would be free to declare their marriage as soon as they pleased. That
consideration outweighed all others with him at the present moment, for
he was tired of waiting. It was four months since he had been married,
and in that time he had seldom had an opportunity of talking freely with
his wife. The perpetual strain of secrecy was wearing upon his nervous
nature. He would at any time have preferred to fight any one or
anything, rather than have anything to conceal, and concealment had
been forced upon him as a daily necessity.

He said to himself with truth that he might as well have struck
Alexander for one reason as for another; that he might just as well have
faced him about the marriage as about the calumny upon his own character
which Alexander had uttered. But circumstances had been against his
doing so. At no moment yet, until the present, had he felt himself quite
free to take Katharine from her home and to bring her to his mother’s.
Alexander’s own violence had made it possible. And he had intended, or
he and his mother had agreed, to take the step at once, when suddenly
Robert Lauderdale’s death had arrested everything. There were fifty
reasons for not declaring the marriage now, or for several weeks to
come--chief of all, perhaps, the mere question of good taste. To declare
a marriage on the very morrow of a death in the family would surprise
people; the world would find it easy to believe that the young couple
had acted contrary to Robert Lauderdale’s wishes, and had waited for his
death, in fear of losing any part of the inheritance by offending him.
Such haste would not be decent.

But there would be no need to wait long, John thought, and in the
meantime Katharine could surely not go back to Clinton Place.

Wherever else she might be, he should have plenty of opportunities of
seeing her at his leisure. He reached his home and found his mother
waiting for him in his study. She was pale and looked tired.

“I suppose you’ve heard?” she said, interrogatively, as he entered. “I
see it’s in all the papers.”

“Yes,” answered John, gravely. “I’ve been talking with Ham Bright--we
left the bank together.”

“I suppose he’s in the seventh heaven,” said Mrs. Ralston. “Who would
ever have expected such a will?”

“I’m sure I didn’t. May I smoke, mother? I haven’t had a chance all
day.”

“Of course--always smoke. I like it. Jack--I’ve been there most of the
day, you know. I went in twice to look at him. What a grand old man he
was! I wish you could see him lying there on white velvet like an old
king.”

“I don’t like to see dead people,” answered Ralston, lighting a cigar.
“Besides--I was fond of him.”

“So was I. Don’t think I wasn’t, my dear--very fond of him. But you and
I don’t look at those things just in the same way, I know. I wish I
could see them as you do--dream of something beyond, as you do. To
me--feeling that it’s all over, and that he is there, dead on his bed,
and nowhere else, all there is of him now, or ever will be--well, I was
glad to see him as I did. I shall always remember him as I saw him
to-day. I wish I believed something. To me--the only hope is the hope of
memory for good things and forgetfulness for bad things, as long as life
lasts. I’ve got another good memory of a good man I was fond of--so I’ve
got something.”

“It’s a depressing sort of creed,” said Ralston, smoking thoughtfully.
“Not that mine’s worth much, I suppose. Still--”

He let the word imply what it might, and puffed slowly at his cigar.
Mrs. Ralston passed her hand over her eyes, and said nothing in answer.

“I don’t care!” exclaimed John, suddenly. “I can’t believe it all ends
here. I can’t, and I won’t. There’s something--somewhere, I daresay I
shall never get it, but there’s something. I know it, because I feel
there is. It’s in me, and you, and everybody.”

Mrs. Ralston smiled sadly. She had heard her husband triumphantly refute
the ontological argument many a time.

“I wish I felt it in me, then,” she answered, sincerely. “Jack--isn’t
there something strange about this will, though? An unknown lawyer,
servants for witnesses--all that, as though it had been done in a hurry.
It seems odd to me.”

“Yes. Bright and I were talking about it.”

He went on to tell her what Bright thought.

“He says he knows the lawyer, though,” he concluded, “and that he’s a
straight man, so it must be all right.”

“Mr. Allen said he’d only heard his name mentioned once or twice
lately,” said Mrs. Ralston. “It was a long, long will. Then every
servant was mentioned by name. I had no idea there could be so many in
the house.”

“Who are the witnesses?” asked John.

“One was the secretary--you know? That nice young fellow who used to be
about. I don’t know who the others were--I’ve forgotten their names. Mr.
Allen didn’t seem to think there’d be any difficulty about finding them.
He thought the property was all in this State--most of it’s in the city,
so that the will could be proved immediately.”

“Well--I hope so. But I believe there’ll be some trouble. Alexander only
comes in for a small share. He’ll do his best to break the will, so as
to get the money divided between his father and you. The Brights would
get nothing, in that case. We should get a lot more, of course--but
then--I can’t realize what twenty millions mean, can you? What
difference will it make in our lives, whether we have twenty or forty?
Those sums are mythological, anyhow. The more a man has, above ten
millions, the more care and bother and worry, and enemies he’s got for
