brush your hair more carefully they won't think much of you," she
answered, setting his collar straight.

There was a knock at the door. "Letters," said Maso, returning. He
brought her a large envelope, adorned with Italian superlatives of honor
and closed with a red seal. "Always so civil," murmured Mrs. Roscoe,
examining the decorated address with a pleased smile. Her letters came
to a Pisan bank; the bankers re-enclosed them in this elaborate way, and
sent them to her by their own gilt-buttoned messenger. There was only
one letter to-day. She opened it, read the first page, turned the leaf,
and then in her weakness she began to sob. Maso in great distress knelt
beside her; he put his arm round her neck, and laid his cheek to hers;
he did everything he could think of to comfort her. Mr. Tiber, who had
been lying at her feet, walked up her back and gave an affectionate lick
to her hair. "Mercy! the dog, too," she said, drying her eyes. "Of
course it was Reuben John," she explained, shaking up her pillow.

Maso picked up the fallen letter.

"Don't read it; burn it--horrid thing!" his mother commanded.

He obeyed, striking a match and lighting the edge of the page.

"Not only no money, but in its place a long, hateful, busybodying
sermon," continued Mrs. Roscoe, indignantly.

Maso came back from the hearth, and took up the envelope. "Mrs. Thomas
R. Coe," he read aloud. "Is our name really Coe, mother?"

"You know it is perfectly well."

"Everybody says Roscoe."

"I didn't get it up; all I did was to call myself Mrs. Ross Coe, which
is my name, isn't it? I hate Thomas. Then these English got hold of it
and made it Ross-Coe and Roscoe. I grew tired of correcting them long
ago."

"Then in America I should be Thom-as Ross Coe--Thom-as R. Coe," pursued
the boy, still scanning the envelope, and pronouncing the syllables
slowly. He was more familiar with Italian names than with American.

"No such luck. Tommy Coe you'd be now. And as you grew older, Tom
Coe--like your father before you."

They went to the Bagni--that is, to the baths of Lucca. The journey,
short as it was, tired Mrs. Roscoe greatly. They took up their abode in
two small rooms in an Italian house which had an unswept stairway and a
constantly open door. These quarters did not depress Violet; she had no
strongly marked domestic tastes; she was indifferent as to her lodging,
provided her clothes were delicately fresh and pretty. But her inability
to go out to dinner took away her courage. She had intended to dine at
the hotel where they had stayed in former years; for two or three hours
each day she could then be herself. But after one or two attempts she
was obliged to give up the plan; she had not the strength to take the
daily walk. It ended in food being sent in from a neighboring cook-shop,
or trattoria, and served upon her bedroom table. Maso, disturbed by
her illness, but by nothing else--for they had often followed a nomadic
life for a while when funds were low--scoured the town. He bought cakes
and fruit to tempt her appetite; he made coffee. He had no conception
that these things were not proper food for a convalescent; his mother
had always lived upon coffee and sweets.

On the first day of May, when they had been following this course for
two weeks, they had a visitor. Dr. Prior, who had been called to the
Bagni for a day, came to have a look at his former patient. He stayed
fifteen minutes. When he took leave he asked Maso to show him the way to
a certain house. This, however, was but a pretext, for when they reached
the street he stopped.

"I dare say ye have friends here?"

"Well," answered Maso, "mother generally knows a good many of the people
in the hotel when we are staying there. But this year we ain't."

"Hum! And where are your relatives?"

"I don't know as we've got any. Yes, there's one," pursued Maso,
remembering Reuben John. "But he's in America."

The Scotch physician, who was by no means an amiable man, was bluntly
honest. "How old are you?" he inquired.

"I'm going on fourteen."

"Never should have supposed ye to be more than eleven. As there appears
to be no one else, I must speak to you. Your mother must not stay in
this house a day longer; she must have a better place--better air and
better food."

Maso's heart gave a great throb. "Is she--is she very ill?"

"Not yet. But she is in a bad way; she coughs. She ought to leave Italy,
for a while; stay out of it for at least four months. If she doesn't
care to go far, Aix-les-Bains would do. Speak to her about it. I fancy
ye can arrange it--hey? American boys have their own way, I hear." This
was meant as a joke; but as the grim face did not smile, the jocular
intention failed to make itself apparent. The speaker nodded, and went
down the street. The idea that Mrs. Roscoe might not have money enough
to indulge herself with a journey to Aix-les-Bains, or to anywhere else,
would never have occurred to him. He had seen her in Pisa off and on for
years, one of the prettiest women there, and perhaps the most perfectly
equipped as regarded what he called "furbelows"; that, with all her
costly finery, she chose to stay in a high-up room at Casa Corti instead
of having an apartment of her own, with the proper servants, was only
another of those American eccentricities to which, after a long
professional life in Italy, he was now well accustomed.

Maso went back to his mother's room with his heart in his mouth. When he
came in she was asleep; her face looked wan. The boy, cold all over with
the new fear, sat down quietly by the window with Mr. Tiber on his lap,
and fell into anxious thought. After a while his mother woke. The greasy
dinner, packed in greasy tins, came and went. When the room was quiet
again he began, tremulously, "How much money have we got, mother?"

"Precious little."

"Mayn't I see how much it is?"

"No; don't bother."

She had eaten nothing.

"Mother, won't you please take that money, even if it's little, and go
straight off north somewhere? To Aix-les-Bains."

"What are you talking about? Aix-les-Bains? What do you know of
Aix-les-Bains?"

"Well, I've heard about it. Say, mother, do go. And Mr. Tiber and me'll
stay here. We'll have lots of fun," added the boy, bravely.

"Is that all you care about me?" demanded his mother. Then seeing his
face change, "Come here, you silly child," she said. She made him sit
down on the rug beside her sofa. "We must sink or swim together, Maso
(dear me! we're not much in the swim now); we can't go anywhere, either
of us; we can only just manage to live as we're living now. And there
won't be any more money until November." She stroked his hair
caressingly. His new fear made him notice how thin her wrist had grown.


III

"You will mail these three letters immediately," said Mr. Waterhouse, in
Italian, to the hotel porter.

"Si, signore," answered the man, with the national sunny smile, although
Waterhouse's final gratuity had been but a franc.

"Now, Tommaso, I must be off; long drive. Sorry it has happened so.
Crazy idea her coming at all, as she has enjoyed bad health for years,
poor old thing! She may be dead at this moment, and probably, in fact,
she is dead; but I shall have to go, all the same, in spite of the great
expense; she ought to have thought of that. I have explained everything
to your mother in that letter; the money is at her own bank in Pisa, and
I have sent her the receipt. You have fifty francs with you?"

"Yes, sir."

"Fifty francs--that is ten dollars. More than enough, much more; be
careful of it, Tommaso. You will hear from your mother in two days, or
sooner, if she telegraphs; in the meanwhile you will stay quietly where
you are."

"Yes, sir."

Mr. Waterhouse shook hands with his pupil, and, stepping into the
waiting carriage, was driven away.



Benjamin F. Waterhouse, as he signed himself (of course the full name
was Benjamin Franklin), was an American who had lived in Europe for
nearly half a century, always expecting to go home "next summer." He was
very tall, with a face that resembled a damaged portrait of Emerson, and
he had been engaged for many years in writing a great work, a Life of
Christopher Columbus, which was to supersede all other Lives. As his
purse was a light one, he occasionally took pupils, and it was in this
way that he had taken Maso, or, as he called him (giving him all the
syllables of the Italian Thomas), Tommaso. Only three weeks, however, of
his tutorship had passed when he had received a letter announcing that
his sister, his only remaining relative, despairing of his return, was
coming abroad to see him, in spite of her age and infirmities; she was
the "poor old thing" of her dry brother's description, and the voyage
apparently had been too great an exertion, for she was lying dangerously
ill at Liverpool, and the physician in attendance had telegraphed to
Waterhouse to come immediately.

The history of the tutorship was as follows: Money had come from
America, after all. Mrs. Roscoe (as everybody called her) had been
trying for some time, so she told Maso, "to circumvent Reuben John," and
sell a piece of land which she owned in Indiana. Now, unexpectedly, a
purchaser had turned up. While she was relating this it seemed to her
that her little boy changed into a young man before her eyes. "You've
just got to take that money, mother, and go straight up to
Aix-les-Bains," said Maso, planting himself before her. "I sha'n't go a
single step; I ain't sick, and you are; it's cheaper for me to stay
here. There isn't money enough to take us both, for I want you to stay
up there ever so long--four whole months."

