Deck.

"Our carriage is ready," said Captain Woodbine; "and there is room
enough in it for you."

It was a covered road-wagon, and Deck judged that the captain had
talked with him to pass away the time while he was waiting for the
conveyance. They were driven first to the hotel.

"I have heard a great deal about the Riverlawn Cavalry, as you call
them, though its two companies belong to the first cavalry regiment,"
said the captain when they were seated in the vehicle.

"Our men like the name," added the young lieutenant.

"They have rendered most excellent service under that name; and there
is nothing to prevent them from retaining it, especially while they are
on detached service."

Captain Woodbine was conducted by Major Lyon to the parlor occupied by
the officers, where he was presented to them, after which the major,
who was disposed to keep his affairs to himself, invited the
aide-de-camp to go with him to his room, where he had ordered a fire.

"Lieutenant Lyon, you must excuse me for questioning you so much this
evening; but I wanted to know more about you, for I think we shall have
use for you," said the captain, as he took the hand of Deck, and drew
him aside.

"I was very glad to give you the information you desired," replied
Deck, as the visitor followed his father.

"I have to report the arrival of my command, and it is my purpose to
move on to Harrison to-morrow," said the major as they entered the
room.

"You need not do that, for your command is nearer now where you will be
wanted than you would be at Harrison," added the captain as he and the
major seated themselves at a table before the fire. "I waited for you
till the time you were expected to arrive."

"I was ordered to look out for foragers and guerillas on my way; and I
was detained some time near Liberty, in driving off a party of
marauders, and I was a few hours late. My first company, which had the
shorter route, had not arrived, and I marched in search of it," Major
Lyon explained. "I found it about five miles from this town, delayed by
several skirmishes with the enemy."

"Your son told me all about them while we were waiting for the vehicle;
and he certainly distinguished himself, both by his management of the
affair with the guerillas, and by his bravery in the action with the
enemy's cavalry," said Captain Woodbine.

"He did very well," replied the major, proud of the good conduct of
Deck, though he was not inclined to praise him, preferring to leave
that to others. "I suppose the army which is to operate under General
Thomas is somewhere in this vicinity."

"A portion of it is at Logan's Cross Roads, as it is called;" and he
pointed out the locality on the major's map, which was spread out on
the table.

He indicated several other places where bodies of Union troops were, or
were supposed to be, located. They had been detained by the almost
impassable condition of the roads.

"But the general will attack the enemy in his intrenchments as soon as
he can concentrate a sufficient force for the purpose. This heavy rain,
I fear, will delay the advance of the troops in the rear; for it will
render the streams, especially Fishing Creek, impassable for the
baggage-trains."

"It does not usually rain as it does now for any great length of time?"
suggested Major Lyon.

"I have known such a rain to continue for several days; for I live over
in Whitley County, in the mountains, about thirty-five miles east of
Mill Springs."

"The mountains catch the clouds, and empty them, as they move from the
east or the west," added the major.

"We have plenty of rain at this season of the year. I have heard all
about the Riverlawn Cavalry, as your son says you prefer to call it. I
met Colonel Cosgrove at Louisville, and he gave me a full account of
what he called the Battle of Riverlawn. Of your fights with the Texan
Rangers at the railroad bridge, Munfordsville, and at Greeltop and
Plain Hill, I have read your reports. Without mentioning the nature of
the service that will be required of you, I will say that, at my
suggestion, the general has important duty for you, Major."

"Of course I am ready to obey the orders that come to me," replied the
commander.

For several hours longer Captain Woodbine described the topography of
the region in three counties, which he thought it very necessary for
him to understand.

"In our engagement with a full company of Tennessee cavalry, our first
company was aided by the Home Guard of Millersville; and the riflemen
of this body rendered very essential service as sharpshooters stationed
in the woods. These men volunteered to serve in this campaign, and we
have them with us. I hope I shall be permitted to make use of them.
They are well mounted, and every one of them is a dead shot. Captain
Gordon, commanding our first company, suggested the idea of organizing
a force of mounted riflemen, and a considerable number of them
volunteered, and came to Jamestown with us."

"They are simply volunteers under your command; and no application need
be made at headquarters to use them, and you can do so, Major," replied
the captain, who was understood as speaking for the commanding general;
and it was evident that he had influence with him.

At the stroke of midnight both of the gentlemen retired. When they
looked out of the window in the morning it was still raining; and it
was plain to them that no great progress could be made in military
movements while the country was inundated, as it appeared to be from
the hotel.

In the forenoon Captain Woodbine visited the companies, and looked over
the men; for he plainly depended upon the squadron for particular
service. He went to the jail and to the dry-house to see the riflemen
who were drilling there under the eye of Captain Ripley and several
sergeants from the companies.

Military movements on the eve of battle are not ordinarily impeded by
rain, for the soldiers march and fight in spite of the weather; but
when the flow of water is sufficient to inundate the country, the
situation sometimes compels a suspension of activity, owing to the
difficulty or impossibility of moving wagons and artillery. But at this
time General Thomas was awaiting the arrival of the regiments from
points farther north of his camp at Logan's Cross Roads, and nothing
could be done for this reason. But on the 18th the rain ceased; and on
the next day, which was Saturday, General Schoepf's brigade, a portion
of which had been sent forward before, arrived towards night, and was
placed in position.

That evening Captain Woodbine, who had been with the general in command
all day, called upon Major Lyon, and directed him to have his squadron,
with its volunteer riflemen, in column on the Millersville Road at
daylight in the morning of Sunday, for a reconnaissance in the
direction of the enemy's intrenched camp at Beech Grove. The major
reported that the rifle volunteers had been re-enforced to fifty-six
men by the efforts of Butters the jailer.

The commander of the squadron promptly issued his orders to his
officers to have his men ready to move at four o'clock Sunday morning.




CHAPTER XV

THE ATTEMPTED ESCAPE OF A WAGON-TRAIN


The details of the battle of Mill Springs, as it was generally called
when the accounts of it were published at the time, or, more properly,
Logan's Cross Roads, as General Thomas called it in his report to the
chief of staff of the Department of the Ohio, are too voluminous to be
given at length; and they have been published so many times in various
works that it is unnecessary to repeat them. Only such parts as relate
to the career of the "lieutenant at eighteen" will be introduced,
though incidentally some of the movements of the army will be included.

The general in his report says: "I reached Logan's Cross Roads, about
ten miles north of the intrenched camp of the enemy, on the Cumberland
River, on the 17th instant." On the night of his arrival he sent a
messenger to Colonel Stedman's camp, ordering him to send forward a
long train of wagons, that had halted in the road from the river, under
a strong guard, and himself to attack the enemy where they were
reported to be.

This train had not arrived at the headquarters of the general; but the
reason for its non-arrival was apparent, for the rain had begun to fall
in torrents on the afternoon of the 17th, and had continued to pour
down for two days. The road was inundated, and the creeks were
impassable. On Saturday morning at an early hour the pickets of
Wolford's cavalry encountered the enemy advancing upon the Union
forces. The Confederates were held in check until General Thomas could
order a force forward adequate to give them battle. This was the
beginning of the battle of Mill Springs.

The general's camp was on the left of the pike from the river. The
Fourth Kentucky, Second Minnesota, and Ninth Ohio were sent forward to
hold the enemy, and took positions near Logan's house, while Wetmore's
Battery was placed near the Somerset Road. The Confederates advanced on
the other side, almost to this road. Three regiments and a battery had
moved forward to the north side of a fence which extended east and west
on both sides of the pike.

General Crittenden, commanding the army, with his staff, had a position
just south of this fence, though Zollicoffer led the attacking
brigades. General Thomas immediately ordered an advance of his whole
force, and the fighting became general. It was a long and severe
battle, with alternate repulses and advances on both sides. The enemy
finally retreated to their intrenchments, ten miles distant, but did
not reach their works till after dark. As the enemy were marching to
the attack, the wagon-train had been discovered mired in a field to
which its escort had been driven by the unexpected approach of the
