
Perhaps it seemed to her that she should be ashamed of forgiving, before
he had said one word of defence or uttered one expression of sorrow for
what he had done. But she loved him, and since she had been a little
child she had not seen her brother Ferdinando half a dozen times. It
was true that when she had seen him she had been drawn to him, as she
was not drawn to the two that were left, for he had not been like the
others. She knew that she should have trusted Ferdinando if she had
known him better.

Orsino began his defence.

'We were fired upon several times,' he said. Her hands started in his as
she thought of his danger. 'I saw a man's coat moving in the brush,' he
continued, 'and I aimed at it. I never saw the man's face till we found
him lying dead. It was not an accident, for bullets cut the trees
overhead and struck the carriage.' Again her hands quivered. 'It was a
fight, and I meant to kill the man. But I could not see his face.'

She did not speak for a moment. Then, for the first time, she shrank a
little, and withdrew her hands from his.

'I know--yes--it is terrible,' she said in broken tones; and she glanced
at him, and looked down again. 'Do not speak of it,' she added suddenly,
and she was surprised at her own words.

It was the woman's impulse to dissociate the man she loved from the
deed, for which she could not but feel horror. She would have given the
world to sit down beside him and talk of other things. But he wished the
situation to be cleared for ever, as any courageous man would.

'I must speak of it,' he answered. 'Perhaps we shall never have the
chance again--'

'Never? What do you mean?' she asked quickly. 'Why not?'

'You may forgive me,' he answered earnestly. 'You know that I would have
let him shoot me ten times over rather than have hurt you--'

'Orsino--' She touched his arm nervously, trying to stop him.

'Yes--I wish I were in his grave to-day! You may forgive, but you cannot
forget--how can you?'

'How? If--if you still love me, I can forget--'

Orsino's eyes were suddenly moist. It seemed as though something broke,
and let in the light.

'I shall always love you,' he said simply; as men sometimes do when
they are very much in earnest.

'And I--'

She did not finish the sentence in words, but her hand and face said the
rest.

'Sit down,' she said, after a little silence.

They went to a little sofa and sat down together, opposite the window.

'Do you think that anything you could do could make me not love you?'
she asked, looking into his face. 'Are you surprised? Did you think that
I should turn upon you and accuse you of my brother's death, and say
that I hated you? You should not have judged me so--it was unkind!'

'It has all been so horrible that I did not know what to expect,' he
said. 'I have not been able to think sensibly until now. And even
now--no, I have not judged you, as you call it, dear. But I expected
that you would judge me, as God knows you have the right.'

'Why should I judge you?' asked Vittoria, softly and lovingly. 'If you
had lain in wait for him and killed him treacherously, as he meant to
kill you, it would have been different. If he had killed you, as he was
there to kill you--as he might have killed you if you had not been
first--I--well, I am only a girl, but even these little hands would have
had some strength! But as it is, God willed it. Whom shall I judge? God?
That would be wrong. God protected you, and my brother died in his
treachery. Do you think that if I had been there, and had been a man,
and the guns firing, and the bullets flying, I should not have done as
you did, and shot my own brother? It would have been much more horrible
even than it is, but of course I should have done it. Then why are you
in such distress? Why did you think that I should not love you any
more?'

'I did not dare to think it,' answered Orsino.

'You see, as I said, God willed it--not you. You were but the
instrument, unconscious and innocent. It is only a little child that
will strike the senseless thing that hurts it.'

'You are eloquent, darling. You will make me think as you do.'

'I wish you would, indeed I wish you would! I am sorry, I am grieved, I
shall mourn poor Ferdinando, though I scarcely knew him. But you--I
shall love you always, and for me, as I see it, you were no more the
willing cause of his death than the senseless gun you held in your hand.
Do you believe me?'

She took his hand again, as though to feel that he understood. And
understanding, he drew her close to him and kissed her young eyes, as he
had done that first time, out on the bridge over the street.

'You have my life,' he said tenderly. 'I give you my life and soul,
dear.'

She put up her face suddenly, and kissed his cheek, and instantly the
colour filled her own, and she shrank back, and spoke in a different
tone.

'We will put away that dreadful thing,' she said, drawing a little
towards her own end of the sofa. 'We will never speak of it again, for
you understand.'

'But your mother, your brothers,' answered Orsino. 'What of them? I hear
that they do not acknowledge--' he stopped, puzzled as to how he should
speak.

'My mother is ill with grief, for Ferdinando was her favourite. But
Tebaldo and Francesco have determined that they will act as though he
were no relation of ours. They say that it would ruin us all to have it
said that our brother had been with the brigands. That is true, is it
not?'

'It would be a great injury to you,' answered Orsino.

'Yes. That is what they say. And Tebaldo will not let us wear mourning,
for fear that people should not believe what he says. This morning when
the Princess's note came, Tebaldo insisted that I should accept, but my
mother said that I should not come to the house. They had a long
discussion, and she submitted at last. What can she do? He rules
everybody--and he is bad, bad in his heart, bad in his soul! Francesco
is only weak, but Tebaldo is bad. Beware of him, for though he says that
Ferdinando was not his brother, he will not forgive you. But you will
not go back to Sicily?'

'Yes, I must go. I cannot leave San Giacinto alone, since I have created
so much trouble.'

'Since poor Ferdinando is dead, you will be safer--I mean--' she
hesitated. 'Orsino!' she suddenly exclaimed, 'I knew that he would try
to kill you--that is why I wanted to keep you here. I did not dare tell
you--but I begged so hard--I thought that for my sake, perhaps, you
would not go. Tebaldo would kill me if he knew that I were telling you
the truth now. He knew that Ferdinando had friends among the outlaws,
and that he sometimes lived with them for weeks. And Ferdinando wrote to
Tebaldo, and warned him that although he had signed the deed, no one
should ever enter the gate of Camaldoli while he was alive. And no one
did, for he died. But the Romans would think that he was a common
brigand; and I suppose that Tebaldo is right, for it would injure us
very much. But between you and me there must be nothing but the truth,
so I have told you all. And now beware of Tebaldo; for, in spite of what
he says, he will some day try to avenge his brother.'

'I understand it all much better now,' said Orsino, thoughtfully. 'I am
glad you have told me. But the question is, whether your mother and your
brothers will ever consent to our marriage, Vittoria. That is what I
want to know.'

'My mother--never! Tebaldo might, for interest. He is very scheming. But
my mother will never consent. She will never see you again, if she can
help it.'

'What are we to do?' asked Orsino, speaking rather to himself than to
Vittoria.

'I do not know,' she answered, in a tone of perplexity. 'We must wait, I
suppose. Perhaps she will change, and see it all differently. We can
afford to wait--we are young. We love each other, and we can meet. Is it
so hard to wait awhile before being married?'

'Yes,' said Orsino. 'It is hard to wait for you.'

'I will do anything you like,' answered Vittoria. 'Only wait a little
while, and see whether my mother does not change. Only a little while!'

'We must, I suppose,' said Orsino, reluctantly. 'But I do not see why
your mother should not always think of me as she does to-day. I can do
nothing to improve matters.'

'Let us be satisfied with to-day,' replied Vittoria, rather anxiously,
and as though to break off the conversation. 'I was miserably unhappy
this evening, and I thought you were in Sicily; and instead, we have
met. It is enough for one day--it is a thousand times more than I had
hoped.'

'Or I,' said Orsino, bending down and kissing her hand more than once.

The handle of Corona's door turned very audibly just then, and a moment
later the Princess entered the room. Without seeming to scrutinise the
faces of the two, she understood at a glance that Vittoria had accepted
the tragic situation, as she herself would have done; and that if there
had been any discussion, it was over.

Vittoria coloured a little, when she met Corona's eyes, realising how
the older woman had, as it were, arranged a lovers' meeting for her. But
Corona herself did not know whether to be glad or sorry for what had
happened.

Nor was it easy for anyone to foresee the consequences of the present
