Stand up this time, so that you can see the whole length of the boat."

The coxswain rose from his seat; and having no little natural dignity,
he did it very gracefully, and was not at all flurried.

"Up oars!" said he very slowly, pausing between the words.

All hands made a dive, as it were, at the oars, and stood them up as
required. But they hit each other in the back, rapped others on the
head, elevated the oars so that there was neither order nor symmetry in
the movement, and they were straggling as many different ways as there
were boys.

"Avast there! That won't do at all!" shouted Uncle Ben. "You are all
snarled up, and we must have it done shipshape."

He seated himself on the after thwart, after he had required them to
boat their oars, and proceeded to show them how to pick them up. He
went forward, and repeated the movement. Then he made several of them
do it alone. Next four of them did it together. At last he believed he
had them in condition to execute the manoeuvre properly. Then he
called upon Frank to give the order again, and this time they did it as
well as could be expected. He was not satisfied, and compelled the
oarsmen to go through it repeatedly for half an hour.

"Now we will begin again," said Uncle Ben. "If you do it well, we will
go on. Give the order, Frank."

They did it better than at any time before; and while the crew sat with
the oars elevated, the old sailor proceeded to explain the next
movement.

"If we were at a landing, or alongside the sailboat, you would remain
as you be now, till the boat was clear of everything, before the next
order would come. That command will be 'Let fall!' Then you will let
your oars drop upon the water all at once, striking it at just the same
instant. But you will not let the loom of the oar touch the gunwale."

"Where is the gunwale?" asked one of the boys.

"The rail along the top of the boat in which the rowlocks are set. You
mustn't let an oar touch that. Keep hold of the handle with the blade
on the water. Then, without any command, you will ship the oar; in
other words, drop the loom into the rowlock. Now go through that again.
Steady, and don't hurry. Do it in about the time the stroke oarsman
gives you."

Frank gave the commands again, beginning with "Up oars!" till the
oarsmen had shipped their oars; and it was very well done, and Uncle
Ben actually praised the crew.

"The next command is 'Give way together!'" said the old sailor. "You
will take the time from the stroke oar, and pull with it all the time."

Fred Harper was the aftermost rower; and the instructor asked him to
vacate his seat, which Ben took himself, with the oar in his hands.

"Now carry the handle of the oar forward to easy arm's length towards
the starn," continued Ben, suiting the action to the word; and all
followed his example. "Drop the end of the oar into the water till the
blade is just covered, no deeper. Then pause a bit, and pull the
handle towards you to your breasts, or very nearly there."

The crew followed the instructions, and imitated the old seaman till
they had taken their first stroke. These movements were repeated
several times, till they could do them well. Then they began again with
Frank giving the commands, and they went through the whole till they
could do everything to the satisfaction of the teacher.

"Now, bowman, you may weigh the anchor," said Uncle Ben; and the hearts
of the boys beat rapidly, for the time for actual rowing had come.

Tony Weston hauled in the grapnel, and stowed it in the fore-sheets.

"Up oars!" commanded Frank, rising from his seat; and all the oars were
elevated in good order, though not quite perfect. "Let fall!" he
continued; and this movement was very well done, and all shipped their
oars. "Give way together!"

The boat began to move, and the motion seemed to perplex some of the
oarsmen. A few of them appeared to be trying to touch bottom, and on
the second stroke they were in a snarl.

"Avast, all!" shouted Uncle Ben. "This won't do! Some of you act as
though you were spearing eels. You are not to bury your oar in the
water above the blade at any time. You must keep the flat part of the
oar up and down in the water always. If you turn it in pulling, the
blade will shoot up into the air, or dive down towards the bottom."

Then he practised them for a full half-hour on this step, and finally
brought them up to a very handsome stroke. Then Frank gave the commands
again, and they pulled passably well. Directing the coxswain to head
the Zephyr up the lake, Ben gave his attention to individuals, pointing
out their faults, and correcting them. The boat seemed to be as light
as a feather; and even with the indifferent rowing, she made tremendous
headway, as the boys thought. She was soon at the head of the lake.

"Now, boys, we have to stop as well as start her," said the teacher,
some time before the boat reached the head of the lake, where the river
flowed into it; "and the command will be, 'Stand by to lay on your
oars!' But that order is only for you to be ready to do it. The next
command will be 'Oars!' The last order, Frank, must be given at the
beginning of a stroke, the oars being in the water. Then, boys, you
will level your oars, all in a straight line, not one above or below
the others; and you will turn, or feather them, as it is called, so
that they would lie flat on the water if dropped down; but they must
not be dropped down, not one of them. Now give the command, Frank. You
need not stand up to do it, unless there's an emergency."

"Stand by to lay on your oars!" called the coxswain. "Oars!" he added
after a short pause.

This movement, like the others, required to be done several times; but
the Zephyr lost her headway at the mouth of the river. On the return,
the young oarsmen were instructed in feathering their oars. They were
told precisely how to turn the hands so as to bring the oar up flatwise
as it came out of the water, and how to reverse the motion when it was
dipped for the stroke. They had become somewhat accustomed to handling
the oars, and Uncle Ben warmly commended the proficiency they made.
Frank had headed the boat for Centre Island; and when she was abreast
of it, Ben called his attention to the fact that his father and mother
were both on the beach, observing the movements of the Zephyr and her
crew.

It was nearly time to go ashore; but the old sailor gave them two more
lessons,--one from laying on the oars to holding water when it was
desirable to check the headway, and the other to back the craft in
order to stop the headway at once.

Ben declared that the club had done exceedingly well for the first day
afloat, and now they must go to the spot where Captain and Mrs. Sedley
were looking at them. Frank was directed to run for the cottage of the
widow Weston.

"Now we must give the captain the compliment of tossing oars to him,"
said Ben on the way over. "When a boat in the navy is to meet or pass
one containing a superior officer, it is the fashion to salute him with
a toss of the oars exactly as you have learned to do it to-day."

The teacher explained it more in detail; and the boat headed down the
lake, keeping as close to the shore as it was prudent to go.

"Stand by to toss!" said Frank, prompted by the old sailor. "Toss!"

The oars all went up to a perpendicular, with no straggling ones among
them; and the Zephyr had headway enough to keep her moving a quarter of
a mile. Captain Sedley took off his hat, acknowledging the salute,
while Mrs. Sedley waved her handkerchief very vigorously. Then the oars
were trailed in due form, and the boat went up to the flat rock where
they had embarked. Frank's father and mother came over to congratulate
the boys upon the proficiency they had made in a single afternoon. The
lady then invited all the crew and Uncle Ben to visit the mansion,
where they found a nice collation awaiting them. They had been on the
lake all the afternoon, and the air and exercise had given them
excellent appetites. Neither the captain nor his wife preached to them,
but talked very pleasantly about the boat and the rowing. They took
their leave before dark, and a dozen families knew all about the
excursion before bedtime.




CHAPTER VIII

THE SECOND LESSON


It was hard work for the boys to confine their attention to their
studies during the next few days; but Frank Sedley made a severe
struggle to do so, and succeeded very well. Perhaps he accomplished as
much or more by his efforts to induce his companions not to be carried
away by the fascinations of boating as by the efforts of his own will.
It was plain enough that his father would not permit the Zephyr to
interfere with the studies of the boys, and he represented this danger
very strongly to his friends. They all did their best to keep their
minds fixed upon the lessons, and they made a reasonable success of
their efforts. But they were all looking forward to Saturday afternoon
with eager anticipations; and when it came, they were at the flat rock
which served as a landing-place half an hour before the appointed time.

The Zephyr was there; and so was Uncle Ben, who gave them all a
pleasant greeting, and made quite a long speech about the necessity of
keeping cool, and not spoiling the practice of the club, as they called
it, though it had not yet been organized, by their foolish hurry and
impatience. They all promised to be as cool as Nelson at Trafalgar; and
no doubt they all intended to keep their promise, but the fascination
of working the new boat sometimes proved to be too much for them.

"Where are the flags, Uncle Ben? We haven't put them up yet," said
Frank.

"Here they are, my boy," replied the old sailor, taking them from the
cushioned seat in the stern-sheets. "The blue silk one, with silver
stars around the letter 'Z,' goes in the bow. You'll find a place for
it there, Tony, and you may put it up. Here is the American flag, and
it goes in the starn. You will find a place for it, Frank; put it
there."

The two boys inserted the end of each staff in the socket prepared for
it, and the breeze spread out the flags to the great delight of the
