Helen shuddered, as she saw the look in his face and the glitter in his
eyes.

"I wish you could remember not to say ’jukes’ every other minute,
Archie," she said, for the thousandth time.

"Do you think Sylvia minds when I say ’jukes’?" asked the young man,
suddenly.

"I am sure she thinks it a very ugly and senseless word."

"Does she?  Really?"  He was silent for a few moments, pondering the
question.  "Well," he resumed at last, in a regretful tone, "I’ve always
said it, and I like it, and I don’t see any harm in it.  But, of course,
if Sylvia doesn’t like it, I’ve got to give it up, that’s all.  I’m
always going to do what Sylvia likes, now, as long as I live.  And what
you like, too, mother," he added as an apologetic and dutiful
afterthought. "But then, you’re pretty sure to like the same things,
after all."

"You really must not go on in this way about Sylvia, my dear," said
Helen.  "It is too absurd."

Archie’s heavy brows met right across his forehead as he looked up with
something like a glare in his eyes, and his voice was suddenly thick and
indistinct, when he answered.

"Don’t call it absurd, mother.  I don’t understand what it is, but it’s
stronger than I am. I don’t want anything but Sylvia.  Things don’t
amuse me any more.  It was only to-day--"

He stopped, for he was going to tell her how he had found no pleasure in
his toys, neither in the blocks, nor in the tin soldiers, nor in the
little papier-mâché lady and gentleman in the painted cart.  But he
thought she did not know about them, and he checked himself in a sudden
shame which he had never felt before.  A deep red blush spread over his
dark face, and he looked down at his plate.

"I’m a man, now," he said, through his teeth, in a rough voice.

After that, he was silent for a time, but Helen watched him nervously.
She, too, saw that he was a man, with almost less than a boy’s mind, and
her secret terror grew.  She could not eat that evening, but he did not
notice her. They dined quickly and then they sat down together, as they
usually did, quite near to each other and side by side.  She could
sometimes teach him little things which he remembered, when everything
was quiet.  He generally began to talk of something he had seen, and she
always tried to make him understand it and think about it.  But this
evening he said nothing for a long time, and she was glad of his
silence.  When she thought of the telegram she had sent, she had a sharp
pain at her heart, and once or twice she started a little in her chair.
But Archie did not notice her.

"I say, mother," he began, looking up, "what becomes of all the things
one forgets?  Do they--do they go to sleep in one’s head?"

Mrs. Harmon looked at him in surprise, for it was by far the most
thoughtful question he had ever asked.  She could not answer it at once,
and he went on.

"Because you always tell me to try and remember, and you think I could
remember if I tried hard enough.  Then you must believe the things are
there.  You wouldn’t expect me to give you what I hadn’t got, would you?
That wouldn’t be fair."

"No, certainly not," answered his mother, considerably puzzled.

"Then you really think that I don’t forget. You must think I don’t
remember to remember. Something like that.  I can’t explain what I mean,
but you understand."

"I suppose so, my dear.  Something like that.  Yes, perhaps it is just
as you say, and things go to sleep in one’s head and one has to wake
them up.  But I know that I can often remember things I have forgotten
if I try very hard."

"I can’t.  I say, mother, I suppose I’m stupid, though you never tell me
so.  I know I’m different from other people, somehow.  I wish you would
tell me just what it is.  I don’t want to be different from other
people.  Of course I know I could never be as clever as you, nor the
colonel.  But then you’re awfully clever, both of you.  Father used to
call me an idiot, but I’m not.  I saw an idiot once, and his eyes turned
in, and he couldn’t shut his mouth, and he couldn’t talk properly."

"Are you sure that your father ever called you an idiot, Archie?"

Helen’s lips were oddly pale, and her voice was low.  Archie laughed in
a wooden way.

"Oh, yes!  I’m quite sure," he said.  "I remember, because he hit me on
the back of the head with the knob of his stick when he said so. That
was the first time.  Then he got into the way of saying it.  I wasn’t
very big then."

Helen leaned back and closed her eyes, and in her mind she saw the word
’forgiven’ as she had written it after his name,--’Henry Harmon, New
York.  Forgiven.’  It had a strange look.  She had not known that he had
ever struck the boy cruelly.

"Why did you never tell me?" she asked slowly.

"Oh, I don’t know.  It would have been like a cry-a-baby to go running
to you.  I just waited."

Helen did not guess what was coming.

"Did he strike you again with the knob of his stick?" she asked.

"Lots of times, with all sorts of things. Once, when you were off
somewhere for two or three days on a visit, he came at me with a poker.
That was the last time.  I suppose he had been drinking more than
usual."

"What happened?" asked Helen.

"Oh, well, I’d grown big then, and I got sick of it all at once, you
know.  He never tried to touch me again, after that."

Helen recalled distinctly that very unusual occasion when she had been
absent for a whole week, at the time of a sister’s death.  Harmon had
seemed ill when she had returned, and she remembered noticing a great
change in his manner towards the boy only a few months before he had
become insane.

"What did you do?" she asked.

"I hit him.  I hit him badly, a good many times.  Then I put him to bed.
I knew he wouldn’t tell."

Archie smiled slowly at the recollection of beating his father, and
looked down at his fist. Helen felt as though she were going mad
herself. It was all horribly unnatural,--the father’s cruel brutality to
his afflicted son, the son’s ferocious vengeance upon his father when he
had got his strength.

"You see," continued Archie, "I knew exactly how many times he had hit
me altogether, and I gave all the hits back at once.  That was fair,
anyhow."

Helen could not remember that he had ever professed to be sure of an
exact number from memory.

"How could you know just how many times--"  She spoke faintly, and
stopped, half sick.

"Blocks," answered Archie.  "I dropped a little blot of ink on one of my
blocks every time he hit me.  I used to count the ones that had blots on
them every morning.  When they all had one blot each, I began on the
other side, till I got round again.  Some had blots on several sides at
last.  I don’t know how many there were, now; but it was all right, for
I used to count them every morning and remember all day.  There must
have been forty or fifty, I suppose.  But I know it was all right.  I
didn’t want to be unfair, and I hit him slowly and counted.  Oh,"--his
eyes brightened suddenly,--"I’ve got the blocks here.  I’ll go and get
them, and we can count them together.  Then you’ll know exactly."

Helen could not say anything, and Archie was gone.  She only half
understood what the blocks were, and did not care to know.  There was an
unnatural horror in it all, and Archie spoke of it quite simply and
without any particular resentment.  She was still half dazed when he
came back with the mysterious box in which he kept his toys.

He set it down on the floor at her feet and knelt beside it, feeling for
the key in his pocket.

"I don’t care if you see all the things now," he said.  "They don’t
amuse me any more."

Nevertheless, she saw the blush of shame rising to his forehead as he
bent down and put the key into the lock.

"I don’t care, after all," he said, before he lifted the lid.  "It’s
only you, mother, and you won’t think I was a baby just because they
amused me.  I don’t care for them any more, mother.  Indeed I don’t; so
I may as well make a clean breast of it and tell you.  Besides, you must
see the blocks.  All the blots are there still, quite plain, and we can
count them, and then you’ll always remember, though I shan’t. Here they
are.  I’ve carried them about a long time, you know, and they’re getting
pretty old, especially the soldiers.  There isn’t much paint left on
them, and the captain’s head’s gone."

Helen leaned forward, her elbow on her knees, her chin resting on her
hand, her eyes dim, and her heart beating oddly.  It seemed as though
nothing were spared her on that day.

Archie unpacked the toys in silence, and arranged the blocks all on one
side in a neat pile, while on the other he laid the soldiers and the
little cart, with the few remaining toys.  Helen’s eyes became riveted
on the bits of wood.  There were about twenty of them, and she could
plainly distinguish on them the little round blots which Archie had
made, one for each blow he had received.  He began to count, and Helen
followed him mechanically.  He was very methodical, for he knew that he
was easily confused.  When he had counted the blots on each block, he
put it behind him on the floor before he took another from the pile.  He
finished at last.

"Sixty-three--ju--!"  He checked himself. "I forgot.  I won’t say
’jukes’ any more.  I won’t.  There were sixty-three in all, mother.
Besides, I remember now.  Yes; there were sixty-three.  I remember that
it took a long time, because I was afraid of not being fair."
