leaving him without any adequate knowledge of his own country?"

"He will have advantages abroad which he would not have in his own
country. However, I will consider what you have said, and I may
arrange to spend a part of each year in America."

"I would like to speak to Philip," said Mr. Codicil.

Richard Grafton hesitated, but only for a moment. He was playing a
bold game for a large stake. It would not do to be timid.

"Come here, Philip," he said, "Mr. Codicil wishes to speak to you."

Ben rose and advanced to meet the lawyer.

"I am glad to make your acquaintance, sir," he said.

"And I am pleased to meet you, my boy. You look well!"

"Yes, sir; I always enjoy good health."

Mr. Codicil looked a little surprised, but he regarded with approval
the boy's bright face and manly figure.

"He is certainly a very attractive boy," thought the lawyer. "I
haven't much confidence in his guardian, but the boy doesn't appear
to be spoiled."

"Come, Philip. I am afraid I must hurry you away," said Mr. Grafton,
"as I have another visit to pay."

Ben shook hands with the lawyer and went out of his office.

"I cannot help distrusting that man," said Mr. Codicil, as the door
closed. "I believe him to be a trickster. I wish the boy were under
better influences."

Ben had been at such a distance from the inner office that he had
not heard or understood the conversation between his employer and
Mr. Codicil, yet it seemed to him singular that he should have
received so much attention from the lawyer.

"I suppose Mr. Grafton was speaking to him about me," said he to
himself.

When they reached the street Mr. Grafton said:

"Philip, I shall not require your company any longer this morning.
If you have any plans of your own you are quite at liberty to follow
them. Have you all the money you need?"

"Yes, sir; you gave me fifteen dollars yesterday."

"I remember. Very well; you can go where you please. We will meet at
the hotel at one o'clock."

"Would you object, Mr. Grafton, to my sending five dollars to my
mother? I shall have enough left for myself."

"Do as you like. You may send ten dollars if you like. When you are
out of money you have only to apply to me."

"You are very kind, sir," said Ben, gratefully.

"It is on account of your first month's wages, you know."

Then he paused a moment, regarding Ben with some apparent solicitude.

"By the way," he said, "I must guard you against saying too much
about me or your relation with me. I have a great dislike to have
myself or my affairs talked about."

"I will remember, sir."

"You need not mention that I have desired you to bear a different
name from your own."

"I will not mention it, sir, if you object."

"With me it is a matter of sentiment," said Mr. Grafton in a low
voice. "I had a dear son named Philip. He died, and left me alone in
the world. You resemble him. It is pleasant to me to call some one
by his name, yet I cannot bear to excite the curiosity of a cold,
unsympathizing world, and be forced to make to them an explanation
which will harrow up my feelings and recall to me my bitter loss."

"I quite understand you, Mr. Grafton," said Ben, with quiet
sympathy. "Though I would prefer to be called by my own name, I am
glad if I can help make up to you for your loss."

"Enough, my boy! I felt that I had judged you aright. Now go where
you please. Only try to be back at the hotel at one o'clock."

As Ben walked away Richard Grafton said to himself, in a tone of
self-congratulation:

"I might have sought far and wide without finding a boy that would
suit my purpose as well as this one. Codicil, as shrewd as he thinks
himself, was quite taken in. I confess I looked forward to the
interview with dread. Had I allowed the boy to be closely questioned
all would have come out, and I would have lost the handsome income
which I receive as his guardian. While the real Philip Grafton
sleeps in his foreign grave, his substitute will answer my purpose,
and insure me ease and comfort. But it won't do to remain in New
York. There are too many chances of discovery. I must put the sea
between me and the lynx-eyed sharpness of old Codicil."

Mr. Grafton's urgent business engagement was at the Park Bank,
where he got his check cashed. He next proceeded to the office of
the Cunard Steamship Company, and engaged passage for the next
Saturday for Richard Grafton and Master Philip Grafton.




                            CHAPTER XI.

                       THE HOME OF POVERTY.


The time has come to introduce some new characters, who will play a
part in my story.

Five minutes' walk from Bleecker street, in a tall, shabby tenement
house, divided, as the custom is, into suites of three rooms, or
rather two, one being a common room, and the other being subdivided
into two small, narrow chambers, lived Rose and Adeline Beaufort,
respectively nineteen and seventeen years of age, and their young
brother Harry, a boy of thirteen.

It is five o'clock in the afternoon when we look in upon them.

"Rose," said her sister, "you look very tired. Can't you leave off
for an hour and rest?"

Rose was bending over a vest which she was making. Her drooping
figure and the lines on her face bespoke fatigue, yet her fingers
swiftly plied the needle, and she seemed anxiously intent upon her
task.

She shook her head in answer to her sister's words.

"No, Addie," she said; "it won't do for me to stop. You know how
little I earn at the most. I can't make more than one vest in a day,
and I get but thirty-five cents apiece."

"I know it, Rose," replied Adeline, with a sigh; "it is a great deal
of work to do for that paltry sum. If I were able to help you we
might get along better, even at such wages. I feel that I am very
useless, and a burden on you and Harry."

"You mustn't think anything of the kind, Addie," said Rose, quickly,
looking affectionately at her sister. "You know you are not strong
enough to work."

"And so you have to work the harder, Rose."

"Never mind, Addie; I am strong, and I enjoy working for you."

"But still I am so useless."

"You chase us up, and we can work all the better."

"I earn nothing. I wonder if I shall always be so weak and useless?"

"No. Don't you remember the doctor said you would in all probability
outgrow your weakness and be as strong as I am? All that is needed
is patience."

"Ah, it is not so easy to be always patient--when I think, too, of
how differently we should have been situated if grandfather had
treated us justly."

A shadow came over the face of Rose.

"Yes; I don't like to think of that. Why should he have left all his
property to our cousin Philip and none to us?"

"But if Philip should die it would all be ours, so Mr. Codicil says."

"I don't want anything to happen to the poor boy."

"Nor I, Rose. But don't you think he might do something for us?"

"So he would, very probably, if he were left to himself; but
you know he is under the guardianship of that uncle of his,
Richard Grafton, who is said to be intensely selfish and wholly
unprincipled. He means to live as handsomely as he can at Philip's
expense."

"Did grandfather appoint him guardian?"

"I believe so. Richard Grafton is very artful, and he led
grandfather to believe him fitted to be an excellent guardian for
the boy."

"I suppose he is in Europe?"

"No; I heard from Mr. Codicil, yesterday, that he was in New York."

