let me off six months ago. I have turned over a new leaf, and have
been strictly honest ever since, as I promised you I would be.

I won't trouble you with an account of my struggles to get along. I
will only say that I am employed at present as a waiter at the
Planters Hotel, and though I can't save up much money, I am able to
live comfortable. But you will wonder why I am writing to you. It is
because I have seen your name mentioned in an advertisement in one of
the St. Louis daily papers. I inclose the advertisement, and hope it
is something to your advantage. I have taken the liberty to write to
Mr. Bolton, telling him where you were six months since, and now I
write to you so that you may communicate with him also.

Yours respectfully, TOM BURNS.

The advertisement appended ran thus:

INFORMATION WANTED.--Should this meet the eye of Ernest Ray, some time
residing at Oak Forks, Iowa, he is requested to communicate with
Benjamin Bolton, Attorney-at-Law, 182 Nassau Street, New York City.




CHAPTER XXXII.

MR. BOLTON AS A HUSTLER.

When Benjamin Bolton left the house of Stephen Ray with a hundred
dollars in his pocket, it was with the clearly-defined purpose in his
mind to find the boy who had been so grossly wronged, and force the
present holder of the Ray estate to make restitution. But he was not
yet in a position to move in the matter.

Only a few hours previous he had been nearly penniless. Even now,
though he was provided with a sum of money that made him feel
comparatively rich, he knew that it would not last very long. Clearly
he must obtain employment.

He provided himself with a respectable suit of clothing, and took the
next train for New York. He had been in the metropolis two or three
times in the course of his life, but he knew no one there. He must
push his own way without help.

While other paths might be open to him, for he was a man of education
and worldly experience, he felt that he should like to get back into
his own profession. He flattered himself that if properly started he
could make himself valuable to an established attorney in the way of
hunting up cases, and taking part in any description of legal work
that might be intrusted to him.

But how could he, a man altogether unknown, recommend himself to any
lawyer whose standing and business would make a connection with him
desirable? Perhaps in any other business there would be less
difficulty in making a start.

But Mr. Bolton was resolute and determined, and fortune favored him.

Within thirty miles of the city a stout gentleman of perhaps fifty
entered the car and sat down beside him. He looked like a well-to-do
business man, prosperous and free from care, but for the anxious
expression on his face. He appeared like a man in trouble who stood in
need of advice.

The train had gone several miles before he made up his mind to confide
in the quiet-looking man who sat beside him. He had already taken
stock of Bolton in several furtive glances before he decided to speak
of the matter that troubled him.

"There is something on his mind," thought Bolton. "He looks as if he
wished to speak to some one."

He addressed a casual remark to his companion, who instantly
responded.

"I don't like to trouble you," he said, "but I am somewhat perplexed."

"My dear sir, if in any way I can help you I shall be glad to do so,"
answered Bolton. "I am a lawyer--"

"Are you?" said the other eagerly. "I want to meet a good, honest, and
smart lawyer, who will undertake a case for me."

Bolton pricked up his ears. This seemed to be a providential
opportunity of which he resolved to avail himself.

"I should not like to praise myself," he said modestly, "but I think
you would find me faithful to your interests."

"No doubt of it, sir. Are you a New York lawyer?"

"I am about to connect myself with a law firm in the city," answered
Bolton, heartily hoping that this statement might prove accurate.

"Then you will be able to help me."

"State your case, if you don't mind." Bolton took out a small
memorandum book, and, pencil in hand, sat ready to take down the
important points.

"You must know, sir, that twenty years ago my father died, leaving an
estate of fifty thousand dollars. It was divided equally between my
sister Martha and myself. I married, and Martha, for the last twenty
years, has been a member of my family. Being a spinster, with only
herself to provide for, her property has doubled, while I, having
several children, have barely held my own. Of course I expected that
my children and my self would inherit Martha's money when she died."

"Very natural, sir, and very just."

"Well, Martha died last August. Imagine my dismay when her will was
opened and proved to bequeath her entire estate to various charities
in which she never took any particular interest when living."

"Do you suspect any one of influencing her to this disposition of her
property?"

"Yes, she had had various conversations with a collector for these
societies, who resided in the town during the summer, and who sought
an introduction when he learned that she was a lady of independent
fortune. He called frequently, and flattered up my poor sister, who,
between ourselves, had lately shown signs of mental weakness."

"Did she cut off your family entirely in her will?"

"Yes; she didn't leave even a dollar to any one of my children, though
one of my daughters was named for her."

"Was the collector entitled to a commission on sums secured for the
societies which he rep resented?"

"Yes, that is the cause of his zeal. He would make a very handsome
percentage on an estate as large as my sister's."

"But for him would she have been likely to cut off her relatives?"

"No; we should probably have received every dollar."

"Do you think the collector cherished any matrimonial designs with
reference to your sister?"

"I did think so at one time, but Martha's condition as an invalid led
her to discourage his attentions, though she was evidently flattered
by them."

"Of course you wish to break the will?"

"Yes. Do you think it can be done?"

"Upon the basis of what you have told me I should think the chances
were greatly in your favor."

His companion brightened up very perceptibly at this assurance.

"Have you ever been employed in any similar cases?" he asked.

"My dear sir, I have an important case of the kind on my hands at this
moment. The amount involved is a quarter of a million dollars."

Mr. Bolton rose greatly in the estimation of his new client after he
had made this statement.

"Is the case at all similar?"

"Hardly. It is the case of a will concealed, or rather suppressed, and
acting upon a will previously made. I cannot go into details for
obvious reasons, as I wish to keep our enemy in the dark."

"I understand. Have you your card with you, so that I can call at your
office?"

This was a puzzling question for Bolton, but he was equal to the
occasion.

"Tell me what hotel you propose to stop at, and I will call upon you
at eleven o'clock to-morrow morning."

"I don't know much about the New York hotels."

"Then let me recommend a house," naming a comfortable but not
expensive hostelry on upper Broadway.

"I will go there."

"I think you have not yet mentioned your name."

"My name is Ephraim Paulding."

Bolton noted it down in his memorandum-book, and soon after the train
ran into the station at Forty-second Street.

There was no time to be lost. Bolton made inquiries and obtained the
name of a successful, go-ahead lawyer, having an office at 182 Nassau
Street. He did not wait till the next day, but made a call that same
evening at his house on Lexington Avenue.

Mr. Norcross, the lawyer, entered the parlor with Bolton's card in his
hand and a puzzled expression on his face.

"Have I ever met you before, Mr. Bolton?" he asked.
