him know----" she stopped suddenly.

"Has he no right to know?"

"No. At least--no--I think not. I do not mean----"

They were standing still, facing each other. In another moment she would
be telling Lamberti what she had never told Guido about her feelings
towards him. On a sudden she turned away with a sort of desperate
movement, clasping her hands and looking over the low wall.

"Oh, what is it all?" she cried, in great distress. "I am in the dream
again, talking as if I had known you all my life! What must you think of
me?"

Lamberti stood beside her, resting his hands upon the wall.

"It is exactly what I feel," he said quietly.

"Then you dream, too?" she asked.

"Every night--of you."

"We are both dreaming now! I am sure of it. I shall wake up in the dark
and hear the door shut softly, though I always lock it now."

"The door? Do you hear that, too?" asked Lamberti. "But I am wide awake
when I hear it."

"So am I! Sometimes I can manage to turn up the electric light before
the sound has quite stopped. Are we both mad? What is it? In the name of
Heaven, what is it all?"

"I wish I knew. Whatever it is, if you and I meet often, it is quite
impossible that we should talk like ordinary acquaintances. Yes, I
thought I was going mad, and this morning I went to a great doctor and
told him everything. He seemed to think it was all a set of
coincidences. He advised me to see you and ask you why you ran away that
day, and he thought that if we talked about it, I might perhaps not
dream again."

"You are not mad, you are not mad!" Cecilia repeated the words in a low
voice, almost mechanically.

Then there was silence, and presently she turned from the wall and began
to walk back along the wide path that passed by the central fountain.
The sun, long out of sight behind the hill, was sinking now, the thin
violet mist had begun to rise from the Campagna far to south and east,
and the mountains had taken the first tinge of evening purple. From the
ilex woods above the house, the voice of a nightingale rang out in a
long and delicious trill. The garden was deserted, and now and then the
sound of women's laughter rippled out through the high, open door.

"We must meet soon," Lamberti said, as they reached the fountain.

It seemed the most natural thing in the world that he should say it. She
stopped and looked at him, and recognised every feature of the face she
had seen in her dreams almost ever since she could remember dreaming.
Her fear was all gone now, and she was sure that it would never come
back. Had she not heard him say those very words, "We must meet soon,"
hundreds and hundreds of times, just as he had said them long ago--ever
so long ago--in a language that she could not remember when she was
awake? And had they not always met soon?

"I shall see you to-night," she answered, almost unconsciously.

"Tell me," he said, looking into the clear water in the fountain, "does
your dreaming make you restless and nervous? Does it wear on you?"

"Oh no! I have always dreamt a great deal all my life. I rest just as
well."

"Yes--but those were ordinary dreams. I mean----"

"No, they were always the same. They were always about you. I almost
screamed when I recognised you at the Princess's that afternoon."

"I had never dreamt of your face," said Lamberti, "but I was sure I had
seen you before."

They looked down into the moving water, and the music of its fall made
it harmonious with the distant song of the nightingale. Lamberti tried
to think connectedly, and could not. It was as if he were under a spell.
Questions rose to his lips, but he could not speak the words, he could
not put them together in the right way. Once, at sea, on the training
ship, he had fallen from the foreyard, and though the fall was broken by
the gear and he had not been injured, he had been badly stunned, and for
more than an hour he had lost all sense of direction, of what was
forward and what was aft, so that at one moment the vessel seemed to be
sailing backwards, and then forwards, and then sideways. He felt
something like that now, and he knew intuitively that Cecilia felt it
also. Amazingly absurd thoughts passed through his mind. Was to-morrow
going to be yesterday? Would what was coming be just what was long past?
Or was there no past, no future, nothing but all time present at once?

He was not moved by Cecilia's presence in the same way that Guido was.
Guido was merely in love with her; very much in love, no doubt, but that
was all. She was to him, first, the being of all others with whom he was
most in sympathy, the only being whom he understood, and who, he was
sure, understood him, the only being without whom life would be
unendurable. And, secondly, she was the one and only creature in the
world created to be his natural mate, and when he was near her he was
aware of nature's mysterious forces, and felt the thrill of them
continually.

Lamberti experienced nothing of that sort at present. He was overwhelmed
and carried away out of the region of normal thought and volition
towards something which he somehow knew was at hand, which he was sure
he had reached before, but which he could not distinctly remember.
Between it and him in the past there was a wall of darkness; between him
and it in the future there was a veil not yet lifted, but on which his
dreams already cast strange and beautiful shadows.

"I used to see things in the water," Cecilia said softly, "things that
were going to happen. That was long, long ago."

"I remember," said Lamberti, quite naturally. "You told me once----"

He stopped. It was gone back behind the wall of darkness. When he had
begun to speak, quite unconsciously, he had known what it was that
Cecilia had told him, but he had forgotten it all now. He passed his
hand over his forehead, and suddenly everything changed, and he came
back out of an immeasurable distance to real life.

"I shall be going away in a few days," he said. "May I see you before I
go?"

"Certainly. Come and see us about three o'clock. We are always at home
then."

"Thank you."

They turned from the fountain while they spoke, and walked slowly
towards the house.

"Does your mother know about your dreaming?" Lamberti asked.

"No. No one knows. And you?"

"I have told that doctor. No one else. I wonder whether it will go on
when I am far away."

"I wonder, too. Where are you going?"

"I do not know yet. Perhaps to China again. I shall get my orders in a
few days."

They reached the threshold of the door. Lamberti had been looking for
Guido's face amongst the people he could see as he came up, but Guido
was gone.

"Good-bye," said Cecilia, softly.

"Good night," Lamberti answered, almost in a whisper. "God bless you."

He afterwards thought it strange that he should have said that, but at
the time it seemed quite natural, and Cecilia was not at all surprised.
She smiled and bent her graceful head. Then she joined her mother, and
Lamberti disappeared.

"My dear," said the Countess, "you remember Monsieur Leroy? You met him
at Princess Anatolie's," she added, in a stage whisper.

Monsieur Leroy bowed, and Cecilia nodded. She had forgotten his
existence, and now remembered that she had not liked him, and that she
had said something sharp to him. He spoke first.

"The Princess wished me to tell you how very sorry she is that she
cannot be here this afternoon. She has one of her attacks."

"I am very sorry," Cecilia answered. "Pray tell her how sorry I am."

"Thank you. But I daresay Guido brought you the same message."

"Who is Guido?" asked Cecilia, raising her eyebrows a little.

"Guido d'Este. I thought you knew. You are surprised that I should call
him by his Christian name? You see, I have known him ever since he was
quite a boy. To all intents and purposes, he was brought up by the
Princess."

"And you are often at the house, I suppose."

"I live there," explained Monsieur Leroy. "To change the subject, my
dear young lady, I have an apology to make, which I hope you will
accept."

Cecilia did not like to be called any one's "dear young lady," and her
manner froze instantly.

"I cannot imagine why you should apologise to me," she said coldly.

"I was rude to you the other day, about your courses of philosophy, or
something of that sort. Was not that it?"

"Indeed, I had quite forgotten," Cecilia answered, with truth. "It did
not matter in the least what you thought of my reading Nietzsche, I
assure you."

Monsieur Leroy reddened and laughed awkwardly, for he was particularly
