"But we will take Pani. I would not think of leaving her behind."

"She will not go. I have planned and talked. She is no longer strong. To
tear her up by the roots would be cruel. And do you not see that all her
life is wound about me? She has been the tenderest of mothers. I must
give her back some of the care she has bestowed upon me. She has never
been quite the same since I was taken away. She came near to dying then.
Yes, you must leave me awhile."

"Jeanne, my little one, I cannot permit this sacrifice;" and the
tenderness in his eyes smote her.

"Ah, you cannot imagine how I should pine for Detroit and for her. Then
besides--"

A warm color flooded her face; her eyes drooped.

"My darling, can you not trust yourself to my love?"

"There is another to share your love. Oh, believe me, I am not jealous
that one so beautiful and worthy should stand in the place my mother
contemned. She has the right."

"Child, you have wondered how I found the clew to your existence. I have
meant to tell you but there have been so many things intervening. Do you
remember one night she asked your name, after having heard your story?
She had listened to the other side more than once, and, piecing them
together, she guessed--"

Jeanne recalled the sudden change from delight to coldness. Ah, was this
the key?

"The boys were full of enthusiasm over the strange guest, whose eyes
were like their father's. No suspicion struck me. Blue eyes are not so
unusual, though they all have dark ones. Neither was it so strange that
one should be captured by the Indians and escape. But I saw presently
that something weighed heavily on the heart that had always been open as
the day. Now and then she seemed on the point of some confession. I
have large patience, Jeanne, and I waited, since I knew it had nothing
to do with any lack of love towards me. And one night when her secret
had pricked her sorely she told me her suspicions. My little child might
be alive, might have escaped by some miracle; and she besought me with
all eagerness to hasten to Detroit and find this Jeanne Angelot. She had
been jealous and unhappy that there should be another claimant for my
love, but then she was nobly sweet and generous and would give you a
warm welcome. I sent her word by a boat going North, and now I have
received another message. Women's hearts are strange things, child, but
you need not be afraid to trust her, though the welcome will be more
like that of a sister," and he smiled. "I am your rightful protector. I
cannot leave you here alone."

"Nothing would harm me," she made answer, proudly. "There are many
friends. Detroit is dear to me. And for Pani's sake--oh, leave me here a
little while longer. For I can see Pani grows weaker and day by day
loses a little of her hold on life. Then there is Monsieur Loisel, who
will guard me, and Monsieur Fleury and Madame, who are most kind. Yes,
you will consent. After that I will come and be your most dutiful
daughter. But, oh, think; I owe the Indian woman a child's service as
well."

Her lovely eyes turned full upon him with tenderest entreaty. He would
be loth to reward any such devotion with ingratitude, and it would be
that. Pani could not be taken from Detroit.

"Jeanne, it wrings my heart to find you and then give you up even for a
brief while. How can I?"

"But you will," she said, and her arms were about his neck, her soft,
warm cheek was pressed to his, and he could feel her heart beat against
his. "It pains me, too, for see, I love you. I have a right to love you.
I must make amends for the pang of the other defection. And you will
tell her, yes. I think I ought to be sister to her. And there are the
two charming boys and Angelique--she will let me love them. I will not
take their love from her."

He drew a long breath. "I know not how to consent, and yet I see that it
would be the finest and loveliest duty. I honor you for desiring it. I
must think and school myself," smiling sadly.

He consulted M. St. Armand on the matter.

"Give her into my guardianship for a while," that gentleman said. "It is
noble in her to care for her foster mother to the last. I shall be in
and out of Detroit, and the Fleurys will be most friendly. And look you,
mon cousin, I have a proffer to make. I have a son, a young man whose
career has been most honorable, who is worthy of any woman's love, and
who so far has had no entanglements. If these two should meet again
presently, and come to desire each other, nothing would give me greater
happiness. He would be a son quite to your liking. Both would be of one
faith. And to me, Jeanne would be the dearest of daughters."

The Sieur Angelot wrung the hand of his relative.

"It must be as the young people wish. And I would like to have her a
little while to myself."

"That is right, too. I could wish she were my daughter, only then my son
might miss a great joy."

So the matter was settled. M. and Madame Fleury would have opened their
house to Jeanne and her charge, but it was best for them to remain where
they were. Wenonah came in often and Margot was always ready to do a
service.

One day Jeanne went down to the wharf to see the vessel depart for the
North. It was a magnificent June morning, with the river almost like
glass and a gentle wind from the south. She watched the tall figure on
the deck, waving his hand until the proud outline mingled with others
and was indistinct--or was it the tears in her eyes?

M. St. Armand had some business in Quebec, but would remain only a short
time.

It seemed strangely solitary to Jeanne after that, although there was no
lack of friends. Everybody was ready to serve her, and the young men
bowed with the utmost respect when they met her. She took Pani out for
short walks, the favorite one to the great oak tree where Jeanne had
begun her life in Detroit. Children played about, brown Indian babies,
grave-faced even in their play, vivacious French little ones calling to
each other in shrill patois, laughing and tumbling and climbing. Had
she once been wild and merry like them? Then Pani would babble of the
past and stroke the soft curls and call her "little one." What a curious
dream life was!

They were busy with the governor's house and the military squares and
the old fort. The streets were cleared up a little. Houses had been
painted and whitewashed. Stores and shops spread out their attractions,
booths were flying gay colors and showing tempting eatables. All along
the river was the stir of active life. People stayed later in the
streets these warm evenings and sat on stoops chatting. Young men and
maids planned pleasures and sails on the river and went to bed gay and
light-hearted. Was there any place quite like Old Detroit?

Early one morning while the last stars were lingering in the sky and the
east was suffused with a faint pink haze, a scarlet spire shot up that
was not sunrise. No one remarked it at first. Then a broad flash that
might have been lightning but was not, and a cry on the still air
startled the sleepers. "Fire! Fire!"

Suddenly all was terror. There had been no rain in some time, and the
inflammable buildings caught like so much tinder. From the end of St.
Anne's street up and down it ran, the dense smoke sometimes hiding the
flames. Like the eruption of a great crater the smoke rose thick, black,
with here and there a tongue of flame that was frightful. The streets
were so narrow and crowded, the appliances for fighting the terrible
enemy so limited, that men soon gave up in despair. On and on it went
devouring all within its reach.

Shop keepers emptied their stores, hurried their stocks down to the
wharf, and filled the boats. Furniture, century-old heirlooms, were
tumbled frantically out of houses to some place of refuge as the fire
swept on, carried farther and farther. Daylight and sunlight were alike
obscured. Frantic people ran hither and thither, children were gathered
in arms, and hurried without the palisades, which in many instances were
burned away. And presently the inhabitants gave way to the wildest
despair. It was a new and terrible experience. The whole town must go.

Jeanne had been sleeping soundly, and in the first uproar listened like
one dazed. Was it an Indian assault, such as her father had feared
presently? Then the smoke rushed into every crack and crevice.

"Oh, what is it, what is it?" she cried, flinging her door open wide.

"Oh, Mam'selle," cried Margot, "the street is all aflame. Run! run!
Antoine has taken the children."

Already the streets were crowded. St. Anne's was a wall of fire. One
could hardly see, and the roar of the flames was terrific, drowning the
cries and shrieks.

"Come, quick!" Margot caught her arm.

"Pani! Pani!" She darted back into the house. "Pani," she cried, pulling
at her. "Oh, wake, wake! We must fly. The town is burning up."

"Little one," said Pani, "nothing shall harm thee."

"Come!" Jeanne pulled her out with her strong young arms, and tried to
slip a gown over the shaking figure that opposed her efforts.

"I will not go," she cried. "I know, you want to take me away from dear
old Detroit. I heard something the Sieur Angelot said. O Jeanne, the
good Father in Heaven sent you back once. Do not go again--"

"The street is all on fire. Oh, Margot, help me, or we shall be burned
to death. Pani, dear, we must fly."

"Where is Jeanne Angelot," exclaimed a sturdy voice. "Jeanne, if you do
not escape now--see, the flames have struck the house."

It was the tall, strong form of Pierre De Ber, and he caught her in his
arms.

"No, no! O Pierre, take Pani. She is dazed. I can follow. Cover her with
a blanket, so," and Jeanne, having struggled away, threw the blanket
about the woman. Pierre caught her up. "Come, follow behind me. Do not
let go. O Jeanne, you must be saved."

Pani was too surprised for any resistance. She was not a heavy burthen,
and he took her up easily.
