so almost marvelous of its kind must have been put in the kindly heart
by some higher power.

She was curiously awed. Uncle Jason and Aunt Jane were church members,
but religion had very little power in their lives. Yet Aunt Jane brought
up her children to be strictly honest, and any bald falsehood she truly
believed she despised. But injustice or the refusal to see the other
side of the question was not connected in her mind with truthfulness.
Like many other people the things she believed in and wanted, were
right, not only for her, but others must be fitted to the measure. So
Helen knew very little of the higher meaning of the word.

Mrs. Van Dorn paid a general outward respect to religion when she was
with a certain kind of people, but she was of a sort of heathen who make
gods for themselves. Her life was to be enjoyment now, since the early
part of it had been hard and comfortless. If it had not been right, a
form of reward for those dreary early years it would not have come to
her. She thought it bad taste to array herself against beliefs that
pervaded the world so largely. All sorts of disbelief coarsened women.
She had listened to one great woman speaker who afterward became an
Anarchist, and who even then denounced nearly all the moral precepts and
attacked modern marriage, and was really shocked. She liked to keep what
she called reverence for sacred things. And it pleased her to play
Providence to people now and then, and impress it delicately on the
recipients that they need look no farther than herself for the giver of
their good.

But to-night Helen felt there was some power beyond, and she gave thanks
sincerely to it. It was God who had made the world so full of beauty, it
must be God who had put these noble and lovely desires in anyone's soul,
so she went quite past Mrs. Van Dorn.

There were sweet and merry voices the next morning, but Helen had been
up an hour or more looking over some poems in a choice selection.
Someone tapped at her door, and she opened it. Miss Mays stood there
smiling.

"I suppose you feel a little queer, like the traditional cat in a
strange garret. Come down with us."

"To-day is a kind of lawless, irresponsible time. I dote on it. We had
lots of fun last year because we came on Friday. It was Daisy Bell's
first year, too. You learn to-day what the rules are, but you don't have
to keep them. It's a grace day when you are not forced to get your
accounts straight."

Helen turned and wished her mates goodmorning, and thought within
herself that it was a very pretty thing to say, since the morning was so
good. Yet she had a curious feeling within her, as if she was here
under some kind of false pretense. She was so utterly honest she would
have enjoyed explaining her exact situation, that she was here on the
bounty of a friend, and not as these other girls who came from
delightful homes, and had fathers to care for them.

Mrs. Aldred summoned Helen to her room. Occasionally this was not a
pleasant call to make, but this morning it had no such signification.

All new pupils underwent this examination. Where she had been trained,
what she had studied, and what her aims were, if she had any.

Mrs. Van Dorn had explained pretty clearly, and she had also said,
"Don't spoil a very nice, honest girl by setting her up too high."

"What I would like to do most of all?" and Helen's eyes lighted with
enthusiasm. "I think it would be to teach, because then you always go on
learning. There are some things that girls and women do that seem to
make you stop off short, turn you into another channel entirely," and
she thought of the shoe factory and how narrowly she had escaped that.

Mrs. Van Dorn had been quite as non-commital with her protégée then,
or had no real plans for her.

"Now let me hear what you have studied."

Helen went over the list and told of her High School examination and how
she had passed. There was a girlish pride in it, of course, but no undue
elation. Mrs. Aldred was much pleased with the absence of
self-consciousness, the real delight in knowledge.

"You are very well grounded. Mrs. Van Dorn wished you to take up French;
of course you will begin with Latin. And music."

"Oh!" Helen's face was radiant then. "Music! I never dreamed of that!"

"You will not enjoy the drudgery, but that has to come first. It is an
excellent thing to be interested in what you are doing, to love it,
but all studies are not equally pleasant. There are courage and
perseverance needed."

"I shall try to do my very best for Mrs. Van Dorn's sake. It was so
generous of her to send me here though I do think I should have managed
to work my way through the High School."

What a frank, honest girl she was! How little she knew about the world!
An astute person could turn her inside out and laugh at her innocence.
It was a pity to spoil it, yet it would be worse to leave her at the
mercy of a crowd of girls.

"This will be an entirely new experience for you," Mrs. Aldred began
gently. "You have had very little acquaintance with the real world, and
very little need to be on your guard. As one's sphere grows wider and
more people come into it, there is occasion for"--how should she put
it--judgment; no, that was not quite it; at this stage of a girl's life
she was not likely to have a very correct judgment; "a little caution
and reserve. Girls so often exchange confidences about their lives and
their friends, and do not always look at things just as they are.
Afterward they regret their unreserve."

Helen had been taking in every word, only she could not get the meaning
of it, except that it seemed to her confused sense akin to her thoughts
of an hour ago. She really studied the face before her, and Mrs. Aldred
felt the scrutiny. How could she make the girl understand just what she
meant? If Mrs. Van Dorn had been a little more explicit. If she were
having the girl educated solely for herself the explanation would be
easy enough.

Helen's directness solved the difficulty. There was so much ingrained
honesty about her, and yet half the time lately, it seemed to her she
had been on the very verge of deceitfulness.

"Mrs. Aldred," she began, with some hesitation, "I was thinking, this
morning, when I heard the girls talk, that my life had been so different
from theirs, and whether I had the right--" her face went scarlet
then--"I don't know as I can just explain it," in some confusion, "but
whether I was on an equality with them."

She said it out bravely. Mrs. Aldred admired her courage and her
honesty.

"You certainly are on an equality with them here. If Mrs. Van Dorn had
asked me to take you as a return for some past favors, you would still
have been put on an equality, and I should not have considered it
sailing under false colors. But she pays the usual terms for you, and
the favor is between yourself and her. So you can dismiss all thoughts
of that from your mind. I think she desires to have you trained in
society ways, which you can do by watching the best examples and
following them. You will like some girls very much, and girls are
largely given to think that a true friendship must begin by telling each
other all the little happenings of their lives. It is a good rule to
consider in these matters whether you would like the girl to tell this
over to someone who did not admire you so much, and who repeated it with
little embellishments to the next eager listener."

"But she could not if it was a confidence," said Helen decisively.

"Girls' consciences are elastic," smiling a little. "I think they do not
mean to make mischief, but I have known more than one regret caused by
an incautious confidence. Girls have many things to learn before they
are women, but a light and happy heart is the birthright of a girl and
she need not hurry to outgrow it. Still one can study wisdom as well as
other lessons, and like most of them, it is a lifelong study."

Helen was considering and wondered if she understood. She had never been
counseled in this spirit. "I want you to know that you are in no sense a
charity scholar, as the phrase goes, though I have had several who
worked their way through school, gave for whatever they obtained, which
is far from charity, I take it. I will only add, choose your friends,
which implies some discrimination on your part. Did you like the girls
at the table? They are all in the French class and they talk French
during the five school days. That is not demanded of the new scholars.
Monday we will begin in regular order and I will have your classes
arranged."

Then she touched a pretty bell that stood on the table and Miss Aldred
answered the summons.

"Grace, will you take Miss Grant through the schoolrooms?" she asked,
and Miss Aldred smiled as she gave a gesture of assent.

Helen followed her guide. This was the general assembly room, here the
different recitation rooms, here the drawing classes met and there were
casts and busts and figures in plaster, and several very well executed
paintings and drawings embellished the walls. Then the music room, and
the study room had a piano in it also.

Helen was a trifle appalled. Education had seemed a rather simple thing
at Hope. She sighed as she glanced up at Miss Grace.

"Oh, where is there time to learn it all?" she asked with a sinking at
the heart.

"You do not have to learn it in one day or one week," was the smiling
answer. "And every day it grows easier."

"But--music! I've never even touched a piano."

"Do you sing?"

"Yes, a few little songs and Sunday hymns. And sometimes out of doors I
try to catch the bird notes. They are no special tunes, you know, but I
always have to stop at the warble," and she laughed brightly.

Miss Grace nodded, rather amused.

"And I have never studied Latin or French."

"Everyone has to begin, though the babies in France talk French, which I
believe once surprised a woman who was traveling in France."

"Oh!" Then Helen laughed gayly.
