all! I have watched you, followed you, dreamed of you, and you have
flung me off."

As she spoke, the girl had been striding about the spot. As she finished
she bowed her head and broke into a passion of tears.

"But, Miss Adams," expostulated Mark, "you will not let me explain."

"'Explain!'" The girl raised her head and tossed her dark hair in anger,
while her eyes flashed. "I do not want you to explain! Your explanations
are simply honeyed words to hide the facts. I know the facts. You want
to tell me why. I know why! It is because of her, of her! I hate her,
the yellow-haired creature. And I hate you! Yes, I hate you! You have
treated me as if I were a puppet, as if I had no right to live. And I do
not want to live. I have no use for life. I wish I were dead!"

The girl had raised her hands to the sky, a weird figure; she gazed
about her despairingly as she finished.

"I wish I were dead!" she cried, again.

The wind whistled through the lonely trees as she spoke, and made a
strange accompaniment to her impassioned voice. A steamboat, plying the
river, was softly churning little waves that lapped against the shore
and made a low, gurgling sound upon the rocks. The girl gazed over the
steep, dark bank as she cried out in her wretchedness, and the next
instant she sprang forward.

The thought had flashed over Mark at the same moment. He saw the girl
move, and seized her. She turned upon him with the fury of a tiger, a
tiger she was, with all a tiger's passions. For a moment they struggled
and wrestled, the girl crying out all the time. And then she tore
herself loose with one mighty effort--Mark had only one free hand--and
lunged down, down into the darkness.

Mark heard a splash and a gurgle of the black invisible waters. And then
all was silent as the grave.

Mark Mallory hesitated, hesitated for the first time in his life. One
arm was bound tight in a sling and helpless. He was weak and faint yet
from his maltreatment. Still he could not see her die without trying to
save her. His hesitation gone, he took a step forward, but he was too
late.

There was a quick noise behind him; he heard the word "coward!" hissed
in his ear, and a white figure shot past him and dived out into the
darkness.

Mark gasped with relief; and quick to act, he turned, and helpless
though he was, clambered down around the side to reach the spot. He
heard sounds of a struggle out beyond him; he heard some whispered
words, and a moment later the figure of the rescuer arose out of the
water and confronted him, bearing the girl in his arms.

It was Bull Harris!

Mark started back instinctively; and Bull sneered as he saw it.

"Coward!" he repeated. "Coward! The corps shall know of this!"

Mark knew that expostulation and explanation were useless and
unnecessary. He said not a word, but saw the girl safely brought to
shore. And then, sad and heavy at heart, he turned and walked back
toward the camp.

Bull Harris stayed, to reap the fruit of his labors. He held the
half-fainting, half-hysterical girl in his arms and wiped her straying
hair from her face and sought to calm her. He seemed to like his task,
for when she was better he made no move to stop.

"Did he push you over?" inquired Bull, insinuatingly.

"No," cried the girl, with fierceness. "He did not. But I hate him!"

"You might say he did then!" the yearling whispered softly.

Mary Adams glanced at him with a sharp look.

"I might," she said, "if I chose. And I may. What's that to you?"

"To me!" cried Bull clinching the girl's hand in his until she cried
out. "To me! I hate him! I could kill him!"

"You were rude to me once," she muttered.

"Yes," exclaimed Bull. "I was. You liked him, and I hated you for it."

That was a lie, but the girl did not choose, for some reason, to say so.

"Come," she said, striving to arise. "Help me home."

"One moment!" cried Bull, holding her back. "Promise me one thing, one
thing before you go."

"What is it?"

"I know the whole story, Mary," he said. "I know how he has treated you,
how he has cast you off, made a puppet of you, and all for that Grace
Fuller! You say you hate him. So do I. Promise me, promise me to be
revenged if you have to die for it."

"I will!" cried she, furiously.

"Will you give me your hand on it?"

"I will."

Bull took her home that night, though he was in no hurry about it. He
came in after taps, for he thought it would do him good to hand in his
explanation that he had been saving a girl's life, and restoring her to
consciousness. A girl; perhaps a girl upon whom murder had been
attempted.

He evaded all details, however, and went to his tent chuckling
triumphantly at his evil work that night.

He had laid a foundation for trouble, but would success follow?

Only the future could tell.




CHAPTER XXIX.

STRANGE CONDUCT.


"Say, fellows, what do you think?"

"What's the matter?"

"Mallory's given in!"

"Given in! How do you mean?"

"He's going to let himself be hazed."

"What!"

Two more surprised cadets than the two who uttered this last exclamation
it would be hard to imagine. They had been sitting on a bench near
Trophy Point, and one of them had been carelessly tinkling a mandolin.
He had dropped the instrument and leaped to his feet. Now he was staring
with open mouth at the new arrival, who bore the extraordinary tidings.

"Mallory given up! Gus Murray, what on earth do you mean?"

The three were yearlings, all of them. The crowd which has usually been
designated in these stories as "Bull Harris' gang." There was Gus
Murray, the new arrival, a low, brutal-looking chap. There was the
sickly and disagreeable "Merry" Vance. And there was the little fellow
"Baby" Edwards, the meanest of them all.

"You surely can't mean," cried Vance, "that Mallory has consented to
allow the fellows to haze him?"

"Better than that even," chuckled Murray. "Better than that!"

"For Heaven's sake," gasped the other, "sit down and tell us what you do
mean. What is the use of talking riddles?"

Thus enjoined, Gus Murray explained; he was nothing loath to tell the
tale.

"I'll tell you how it was," he said. "I was never more astounded in my
life. I saw that plebe strolling down the street a while ago, holding
his head high as ever and looking as if he owned the place."

"Confound him!" muttered Vance.

"You know," the other continued, "he's never done any work like the rest
of the plebes. Usually we yearlings make them fix our tents and guns,
and carry water, and so on. Mallory never has, and of course nobody's
succeeded in making him. I thought I'd guy him a little just now and see
how he'd take it. So I stopped and said, 'See here, plebe. Let me show
you how to clean a gun.'"

"And what did he say?" cried Vance.

"Just as B. J. as ever," growled Murray. "'Thank you,' he said, 'I'll go
get mine and let you do it.' Of course he knew perfectly well that I
wanted to show him on mine and let him do the work. I said to him,
'I've a gun to show you on, if you please.' And by George----"

"You don't mean he cleaned your gun for you!" gasped Baby.

"That's just exactly what I do! You might have knocked me over with a
feather. He said, 'Certainly, sir.' Yes, by jiminy, he actually said
'sir.' And when I left him he was working away like a beaver. He had the
gun half cleaned. What do you think of that?"

Gus finished and gazed at his two companions triumphantly. He felt that
he had accomplished something that no other member of his class ever
had.

"I'll bet Mallory was afraid of you," chirruped Baby Edwards. "Don't you
suppose that's it, Merry?"

Vance picked up his mandolin and resumed his cynical smile.
