
"Like swimming squirrels, you navigate with the help of Heaven and a
stiff breeze, but you never land where you hope to--do you?"

Rather red in the face, I said: "Don't you believe the great auk to be
extinct?"

"Audubon saw the great auk."

"Who has seen a single specimen since?"

"Nobody--except our correspondent here," he replied, laughing.

I laughed, too, considering the interview at an end, but the professor
went on, coolly:

"Whatever it is that our correspondent has--and I am daring to believe
that it is the great auk itself--I want you to secure it for the
society."

When my astonishment subsided my first conscious sentiment was one of
pity. Clearly, Professor Farrago was on the verge of dotage--ah, what
a loss to the world!

I believe now that Professor Farrago perfectly interpreted my
thoughts, but he betrayed neither resentment nor impatience. I drew a
chair up beside his desk--there was nothing to do but to obey, and
this fool's errand was none of my conceiving.

Together we made out a list of articles necessary for me and itemized
the expenses I might incur, and I set a date for my return, allowing
no margin for a successful termination to the expedition.

"Never mind that," said the professor. "What I want you to do is to
get those birds here safely. Now, how many men will you take?"

"None," I replied, bluntly; "it's a useless expense, unless there is
something to bring back. If there is I'll wire you, you may be sure."

"Very well," said Professor Farrago, good-humoredly, "you shall have
all the assistance you may require. Can you leave to-night?"

The old gentleman was certainly prompt. I nodded, half-sulkily, aware
of his amusement.

"So," I said, picking up my hat, "I am to start north to find a place
called Black Harbor, where there is a man named Halyard who possesses,
among other household utensils, two extinct great auks--"

We were both laughing by this time. I asked him why on earth he
credited the assertion of a man he had never before heard of.

"I suppose," he replied, with the same half-apologetic, half-humorous
smile, "it is instinct. I feel, somehow, that this man Halyard has
got an auk--perhaps two. I can't get away from the idea that we are on
the eve of acquiring the rarest of living creatures. It's odd for a
scientist to talk as I do; doubtless you're shocked--admit it, now!"

But I was not shocked; on the contrary, I was conscious that the same
strange hope that Professor Farrago cherished was beginning, in spite
of me, to stir my pulses, too.

"If he has--" I began, then stopped.

The professor and I looked hard at each other in silence.

"Go on," he said, encouragingly.

But I had nothing more to say, for the prospect of beholding with my
own eyes a living specimen of the great auk produced a series of
conflicting emotions within me which rendered speech profanely
superfluous.

As I took my leave Professor Farrago came to the door of the
temporary, wooden office and handed me the letter written by the man
Halyard. I folded it and put it into my pocket, as Halyard might
require it for my own identification.

"How much does he want for the pair?" I asked.

"Ten thousand dollars. Don't demur--if the birds are really--"

"I know," I said, hastily, not daring to hope too much.

"One thing more," said Professor Farrago, gravely; "you know, in that
last paragraph of his letter, Halyard speaks of something else in the
way of specimens--an undiscovered species of amphibious biped--just
read that paragraph again, will you?"

I drew the letter from my pocket and read as he directed:

    "When you have seen the two living specimens of the great auk,
    and have satisfied yourself that I tell the truth, you may be
    wise enough to listen without prejudice to a statement I shall
    make concerning the existence of the strangest creature ever
    fashioned. I will merely say, at this time, that the creature
    referred to is an amphibious biped and inhabits the ocean near
    this coast. More I cannot say, for I personally have not seen
    the animal, but I have a witness who has, and there are many
    who affirm that they have seen the creature. You will
    naturally say that my statement amounts to nothing; but when
    your representative arrives, if he be free from prejudice, I
    expect his reports to you concerning this sea-biped will
    confirm the solemn statements of a witness I know to be
    unimpeachable.

  "Yours truly,      BURTON HALYARD.

  "BLACK HARBOR."

"Well," I said, after a moment's thought, "here goes for the
wild-goose chase."

"Wild auk, you mean," said Professor Farrago, shaking hands with me.
"You will start to-night, won't you?"

"Yes, but Heaven knows how I'm ever going to land in this man
Halyard's door-yard. Good-bye!"

"About that sea-biped--" began Professor Farrago, shyly.

"Oh, don't!" I said; "I can swallow the auks, feathers and claws, but
if this fellow Halyard is hinting he's seen an amphibious creature
resembling a man--"

"--Or a woman," said the professor, cautiously.

I retired, disgusted, my faith shaken in the mental vigor of Professor
Farrago.




II


The three days' voyage by boat and rail was irksome. I bought my kit
at Sainte Croix, on the Central Pacific Railroad, and on June 1st I
began the last stage of my journey via the Sainte Isole broad-gauge,
arriving in the wilderness by daylight. A tedious forced march by
blazed trail, freshly spotted on the wrong side, of course, brought me
to the northern terminus of the rusty, narrow-gauge lumber railway
which runs from the heart of the hushed pine wilderness to the sea.

Already a long train of battered flat-cars, piled with sluice-props
and roughly hewn sleepers, was moving slowly off into the brooding
forest gloom, when I came in sight of the track; but I developed a
gratifying and unexpected burst of speed, shouting all the while. The
train stopped; I swung myself aboard the last car, where a pleasant
young fellow was sitting on the rear brake, chewing spruce and reading
a letter.

"Come aboard, sir," he said, looking up with a smile; "I guess you're
the man in a hurry."

"I'm looking for a man named Halyard," I said, dropping rifle and
knapsack on the fresh-cut, fragrant pile of pine. "Are you Halyard?"

"No, I'm Francis Lee, bossing the mica pit at Port-of-Waves," he
replied, "but this letter is from Halyard, asking me to look out for a
man in a hurry from Bronx Park, New York."

"I'm that man," said I, filling my pipe and offering him a share of
the weed of peace, and we sat side by side smoking very amiably, until
a signal from the locomotive sent him forward and I was left alone,
lounging at ease, head pillowed on both arms, watching the blue sky
flying through the branches overhead.

Long before we came in sight of the ocean I smelled it; the fresh,
salt aroma stole into my senses, drowsy with the heated odor of pine
and hemlock, and I sat up, peering ahead into the dusky sea of pines.

Fresher and fresher came the wind from the sea, in puffs, in mild,
sweet breezes, in steady, freshening currents, blowing the feathery
crowns of the pines, setting the balsam's blue tufts rocking.

Lee wandered back over the long line of flats, balancing himself
nonchalantly as the cars swung around a sharp curve, where water
dripped from a newly propped sluice that suddenly emerged from the
depths of the forest to run parallel to the railroad track.

"Built it this spring," he said, surveying his handiwork, which seemed
to undulate as the cars swept past. "It runs to the cove--or ought
to--" He stopped abruptly with a thoughtful glance at me.

"So you're going over to Halyard's?" he continued, as though answering
a question asked by himself.

I nodded.

"You've never been there--of course?"

"No," I said, "and I'm not likely to go again."

I would have told him why I was going if I had not already begun to
feel ashamed of my idiotic errand.

"I guess you're going to look at those birds of his," continued Lee,
placidly.

