Campagna alone and had felt tired. He knew no more.

If only she could get him to Rome. It was not more than seven or eight
miles to the city, and Regina had often been there with Nanna. She had
been to Saint John Lateran's at midsummer for the great festival, and
she knew where the hospital was, in which famous professors cured every
ill under the sun. If she could bring Marcello to them, he would get
well; if he stayed much longer at the inn, Paoluccio would kill him;
being a woman, and a loving one, Regina only regarded as possible what
she wished, where the man she loved was concerned.

She made up her mind that if it could not be done by any other means she
would carry Marcello all the way. During his illness she had often
lifted him from his bed like a little child, for he was slightly built
by nature and was worn to a shadow by the fever. Even Aurora could have
raised him, and he was a featherweight in the arms of such a creature as
Regina. But it would be another matter to carry such an awkward burden
for miles along the highroad; and besides, she would meet the
carabineers, and as she would have to go at night, they would probably
arrest her and put her in prison, and Marcello would die. She must find
some other way.

She laid his head tenderly on the pillow and left him, promising to come
back as soon as she could. For safety she had brought the dish of beans
with her, lest Nanna should follow her, and she took it with her, just
as it was; but at the foot of the outer stairs she ran along the back of
the house to the pig-sty, and emptied the mess into the trough,
carefully scraping the bowl with the spoon so that it looked as if some
one had eaten the contents. Then she went back to the kitchen.

"Has he eaten?" inquired Nanna, and Paoluccio looked up, too.

"You see," answered Regina, showing the empty bowl.

"Health to him!" answered Paoluccio. "He has a good appetite."

"Eat your own," said Nanna to the girl.

She suspected that Regina might have eaten the beans meant for Marcello,
but her doubt vanished as she saw how the hungry young thing devoured
her own portion.

"Are there any more left?" Regina asked when she had finished, for she
understood perfectly what was going on in the minds of the other two.

She looked into the earthen cooking-pot which now stood on the corner of
the hearth.

"Not even the smell of any more," answered Nanna. "There is bread."

Regina's white teeth crushed the hard brown crust as if she had not
eaten for a week. There could be no doubt but that the sick boy had
eaten the beans; and beans, especially white ones, are not good for
people who have the fever, as Nanna had justly observed.

"On Sunday he shall have a dish of liver and cabbage," she said, in a
cheerful tone. "There is much strength in liver, and cabbage is good for
the blood. I shall take it to him myself, for it will be a pleasure to
see him eat."

"The beans were soon finished," said Regina, with perfect truth.

"I told you how it would be," Paoluccio answered.

But Regina knew that the time had come to get Marcello away from the inn
if he ever was to leave it alive, and in the afternoon, when Nanna was
dozing in her chair in the kitchen and Paoluccio was snoring upstairs,
and when she had smoothed Marcello's pillow, she went out and sat down
in front of the house, where there was shade at that hour, though the
glare from the dusty road would have blinded weaker eyes than hers. She
sat on the stone seat that ran along the house, and leaned against the
rough wall, thinking and scheming, and quite sure that she should find a
way.

At first she looked about, while she thought, from the well-known
mountains that bounded her world to the familiar arches of the distant
aqueduct, from the dry ditch opposite to the burning sky above and the
greyish green hillocks below Tivoli. But by and by she looked straight
before her, with a steady, concentrated stare, as if she saw something
happening and was watching to see how it would end.

She had found what she wanted, and was quite sure of it; only a few
details remained to be settled, such as what was to become of her after
she left the inn where she had grown up. But that did not trouble her
much.

She was not delicately nurtured that she should dread the great world of
which she knew nothing, nor had Nanna's conversation during ten years
done much to strengthen her in the paths of virtue. Her pride had done
much more and might save her wherever she went, but she was very well
aware of life's evil truths. And what would her pride be compared with
Marcello, the first and only being she had ever loved? To begin with,
she knew that the handsome people from the country earned money by
serving as models for painters and sculptors, and she had not the
slightest illusion about her own looks. Since she had been a child
people who came to the inn had told her that she was beautiful; and not
the rough wine-carters only, for the fox-hunters sometimes came that
way, riding slowly homeward after a long run, and many a fine gentleman
in pink had said things to her which she had answered sharply, but which
she remembered well. She had not the slightest doubt but that she was
one of the handsomest girls in Italy, and the absolute certainty of the
conviction saved her from having any small vanity about her looks. She
knew that she had only to show herself and that every one would stand
and look at her, only to beckon and she would be followed. She did not
crave admiration; a great beauty rarely does. She simply defied
competition, and was ready to laugh at it in a rather good-natured way,
for she knew what she had, and was satisfied.

As for the rest, she was merely clever and fearless, and her moral
inheritance was not all that might be desired; for her father had left
her mother in a fit of pardonable jealousy, after nearly killing her and
quite killing his rival, and her mother had not redeemed her character
after his abrupt departure. On the contrary, if an accident had not
carried her off suddenly, Regina's virtuous parent would probably have
sold the girl into slavery. Poor people are not all honest, any more
than other kinds of people are. Regina did not mourn her mother, and
hardly remembered her father at all, and she never thought of either.

She owed Paoluccio and Nanna nothing, in her opinion. They had fed her
sufficiently, and clothed her decently for the good of the house; she
had done the work of two women in return, because she was strong, and
she had been honest, because she was proud. Even the innkeeper and his
wife would not have pretended that she owed them much gratitude; they
were much too natural for that, and besides, the girl was too handsome,
and there might be some scandal about her any day which would injure the
credit of the inn. Nanna thought Paoluccio much too fond of watching
her, as it was, and reflected that if she went to the city she would be
well out of the way, and might go to the devil if she pleased.

Regina's plan for taking Marcello was simple, like most plans which
succeed, and only depended for its success on being carried out
fearlessly.

The wine-carters usually came to the inn from the hills between nine and
eleven o'clock at night, and the carts, heavy-laden with wine casks,
stood in a line along the road, while the men went into the kitchen to
eat and drink. They generally paid for what they consumed by giving a
measure or two of wine from the casks they were bringing, and which they
filled up with water, a very simple plan which seems to have been in use
for ages. It has several advantages; the owner of the wine does not
suffer by it, since he gets his full price in town; the man who buys the
wine in Rome does not suffer, because he adds so much water to the wine
before selling it that a little more or less makes no difference; the
public does not suffer, as it is well known that wine is much better for
the health when drunk with plenty of water; and the carters do not
suffer, because nobody would think of interfering with them. Moreover,
they get food and drink for nothing.

While the men were having supper in the inn, their carts were guarded by
their little woolly dogs, black, white, or brown, and always terribly
wide-awake and uncommonly fierce in spite of their small size.

Now, just at this time, there was one carter who had none, and Regina
knew it, for he was one of her chief admirers. He was the
hardest-drinking ruffian of all the men who came and went on the
Frascati road, and he had been quite willing to sell his dog in the
street to a gentleman who admired it and offered him fifty francs for
it, though that is a small price for a handsome "lupetto." But Mommo
happened to be deeper in debt than usual, took the money, and cast about
to steal another dog that might serve him. So far he had not seen one to
his liking.

It is the custom of the wine-carters, when they have had plenty to eat
and drink, to climb to their seats under the fan-like goat-skin hoods of
their carts, and to go to sleep, wrapped in their huge cloaks. Their
mules plod along and keep out of the way of other vehicles without any
guidance, and their dogs protect them from thieves, who might steal
their money; for they always carry the sum necessary to pay the octroi
duty at the city gates, where every cart is stopped. As they are on the
road most of their lives, winter and summer, they would not get much
sleep if they tried to keep awake all night; and they drink a good deal,
partly because wine is really a protection against the dangerous fever,
and partly because their drink costs them nothing. Some of them drank
their employers' wine at supper, others exchanged what they brought for
Paoluccio's, which they liked better.

They usually got away about midnight, and Mommo was often the last to
go. It was a part of Regina's work to go down to the cellar and draw the
wine that was wanted from the hogsheads when the host was too lazy to go
down himself, and being quite unwatched she could draw a measure from
the oldest and strongest if she chose. Mommo could easily be made a
little sleepier than usual, after being tempted to outstay the others.

And so it turned out that night. After the necessary operation of
tapping one of his casks and filling it up with water, he lingered on
before a measure of the best, while Nanna and Paoluccio dozed in their
chairs; and at last all three were asleep.

Then Regina went out softly into the dark summer night, and climbed the
stairs to the attic.

"I am going to take you to Rome to-night," she whispered in Marcello's
ear.

"Rome?" he repeated vaguely, half asleep.

She wrapped him in the tattered blanket as he was, and lifted him
lightly in her arms. Down the stairs she bore him, and then lifted him
upon the tail of the cart, propping him up as best she could, and
passing round him the end of one of the ropes that held the casks in
