by yelling out, 'Brava, la Cordova!' again and again. The tenor was led
off through the house by the maid at last, and Margaret was left to
sing 'Caro nome' alone. Whatever may be said of Rigoletto as a
composition--and out of Italy it was looked upon as a failure at
first--it is certainly an opera which of all others gives a lyric
soprano a chance of showing what she can do at her first appearance.

By this time Margaret was beyond the possibility of failure; she had at
first sung almost unconsciously, under the influence of a glorious
excitement like a beautiful dream, but she was now thoroughly aware of
what she was doing and sang the intricate music of the aria with a
judgment, a discrimination and a perfectly controlled taste which
appealed to the real critics much more than all that had gone before.
But the applause, though loud, was short, and hardly delayed Margaret's
exit ten seconds. A moment later she was seen on the terrace with her
lamp.

Madame Bonanni had listened with profound attention to every note that
Margaret sang. She was quietly dressed in a costume of very dark stuff,
she wore a veil, and few people would have recognised the dark, pale
face of the middle-aged woman now that it was no longer painted. She
leaned back in her box alone, watching the stage and calling up a
vision of herself, from long ago, singing for the first time in the
same house. For she had made her début in that very theatre, as
many great singers have done. It was all changed, the house, the
decorations, the stage entrance, but those same walls were standing
which had echoed to her young voice, the same roof was overhead, and
all her artist's lifetime was gone by.

As Margaret disappeared at last, softly repeating her lover's name,
while the conspirators began to fill the stage, the door of the box
opened quietly, and Lushington came and sat down close behind his
mother.

'Well?' she said, only half turning her head, for she knew it was he.
'What do you think?'

'You know what I think, mother,' he answered.

'You did not want her to do it.'

'I've changed my mind,' said Lushington. 'It's the real thing. It would
be a sin to keep it off the stage.'

Madame Bonanni nodded thoughtfully, but said nothing. A knock was heard
at the door of the box. Lushington got up and opened, and the dark
figure of the cadaverous maid appeared in the dim light. Before she had
spoken, Madame Bonanni was close to her.

'They are in the chorus,' said the maid in a low voice, 'and there is
some one behind the door, waiting. I think it will be now.'

That was all Lushington heard, but it was quite enough to awaken his
curiosity. Who was in the chorus? Behind which door was some one
waiting? What was to happen 'now'?

Madame Bonanni reflected a moment before she answered.

'They won't try it now,' she said, at last, very confidently.

The maid shrugged her thin shoulders, as if to say that she declined to
take any responsibility in the matter, and did not otherwise care much.

'Do exactly as I told you,' Madame Bonanni said. 'If anything goes
wrong, it will be my fault, not yours.'

'Very good, Madame,' answered the maid.

She went away, and Madame Bonanni returned to her seat in the front of
the box, without any apparent intention of explaining matters to
Lushington.

'What is happening?' he asked after a few moments. 'Can I be of any
use?'

'Not yet,' answered his mother. 'But you may be, by and by. I shall
want you to take a message to her.'

'To Miss Donne? When?'

'Have you ever been behind in this theatre? Do you know your way
about?'

'Yes. What am I to do?'

Madame Bonanni did not answer at once. She was scrutinising the faces
of the courtiers on the darkened stage, and wishing very much that
there were more light.

'Schreiermeyer is doing things handsomely,' Lushington observed. 'He
has really given us a good allowance of conspirators.'

'There are four more than usual,' said Madame Bonanni, who had counted
the chorus.

'They make a very good show,' Lushington observed indifferently. 'But I
did not think they made much noise in the Introduction, when they were
expected to.'

'Perhaps,' suggested Madame Bonanni, 'the four supernumeraries are
dummies, put on to fill up.'

Just then the chorus was explaining at great length, as choruses in
operas often do, that it was absolutely necessary not to make the least
noise, while Rigoletto stood at the foot of the ladder, pretending
neither to hear them nor to know, in the supposed total darkness, that
his eyes were bandaged.

'Have you seen Logotheti?' asked Lushington.

'Not yet, but I shall certainly see him before it's over. I'm sure that
he is somewhere in the house.'

'He came over from Paris in his motor car,' Lushington said.

'I know he did.'

There was no reason why she should not know that Logotheti had come in
his car, but Lushington thought she seemed annoyed that the words
should have slipped out. Her eyes were still fixed intently on the
stage.

She rose to her feet suddenly, as if she had seen something that
startled her.

'Wait for me!' she said almost sharply, as she passed her son.

She was gone in an instant, and Lushington leaned back in his seat,
indifferent to what was going on, since Margaret had disappeared from
the stage. As for his mother's unexpected departure, he never was
surprised at anything she did, and whatever she did, she generally did
without warning, with a rush, as if some one's life depended on it. He
fancied that her practised eye had noticed something that did not
please her in the stage management, and that she had hurried away to
give her opinion.

But she had only gone behind to meet Margaret as she was carried off
the stage with a handkerchief tied over her mouth. She knew very nearly
at what point to wait, and the four big men in costume who came off
almost at a run, carrying Margaret between them, nearly ran into Madame
Bonanni, whom they certainly did not expect to find there.

When she was in the way, in a narrow place, it was quite hopeless to
try and pass her. The four men, still carrying Margaret, stopped, but
looked bewildered, as if they did not know what to do, and did not set
her down.

Madame Bonanni sprang at them and almost took her bodily from their
arms, tearing the handkerchief from her mouth just in time to let her
utter the cry for help which is heard from behind the scenes. It was
answered instantly by the courtiers shout of triumph, in which the four
men who had carried off Gilda did not join. Margaret gave one more cry,
and instantly Madame Bonanni led her quickly away towards her
dressing-room, a little shaken and in a very bad temper with the men
who had carried her.

'I knew they would be clumsy!' she said.

'So did I,' answered her friend. 'That is why I came round to meet
you.'

They entered the dim corridor together, and an instant later they both
heard the sharp click of a door hastily closed at the other end. It was
not the door of Margaret's dressing-room, for that was wide open and
the light from within fell across the dark paved floor, nor was it the
door of the contralto's room, for that was ajar when they passed it.
She had not come in to dress yet.

'That door does not shut well,' Margaret said, indifferently.

'No,' answered Madame Bonanni, in a rather preoccupied tone. 'Where is
your maid?'

The cadaverous maid came up very quickly from behind, overtaking them
with Margaret's grey linen duster.

'They did not carry Mademoiselle out at the usual fly,' she said. 'I
was waiting there.'

'They were abominably clumsy,' Margaret said, still very much annoyed.
'They almost hurt me, and somebody had the impertinence to double-knot
the handkerchief after I had arranged it! I'll send for Schreiermeyer
at once, I think! If I hadn't solid nerves a thing like that might ruin
my début!'

The maid smiled discreetly. The dress rehearsal for Margaret's début
was not half over yet, but she had already the dominating tone of the
successful prima donna, and talked of sending at once for the
redoubtable manager, as if she were talking about scolding the
call-boy. And the maid knew very well that if sent for Schreiermeyer
would come and behave with relative meekness, because he had a
prospective share in the fortune which was in the Cordova's throat.

But Madame Bonanni was in favour of temporising.

'Don't send for him, my dear,' she said. 'Getting angry is very bad for
the voice, and your duet with Rigoletto in the next act is always
trying.

They were in the dressing-room now, all three women, and the door was
