hull.

"Nothing like it, is there, girl?"

"I hate automobiles," she answered irrelevantly.

The old, old sea quarreled murmurously at their feet, and the white
gulls sailed hither and thither, sometimes breasting the rollers just as
they were about to topple over into running creamy foam. The man and the
girl seemed perfectly content to remain voiceless. There was no sound
but the song of the sea: the girl dreamed, and the man wondered what her
dream was. Presently he glanced at his watch. He stood up, brushing the
sand from his clothes.

"Half an hour between us and breakfast, Kate. All aboard!"

The night before might have been only an idle dream.

So they took the road back. Only the sea and the gulls saw the tender
kiss.

                   *       *       *       *       *

The pariah sauntered in at two o'clock that afternoon, just as the
family were sitting down to luncheon. He was a revelation. There was
nothing shabby about him now. He wore a new suit, spats, a new straw
hat, and twirled a light bamboo. There was something jaunty and
confident in his air, a bubbling in his eyes; altogether, he was in fine
fettle about something. He cast aside his hat and cane with a flourish.

"Aha! just in time," he said. "Another chair, William."

The butler sent a dubious glance at his master; there was the usual curt
nod and the frown. So grandpa sat down beside Norah, whose usual
effervescence had strangely subsided; he pinched her cheek, and
deliberated between the cold ham and chicken.

"A fine day! A beautiful day! A day of days!" he cried, surrendering to
the appetitious lure of both meats.

Nobody replied to this outburst of exuberance; nobody had the power to.
A strange calm settled over every one. This was altogether a new kind of
grandpa. There was nothing timid or hesitant here, nothing meek and
humble; neither was there that insufferable self-assurance and arrogance
of a disagreeable man. Grandpa's attitude was simply that of an equal,
of a man of the world, of one who is confident of the power he holds in
reserve; that was all. But for all that, he was a sensation of some
magnitude. Carrington was seized with a wild desire to laugh. The truth
came to him like an illumination; but he wisely held his peace.

"There is something in the air to-day that renews youth in old age; eh,
my son?" with a sly wink at Cavenaugh.

Cavenaugh's expression of wonder began to freeze and remained frozen to
the end of the meal. So all the honors of conversation fell to grandpa,
who seemed to relish this new privilege.

"Father," said Cavenaugh, holding back his accumulated wrath, "I want to
see you in my study."

"Immediately, my son. I was just about to make that same request."
Grandpa looked at Kate, then at Carrington. "I suppose you young persons
will invite poor old grandpa to the wedding?"

"Father!" This was altogether too much for patrician blood. Cavenaugh's
face reddened and his fists closed ominously. "You will do me the honor,
father, not to meddle with my private affairs. Kate is my daughter, and
she shall marry the man it pleases me to accept."

Carrington felt this cut dart over grandpa's shoulder. He stirred
uneasily.

"Oh, if that's the way you look at it!" with a comical deprecatory
shrug. Grandpa touched Carrington on the arm. "Young man, do you love
this girl? No false modesty, now; the truth, and nothing but the truth.
Do you love her?"

"With all my heart!" Carrington felt the impulse occult. Something
whispered that his whole future depended upon his answer.

"And you, Kate?"

"I love him, grandpa," bravely.

"That's all I want to know," said grandpa.

Cavenaugh released one of his fists; it fell upon the table and rattled
things generally.

"Am I in my own house?" he bawled.

"That depends," answered grandpa suavely. "You've got to behave
yourself. Now, then, let us repair to the secret chamber of finance. It
is the day of settlement," grimly.

Mrs. Cavenaugh was gently weeping. The dread moment had come, come when
she had been lulled into the belief that it would never come. Kate
understood, and longed to go to her and comfort her; and she trembled
for her father, who knew nothing of the pit that lay at his feet.
Carrington dallied with his fork; he wished he was anywhere in the world
but at the Cavenaugh table. The desire to laugh recurred to him, but he
realized that the inclination was only hysterical.

Cavenaugh was already heading for the study. He was in a fine rage.
Grandpa was close on his heels. At the threshold he turned once more to
Carrington.

"You know your Tempest, young man, I'm sure," he said. "Well, this is
the revolt of Caliban--Caliban uplifted, as it were."

The door closed behind them, and father and son faced each other.

"I'll trouble you for those papers you took from the safe last night,"
said the son heavily.

"Ah, indeed!" said grandpa.

"At once; I have reached the limit of my patience."

"So have I," returned grandpa. "Perhaps you know what these papers are
about?"

"I know nothing whatever, save that they belong to Mr. Carrington. Hand
them over."

Grandpa helped himself to a cigar and sat down. He puffed two or three
times, eyed the lighted end, and sighed with satisfaction.

"If you but knew what they were about, these papers, you would pay a
cool million for their possession. My word, it is a droll situation;
reads like the fourth act in a play. If you have a duke picked out for
Kate, forget him."

"She will never marry Carrington!" Cavenaugh's voice rose in spite of
his effort to control it.

"My son, they will hear you," the pariah warned. He blew a cloud of
smoke into the air and sniffed it. "You never offered me this particular
brand," reproachfully.

"Enjoy it," snapped the other, "for it is the last you will ever smoke
in any house of mine."

"You don't tell me!"

"Those papers, instantly!"

"'Be it known by these presents, et cetera, et cetera,'" said the old
man. He rose suddenly, the banter leaving his lips and eyes, and his jaw
setting hard. "You had better get your check-book handy, my son, for
when I'm through with you, you'll be only too glad to fill out a blank
for fifty thousand. I consider myself quite moderate. This young
Carrington is a mighty shrewd fellow; and I'd rather have him as a
friend than an enemy. He has made out his case so strongly that it will
cost you a pretty penny to escape with a whole skin."

"What are you talking about?"

"The case of the people versus Cavenaugh et al. It concerns the clever
way in which you and your partners slid under the seven per cent.
dividend due your investors; which caused a slump in the price of the
shares, forcing thousands to sell their stock; which you bought back at
a handsome profit. Moloch! The millions you have are not enough; you
must have more. There are about twelve of you in all, not one of you
worth less than three millions. What a beautiful chance for blackmail!"

Cavenaugh stepped back, and his legs, striking a chair, toppled him into
it. His father had become Medusa's head!

"Aha! That jars you some," chuckled grandpa.

It took Cavenaugh some time to recover his voice, and when he did it was
faint and unnatural.

"Is this true?" he gasped.

"It is so true that I'll trouble you for the check now."

"Come, father, this is no time for nonsense." Cavenaugh waved his hand
impatiently. "Let me see the document."

"Hardly. But the moment you place the check in my hands, I shall be
pleased to do so. But there must be no reservation to have payment
stopped."

"I will not give you a single penny!" The mere suggestion of giving up
so large a sum without a struggle seemed preposterous. "Not a penny! And
furthermore, I am through with you for good and all. Shift for yourself
hereafter. Fifty thousand! You make me laugh!"

"I shall make you laugh, my son; but not on the humorous side." The old
man reached out his hand and struck the bell.

"What do you want?" asked Cavenaugh, mystified.

"I want the author of the document. I propose to take the family
skeleton out of the closet and dangle it up and down before the young
man's eyes. You will laugh, I dare say."

Cavenaugh fell back in his chair again. The door opened and William
