The car sped on down the stately driveway, and his companion
proceeded to point out the mansions and the people, and to discuss
them in his own peculiar style.

“See that yellow brick house in there,” said he. “That belongs to
Allis, the railroad man. He used to live in Pittsburg, and I
remember him thirty years ago, when he had one carriage for his
three babies, and pushed them himself, by thunder. He was glad to
borrow money from me then, but now he looks the other way when I go
by.

“Allis used to be in the steel business six or eight years ago,”
 Gamble continued, reminiscently. “Then he sold out--it was the real
beginning of the forming of the Steel Trust. Did you ever hear that
story?”

“Not that I know of,” said Montague.

“Well,” said the other, “if you are going to match yourself against
the Steel crowd, it’s a good idea to know about them. Did you ever
meet Jim Stagg?”

“The Wall Street plunger?” asked Montague. “He’s a mere name to me.”

“His last exploit was to pull off a prize fight in one of the swell
hotels in New York, and one nigger punched the other through a
plate-glass mirror. Stagg comes from the wild West, you know, and
he’s wild as they make ‘em--my God, I could tell you some stories
about him that’d make your hair stand up! Perhaps you remember some
time ago he raided Tennessee Southern in the market and captured it;
and old Waterman testified that he took it away from him because he
didn’t consider he was a fit man to own it. As a matter of fact,
that was just pure bluff, for Waterman uses him in little jobs like
that all the time.--Well, six or eight years ago, Stagg owned a big
steel plant out West; and there was a mill in Indiana, belonging to
Allis, that interfered with their business. One time Stagg and some
of his crowd had been on a spree for several days, and late one
night they got to talking about Allis. ‘Let’s buy the----out,’ said
Stagg, so they ordered a special and a load of champagne, and away
they went to the city in Indiana. They got to Allis’s house about
four o’clock in the morning, and they rang the bell and banged on
the door, and after a while the butler came, half awake.

“‘Is Allis in?’ asked Stagg, and before the fellow could answer, the
whole crowd pushed into the hall, and Stagg stood at the foot of the
stairs and roared--he’s got a voice like a bull, you know--‘Allis,
Allis, come down here!’

“Allis came to the head of the stairs in his nightshirt, half
frightened to death.

“‘Allis, we want to buy your steel plant,’ said Stagg.

“‘Buy my steel plant!’ gasped Allis.

“‘Sure, buy it outright! Spot cash! We’ll pay you five hundred
thousand for it.’

“‘But it cost me over twelve hundred thousand,’ said Allis.

“‘Well, then, we’ll pay you twelve hundred thousand,’ said
Stagg--‘God damn you, we’ll pay you fifteen hundred thousand!’

“‘My plant isn’t for sale,’ said Allis.

“‘We’ll pay you two million!’ shouted Stagg.

“‘It isn’t for sale, I tell you.’

“‘We’ll pay you two million and a half! Come on down here!’

“‘Do you mean that?’ gasped Allis. He could hardly credit his ears.

“‘Come downstairs and I’ll write you a check!’ said Stagg. And so
they hauled him down, and they bought his mill. Then they opened
some more champagne, and Allis began to get good-natured, too.

“‘There’s only one thing the matter with my mill,’ said he, ‘and
that’s Jones’s mill over in Harristown. The railroads give him
rebates, and he undersells me.’

“‘Well, damn his soul,’ said Stagg, ‘we’ll have his mill, too.’

“And so they bundled into their special again, and about six o’clock
in the morning they got to Harristown, and they bought another mill.
And that started them, you know. They’d never had such fun in their
lives before. It seems that Stagg had just cleaned up ten or twelve
millions on a big Wall Street plunge, and they blew in every dollar,
buying steel mills--and paying two or three prices for every one,
of course.”

Gamble paused and chuckled to himself. “What I’m telling you is the
story that Stagg told me,” said he. “And of course you’ve got to
make allowances. He said he had no idea of what Dan Waterman had
been planning, but I fancy that was a lie. Harrison of Pittsburg had
been threatening to build a railroad of his own, and take away his
business from Waterman’s roads, and so there was nothing for
Waterman to do but buy him out at three times what his mills were
worth. He took the mills that Stagg had bought at the same time.
Stagg had paid two or three prices, and Waterman paid him a couple
of prices more, and then he passed them on to the American people
for a couple of prices more than that.”

Gamble paused. “That’s where they get these fortunes,” he added,
waving his fat little hand. “Sometimes it makes a fellow laugh to
think of it. Every concern they bought was overcapitalised to begin
with; I doubt if two hundred million dollars’ worth of honest
dollars was ever put into the Steel Trust properties, and they
capitalised it at a billion, and now they’ve raised it to a billion
and a half! The men who pulled it off made hundreds of millions, and
the poor public that bought the common stock saw it go down to six!
They gave old Harrison a four-hundred-million-dollar mortgage on the
property, and he sits back and grins, and wonders why a man can’t
die poor!”

Gamble’s car was opposite one of the clubs. Suddenly he signalled
his chauffeur to stop.

“Hello, Billy!” he called; and a young naval officer who was walking
down the steps turned and came toward him.

“What have you been doing with yourself?” said Gamble. “Mr.
Montague, my friend Lieutenant Long, of the Engineers. Where are you
going, Billy?”

“Nowhere in particular,” said the officer.

“Get in,” said Gamble, pointing to the vacant seat between them. “I
am showing Mr. Montague the town.”

The other climbed in, and they went on. “The Lieutenant has just
come up from Brooklyn,” he continued. “Lively times we had in
Brooklyn, didn’t we, Billy? Tell me what you have been doing
lately.”

“I’m working hard,” said the Lieutenant--“studying.”

“Studying here in Newport?” laughed Gamble.

“That’s easy enough when you belong to the Engineers,” said the
other. “We are working-men, and they don’t want us at their balls.”

“By the way, Gamble,” he added, after a moment, “I was looking for
you. I want you to help me.”

“Me?” said Gamble.

“Yes,” said the other. “I have just had notice from the Department
that I am one of a board of five that has been appointed to draw up
specifications for machine oil for the Navy.”

“What can I do about it?” asked Gamble.

“I want you to help me draw them up.”

“But I don’t know anything about machine oil.”

“You cannot possibly know less than I do,” said the Lieutenant.
“Surely, if you have been in the oil business, you can give me some
sort of an idea about machine oil.”

Gamble thought for a minute. “I might try,” he said. “But would it
be the proper thing for me to do? Of course, I’m out of the business
myself; but I have friends who might bid for the contract.”

“Well, your friends can take their chances with the rest,” said the
Lieutenant. “I am a friend, too, hang it. And how in the world am I
to find out anything about oil?”

Gamble was silent again. “Well, I’ll do what I can for you,” he
said, finally. “I’ll write out what I know about the qualities of
good oil, and you can use it as you think best.”

“All right,” said the Lieutenant, with relief.

“But you’ll have to agree to say nothing about it,” said Gamble.
“It’s a delicate matter, you understand.”

“You may trust me for that,” said the other, laughing. So the
subject was dropped, and they went on with their ride.

Half an hour later Gamble set Montague down, at General Prentice’s
door, and he bade them farewell and went in.

The General was coming down the stairs. “Hello, Allan,” he said.
“Where have you been?”

“Seeing the place a little,” said Montague.

“Come into the drawing-room,” said the General. “There’s a man in
there you ought to know.

“One of the brainiest newspaper men in Wall Street,” he added, as he
went across the hall,--“the financial man of the Express.”

Montague entered the room and was introduced to a powerfully built
and rather handsome young fellow, who had not so long ago been
centre-rush upon a famous football team. “Well, Bates,” said the
General, “what are you after now?”

