
A hand was put upon his shoulder authoritatively. The police officer who
had examined his passports that morning stood at Grumbach's elbow.

"Herr Grumbach," he said quietly, "his excellency the chancellor has
directed me to bring you at once to the palace."

"To the palace?" Grumbach's face was expressive of great astonishment.
The officer saw nothing out of the ordinary in this expression. Any
foreigner would have been seized with confusion under like
circumstances. "To the palace?" Grumbach repeated. "My passports were
wrong in some respect?"

"Oh, no, Herr; they were correct."

Grumbach roused his mind energetically. He forced down the fast beating
of his heart, banished the astonishment from his face, and even brought
a smile to his lips.

"But whatever can the chancellor want of me?"

"That is not my business. I was simply sent to find you. His excellency
is always interested in German-Americans. It may be that he wishes to
ask what the future is there in America. We have more in Dreiberg than
we can reasonably take care of."

"In the prisons?"

The officer laughed. "There and elsewhere."

"Is that right?" asked Grumbach, now thoroughly on guard.

"It may not be right to ship our criminals over there, but it is
considered very good politics."

"Shall we go at once? I never expected to enter the palace of the grand
duke of Ehrenstein," Grumbach added. "It will be something to tell of
when I go back to America."

The only thing that reassured him was the presence of one officer. When
they came for a man on a serious charge, in Ehrenstein, they came in
pairs or fours. So then, there could be pending nothing vital to his
liberty or his incognito. Besides, his papers were all right, and now
there would be Carmichael to fall back on.

"The palace is lighted up," was Grumbach's comment as the two passed the
sentry outside the gates.

"The duke gives the dinner to the diplomatic corps to-night."

"A fine thing to be a diplomat."

"I myself prefer fighting in the open. Diplomats? Their very precious
hides are never anywhere near the wars they bring about. No, no; this
way. We go in at the side."

"You'll have to guide me. Yes, these diplomats. Men like you and me do
all the work. I was in the Civil War in America."

"That was a great fight," remarked the officer. "I should like to have
been there."

"Four years; pretty long. Do you know Herr Carmichael?"

"The American consul? Oh, yes."

"He and I fought in the same regiment."

"Then you saw some pretty battles."

Grumbach took off his hat. "See that?"

"Gott! That must have been an ugly one."

"Almost crossed over when I got it. Is this the door?"

"Yes. I'll put you in snugly. You will probably have to wait for his
excellency. But you'll have me for company till he appears."

Grumbach entered the palace with a brave heart and a steady mind.

       *       *       *       *       *

The grand duke had a warm place in his heart for the diplomatic corps.
He liked to see them gathered round his table, their uniforms glittering
with orders and decorations. It was always a night of wits; and he
sprang a hundred traps for comedy's sake, but these astonishing
linguists seldom if ever blundered into one of them. They were eternally
vigilant. It was no trifling matter to swing the thought from German
into French or Italian or Hungarian; but they were seasoned veterans in
the game, all save Carmichael, who spoke only French and German
fluently. The duke, however, never tried needlessly to embarrass him. He
admired Carmichael's mental agility. Never he thrust so keenly that the
American was found lacking in an effective though simple parry.

"Your highness must recollect that I am not familiar with that tongue."

"Pardon me, Herr Captain!"

But there was always a twinkle in the ducal eye and an answering smile
in the consul's.

The somber black of Carmichael's evening dress stood out conspicuously
among the blue and green and red uniforms. Etiquette compelled him to
wear silk stockings, but that was the single concession on his part. He
wore no orders. An order of the third or fourth class held no
allurement. Nothing less than the Golden Fleece would have interested
him, and the grand duke himself could not boast of this rare and
distinguished order. In truth, Carmichael coveted nothing but a medal
for valor, and his own country had not yet come to recognize the
usefulness of such a distinction.

All round him sat ministers or ambassadors; he alone represented a
consulate. So his place at the table was honorary rather than
diplomatic. It was his lively humorous personality the grand duke
admired, not his representations.

The duke sat at the head of the table and her serene highness at the
foot; and it was by the force of his brilliant wit that the princess did
not hold in perpetuity the court at her end of the table. For a German
princess of that time she was highly accomplished; she was ardent,
whimsical, with a flashing mentality which rounded out and perfected her
physical loveliness. Above and beyond all this, she had suffered, she
had felt the pangs of poverty, the smart of unrecognized merit; she had
been one of the people, and her sympathies would always be with them,
for she knew what those about her only vaguely knew, the patience, the
unmurmuring bravery of the poor. Never would she become sated with power
so long as it gave her the right to aid the people. Never a new tax was
levied that she did not lighten it in some manner; never an oppressive
law was promulgated that she did not soften its severity. And so the
populace loved her, for it did not take the people long to find out what
she was trying to do for them. And perhaps they loved her because she
had lived the greater part of her young life as one of them.

To-night there was love in the duke's eyes as he looked down the table's
length; there was love in the old chancellor's eyes, too; and in
Carmichael's. And there was love in her eyes as she gazed back at the
two old men. But who could read her eyes whenever they roved in
Carmichael's direction? Not even Gretchen's grandmother, who lived in
the Krumerweg.

"Gentlemen," said the duke, rising and holding up his glass, "this night
I give you a toast which I believe will be agreeable to all of you,
especially to his excellency, Baron von Steinbock of Jugendheit. What is
past is past; a new regime begins this night." He paused. All eyes were
focused upon him in wonder. Only Baron von Steinbock displayed no more
than ordinary interest. "I give you," resumed the duke, "her serene
highness and his majesty, Frederick of Jugendheit!"

The princess grew delicately pale as the men and women sprang to their
feet. Every hand swept toward her, holding a glass. She had surrendered
that morning. Not because she wished to be a queen, not because she
cared to bring about an alliance between the two countries; no, it was
because she was afraid and had burned the bridge behind her.

The tan thinned on Carmichael's face, but his hand was steady. Never
would he forget the tableau. She sat still in her chair, her lids
drooped, but a proud lift to her chin. The collar of pearls round her
neck had scarce more luster than her shoulders. How red her lips seemed
against the whiteness of her skin! Beautiful to him beyond all dreams of
beauty. God send another war and let him die in the heart of it,
fighting! To dream lies as he had done this twelvemonth, to break his
heart over the moon! He sat his glass down untouched, happily
unobserved. He was in misery; he wanted to be alone.

"Long live her majesty!" thundered the chancellor. He, too, was pale,
but the fire of great things burned in his eyes and his lank form took
upon itself a transient majesty.

In the ball-room the princess was surrounded; everybody flattered her;
congratulated her, and complimented her. All agreed that it was a great
political stroke. And indeed it was, but none of them knew how great.

Carmichael was among the last to approach her. By this time he had his
voice and nerves under control. Without apparent volition they walked
down the stairs which led to the conservatory.

"I thought perhaps you had forgotten me," she said.





"Forget your highness? Do not give me credit for such an impossibility."
He bowed over her hand and brushed it with his lips, for she was almost
royal now. "Your highness will be happy. It is written." He stepped back
slowly.

"Have you the gift of prescience?"

"In this instance. You will be a great queen."

"Who knows?" dreamily. "When I recall what I have gone through, all this
seems like an enchantment out of a fairy-book, and that I must soon wake
up in my garret in Dresden."

If only it might be an enchantment! he thought. If only he might find
her as the grim old chancellor had found her, in a garret! What?

"Why did you do that?" she asked quickly.
