"Like a hen," retorted Scott. "I want some preserves."

"That's all very well," said Geraldine with her mouth full, "but we
expected to skate about the kitchen and watch you make pastry. Kindly
begin, Mrs. Bramton."

"I'd like to see what's inside of that chicken over there," said Scott.
"And I want you to give me some raisins, Mrs. Bramton----"

"I'm dying for a glass of milk," added Geraldine. "Get me some dough,
somebody; I'm going to bake something."

Scott, who, devoured by curiosity, had been sniffing around the spice
cupboard, sneezed violently; a Swedish kitchen-maid threw her apron over
her head, weak with laughter.

"If you're laughing at me, I'll fix you, Olga!" shouted Scott in a rage;
and the air was suddenly filled with balls of dough. Mrs. Bramton fled
before the storm; a well-directed volley drove the maids to cover and
stampeded the two cats.

"Take whatever is good to eat, Geraldine. Hurrah! The town surrenders!
Loot it! No quarter!" shouted Scott. However, when Howker arrived they
retired hastily with pockets full of cinnamon sticks, olives, prunes,
and dried currants, climbing triumphantly to the library above, where
they curled up on a leather divan, under the portrait of their mother,
to divide the spoils.

"Am I bad enough to suit you?" inquired Geraldine with pardonable pride.

"Pooh! That's nothing. If I had another boy here I'd--I'd----"

"Well, what?" demanded Geraldine, flushing. "I tell you I can misbehave
as well as any boy. Dare me to do anything and you'll see! I dare you to
dare me!"

Scott began: "Oh, it's all very easy for a girl to talk----"

"I don't talk; I do it! And you know perfectly well I do!"

"You're a girl, after all, even if you have got on my clothes----"

"Didn't I throw as much dough at Olga and Mrs. Bramton as you did?"

"You didn't hit anybody."

"I did! I saw a soft, horrid lump stick to Olga!"

"Pooh! You can't throw straight----"

"That's a lie!" said Geraldine excitedly.

Scott bristled:

"If you say that again----"

"All right; go and get the boxing-gloves. You did tell a lie, Scott,
because I did hit Olga!"

Scott hastily unstrapped his lone skate, cast it clattering from him,
and sped up-stairs. When he returned he hurled a pair of boxing-gloves
at Geraldine, who put them on, laced them, trembling with wrath, and
flew at her brother as soon as his own gloves were fastened.

They went about their business like lightning, swinging, blocking,
countering. Twice she gave him inviting openings and then punished him
savagely before he could get away; then he attempted in-fighting, but
her legs were too nimble. And after a while he lost his head and came at
her using sheer weight, which set her beside herself with fury.

Teeth clenched, crimson-cheeked, she side-stepped, feinted, and whipped
in an upper-cut. Then, darting in, she drove home her left with all her
might; and Scott went down with an unmistakable thud.

"One--two--three--four," she counted, "and you did tell a lie, didn't
you? Five--six--Oh, Scott! I've made your nose bleed horridly! Does it
hurt, dear? Seven--eight----"

The boy, still confused, rose and instinctively assumed the classic
attitude of self-defence; but his sister threw down her gloves and
offered him her handkerchief, saying: "You've just got to be fair to me
now, Scott. Tell me that I throw straight and that I did hit Olga!"

He hesitated; wiped his nose:

"I take it back. You can throw straight. Ginger! What a crack you just
gave me!"

She was all compunction and honey now, hovering around him where he
stood stanching honourable wounds. After a while he laughed. "Thunder!"
he exclaimed ruefully; "my nose seems to be growing for fair. You're all
right, Geraldine."

"Here's my last cup-cake, if you like," said his sister, radiant.

Embarrassed a little by defeat, but nursing no bitterness, he sat down
on the leather divan again and permitted his sister to feed him and tell
him that his disaster was only an accident. He tried to think so, too,
but serious doubts persisted in his mind. There had been a clean-cut
finish to that swing and jab which disturbed his boy's conceit.

"We'll try it again," he began. "I'm all right now, if you like----"

"Oh, Scott, I don't want to!"

"Well, we ought to know which of us really can lick the other----"

"Why, of course, you can lick me every time. Besides, I wouldn't want to
be able to lick you--except when I'm very, very angry. And I ought not
to become angry the way I do. Kathleen tries so hard to make me stop
and reflect before I do things, but I can't seem to learn.... Does your
nose hurt?"

"Not in the least," said her brother, reddening and changing the
subject. "I say, it looks as though it were going to stop raining."

He went to the window; the big Seagrave house with its mansard roof, set
in the centre of an entire city block, bounded by Madison and Fifth
Avenues and by Ninety-fifth and Ninety-sixth Streets, looked out from
its four red brick façades onto strips of lawn and shrubbery, now all
green and golden with new grass and early buds.

It was topsy-turvy, March-hare weather, which perhaps accounted for the
early April dementia that possessed the children at recurring intervals,
and which nothing ever checked except the ultimate slumber of infantile
exhaustion.

If anybody in the house possessed authority to punish them, nobody
exercised it. Servants grown gray in the Seagrave service endured much,
partly for the children's sakes, partly in memory of the past; but the
newer and younger domestics had less interest in the past glories and
traditions of an old New York family which, except for two little
children, ten years old, had perished utterly from the face of the land.

The entire domestic régime was a makeshift--had been almost from the
beginning. Mrs. Farren, the housekeeper, understood it; Howker, the
butler, knew it; Lacy knew it--he who had served forty years as coachman
in the Seagrave family.

For in all the world there remained not one living soul who through ties
of kinship was authorised to properly control these children. Nor could
they themselves even remember parental authority; and only a shadowy
recollection of their grandfather's lax discipline survived, becoming
gradually, as time passed, nothing more personal to them than a pleasant
legend kept alive and nourished in the carefully guarded stories told
them by Kathleen Severn and by Anthony Seagrave's old servants.

Yet, in the land, and in his own city of Manhattan, their grandfather
had been a very grand man, with his large fortune, now doubled and still
increasing; he had been a very distinguished man in the world of fashion
with his cultivated taste in art and wine and letters and horses; he had
been a very important man, too, in the civic, social, and political
construction of New York town, in the quaint days when the sexton of Old
Trinity furnished fashionable hostesses with data concerning the
availability of social aspirants. He had been a courtly and fascinating
man, too. He had died a drunkard.

Now his grandchildren were fast forgetting him. The town had long since
forgotten him. Only an old friend or two and his old servants remembered
what he had been, his virtues, his magnificence, his kindness, and his
weakness.

But if the Seagrave twins possessed neither father nor mother to
exercise tender temporal and spiritual suzerainty in the nursery, and if
no memory of their grandfather's adoring authority remained, the last
will and testament of Anthony Seagrave had provided a marvellous,
man-created substitute for the dead: a vast, shadowy thing which ruled
their lives with passionless precision; which ordered their waking hours
even to the minutest particulars; which assumed machine-like charge of
their persons, their personal expenses, their bringing-up, their
schooling, the items of their daily routine.

This colossal automaton, almost terrifyingly impersonal, loomed always
above them, throwing its powerful and gigantic shadow across their
lives. As they grew old enough to understand, it became to them the
embodiment of occult and unpleasant authority which controlled their
coming and going; which chose for them their personal but not their
legal guardian, Kathleen Severn; which fixed upon the number of servants
necessary for the house that Anthony Seagrave directed should be
maintained for his grandchildren; which decided what kind of expenses,
what sort of clothing, what recreations, what accomplishments, what
studies, what religion they should be provided with.

And the name of this enormous man-contrived machine which took the place
of father and mother was the Half Moon Trust Company, acting as trustee,
guardian, and executor for two little children, who neither understood
why they were sometimes very unruly or that they would one day be very,
very rich.

As for their outbreaks, an intense sense of loneliness for which they
were unable to account was always followed by a period of restlessness
sure to culminate in violent misbehaviour.

Such an outbreak had been long impending. So when a telegram called away
their personal guardian, Kathleen Severn, the children broke loose with
the delicate fury of the April tempest outside, which all the morning
had been blotting the western windows with gusts of fragrant rain.

The storm was passing now; light volleys of rain still arrived at
intervals, slackening as the spring sun broke out, gilding naked
