yours immediately! Are there any in the armoury that will fit me, Jim?"

"Did you discover her?" demanded Reggie Ledyard, aghast.

"Not within the time limit, old chap," said Desboro, pretending deep
chagrin.

"Then you don't have to marry him, do you, Miss Nevers?" exclaimed
Cairns, gleefully.

"I don't have to marry anybody, Mr. Cairns. And isn't it humiliating?"
she returned, laughingly, edging her way toward the stairs amid the
noisy and admiring group surrounding her.

"No! No!" cried Katharine Frere. "You can't escape! You are too lovely
that way, and you certainly must come to lunch in your armour!"

"I'd perish!" protested Jacqueline. "No Christian martyr was ever more
absolutely cooked than am I in this suit of mail."

Helsa Steyr started for her, but Jacqueline sprang to the stairs and ran
up, pursued by Helsa and Betty.

"Isn't she the cunningest, sweetest thing!" sighed Athalie Vannis,
looking after her. "I'm simply and sentimentally mad over her. Why
didn't you have brains enough to discover her, Jim, and make her marry
you?"

"I'd have knocked 'em out if he had had enough brains for that,"
muttered Ledyard. "But the horrible thing is that I haven't any brains,
either, and Miss Nevers has nothing but!"

"A girl like that marries diplomats and dukes, and discoverers and
artists and things," commented Betty. "You're just a good-looking simp,
Reggie. So is Jim."

Ledyard retorted wrathfully; Desboro, who had been summoned to the
telephone, glanced at Aunt Hannah as he walked away, and was rather
disturbed at the malice in the old lady's menacing smile.

But what Daisy Hammerton said to him over the telephone disturbed him
still more.

"Jim! Elena and Cary Clydesdale are stopping with us. May I bring them
to dinner this evening?"

For a moment he was at a loss, then he said, with forced cordiality:

"Why, of course, Daisy. But have you spoken to them about it? I've an
idea that they might find my party a bore."

"Oh, no! Elena wished me to ask you to invite them. And Cary was
listening."

"Did he care to come?"

"I suppose so."

"What did he say?"

"He grinned. He always does what Elena asks him to do."

"Oh! Then bring them by all means."

"Thank you, Jim."

And that was all; and Desboro, astonished and troubled for a few
moments, began to see in the incident not only the dawn of an
understanding between Clydesdale and his wife, but something resembling
a vindication for himself in this offer to renew a friendship so
abruptly terminated. More than that, he saw in it a return of Elena to
her senses, and it pleased him so much that when he passed Aunt Hannah
in the hall he was almost smiling.

"What pleases you so thoroughly, James--yourself?" she asked grimly.

But he only smiled at her and sauntered on, exchanging friendly
body-blows with Reggie Ledyard as he passed.

"Reggie," said Mrs. Hammerton, with misleading mildness, "come and
exercise me for a few moments--there's a dear." And she linked arms with
him and began to march up and down the hall vigorously.

"She's very charming, isn't she?" observed Aunt Hannah blandly.

"Who?"

"Miss Nevers."

"She's a dream," said Reggie, with emphasis.

"Such a thoroughbred air," commented the old lady.

"Rather!"

"And yet--she's only a shop-keeper."

"Eh?"

"Didn't you know that Miss Nevers keeps an antique shop?"

"What of it?" he said, turning red. "I peddle stocks. My grandfather
made snuff. What do I care what Miss Nevers does?"

"Of course. Only--would you marry her?"

"Huh! Like a shot! But I see her letting me! Once I was even ass enough
to think I could kiss her, but it seems she won't even stand for that!
And Herrendene makes me sick--the old owl--sneaking off with her
whenever he can get the chance! They all make me sick!" he added,
lighting a cigarette. "I wish to goodness I had a teaspoonful of
intellect, and I'd give 'em a run for her. Because I have the looks, if
I do say it," he added, modestly.

"Looks never counted seriously with a woman yet," said Mrs. Hammerton
maliciously. "Also, I've seen better looking coachmen than you."

"Thanks. What are you going to do with her anyway?"

"I don't have to do anything. She'll do whatever is necessary."

"That's right, too. Lord, but she'll cut a swathe! Even that dissipated
creature Cairns sits up and takes notice. I should think Desboro would,
too--more than he does."

"I understand there's a girl in blue, somewhere," observed Mrs.
Hammerton.

"That's a different kind of girl," said the young man, with contempt,
and quite oblivious to his own naïve self-revelation. Mrs. Hammerton
shrugged her trim shoulders.

"Also," he said, "there is Elena Clydesdale--speaking of scandal and
James Desboro in the same breath."

"Do you believe that story?"

"Yes. But that sort of affair never counts seriously with a man who
wants to marry."

"Really? How charming! But perhaps it might count against him with the
girl he wants to marry. Young girls are sometimes fastidious, you know."

"They never hear about such things until somebody tells 'em, after
they're married. Then it's rather too late to throw any pre-nuptial
fits," he added, with a grin.

"Reginald," said Mrs. Hammerton, "day by day I am humbly learning how to
appreciate the innate delicacy, chivalry, and honourable sentiments of
your sex. You yourself are a wonderful example. For instance, when
rumour couples Elena Clydesdale's name with James Desboro's, does it
occur to you to question the scandal? No; you take it for granted, and
very kindly explain to me how easily Mrs. Clydesdale can be thrown over
if her alleged lover decides he'd like to marry somebody."

"That's what's done," he said sulkily. "When a man----"

"You don't have to tell me!" she fairly hissed, turning on him so
suddenly that he almost fell backward. "Don't you think I know what is
the code among your sort--among the species of men you find sympathetic?
You and Jack Cairns and James Desboro--and Cary Clydesdale, too? Let him
reproach himself if his wife misbehaves! And I don't blame her if she
does, and I don't believe she does! Do you hear me, you yellow-haired,
blue-eyed little beast?"

Ledyard stood open-mouthed, red to the roots of his blond hair, and the
tiny, baleful black eyes of Mrs. Hammerton seemed to hypnotise him.

"You're all alike," she said with withering contempt. "Real men are out
in the world, doing things, not crawling around over the carpet under
foot, or sitting in clubs, or dancing with a pack of women, or idling
from polo field to tennis court, from stable to steam-yacht. You've no
real blood in you; it's only Scotch and soda gone flat. You've the
passions of overfed lap dogs with atrophied appetites. There's not a
real man here--except Captain Herrendene--and he's going back to his
post in a week. You others have no posts. And do you think that men of
your sort are fitted to talk about marrying such a girl as Miss Nevers?
Let me catch one of you trying it! She's in my charge. But that doesn't
count. She'll recognise a real man when she sees one, and glittering
counterfeits won't attract her."

"Great heavens!" faltered Reggie. "What a horrible lambasting! I--I've
heard you could do it; but this is going some--really, you know, it's
going some! And I'm not all those things that you say, either!" he
added, in naïve resentment. "I may be no good, but I'm not as rotten as
all that."

He stood with lips pursed up into a half-angry, half-injured pout, like
a big, blond, blue-eyed yokel facing school-room punishment.

Mrs. Hammerton's harsh face relaxed; and finally a smile wrinkled her
eyes.

"I suppose men can't help being what they are--a mixture of precocious
child and trained beast. The best of 'em have both of these in 'em. And
you are far from the best. Reggie, come here to me!"

He came, after a moment's hesitation, doubtfully.

"Lord!" she said. "How we cherish the worst of you! I sometimes think we
