shoulders.

"Come," said somebody, teasingly, "wouldn't you like to know how soon
you are going to fall in love, and with whom?"

She laughed, dropped her cigarette into a silver bowl, stretched her
arms above her head, straightened her slender figure, turned her head
and looked at us.

"No," she said, "I do not wish to know. Light is swift; Thought is
swifter; but Love is the swiftest thing in Life, and if it is now
travelling toward me, it will strike me soon enough to suit me."

Stafford leaned forward and arranged the cushions for her; she sank back
among them, her dark eyes still on us.

"Hours are slow," she said; "years are slower, but the slowest thing in
Life is Love. If it is now travelling toward me, it will reach me soon
enough to suit me."

"I," said Duane, "prefer quick action, O Athalie, the Beautiful!"

"Athalie, lovely and incomparable," said Stafford, "I, also, prefer
quick action."

"Play Scheherazade for us, Athalie," I said, "else we slay you with
our compliments."

A voice or two from distant corners repeated the menace. A match flared
and a fresh cigarette glowed faintly.

Somebody brought the tripod with its crystal sphere and set it down in
the middle of the room. Its mild rays fell on the marble basin of the
tiny fountain,--Duane's offering. The goldfish which I had given her
were floating there fast asleep.

When we had placed sweetmeats and cigarettes convenient for her, we all,
in turn, with circumstance and ceremony, bent over her left hand where
it rested listlessly among the cushions, saluting the emerald on her
third finger with our lips.

Then the dim circle closed around her, nearer.

"Of all the visions which have passed before your eyes within the depths
of that crystal globe," said Duane, "--of all the histories of men and
women which, unsuspected by them, you have witnessed, seated here in
this silent, silk-hung place, we desire to hear only those in which Fate
has been swiftest, Opportunity a loosened arrow, Destiny a flash of
lightning."

"But the victims of quick action must be nameless, except as I choose to
mask them," she said, looking dreamily into her crystal.

After a moment's silence Duane said in a low voice:

"Does anybody notice the odour of orange blossoms?"

We all noticed the fragrance.

"I seem to catch a whiff of the sea, also," ventured Stafford. "Am I
right?"

"Yes," she nodded, "you will notice the odour of the semi-tropics, even
if you miss the point of everything I tell you."

"In other words," said I, "we are but a material bunch, Athalie, and may
be addressed and amused only through our physical senses. Very well:
transpose from the spiritual for us if you please a little story of
quick action which has happened here in the crystal under your matchless
eyes!"




II


With her silver tongs she selected a sweetmeat. When it had melted in
her sweeter mouth, she lighted a cigarette, saluted us with a gay little
gesture and smilingly began:

"Don't ask me how I know what these people said; that is my concern,
not yours. Don't ask me how I know what unspoken thoughts animated these
people; that is my affair. Nor how I seem to be perfectly acquainted
with their past histories; for that is part of my profession."

"And still the wonder grew," commented the novelist tritely, "that one
small head could carry all she knew!"

"Why," asked Stafford, "do you refuse to reveal your secret? Do you no
longer trust us, Athalie?"

She answered: "Comment prétendons-nous qu'un autre garde notre secret,
si nous n'avons pas pu le garder nous-même?"

Nobody replied.

"Now," she said, laughingly, "I will tell you all that I know about the
Orange Puppy."

       

Plans for her first debut began before her birth. When it became
reasonably certain that she was destined to decorate the earth, she was
entered on the waiting lists of two schools--The Dinglenook School for
Boys, and The Idlebrook Institute for Young Ladies--her parents taking
no chances, but playing both ends coming and going.

When ultimately she made her first earthly appearance, and it was
apparent that she was destined to embellish the planet in the guise of a
girl, the process of grooming her for her second debut, some eighteen
years in the future, began. She lived in sanitary and sterilized
seclusion, eating by the ounce, sleeping through accurately measured
minutes, every atom of her anatomy inspected daily, every pore of her
skin explored, every garment she wore weighed, every respiration, pulse
beat, and fluctuation of bodily temperature carefully noted and
discussed.

When she appeared her hair was black. After she shed this, it came in
red; when she was eight her hair was coppery, lashes black, eyes blue,
and her skin snow and wild-strawberry tints in agreeably delicate
nuances. Several millions were set aside to grow up with her and for
her. Also, the list of foreign and aristocratic babyhood was scanned and
several dozen possibilities checked off--the list running from the
progeny of down-and-out monarchs with a sporting chance for a crown, to
the more solid infant aristocracy of Britain.

At the age of nine, the only symptom of intellect that had yet appeared
in her was a superbly developed temper. That year she eluded a governess
and two trained nurses in the park, and was discovered playing with some
unsterilized children near the duck-pond, both hands full of slime and
pollywogs.

It was the only crack in the routine through which she ever crawled.
Lessons daily in riding, driving, dancing, fencing, gymnastics, squash,
tennis, skating, plugged every avenue of escape between morning school
and evening sleep, after a mental bath in sterilized literature. Once,
out of the window she saw a fire. This event, with several runaways on
the bridle-path, included the sensations of her life up to her release
from special instructors, and her entry into Idlebrook Institute.

Here she did all she could to misbehave in a blind and instinctive
fashion, but opportunities were pitiably few; and by the time she had
graduated, honest deviltry seemed to have been starved out of her; and a
half year's finishing abroad apparently eliminated it, leaving only a
half-confused desire to be let alone. But solitude was the luxury always
denied her.

Unlike the usual debutante, who is a social veteran two years before her
presentation, and who at eighteen lacks no experience except
intellectual, Miss Cassillis had become neither a judge of champagne nor
an expert in the various cabaret steps popular at country houses and the
more exclusive dives.

"Mother," she said calmly, on her eighteenth birthday, "do you know that
I am known among my associates as a dead one?" At which that fat and
hard-eyed matron laughed, surveying her symmetrical daughter with grim
content.

"Let me tell you something," she said. "America, socially, is only one
vast cabaret, mostly consisting of performers. The spectators are few.
You're one. Conditions are reversed across the water; the audience is
in the majority.... How do you like young Willowmere?"

The girl replied that she liked Lord Willowmere. She might have added
that she was prepared to like anything in trousers that would give her a
few hours off.

"Do you think," said her mother, "you can be trusted to play in the
social cabaret all next winter, and then marry Willowmere?"

Said Cecil: "I am perfectly ready to marry anybody before luncheon, if
you will let me."

"I do not wish you to feel that way."

"Mother, I do! All I want is to be let alone long enough to learn
something for myself."

"What do you not know? What have you not learned? What accomplishment
do you lack, little daughter? What is it you wish?"

The girl glanced out of the window. A young and extremely well-built man
went striding down the avenue about his business. He looked a little
like a man she had seen playing ball on the Harvard team a year ago. She
sighed unconsciously.

"I've learned about everything there is to learn, I suppose....
Except--where do men go when they walk so busily about their business?"

"Down town," said her mother, laughing.

"What do they do there?"

"A million things concerning millions."

"But I don't see how there's anything left for them to do after their
education is completed. What is there left for me to do, except to marry
and have a few children?"

