Clinton, commanding the Fourth, or New York, Brigade, I am requested to
say to the Mohican Sagamore that valuable presents will be offered him
for his services by General Sullivan, commander-in-chief of this army.
These will be given when the Mohican successfully conducts this army to
the Genessee Castle and to Catharines-town. I have spoken."

And to me he added bluntly:

"Translate, Mr. Loskiel."

"I think the Sagamore has understood, sir," said I. "Is it not so,
Sagamore?"

"Mayaro has understood," said the Indian quietly.

"Does the great Mohican Sagamore accept?"

"My elder brother," replied the Sagamore calmly, "Mayaro has pledged
his word to his younger brother Loskiel. A Mohican Sagamore never lies.
Loskiel is my friend. Why should I lie to him? A Sagamore speaks the
truth."

Which was true in a measure, at least as far as wanton or idle lying is
concerned, or cowardly lying either, But he had lied to me concerning
his knowledge of the strange maid, Lois, which kind of untruth all
Indians consider more civil than a direct refusal to answer a question.

Boyd stood by, smiling, as the Major very politely informed me of the
disposition he had made of the Sagamore and myself, recommended Mayaro
to my most civil attention, and added that, for the present, I was
relieved from routine duty with my battalion.

If the Siwanois perceived any undue precaution in the Major's manner of
lodging him, he did not betray by the quiver of an eyelash that he
comprehended he was practically under guard. He stalked forth and
across the parade beside me, head high, bearing dignified and tranquil.

At the outer gate our junior ensign languidly dusted a speck of snuff
from his wristband, and indicated the roof of our hut, which was
visible above the feathery river willows. So we proceeded thither, I
resigning my horse to the soldier, Mount, who had been holding him, and
who was now detailed to act as soldier-servant to me still.

"Jack," said I, "if there be fresh-baked bread in the regimental ovens
yonder, fetch a loaf, in God's name. I could gnaw black-birch and
reindeer moss, so famished am I--and the Sagamore, too, no doubt, could
rattle a flam with a wooden spoon."

But our chief baker was a Low-Dutch dog from Albany; and it was not
until I had bathed me in the Mohawk, burrowed into my soldier's chest,
and put on clean clothing that Jack Mount managed to steal the loaf he
had asked for in vain. And this, with a bit of salt beef and a bowl of
fresh milk, satisfied the Siwanois and myself.

I had been relieved of all routine duty, and was henceforth detailed to
foregather with, amuse, instruct and casually keep an eye on my
Mohican. In other words, my only duty, for the present, was to act as
mentor to the Sagamore, keep him pleasantly affected toward our cause,
see that he was not tampered with, and that he had his bellyful three
times a day. Also, I was to extract from him in advance any information
concerning the Iroquois country that he might have knowledge of.

It was a warm and pleasant afternoon along the river where the
batteaux, loaded with stores and soldiers, were passing up, and Oneida
canoes danced across the sparkling water toward Fort Plain.

Many of our soldiers were bathing, sporting like schoolboys in the
water; Lamb's artillerymen had their horses out to let them swim; many
of the troops were washing their shirts along the gravelly reaches, or,
seated cross-legged on the bank, were mending rents with needle and
thread. Half a dozen Oneida Indians sat gravely smoking and blinking at
the scene--no doubt belonging to our corps of runners, scouts, and
guides, for all were shaved, oiled, and painted for war, and, under
their loosened blankets, I could see their lean and supple bodies,
stark naked, except for clout and ankle moccasin.

I sat in the willow-shade before the door of our hut, cross-legged,
too, writing in my journal of what had occurred since last I set down
the details of the day. This finished, I pouched quill, ink-horn, and
journal, and sat a-thinking for a while of that strange maid, and what
mischance might come of her woodland roving all alone--with Indian
Butler out, and all that vile and painted, blue-eyed crew under
McDonald.

Sombre thoughts assailed me there on that sunny July afternoon; I
rested my elbow on my knee, forehead pressed against my palm,
pondering. And ever within my breast was I conscious of a faint, dull
aching--a steady and perceptible apprehension which kept me restless,
giving my mind no peace, my brooding thoughts no rest.

That this shabby, wandering girl had so gained me, spite of the
rudeness with which she used me, I could never seem to understand; for
she had done nothing to win even my pity, and she was but a ragged
gypsy thing, and had conducted with scant courtesy.

Why had I given her my ring? Was it only because I pitied her and
desired to offer her a gift she might sell when necessary? Why had I
used her as a comrade--who had been but the comrade of an hour? Why had
I been so loath to part with her whom I scarce had met? What was it in
her that had fixed my attention? What allure? What unusual quality?
What grace of mind or person?

A slender, grey-eyed gypsy-thing in rags! And I could no longer rid my
mind of her!

What possessed me? To what lesser nature in me was such a woman as this
appealing? I would have been ashamed to have any officer or man of my
corps see me abroad in company with her. I knew it well enough. I knew
that if in this girl anything was truly appealing to my unquiet heart I
should silence even the slightest threat of any response--discourage,
ignore, exterminate the last unruly trace of sentiment in her regard.

Yet I remained there motionless, thinking, thinking--her faded rosebud
lying in my hand, drooping but still fragrant.

Dismiss her from my thoughts I could not. The steady, relentless desire
to see her; the continual apprehension that some mischance might
overtake her, left me no peace of mind, so that the memory of her, not
yet a pleasure even, nagged, nagged, nagged, till every weary nerve in
me became unsteady.

I stretched out above the river bank, composing my body to rest--sleep
perhaps. But flies and sun kept me awake, even if I could have quieted
my mind.

So up again, and walked to the hut door, where within I beheld the
Sagamore gravely repainting himself with the terrific emblems of death.
He was seated cross-legged on the floor, my camp mirror before him--a
superb specimen of manhood, naked save for clout, beaded sporran, and a
pair of thigh moccasins, the most wonderful I had ever seen.

I admired his war-girdle and moccasins, speaking somewhat carelessly of
the beautiful shell-work designs as "wampum"--an Iroquois term.

"Seawan," he said coldly, correcting me and using the softer Siwanois
term. Then, with that true courtesy which ever seeks to ease a merited
rebuke, he spoke pleasantly concerning shell-beads, and how they were
made and from what, and how it was that the purple beads were the gold,
the white beads the silver, and the black beads the copper equivalents
in English coinage. And so we conducted very politely and agreeably
there in the hut, the while he painted himself like a ghastly death,
and brightened the scarlet clan-symbol tatooed on his breast by
touching its outlines with his brilliant paint. Also, he rebraided his
scalp-lock with great care, doubtless desiring that it should appear a
genteel trophy if taken from him, and be an honour to his conqueror and
himself.

These matters presently accomplished, he drew from their soft and
beaded sheaths hatchet and knife, and fell to shining them up as
industriously as a full-fed cat polishes her fur.

"Mayaro," said I, amused, "is a battle then near at hand that you make
so complete a preparation for it?"

A half-smile appeared for a moment on his lips:

"It is always well to be prepared for life or death, Loskiel, my
younger brother."

"Oho!" said I, smiling. "You understood the express rider when he said
that Indians had fired on our pickets a week ago!"

The stern and noble countenance of the Sagamore relaxed into the
sunniest of smiles.

"My little brother is very wise. He has discovered that the Siwanois
have ears like white men."

"Aye--but, Sagamore, I was not at all certain that you understood in
English more than 'yes' and 'no.'"

"Is it because," he inquired with a merry glance at me, "my brother has
only heard as yet the answer 'no' from Mayaro?"

I bit my lip, reddened, and then laughed at the slyly taunting
reference to my lack of all success in questioning him concerning the
little maiden, Lois.

At the same time, I realized on what a friendly footing I already stood
with this Mohican. Few white men ever see an Iroquois or a Delaware
laugh; few ever witness any relaxation in them or see their coldly
dignified features alter, except in scorn, suspicion, pride, and anger.
Only in time of peace and amid their own intimates or families do our
Eastern forest Indians put off the expressionless and dignified mask
they wear, and become what no white man believes them capable of
becoming--human, tender, affectionate, gay, witty, talkative, as the
moment suits.

At Guy Park, even, I had never seen an Iroquois relax in dignity and
hauteur, though, of course, it was also true that Guy Johnson was never
a man to inspire personal confidence or any intimacy. Nor was Walter
Butler either; and Brant and his Mohawks detested and despised him.

But I had been told that Indians--I mean the forest Indians, not the
vile and filthy nomad butchers of the prairies--were like ourselves in
our own families; and that, naturally, they were a kindly,
warm-hearted, gay, and affectionate people, fond of their wives and
children, and loyal to their friends.

Now, I could not but notice how, from the beginning, this Siwanois had
