Mrs. Boyd looked very poorly the last time I saw her, a month or so ago.
I suppose there is a great deal back of the account----"

"I have wanted to see you so," returned Lilian. "I thought I would come
to the Chapel tomorrow morning. You are the only friend I have made
outside of the school, but Mrs. Barrington has been so sweet and
generous. She had planned to keep me here after mother was gone and
educate me."

The tears stood in Lilian's eyes and her voice broke with emotion.

"There is so much to talk over, and we have gone to our own home now.
Mother and I have been very busy the last four days cleaning and putting
things in order. We spent our Christmas at Mrs. Lane's and had a really
delightful time. We had planned some time ago to have you share it with
us, and now can you not spare us Sunday, if you are not going----"

"The change is to be made on Monday. Oh, Miss Trenham--I can hardly
describe my feelings. I dread it and yet my own mother is an ideal
mother. I hardly dare think of the happiness in store for me, but I
shall go on here at school. I am glad of that. I could not give up my
dear Mrs. Barrington."

"We want to hear all the story--your side," smiling gravely. "So if you
can come and dine with us on Sunday. Oh, there are so many
explanations."

"I will see. Excuse me a few moments." Lilian came back with a heartsome
expression.

"Yes, I can come. I wanted to go to the Chapel in the morning. I suppose
some of my life, at least, will be changed----"

"Yes, but it will be--yes, lovely and advantageous. I never thought
Mrs. Boyd quite the right mother for you, if you will allow me to say
it."

Lilian flushed. "But she loved me with her whole soul. She would have
made any sacrifice to advance me. All these years she has cared for me,
worked for me and I should be an ingrate to forget it. If she had lived
and this had not come, I was planning to work for her----"

"I think you would, without a demur. You would have had an excellent
friend in Mrs. Barrington, but it will be a much wider life, I am very
glad for you. There are people for whom prosperity does very little. You
will not be one of that kind. In spite of her misfortune your mother has
always had a wide and lovely influence, and the home is said to be very
attractive. I think all of Mount Morris rejoiced truly in her
restoration to health, and you will have some of the best of her life.
You will soon learn the sweet lesson of loving her."

"My heart went out to her the Sunday I saw her in church. She looked to
me like a saint, and I did not know then, but I have felt bewildered
since. And I have been so used to planning to do something for--for the
one who has gone, that I feel kind of helpless, knowing I can do nothing
for her."

"Oh, yes, you can give her a daughter's choicest love. I am quite sure
you two will grow into finest accord, and two manly brothers and that
lovely Zaidee! Oh, it will be a most absorbing life. You will be in the
sphere just fitted for you. Perhaps God let it all happen that your
character should be the more fully shaped by the experience. We will
talk it over more, at length, tomorrow."

Miss Trenham rose and kissed the young girl tenderly, knowing that tears
were very near the surface. After she had gone Lilian gave way to them.
She had not the easily adaptive nature to go in her new home and take
the best at once, though it had been held out with such winning
tenderness. The beautiful face of Zaidee instead of adding a radiance
seemed to shadow the path. She could not explain it to herself; she
would not think her sister would grudge her anything, but she felt in
her inmost heart it would not be given generously. She must win it by
large patience.

Sunday was a perfect winter day with a gorgeous sunshine and a crisp air
that seemed to bring refreshment in every waft. The leafless trees were
penciled against the blue sky like the lines of a fine engraving. The
church bells rang out their reverent inspiration, they were harmoniously
toned and there was no jangling. Lilian wondered a little--were her
parents and the two children at home kneeling in the old church where
the Crawfords had worshiped for a hundred years or more? Did they offer
a little prayer for her?

The father and mother said it at home. He was all impatience for the day
to pass.

Oh, how delightful Mrs. Trenham's warm welcome was, and little Claire
clasped both slim arms about Lilian's neck and kissed the cool rosy
cheek over and over again. If her sister was little and fond like that!

"It's been such a long, long while since you were here. Of course you
couldn't come while we were away. It was very nice at Mrs. Lane's; there
were so many people to make merry. You can't be truly merry alone by
yourself, can you? It's like bells ringing. You can be happy thinking of
many things, but not merry."

Lilian smiled. Yes, the conceit was true.

Then she must inspect Claire's Christmas gifts. Her own had been a
pretty booklet that one of the girls had given her in a perfunctory
fashion that carried no real regard with it. She had been too full of
anxiety to look up anything.

"And that lady that came here once who wasn't your real mother went
away, didn't she? And Edith said you had a real mother now and you were
going to live with her and not stay at school all the time. I wish I
could go to school. Edith said sometime she might have a school in our
own house, and I might come and say lessons with other little girls.
That will be so nice. I think that will be merry."

Then they were summoned to dinner, and the elders took the lead in the
conversation, expressing their surprise at the strange event they had
seen in the paper, and as they lingered over the dessert Lilian told her
own story that she had believed in devoutly until Mrs. Boyd had
explained her adoption, hoping thereby Lilian might trace her
parentage--though Mrs. Boyd supposed only her father could be found.
Mrs. Barrington had supplied the other side.

"I suppose there is a certain kind of gratification in belonging to an
old and respected family. Major Crawford's family could go back even of
their first settling in America, and the madam was a proud old
Virginian with a fortune, but she wanted only one son, and she had three
and one daughter. All her love and pride was in her first born who was
indulged in every thing and led a gay life. The youngest died, Everard
went to West Point and entered the regular army. Reginald took the best
of life and became a capricious invalid, as penurious as he had been
wasteful before, and died about the time of the accident. The madam had
been dead some years. So all of Crawford House and its belongings came
to the Major, who had married one of the loveliest of girls. You have
heard that part of the story from Mrs. Barrington, doubtless. She was
one of the earlier scholars."

"Yes," replied Lilian. "She admires her, beside loving her for the
bravery with which, she bore the dreadful accident."

"I think when the word came, if prayers could have availed for the
safety of the child, the whole town would have prayed, and to think that
God should have saved you and restored you in this strange manner."

Edith glanced across the table. Lilian's eyes were suffused with tears.

"Miss Crawford had looked after the house, as the mother spent much of
the time in the city with Reginald. She was very fond of gayeties, and
her sudden death was a great surprise for she seemed vigorous enough to
round out the century. Miss Kate took charge of little Zay while her
mother was on the journey and through those years spent in hospitals and
sanitoriums. She has been most devoted, refusing several good offers of
marriage, but I suppose Mrs. Barrington has told you most of the family
history."

"She is very fond of my mother and her girl life, her early married life
as well, and she fancied at the very first that I resembled some one she
had known."

"There is something in the poise of the head and the shape of your chest
and shoulders, that is like her, and it won't hurt you if I say she was
an extremely handsome girl. Even Reginald admitted that."

"And I am not handsome," Lilian said bravely, though with a little pang.
It had never mattered to her before. Then she turned scarlet and added
with an embarrassed laugh: "That sounds like what the girls call fishing
for compliments. Zaidee will be the family beauty."

"And you have a voice, that with the proper training, may be very fine,
indeed. I noticed it this morning in the hymn."

"Oh, do you think so? I love to sing," and her face was a-light with
pleasure. "But it seems to me that it isn't, well--neither alto nor
soprano; I can't keep it to a true sound."

"It is a contralto and has some most expressive notes in it. Of course,
you will be trained in music."

"Mrs. Barrington spoke of it in the next term. Some of the girls sing
beautifully. I was to take up several new studies. Oh, there are so many
splendid things to learn."

Her face was aglow with enthusiasm and gave promise of something finer
than mere beauty. There had been a good deal of repression in her life
since she had come to understand, in a measure, her own desires. She had
held them back because she did not want to make Mrs. Boyd unhappy with
the difference between them, when she saw that the elder woman was
making any effort to indulge her fancies, and during these months at
school had settled to a grave deportment, that she might better sustain
her authority. The lack of spontaneity had puzzled Mrs. Barrington, when
in some moments she caught the ardor and glow of an inward possibility.

"I think you will be in the right place now," remarked Edith with a
smile. "One with a strong individuality at times surmounts adverse
circumstances, but when there are so many events to hamper, one does
lose courage and begins to question whether the effort and sacrifice
will pay for the late reward."

"Oh, let me have Miss Lilian awhile," besought Claire. "I want her to
inspect my playhouse, while you and mother put away the dishes and
things."

The playhouse was an old time cabinet with the doors taken off. One
shelf, the highest, was full of curiosities, the next of books, the
third left out and the dolls had it to themselves. There was a parlor in
