
"And yet," Florindo said, "there is a charm about the first dinner of
autumn, after you've got back."

"Oh, yes," she assented; "it's like a part of our lost youth. We think
all the dinners of the winter will be like that, and we come away
beaming."

"But when it keeps on and there's more and more of our lost youth,
till it comes to being the whole--"

"Florindo!" she stopped him. He pretended that he was not going to
have said it, and she resumed, dreamily, "I wonder what it is makes it
so detestable as the winter goes on."

"All customs are detestable, the best of them," he suggested, "and I
should say, in spite of the first autumnal dinner, that the society
dinner was an unlovely rite. You try to carry if off with china and
glass, and silver and linen, and if people could fix their minds on
these, or even on the dishes of the dinner as they come successively
on, it would be all very well; but the diners, the diners!"

"Yes," she said, "the old men are hideous, certainly; and the young
ones--I try not to look at them, poking things into the hollows of
their faces with spoons and forks--"

"Better than when it was done with knives! Still, it's a horror! A
veteran diner-out in full action is certainly a hideous spectacle.
Often he has few teeth of his own, and the dentists don't serve him
perfectly. He is in danger of dropping things out of his mouth, both
liquids and solids: better not look! His eyes bulge and roll in his
head in the stress of mastication and deglutition; his color rises and
spreads to his gray hair or over his baldness; his person seems to
swell vividly in his chair, and when he laughs--"

"Don't, Florindo! It is awful."

"Well, perhaps no worse than the sight of a middle-aged matron tending
to overweight and bulking above her plate--"

"Yes, yes! That's dreadful, too. But when people are young--"

"Oh, when people are young!" He said this in despair. Then he went on
in an audible muse. "When people are young they are not only in their
own youth; they are in the youth of the world, the race. They dine,
but they don't think of the dinner or the unpleasantness of the
diners, and the grotesqueness of feeding in common. They think--" he
broke off in defect of other ideas, and concluded with a laugh, "they
think of themselves. And they don't think of how they are looking."

"They needn't; they are looking very well. Don't keep harping on that!
I remember when we first began going to dinners, I thought it was the
most beautiful thing in the world. I don't mean when I was a girl; a
girl only goes to a dinner because it comes before a dance. I mean
when we were young married people; and I pinned up my dress and we
went in the horse-cars, or even walked. I enjoyed every instant of it:
the finding who was going to take me in and who you were; and the
going in; and the hovering round the table to find our places from the
cards; and the seeing how you looked next some one else, and wondering
how you thought I looked; and the beads sparkling up through the
champagne and getting into one's nose; and the laughing and joking and
talking! Oh, the talking! What's become of it? The talking, last
night, it bored me to death! And what good stories people used to
tell, women as well as men! You can't deny it was beautiful."

"I don't; and I don't deny that the forms of dining are still
charming. It's the dining itself that I object to."

"That's because your digestion is bad."

"Isn't yours?"

"Of course it is. What has that got to do with it?"

"It seems to me that we have arrived at what is called an impasse in
French." He looked up at the clock on the wall, and she gave a little
jump in her chair. "Oh, there's plenty of time. The taxi won't be here
for half an hour yet. Is there any heat left in that coffee?"

"There will be," she said, and she lighted the lamp under the pot.
"But I don't like being scared out of half a year's growth."

"I'm sorry. I won't look at the clock any more; I don't care if we're
left. Where were we? Oh, I remember--the objection to dining itself.
If we could have the forms without the facts, dining would be all
right. Our superstition is that we can't be gay without gorging; that
society can't be run without meat and drink. But don't you remember
when we first went to Italy there was no supper at Italian houses
where we thought it such a favor to be asked?"

"I remember that the young Italian swells wouldn't go to the American
and English houses where they weren't sure of supper. They didn't
give supper at the Italian houses because they couldn't afford it."

"I know that. I believe they do, now. But--

          'Sweet are the uses of adversity,'

and the fasting made for beauty then more than the feasting does now.
It was a lovelier sight to see the guests of those Italian houses
conversing together without the grossness of feeding or being fed--the
sort of thing one saw at our houses when people went out to supper."

"I wonder," Lindora said, "whether the same sort of thing goes on at
evening parties still--it's so long since I've been at one. It was
awful standing jammed up in a corner or behind a door and eating
vis-Ã -vis with a man who brought you a plate; and it wasn't much
better when you sat down and he stood over you gabbling and gobbling,
with his plate in one hand and his fork in the other. I was always
afraid of his dropping things into my lap; and the sight of his jaws
champing as you looked up at them from below!"

"Yes, ridiculous. But there was an element of the grotesque in a
bird's-eye view of a lady making shots at her mouth with a spoon and
trying to smile and look spirituelle between the shots."

Lindora as she laughed bowed her forehead on the back of her hand in
the way Florindo thought so pretty when they were both young. "Yes,"
she said, "awful, awful! Why should people want to flock together
when they feed? Do you suppose it's a survival of the primitive
hospitality when those who had something to eat hurried to share it
with those who had nothing?"

"Possibly," Florindo said, flattered into consequence by her momentary
deference, or show of it. "But the people who mostly meet to feed
together now are not hungry; they are already so stuffed that they
loathe the sight of the things. Some of them shirk the consequences by
frankly dining at home first, and then openly or covertly dodging the
courses."

"Yes, and you hear that praised as a mark of high civilization, or
social wisdom. I call it wicked, and an insult to the very genius of
hospitality."

"Well, I don't know. It must give the faster a good chance of seeing
how funny the feeders all look."

"I wonder, I do wonder, how the feeding in common came to be the
custom," she said, thoughtfully. "Of course where it's done for
convenience, like hotels or in boarding-houses--but to do it wantonly,
as people do in society, it ought to be stopped."

"We might call art to our aid--have a large tableful of people kodaked
in the moments of ingulfing, chewing, or swallowing, as the act varied
from guest to guest; might be reproduced as picture postals, or from
films for the movies. That would give the ten and twenty cent
audiences a chance to see what life in the exclusive circles was."

She listened in dreamy inattention. "It was a step in the right
direction when people began to have afternoon teas. To be sure, there
was the biting and chewing sandwiches, but you needn't take them,
and most women could manage their teacups gracefully."

"Or hide their faces in them when they couldn't."

"Only," she continued, "the men wouldn't come after the first go off.
It was as bad as lunches. Now that the English way of serving tea to
callers has come in, it's better. You really get the men, and it keeps
them from taking cocktails so much."

"They're rather glad of that. But still, still, there's the guttling
and guzzling."

"It's reduced to a minimum."

"But it's there. And the first thing you know you've loaded yourself
up with cake or bread-and-butter and spoiled your appetite for dinner.
No, afternoon tea must go with the rest of it, if we're going to be
truly civilized. If people could come to one another's tables with
full minds instead of stomachs, there would be some excuse for
hospitality. Perhaps if we reversed the practice of the professional
diner-out, and read up at home as he now eats at home, and-- No, I
don't see how it could be done. But we might take a leaf from the book
of people who are not in society. They never ask anybody to meals if
they can possibly help it; if some one happens in at meal-times they
tell him to pull up a chair--if they have to, or he shows no signs
first of going. But even among these people the instinct of
hospitality--the feeding form of it--lurks somewhere. In our
farm-boarding days--"

"Don't speak of them!" she implored.

"We once went to an evening party," he pursued, "where raw apples and
cold water were served."

"I thought I should die of hunger. And when we got home to our own
farmer's we ravaged the pantry for everything left from supper. It
wasn't much. There!" Lindora screamed. "There is the taxi!" And the
shuddering sound of the clock making time at their expense penetrated
from the street. "Come!"

"How the instinct of economy lingers in us, too, long after the use
of it is outgrown. It's as bad as the instinct of hospitality. We
could easily afford to pay extra for the comfort of sitting here over
these broken victuals--"

"I tell you we shall be left," she retorted; and in the thirty-five
minutes they had at the station before their train started she
outlined a scheme of social reform which she meant to put in force as
soon as people began to gather in summer force at Lobster Cove.
