kindness to me—I do not want anything from you——"

"Kindness!"

"You have let me find a refuge with you——"

"Dear child, I offer you employment until something more suitable
offers.  Didn’t you understand?"

"Yes, but I did not expect or wish you to pay me—except with friendship.
It is different between us and others, is it not?—I mean you are my
friend.... I could not take money from you....  Let it be only
friendship between us.  Will you?  I have enough to last until I can
find employment.  Only let me be with you.  That is quite enough for me,
Warner."

Halkett, who had been gazing fixedly through his glasses, remarked that
the column across the river had now passed.

It was true; the wall of dust still obscured the blue foothills of the
Vosges, but the last fantassin had trotted beyond their view and the
last military wagon had rolled out of sight.

Halkett descended from the ladder and went through the house and down
the road in the direction of the schoolhouse, a smart, well-groomed,
well-set-up figure in his light-colored service uniform and cap.

Philippa gathered her knitting into one hand, placed the other in
Warner’s, and descended the ladder face foremost, with the lithe,
sure-footed grace of Ariadne, who had preceded them.

"Come to my room," she said, confidently taking possession of Warner’s
arm; "I want to show you my account book."

Madame Arlon, who was coming through the hallway, overheard her, gazed
at her unsmilingly, glanced at Warner, whose arm the girl still
retained.

Philippa looked up frankly, bidding the stout, florid landlady a smiling
good morning, and Madame Arlon took the girl’s hands rather firmly into
her own, considered her, looked up at Warner in silence.

Perhaps she arrived at some silent and sudden conclusion concerning them
both, for her tightened lips relaxed and she smiled at them and patted
Philippa’s hands and went about her affairs, still evidently amused over
something or other.  She remarked to Magda in the kitchen that all
Americans were mad but harmless; which distinguished them from
Europeans, who were merely mad.

Upstairs in her bedroom, Philippa was down on her knees rummaging in her
little trunk and chattering away as gay as a linnet to Warner, who stood
beside her looking on.

And at first the pathos of the affair did not strike him.  The girl’s
happy torrent of loquacity, almost childish in its eagerness and
inconsequential repetition of details concerning the little souvenirs
which she held up for his inspection, amused him, and he felt that she
was very, very young.

All the flimsy odds and ends which girlhood cherishes—things utterly
valueless except for the memories evoked by disinterring and handling
them, these Philippa resurrected from the confused heap of clothing in
her trunk—here a thin gold circlet set with a tiny, tarnished turquoise,
pledge of some schoolmate’s deathless adoration—there an inky and
battered schoolbook with girls’ names written inside in the immature
chirography of extreme youth and sentiment.  And there were bits of
inexpensive lace and faded ribbons, and a blotting pad full of frail and
faded flower-ghosts, and home-made sachets from which hue and odor had
long since exhaled, and links from a silver chain and a few bright locks
of hair in envelopes.

And every separate one of these Philippa, on her knees, held up for
Warner to admire while she sketched for him the most minute details of
the circumstances connected.

Never doubting his interest and sympathy, she freed her long-caged heart
with all the involuntary ecstasy of an escaped bird pouring out to the
clouds the suppressed confidences of many years.

Names, incidents, circumstances almost forgotten even in her brief
solitary life, were now uttered almost unbidden from her ardent lips;
the bright or faded bits of ribbon were held aloft, identified with a
little laugh or sigh, tossed aside, and another relic uncovered and held
out to him.

On her knees before these innocent records of the past, the girl was
showing him everything she knew about herself—showing him herself, too,
and her warm, eager heart of a child.

He was no longer merely amused; he stood listening in silence to her
happy, disjointed phrases, evoked by flashes of memory equally
disconnected.

The happiness connected with her girlish souvenirs faded, however, when
they represented the period following her removal from school.

And yet, for all the loneliness and unhappiness—for all the instinctive
mental revolt, all the perplexity and impatience of these latter
years—their souvenirs she handled tenderly, describing each with that
gentleness and consideration born of intimate personal association.

And at last she discovered her account book, strapped with rubber bands,
and she rose from the floor, drew the only chair up for Warner, and
seated herself on her bed, laying the book open across his knees.

Here, under his eyes, columns of accurately kept figures told the story.
Here everything had been minutely set down—her meager salary, her few
expenses, her rigid economies, her savings during the years of her
employment by Wildresse—a record of self-denial, of rigid honesty, of
childlike perseverance.

As he slowly turned the clearly written pages on his knees, Philippa,
leaning against his shoulder, her fresh young face close to his, pointed
out and explained with her forefinger tracing the written figures.

After he had examined her accounts, she unstrapped her thin little pass
book for him.  It was in order and balanced to the end of July.

He closed the books, rested his clasped hands on them, and sat thinking.
His preoccupied expression left her silent, too—or perhaps it was the
slight reaction from her joyous indulgence in loquacity. Reticence
always follows—and always this aftermath of silence is tinged with
sadness.

He was thinking, almost in consternation, how lightly he had assumed
responsibility for a young soul in the making.  All of her was still in
the making; the girl was merely beginning to develop in mind and spirit;
and in body her development had not ended.

Her circumstances aside—whatever her origin, whatever her class or
position might have been—he suddenly realized that for him the
responsibility was too great.

Whatever her origin, in her were the elements and instincts of all
things upright.  Whatever her place in the social scale, her
intelligence could not be questioned.  And, if her recent years had been
passed amid sordid and impossible surroundings and influences, these had
not corrupted her.  In her there was no hint of depravity, nothing
unwholesome, nothing spoiled.

Life and endeavor and the right to hope still lay before her; a
theoretical future opened uncontaminated; opportunity alone was her
problem; and his.  And he realized his responsibility and was perplexed
and troubled.

"Philippa," he said, looking up at her where she sat on the iron bed,
her cheek resting on her clasped hands, "I am not very aged yet.  Do you
realize that?"

"Aged?" she repeated, puzzled.

He laughed and so did she.

"I mean," he said, "that if you and I go about together in this rather
suspicious world, nobody is likely to understand how very harmless and
delightful our friendship is."

She nodded.

"Not that I care," he said, "except on your account. A girl has only one
real asset, as assets and liabilities are now figured out by what we
call civilization.  It won’t do to have any suspicion attach to this
solitary asset of yours.  There must never be any question of your moral
solvency through your friendship for me or mine for you.  Do you follow
me?"

"Yes."

"Very well.  It remains for us to find out how to remain friends without
hurting you and your prospects in a world, which, as I have explained,
is first of all an incredulous world, and after that the most pitiless
of planets.  Do you still follow what I say?"

"Yes."

"Then have you any suggestions?"

"No, Warner."

"What would you prefer to do to support yourself?"

"Anything that permitted me to remain near you."

"I know, Philippa; but I mean, leaving me out of consideration, what do
you prefer to do?"

"I like everything—respectable."

"But what in particular?"

"I don’t know; I like to keep accounts; I like to oversee and manage a
household....  I conducted all the departments of the Café and Cabaret
de Biribi—I was manager, housekeeper, general director; I hired and
discharged servants, looked after all marketing, all the linen and
tableware, kept all accounts and paid all wages.

"I know how to do such things and I like to do them.  It was only the
other—the secret service—which sickened me.  Of course it would have
been a great happiness to me if I had been employed in quiet,
respectable, and cultivated surroundings, and not in a public place
