
"This is real life, Mort; not a detective story."

"How would you recognise him?"

"That I'm unable to explain.  It's what Haggerty here calls a hunch."

Haggerty nodded.  "An' if y' depend on 'em y' generally land.  I've
made some mistakes in my time, not believing in my hunches.  This Webb
business goes t' show.  I had a hunch that something was wrong, but
your Webb had such a kid face, th' hunch pulled for him.  Well, if y'
ever see Mason again, what'll y' do?"

"I don't know.  It's a tough proposition.  Somehow or other, I want to
be quits with Mason.  I want to wipe out those obligations.  If I could
do that, the next time I saw him I'd hand him over."

"You're a sentimental duffer, Crawffy," said the artist, smiling.

"And I shouldn't love him at all if he wasn't," the wife defended.

"But this Webb affair doesn't add up right," said Killigrew morosely.

"There's th' hull game," declared Haggerty.  "It's nothing but adding
an' subtracting, this gum-shoe work.  Y've got t' keep at it till it
adds right.  Y' don't realize, Mr. Crawford, how many times I almost
put my hand on your shoulder; but y' didn't add up right.  I shan't go
at Webb like a load o' bricks.  I'll nose around first.  Take a peek
int' his belongings while you folks keep him busy downstairs.  No
sapphires, no Thomas; I'll let it go at that.  But how was this man
Jameson t' know anything about sapphires if they wasn't any?"

"I've known Kitty Killigrew ever since she was born," said Killigrew
dryly.  "I've yet to see her make a mistake in sizing up a man.  She
picks 'em out the way I do, right off the bat.  The minute you dodder
about a man or a woman, there's sure to be something' to dodder about.
Good lord! you don't suppose he had a hand in these other burglaries?"

"Can't say 's I do," answered Haggerty, reaching for his lemonade.
"You wait.  I'll have it all cleared up by midnight, 'r they'll be a
shake-up at Central t'-morrow.  Something's going t' happen; feel it
like a sailor feels a storm when they ain't a cloud anywheres.  Now,
let's see what y' know about auction pinochle, Mr. Killigrew.  No use
moping."

The yacht dropped anchor off shore at five.  The beach was deserted.
Doubtless the guests were catnapping or reading.  At the Killigrew
villa one did as one pleased.  Mr. and Mrs. Crawford were shown to
their rooms at once, and Haggerty prowled about the stables and garage.
Kitty knocked at Mrs. Crawford's door half an hour later.

Introductions were made at dinner.  The Crawfords knew most of Kitty's
guests and so did Forbes, who was very much interested in Lord
Monckton.  Here was a romance, if there was any truth at all in the
newspapers.  What adventures here and there across the world before the
title fell to him!  He looked like one of R. Caton Woodville's drawings
of Indian mutiny officers, with that flowing black beard; very
conspicuous among all these smooth chins.  Forbes determined to sketch
him.

He was rather sorry not to see Thomas at the table.  Was Haggerty after
him with the third degree?  Poor devil!  It did not seem possible; yet
all the evidence pointed to Thomas.  Why should Jameson say that he had
seen sapphires if he had not?  Still, the thing that did not add up was
the position with which Thomas had allied himself to the Killigrews.
Hang it, there was a figure missing.  Haggerty was right.  A man with
any sympathy had no business man-hunting.

After dinner Crawford sought Forbes.  "Have you any fire-arms with you,
Mort?" he whispered.

"A pair of automatics.  Why . . ."

"Sh!  Please hustle and get them and ask no questions.  Hurry!"




CHAPTER XXIII

"Mr. Killigrew," whispered Haggerty, "will you get Miss Kitty an'
Thomas int' th' study-end o' th' library?"

"Found anything?"

"Th' sapphires were in his trunk, all right.  Tucked away in th' toes
of a pair o' shoes.  Webb is in th' library now.  Jus' get Miss Kitty."

"Very well," replied Killigrew, leaden-hearted.

Thomas had been busy all day.  He was growing very tired, and often now
the point of his pen sputtered.  The second man had brought in his
dinner and set it on a small stand which stood at the right of the
desk.  It was growing cold on the tray.  A sound.  He glanced up
wearily.  He saw Kitty and Killigrew, and behind them the sardonic
visage of Haggerty.  Thomas got up slowly.

"Take it easy, Mr. Webb," warned Haggerty.  "Go on, Miss Killigrew, an'
we'll see first if you've hit it."

Thomas stared, wide-eyed, from face to face.  What in heaven's name had
happened?  What was this blighter of a detective doing at the villa?
And why was Kitty so white?

"Mr. Webb," began Kitty, striving hard to maintain even tones, "on the
night of May 13, you and Lord Henry Monckton stood on the curb outside
my carriage, near the Garden, where I was blockaded in the fog.  I
heard your voices.  There was talk about a wager.  The time imposed
upon the fulfilment of this wager was six months.  Shortly after, Lord
Monckton entered my carriage under the pretense of getting into his own
and took my necklace of sapphires.  He did it very cleverly.  Then they
were turned over to you.  You were to carry them for six months, find
out to whom they belonged, and return them."

"Thousands of miles away," said Haggerty confidently.  "Nothing ever
happened like that."

"Is it not true?" asked Kitty, ignoring Haggerty's interpolation.

"Miss Killigrew, either I'm dreaming or you are.  I haven't the
slightest idea what you are talking about."  Thomas was now whiter than
Kitty.  "The talk about a wager is true; but I never knew you had lost
any sapphires."

"How about this little chamois-bag which I found in your trunk, Mr.
Webb?" asked Haggerty ironically.  He tossed the bag on the desk.

The bag hypnotized Thomas.  Suddenly he came to life.  He snatched up
the bag and thrust it into his pocket.

"Those are mine," he said quite calmly.  "Mine, by every legal and
moral right in the world.  Mine!"

Kitty breathed hard and closed her eyes.

"Some brass!" jeered Haggerty, stepping forward.

"Can you prove it, Thomas?" asked Killigrew, hoping against hope.

"Yes, Mr. Killigrew, to your satisfaction, to Miss Killigrew's, and
even to Mr. Haggerty's."

Tableau.

Broken by the entrance of Crawford and Forbes, who were also pale and
disturbed.  Crawford flung a packet of papers on the desk.

"Webb, I fancy that these papers are yours," said Crawford, smiling.

One glance was enough for Thomas.

"Tell them the truth," went on Crawford; "tell them who you are."

"I have wagered . . ."

"Never mind about the wager," put in Forbes.  "Crawford and I have just
canceled it."

"What has happened?" asked Thomas.  The whole world seemed tumbling
about his unhappy head.

"Tell Mr. Killigrew here how you have imposed on him and his family,"
urged Crawford, serious now.  "Tell them your name, your full name."

Thomas hesitated a moment.  "My name is Henry Thomas Webb-Monckton."

"Ninth Baron of Dimbledon," added Forbes, "and as crazy as a loon!"




CHAPTER XXIV

Meanwhile the whirligig had gone about violently after this fashion.

Forbes, wondering mightily, procured his automatics and gave one to his
impatient friend.

"What's the row, Crawffy?"

"Be as silent as you can," said Crawford.  "Follow me.  We may be too
late."

"Anywhere you say."

"The door will be locked.  We'll creep around the upper veranda and
enter by opposite windows.  You keep your eye on the valet.  Don't be
afraid to shoot if it's necessary."

"What the deuce . . . !"

"Come!"

"But where?"

"Lord Monckton's room."

Blindly and confidently Forbes went out the rear window of the
corridor, while Crawford made for the front.  They crept soundlessly
forward.  Lord Monckton?  What was up?  Shoot the valet if necessary!
