
"Both of them!" said Vroon, rubbing his hands.

"I know you, you Russian rat!" cried Norton.  "And if I ever get out of
this I'll kill you out of hand!  Damn you!"

"Oh, yes; talk, talk; but it never hurts any one," jeered Vroon.
"You'll never have the chance to kill me out of hand, as you say.
Besides, do you know my face?"

"I do.  The mask doesn't matter.  You're the man who had me shanghaied.
The voice is enough."

"Very good.  That's what I wished to know.  That's your death warrant.
We'll do it like they used to do at the old Academy; tie you to the
railroad track.  We shall not hurt you at all.  If some engine runs
over you heaven is witness we did not guide the engine.  Remember the
story of the boy and the cat?" with sinister amiability.  "The boy said
he wasn't pulling the cat's tail, he was only holding it; the cat did
the pulling.  Bring him along, men.  Time is precious, and we have a
good deal to do before night settles down.  Come on with him.  The
track is only a short distance."

"Jim, Jim!" cried Florence in anguish.

"Never you mind, girl; they're only bluffing.  They won't dare."

"You think so?" said Vroon.  "Wait and see."  He turned upon Florence.
"He is your lover.  Do you wish him to die?"

"No, no!"

"We promise to give him his freedom twelve hours from now on condition
that you tell where that money is."

"Florence!" warned Norton.

Vroon struck him on the mouth.  "Be silent, you scum!"

"It is in the chest Jones, the butler, threw into the sound," she said
bravely.  And so it might be for all she knew.

Vroon laughed.  "We know about where that is."

"Florence, say nothing on my account.  They are not the kind of men who
keep their word."

"Eh?" snarled Vroon.  "We'll see about that."  He glanced at his watch.
"In half an hour the freight comes along.  It may become stalled at the
wreck.  But it will serve."

Norton knew very well that if need said must they would not hesitate to
execute a melodramatic plan of this character.  It was the way of the
Slav; they had to make crime abnormal in order to enjoy it.  They could
very well have knocked him on the head then and there and have done
with him.  But the time used in conveying him to the railroad might
prove his salvation.  Nearly four hours had passed since the sending of
the telegram to Jones.

They bound Florence and left her seated in the chair.  As soon as they
were gone she rolled to the floor.  She was able to right herself to
her knees, and after a torturous five minutes reached the fireplace.
She burnt her hands and wrists, but the blaze was the only knife
obtainable.  She was free.




Jones arrived with half a dozen policemen.  Vroon alone escaped.

The butler caught Florence in his arms and nearly crushed the breath
out of her.  And she was so glad to see him that she kissed him half a
dozen times.  What if he was her father's butler?  He was brave and
loyal and kind.

"They tied him to the track," she cried.  "Look at my wrists!"  The
butler did so, and kissed them tenderly.  "And I saved him."

Jones stretched out a hand over Florence's shoulder.  "When the time
comes," he said; "when the right time comes and my master's enemies are
confounded.  But always the rooks, never the hawks, do we catch.  God
bless you, Norton!  I don't know what I should have done without you."

"When a chap's in love," began Norton, embarrassedly.

"I know, I know," interrupted Jones.  "The second relief train is
waiting.  Let us hurry back.  I shan't feel secure till we are once
more in the house."

So, arm in arm, the three of them went down the tracks to the hand-car
which had brought the police.

And now for the iron-bound chest at the bottom of the sea.




CHAPTER XII

A dipsy-chanty, if you please; of sailormen in jerseys and tarry caps,
of rolling gaits, strong tobacco and diverse profanity; of cutters, and
blunt-nosed schooners, and tramps, canvas and steam, some of them
honest, some of them shady, and some of them pirates of the first water
who did not find it necessary to hoist aloft the skull and bones.  The
seas are dotted with them.  They remind you of the once prosperous
merchant, run down at the heel, who slinks along the side streets,
ashamed to meet those he knew in the past.  You never hear them
mentioned in the maritime news, which is the society column of the
ships; you know of their existence only by the bleached bones of them,
strewn along the coast.

You who crave adventures on high seas, you purchase a ticket, a steamer
chair, and a couple of popular novels, go on board to the blare of a
very indifferent brass band, and believe you are adventuring; when, as
a matter of fact, you are about to spend a dull week or a fortnight on
a water hotel, where the most exciting thing is the bugle's call to
meals or the discovery of a card sharp in the smoking-room.  Take a
real ship, go as supercargo, to the South Seas; take the side streets
of the ocean, and learn what it can do with hurricanes, typhoons,
blistering calms, and men's souls.  There will be adventure enough
then.  If you are a weakling, either you are made strong, or you die.

An honest ship, but run down at the heel, rode at anchor in the sound,
a fourth-rater of the hooker breed; that is, her principal line of
business was hauling barges up and down the coast.  When she could not
pick up enough barges to make it pay, why she'd go gallivanting down to
Cuba for bales of tobacco or even to the Bermudas for the
heaven-smelling onion.  To-day she was an onion ship; which precludes
any idea of adventure.  She was about four thousand tons, and her
engines were sternward and not amidship.  She carried two masts and a
half-dozen hoist booms, and the only visible sign of anything new on
her was her bowsprit.  This was new doubtless because she had poked her
nose too far into her last slip.

Her crew was orderly and tractable.  There were shore drunks, to be
sure, because they were sailors; but they were at work.  They moved
about briskly, for they were on the point of sailing for the
Bahamas--perhaps for more onions.  Presently the windlass creaked and
shrilled, and the blobby links, much in need of tar paint, red as fish
gills, clattered down into the bow.  Sometimes they painted the chain
as it came over; but paint was costly, and this was done only when the
anchor threatened to stay on the bottom.

There was a sailor among this crew, and he went by the name of Steve
Blossom; and he was one of his kind.  A grimy dime novel protruded
rakishly from his hip pocket, and his right cheek was swollen as with
the toothache, due, probably, to a generous "chaw" of Seaman's Delight.
He was a real tobacco chewer, for he rarely spat.  He was as peaceful
as a backwater bay in summer; non-argumentative and passive, he stood
his watch in fair weather and foul.

No one gave the anchor any more attention after it came to rest.  The
great city over the way was fairy-like in its haziness and softened
lines.  It was the poetry of angles, of shafts and spars of stone; and
Steve Blossom, having a moment to himself, leaned against the rail and
stared regretfully.  He had been generously drunk the night before, and
it was a pleasant recollection.  Chance led his glance to trail down
the cutwater.  His neck stretched from his collar like a turtle's from
its shell.

"Well, I'll be hornswoggled!" he murmured, shifting his cud from
starboard to port.

Caught on the fluke of the anchor was the strangest looking box he had
ever laid eyes on.  There were leather and steel bands and
diamond-shaped ivory and mother of pearl, and it hung jauntily on the
point of the rusty fluke.  Anybody would be hornswoggled to glimpse
such a droll jest of fate.  On the fluke of the old mudhook, by a hair,
you might say.  In all the wild sea yarns he had ever read or heard
there was nothing to match this.

Treasure!

And Steve was destined never to be passive again.  His first impulse
was to call his companions; his second impulse was to say nothing at
all, and wait for an opportunity to get the box to his bunk without
being detected.  Treasure!  Diamonds and rubies and pearls and old
Spanish gold; and all hanging to the fluke of the anchor.

"Hornswoggled!" in a kind of awesome whisper this time.  "An' we
a-headin' for th' Bahamas!"  For under his feet he could hear the
rhythm of engines.  "What'll I do?  If I leave it, some one else'll see
it."  He scratched his chin perplexedly; and the cud went back to
starboard.  "I got it!"

He took off his coat and carefully dropped it down over the mysterious
box.  It was growing darker and darker all the time, and shortly
neither coat nor anchor would be visible without close scrutiny.
Treasure: greed, cupidity, crime.  Steve saw only the treasure and not
its camp followers.  What did they call them?--doubloons and
pieces-of-eight?

He ate his supper with his messmates, and he ate heartily as usual.  It
would have taken something more vital than mere treasure to disturb
Steve Blossom's appetite.  He was one of those enviable individuals
whose imagination and gastric juices work at the same time.  And while
he ate he planned.  In the first place, he would buy that home at
Bedford; then he would take over the Gilson House and live like a lord.
If he wanted a drink, all he would have to do would be to turn the
spigot or tip a bottle; and more than that, he'd have a bartender to do
