
"Oh! Are men really so Quixotic in these days?"

"Haven't changed fundamentally since they evolved from protoplasm."

"But why should all that chivalry--that magnificent passion--the first
love of a man like that--be called out by a woman of Mrs. Balfame's age?
Why, it's some girl's right! I don't say mine. Don't think I'm a dog in
the manger. I'm trying not to be. But the world is full of girls--not
foolish young things only good enough for boys, but girls in their
twenties, bright, companionable, helpful, real mates for men--Why, it is
unnatural, damnable!"

"Yes, it is," said Broderick sympathetically. "But if human nature
weren't a tangled wire fence electrified full of contradictions, life
wouldn't be interesting at all. Perhaps it's a mere case of affinity,
destiny--don't ever betray me. But there it is. As well try to explain
the abrupt taking off of useful men in their prime, of lovely children,
of needed mothers, of aged women who have lived exemplary lives, mainly
for others, spending their last years with the horrors of cancer. Don't
try to explain human passion. And she is beautiful, and fresher to
look at than girls of eighteen that tango day and night. But he must be
saved from her as well as from arrest. Will you help me?"

"What do you want me to do?"

"Get further evidence about Mrs. Balfame."

"I cannot, and would not if I could. Do you think I would be the means
of fastening the crime of murder on any woman?"

"You would if you were a hardened--and good--newspaper woman."

"Well, I'm not. And I won't. Do your own sleuthing."

"More than I are on the job, but I want your help. I don't say you can
pick up fragments of her dress in the grove, or that you can--or
would--worm yourself into her confidence and extract a confession. But
you can set your wits to work and think up ways to put me on the track
of more evidence than I've got now. Can you think of anything off-hand?"

"No."

"Ah? What does that intonation mean?"

"Your ears are off the key."

"Not mine. Tell me at once--No,"--He rose and took up his hat--"never
mind now. Think it over. You will tell me in a day or two. Just remember
while watching all my little seeds sprout that you can help me save a
fine fellow and put my heel on a snake--a murderess! Paugh! There's
nothing so obscene. Good night."

She did not rise as he let himself out, but sat beside her cold stove
thinking and crying until her mother called her to come in and go to
bed.




CHAPTER XV


Mrs. Balfame, after she dismissed the newspaper men, went up to her
bedroom and sat very still for a long while. She was apprehensive rather
than frightened, but she felt very sober.

She had accepted the assurance of the chief of the local police that his
inquiry regarding the pistol was a mere matter of routine, and had
merely obeyed a normal instinct in concealing it. But she knew the
intense interest of her community in the untimely and mysterious exit of
one of its most notorious members, an interest raised to the superlative
degree by the attentions of the metropolitan press; and she knew also
that when a community is excited suspicions are rapidly translated into
proofs, and every clue feeds the appetite for a victim.

The European war was a dazzling example on the grand scale of the
complete breakdown of intellect before the primitive passions of hatred,
greed, envy, and the recurrent desire of man to kill, combined with that
monstrous dilation of the ego which consoles him with a childish belief
in his own impeccability.

The newspapers of course pandered to the taste of their patrons for
morbid vicarious excitement; she had glanced contemptuously at the
headlines of her own "Case," and had accepted her temporary notoriety as
a matter of course, schooled herself to patience; the ordeal was
scarifying but of necessity brief.

But these young men. They had insinuated--what had they not insinuated?
Either they had extraordinary powers of divination, or they were a
highly specialised branch of the detective force. They had asked
questions and forced answers from her that made her start and shiver in
the retrospect.

Was it possible they believed she had murdered David Balfame, or were
they merely seeking material for a few more columns before the case died
a natural death? She had never been interviewed before, save once
superficially as President of the Friday Club, but she knew one or two
of the county editors, and Alys Crumley had sometimes amused her with
stories of her experiences as a New York reporter.

These young men, so well-groomed, so urbane, so charming even, all of
them no doubt generously equipped to love and marry and protect with
their lives the girl of their choice, were they too but the soldiers of
an everlasting battlefield, often at bay and desperate in the trenches?
No matter how good their work, how great their "killing," the struggle
must be renewed daily to maintain their own footing, to advance, or at
least to uphold, the power of their little autocracy. To them journalism
was the most important thing in the world, and mere persons like
herself, suddenly lifted from obscurity to the brassy peaks of notoriety
were so much material for first page columns of the newspapers they
served with all the loyalty of those deluded soldiers on the European
battlefields. She understood them with an abrupt and complete clarity,
but she hated them. They might like and even admire her, but they would
show her no mercy if they discovered that she had been in the yard that
night. She felt as if a pack of wolves were at her heels.

But finally her brow relaxed. She shrugged her shoulders and began to
unbutton the dense black gown that had expressed the mood the world
demands of a four-days' widow. Let them suspect, divine what they chose.
Not a soul on earth but Anna Steuer knew that she had been out that
night after her return home. Even had those lynx-eyed young men sat on
the box hedge they could not have seen her, for the avenue was well
lighted, and the grove, the entire yard in fact, had been as black as a
mine. Even the person skulking among those trees could not have guessed
who she was.

For a moment she had been tempted to tell them a little; that she had
looked out and seen a moving shadow in the grove. But she had remembered
in time that they would ask why she had reserved this testimony at the
coroner's inquest. Her r√¥le was to know nothing. Indubitably the shot
had been fired from the trees; nobody questioned that; why involve
herself? They would discharge still another set of questions at her,
among others why she had not telephoned for the police.

As she hung up her gown she recognised the heavy footfalls of her maid
of all work, and when Frieda knocked, bade her enter, employing those
cool impersonal tones so resented by the European servant after a brief
sojourn on the dedicated American soil.

As the girl closed the door behind her without speaking, Mrs. Balfame
turned sharply. She felt at a disadvantage. As her figure was reasonably
slim, she wore a cheap corset which she washed once a month in the bath
tub with her nailbrush; and her linen, although fresh, as ever, was of
stout longcloth, and unrelieved by the coquetry of ribbons. She wore a
serviceable tight petticoat of black jersey, beyond which her well-shod
feet seemed to loom larger than her head. She was vaguely grateful that
she had not been caught by Alys Crumley, so fond of sketching her, and
was about to order Frieda to untie her tongue and be gone, when she
noticed that the girl's face was no longer bound, and asked kindly:

"Has the toothache gone? I hope you do not suffer any longer."

Frieda lifted her small and crafty eyes and shot a suspicious glance at
the mistress who had been so indifferent to what she believed to be the
worst of all pains.

"It's out."

"Too bad you didn't have it out at once." Mrs. Balfame hastily encased
herself in her bath robe and sat down. "I'll take my dinner
upstairs--why--what is it?"

"I want to go home."

"Home?"

"To Germany."

"But, of course you can't. There are a lot of German reservists in the
country who would like to go home and fight, but they can't get past the
British."

"Some have. I could."

"How? That is quite interesting."

"I not tell. But I want to go."

"Then go, by all means. But please wait a day or two until I get another
girl."

"Plenty girls out of job. I want to go to-morrow."

"Oh, very well. But you can't expect a full month's wages, as it is you
that is serving notice, not I."

"I do not want a full month wage. I want five hundert dollar."

Mrs. Balfame turned her amazed eyes upon the girl. Her first thought was
that the creature had been driven insane by her letters from home, and
wondered if she could overcome her if attacked. Then as she met those
small, sharp, crafty eyes, set high in the big stolid face like little
deadly guns in a fort, her heart missed a beat. But her own gaze, large
and cold, did not waver, and she said satirically:

"Well, I am sure I hope you will get it."

"I get it--from you."

