met at meals during the five days that had elapsed since he had come to
her door, and she had walked at his side at Eudora’s funeral; but they
had not spoken a word to each other.

He glanced up in surprise as she entered, and she noticed that he
was unshaved, and that he looked unusually old; but as she had always
thought of him as an old man the change in his appearance did not move
her. She told him she had been to see Miss Hatchard, and with what
object. She saw that he was astonished; but he made no comment.

“I told her the housework was too hard for me, and I wanted to earn the
money to pay for a hired girl. But I ain’t going to pay for her: you’ve
got to. I want to have some money of my own.”

Mr. Royall’s bushy black eyebrows were drawn together in a frown, and he
sat drumming with ink-stained nails on the edge of his desk.

“What do you want to earn money for?” he asked.

“So’s to get away when I want to.”

“Why do you want to get away?”

Her contempt flashed out. “Do you suppose anybody’d stay at North Dormer
if they could help it? You wouldn’t, folks say!”

With lowered head he asked: “Where’d you go to?”

“Anywhere where I can earn my living. I’ll try here first, and if I
can’t do it here I’ll go somewhere else. I’ll go up the Mountain if I
have to.” She paused on this threat, and saw that it had taken effect.
“I want you should get Miss Hatchard and the selectmen to take me at the
library: and I want a woman here in the house with me,” she repeated.

Mr. Royall had grown exceedingly pale. When she ended he stood up
ponderously, leaning against the desk; and for a second or two they
looked at each other.

“See here,” he said at length as though utterance were difficult,
“there’s something I’ve been wanting to say to you; I’d ought to have
said it before. I want you to marry me.”

The girl still stared at him without moving. “I want you to marry me,”
 he repeated, clearing his throat. “The minister’ll be up here next
Sunday and we can fix it up then. Or I’ll drive you down to Hepburn to
the Justice, and get it done there. I’ll do whatever you say.” His
eyes fell under the merciless stare she continued to fix on him, and
he shifted his weight uneasily from one foot to the other. As he
stood there before her, unwieldy, shabby, disordered, the purple veins
distorting the hands he pressed against the desk, and his long orator’s
jaw trembling with the effort of his avowal, he seemed like a hideous
parody of the fatherly old man she had always known.

“Marry you? Me?” she burst out with a scornful laugh. “Was that what you
came to ask me the other night? What’s come over you, I wonder? How long
is it since you’ve looked at yourself in the glass?” She straightened
herself, insolently conscious of her youth and strength. “I suppose
you think it would be cheaper to marry me than to keep a hired girl.
Everybody knows you’re the closest man in Eagle County; but I guess
you’re not going to get your mending done for you that way twice.”

Mr. Royall did not move while she spoke. His face was ash-coloured and
his black eyebrows quivered as though the blaze of her scorn had blinded
him. When she ceased he held up his hand.

“That’ll do--that’ll about do,” he said. He turned to the door and took
his hat from the hat-peg. On the threshold he paused. “People ain’t been
fair to me--from the first they ain’t been fair to me,” he said. Then he
went out.

A few days later North Dormer learned with surprise that Charity had
been appointed librarian of the Hatchard Memorial at a salary of eight
dollars a month, and that old Verena Marsh, from the Creston Almshouse,
was coming to live at lawyer Royall’s and do the cooking.




III


It was not in the room known at the red house as Mr. Royall’s “office”
 that he received his infrequent clients. Professional dignity and
masculine independence made it necessary that he should have a real
office, under a different roof; and his standing as the only lawyer of
North Dormer required that the roof should be the same as that which
sheltered the Town Hall and the post-office.

It was his habit to walk to this office twice a day, morning and
afternoon. It was on the ground floor of the building, with a separate
entrance, and a weathered name-plate on the door. Before going in
he stepped in to the post-office for his mail--usually an empty
ceremony--said a word or two to the town-clerk, who sat across the
passage in idle state, and then went over to the store on the opposite
corner, where Carrick Fry, the storekeeper, always kept a chair for him,
and where he was sure to find one or two selectmen leaning on the long
counter, in an atmosphere of rope, leather, tar and coffee-beans. Mr.
Royall, though monosyllabic at home, was not averse, in certain moods,
to imparting his views to his fellow-townsmen; perhaps, also, he was
unwilling that his rare clients should surprise him sitting, clerkless
and unoccupied, in his dusty office. At any rate, his hours there were
not much longer or more regular than Charity’s at the library; the rest
of the time he spent either at the store or in driving about the country
on business connected with the insurance companies that he represented,
or in sitting at home reading Bancroft’s History of the United States
and the speeches of Daniel Webster.

Since the day when Charity had told him that she wished to succeed
to Eudora Skeff’s post their relations had undefinably but definitely
changed. Lawyer Royall had kept his word. He had obtained the place for
her at the cost of considerable maneuvering, as she guessed from the
number of rival candidates, and from the acerbity with which two of
them, Orma Fry and the eldest Targatt girl, treated her for nearly a
year afterward. And he had engaged Verena Marsh to come up from
Creston and do the cooking. Verena was a poor old widow, doddering and
shiftless: Charity suspected that she came for her keep. Mr. Royall was
too close a man to give a dollar a day to a smart girl when he could
get a deaf pauper for nothing. But at any rate, Verena was there, in the
attic just over Charity, and the fact that she was deaf did not greatly
trouble the young girl.

Charity knew that what had happened on that hateful night would not
happen again. She understood that, profoundly as she had despised Mr.
Royall ever since, he despised himself still more profoundly. If she had
asked for a woman in the house it was far less for her own defense than
for his humiliation. She needed no one to defend her: his humbled pride
was her surest protection. He had never spoken a word of excuse
or extenuation; the incident was as if it had never been. Yet its
consequences were latent in every word that he and she exchanged, in
every glance they instinctively turned from each other. Nothing now
would ever shake her rule in the red house.

On the night of her meeting with Miss Hatchard’s cousin Charity lay in
bed, her bare arms clasped under her rough head, and continued to think
of him. She supposed that he meant to spend some time in North Dormer.
He had said he was looking up the old houses in the neighbourhood; and
though she was not very clear as to his purpose, or as to why anyone
should look for old houses, when they lay in wait for one on every
roadside, she understood that he needed the help of books, and resolved
to hunt up the next day the volume she had failed to find, and any
others that seemed related to the subject.

Never had her ignorance of life and literature so weighed on her as in
reliving the short scene of her discomfiture. “It’s no use trying to be
anything in this place,” she muttered to her pillow; and she shrivelled
at the vision of vague metropolises, shining super-Nettletons,
where girls in better clothes than Belle Balch’s talked fluently of
architecture to young men with hands like Lucius Harney’s. Then she
remembered his sudden pause when he had come close to the desk and had
his first look at her. The sight had made him forget what he was going
to say; she recalled the change in his face, and jumping up she ran over
the bare boards to her washstand, found the matches, lit a candle, and
lifted it to the square of looking-glass on the white-washed wall. Her
small face, usually so darkly pale, glowed like a rose in the faint orb
of light, and under her rumpled hair her eyes seemed deeper and larger
than by day. Perhaps after all it was a mistake to wish they were blue.
A clumsy band and button fastened her unbleached night-gown about the
throat. She undid it, freed her thin shoulders, and saw herself a bride
in low-necked satin, walking down an aisle with Lucius Harney. He would
kiss her as they left the church.... She put down the candle and covered
her face with her hands as if to imprison the kiss. At that moment she
heard Mr. Royall’s step as he came up the stairs to bed, and a fierce
revulsion of feeling swept over her. Until then she had merely despised
him; now deep hatred of him filled her heart. He became to her a
horrible old man....


The next day, when Mr. Royall came back to dinner, they faced each other
in silence as usual. Verena’s presence at the table was an excuse for
their not talking, though her deafness would have permitted the freest
interchange of confidences. But when the meal was over, and Mr. Royall
rose from the table, he looked back at Charity, who had stayed to help
the old woman clear away the dishes.

“I want to speak to you a minute,” he said; and she followed him across
the passage, wondering.

He seated himself in his black horse-hair armchair, and she leaned
against the window, indifferently. She was impatient to be gone to the
library, to hunt for the book on North Dormer.

“See here,” he said, “why ain’t you at the library the days you’re
supposed to be there?”

The question, breaking in on her mood of blissful abstraction, deprived
her of speech, and she stared at him for a moment without answering.

“Who says I ain’t?”

“There’s been some complaints made, it appears. Miss Hatchard sent for
me this morning----”

Charity’s smouldering resentment broke into a blaze. “I know! Orma Fry,
and that toad of a Targatt girl and Ben Fry, like as not. He’s going
round with her. The low-down sneaks--I always knew they’d try to have me
out! As if anybody ever came to the library, anyhow!”

“Somebody did yesterday, and you weren’t there.”

“Yesterday?” she laughed at her happy recollection. “At what time wasn’t
