  "(Wireless via Mexico)

  "Berlin (no date).

  "FEREZ,
    "N. Y.

  "Necessary close Nihla Quellen case immediately. Evidently useless
  expect her take service with us. Hold you responsible. Advise you
  take secret measures to end menace to our interests in Paris.
  D'Eblis urges instant action. Bolo under suspicion. Ex-minister
  also suspected. Only drastic and final action on your part can end
  danger. You know what to do. Do it."

  The telegram was signed with a string of letters and numerals.

Renoux glanced curiously at Barres, who had turned very red and was
beginning to re-read the wireless.

When he finished, Renoux folded all the documents and placed them in
the breast pocket of his coat.

"Mon ami, Barres," he said pleasantly, "you and I have much yet to say
to each other."

"In the meanwhile, let us wash the stains of combat from our persons.
What is the number of your collar?"

"Fifteen and a half."

"I can fit you out. The bathroom is this way, old top!"




XXI

THE WHITE BLACKBIRD


Refreshed by icy baths and clean linen, and now further fortified
against the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune by a supper of
cold fowl and Moselle, Captain Renoux and Garret Barres sat in the
apartment of the former gentleman, gaily exchanging Latin Quarter
reminiscences through the floating haze of their cigars.

But the conversation soon switched back toward the far more serious
business which alone accounted for their being there together after
many years. For, as the French officer had remarked, a good deal
remained to be said between them. And Barres knew what he meant, and
was deeply concerned at the prospect.

But Renoux approached the matter with careless good humour and by a
leisurely, circuitous route, which polite pussy-footing was obviously
to prepare Barres for impending trouble.

He began by referring to his mission in America, admitting very
frankly that he was a modest link in the system of military and
political intelligence maintained by all European countries in the
domains of their neighbours.

"I might as well say so," he remarked, "because it's known to the
representatives of enemy governments here as well as to your own
Government, that some of us are here; and anybody can imagine why.

"And, in the course of my--studies," he said deliberately, while his
clear eyes twinkled, "it has come to my knowledge, and to the
knowledge of the French Ambassador, that there is, in New York, a
young woman who already has proven herself a dangerous enemy to my
country."

"That is interesting, if true," said Barres, reddening to the temples.
"But it is even more interesting if it is not true.... And it isn't!"

"You think not?"

"I don't think anything about it, Renoux; I know."

"I am afraid you have been misled, Barres. And it is natural enough."

"Why?"

"Because," said Renoux serenely, "she is very beautiful, very clever,
very young, very appealing.... Tell me, my friend, where did you meet
her?"

Barres looked him in the eyes:

"Where did you learn that I had ever met her?"

"Through the ordinary channels which, if you will pardon me, I am not
at liberty to discuss."

"All right. It is sufficient that you know I have met her. Now, where
did I meet her?"

"I don't know," said Renoux candidly.

"How long have I known her then?"

"Possibly a few weeks. Our information is that your acquaintance with
her is not of long duration."

"Wrong, my friend: I met her in France several years ago; I know her
intimately."

"Yes, the intimacy has been reported," said Renoux, blandly. "But it
doesn't take long, sometimes."

Barres reddened again and shook his head:

"You and your agents are all wrong, Renoux. So is your Government. Do
you know what it's doing--what you and your agents are doing? You're
playing a German game for Berlin!"

This time Renoux flushed and there was a slight quiver to his lips and
nostrils; but he said very pleasantly:

"That would be rather mortifying, mon ami, if it were true."

"It is true. Berlin, the traitor in Paris, the conspirator in America,
the German, Austrian, and Turkish diplomatic agents here ask nothing
better than that you manage, somehow, to eliminate the person in
question."

"Why?" demanded Renoux.

"Because more than one of your public men in Paris will face charges
of conspiracy and treason if the person in question ever has a fair
hearing and a chance to prove her innocence of the terrible
accusations that have been made against her."

"Naturally," said Renoux, "those accused bring counter charges. It is
always the history of such cases, mon ami."

"Your mind is already made up, then?"

"My mind is a real mind, Barres. Reason is what it seeks--the logical
evidence that leads to truth. If there is anything I don't know, then
I wish to know it, and will spare no pains, permit no prejudice to
warp my judgment."

"All right. Now, let's have the thing out between us, Renoux. We are
not fencing in the dark; we understand each other and are honest
enough to say so. Now, go on."

Renoux nodded and said very quietly and pleasantly:

"The reference in one of these papers to the celebrated Nihla Quellen
reminds me of the first time I ever saw her. I was quite bowled over,
Barres, as you may easily imagine. She sang one of those Asiatic
songs--and then the dance!--a miracle!--a delight--apparently entirely
unprepared, unpremeditated even--you know how she did it?--exquisite
perfection--something charmingly impulsive and spontaneous--a caprice
of the moment! Ah--there is a wonderful artiste, Nihla Quellen!"

Barres nodded, his level gaze fixed on the French officer.

"As for the document," continued Renoux, "it does not entirely explain
itself to me. You see, this Eurasian, Ferez Bey, was a very intimate
friend of Nihla Quellen."

"You are quite mistaken," interposed Barres. But the other merely
smiled with a slight gesture of deference to his friend's opinion, and
went on.

"This Ferez is one of those persistent, annoying flies which buzz
around chancelleries and stir up diplomats to pernicious activities.
You know there isn't much use in swatting, as you say, the fly. No.
Better find the manure heap which hatched him and burn that!"

He smiled and shrugged, relighted his cigar, and continued:

"So, mon ami, I am here in your charming and hospitable city to direct
the necessary sanitary measures, sub rosa, of course. You have been
more than kind. My Government and I have you to thank for this batch
of papers----" He tapped his breast pocket and made salutes which
Frenchmen alone know how to make.

"Renoux," said Barres bluntly, "you have learned somehow that Nihla
Quellen is under my protection. You conclude I am her lover."

The officer's face altered gravely, but he said nothing.

Barres leaned forward in his chair and laid a hand on his comrade's
shoulder:

"Renoux, do you trust me, personally?"

"Yes."

"Very well. Then I shall trust you. Because there is nothing you can
tell me about Nihla Quellen that I do not already know--nothing
concerning her dossier in your secret archives, nothing in regard to
the evidence against her and the testimony of the Count d'Eblis. And
that clears the ground between you and me."

If Renoux was surprised he scarcely showed it.

Barres said:
