of a tête-à-tête with Clelia the minute I was out of sight.

He began to explain that he had letters to write, and I laughed in
derision and sent my regards to all the folks in dear old Norway.

"Go to the deuce," said I.  "Flirt with my chamber-maid if you want to,
but Thusis will take your head off—"

"Isn’t she going with you?"

"—When she returns," I continued, vexed and red at his impudent
conclusion.  It was perfectly true that I meant to take Thusis fishing,
but it was not Smith’s business to guess my intentions.

"You annoy me," I added, passing him with a scowl.  At which he merely
grinned.

In the hallway I encountered Clelia in cap and apron, very diligent with
her duster.

"Clelia," said I pleasantly, "has Raoul brought the mail?"

"Yes, Monsieur."

"Where is it?"

"There was only a bill from the Grand Hotel for cartage."

"What!" said I in pretense of dismay, "no letter yet from Mr. Smith’s
wife?  And seven of his children down with whooping-cough!"

"W-wife!" stammered Clelia, her blue eyes becoming enormous.  "S-seven
children!"

"Seven in Christiania," I explained sadly, "the other eleven at school
near Bergen.  Poor fellow. His suspense must be dreadful."

I’m no actor; I saw immediately in Clelia’s face that I had overplayed
my part as well as the total of Smith’s progeny, for the color came
swiftly back and she shot at me a glance anything but demure.

"The other eleven," I explained, "were by his first three wives."

Clelia, dusting furiously, looked around at me over her shoulder.

"At least," she said, "he’s done his duty by his country."

"W-what!" I stammered.

"The population of Norway is so very small," she added gaily.  And went
on with her dusting.

"Minx," thought I to myself as I marched down stairs and out toward the
fountain where, from the servants’ wing of the chalet Thusis could not
fail to observe me.  And she did.  She appeared, presently, account
books under one arm.  Out of the subtle corner of my subtlest eye—the
left one—I observed her.  And with surpassing cunning I selected a
yellow fly from the battered book and tied it on my leader.

"Monsieur!"

"Good-morning, Thusis.  We’re going fishing.  So if you’ll ask Josephine
to put up some war lunch for us—"

"Has Monsieur forgotten his daily business interview?" she inquired
smilingly.

"Not at all.  But we’re going to conserve time as well as food, Thusis.
We can fish and consult at the same time."

"But—"

"All waste must cease," I said firmly.  "We mustn’t waste even a minute
in the day.  And if we can do two things at the same time it is our
economic duty to do them."  I smiled at her.  "I shall dig worms," said
I, "for two, while you prepare lunch for two. That is a wonderful way of
economizing time and labor, isn’t it, Thusis?"

She smiled, bit her lip, as though regretting an indiscretion, looked up
at the cloudless sky, let her gray eyes wander from one snowy peak to
the next, glanced almost insolently at me, then smiled with that
delicious impulse characteristic of her.

"You know you have no business to take me fishing," she said.  "Your
cleverness is not Machiavellian; it is Michael-valian.  It doesn’t
deceive me for one moment, Señor Michael!"

I laughed, picked up a stable-fork that stood against the cow-barn:

"Worms for two; luncheon for two," said I.

"I don’t like that juxtaposition!" she protested. "Do you really wish
me to go with you?  Why won’t you sit here on the edge of the pool and
go over these accounts?"

"Conservation of time and energy forbid doing one thing when two things
can be accomplished at the——"

"You are absurd!"

I went over to the barnyard and began to dig.

"Hasten, Thusis," I called to her.  "I’ll be ready in ten minutes."

"I’ve a good mind not to go," she said.

"You’ve a good mind," said I, disinterring a fine fat worm.

"I have a mind, anyway, and it counsels me not to go fishing with you,
Don Michael."

"Argue with it," said I.  "It’s a reasonable mind, Thusis, and is open
to conviction.  Prove to it that you ought to go fishing."

"Don Michael, you are ridiculous."

"Let it be a modest lunch," said I, "nourishing and sufficient.  But not
a feast, Thusis.  Don’t put in any wreaths of roses, or any tambourines.
But you can stick a fry-pan into the basket, with a little lard on the
side, and I’ll show you how we cook trout in the woods at home."

"In Chile?"

"In the Adirondacks," said I, smiling.

I went on digging and accumulating that popular lure for trout not
carried in the fly-books of expert anglers, but known to the neophyte as
the "Barn-yard Hackle."

Once I glanced over my shoulder.  Thusis was not there.  Presently, and
adroitly dissembling my anxiety by a carefully camouflaged series of
sidelong squints I discovered her near the kitchen-wing of the chalet
talking earnestly to Josephine.

And so it happened that, having garnered a sufficiency of Barn-yard
hackles, I went to the fountain pool to wash my hands.

And when, with playful abandon, I stood drying them upon my
knickerbockers, I saw Thusis emerge from the house carrying my
pack-basket.

She came up rather slowly.

"Here is your lunch," she said, looking at me with an inscrutable
expression suggesting amusement and annoyance in an illogical
combination.

"You mean our lunch," said I.

"I mean your lunch."

"Aren’t you coming, Thusis?"

I looked into the pack-basket and discovered her account books in it.

"An oversight," she said, calmly.  "Give them to me."

I started to fish them out and caught sight of the package of lunch.

"Good heavens!" said I, "there is twice too much for one!"

She appeared to be greatly disturbed by the discovery.

"Josephine has made a dreadful mistake," she said. "She has put up lunch
enough for two!"

"It mustn’t be wasted," said I, gravely.  "I’m afraid you’ll have to
come fishing with me after all, Thusis."

There appeared to be no other way out of it.  At least neither of us
suggested any other way.

"Oh, dear," she said, looking up at me, and the very devil was in her
gray eyes.

Which discovery preoccupied me when she went back to the house for her
hat and for another rod which she had, it seemed, discovered in the
laundry, all equipped for business.

The agreeable tingle of subdued excitement permeated me as she returned
with the rod but without any hat.

"I don’t need one," she said, calmly, pulling out several hair pins.

And then I saw a thick mass of molten gold tumble down; and the swift
white fingers of Thusis dividing it into two heavy braids—a thrilling
sight—and once, in the thrall of that enchantment where I stood
motionless to watch her at this lovely office, I became aware of her
lifted eyes—two celestial assassins intent on doing me deep harm.

Then, still busy with her hair, she moved slowly forward across the
grass beside me, silently, almost stealthily—for, in the slow and supple
grace of her I seemed to divine something almost menacing to me.


Her account books and rod were in my pack-basket. She sauntered along
the shadow-flecked path beside me, at first paying me scant attention,
but singing carelessly to herself in a demi-voix snatches of any vagrant
melody that floated through her mind.

