the keys are. But if you're not too tired----"

Palla gave him one of her characteristic direct looks:

"I'm not too tired, but I'm starved. I could go after lunch."

"Fine!" he said. "I'm hungry, too! Shall we go to Delmonico's?"

The girl seemed a trifle nonplussed. She had not supposed that
luncheon with clients was included in a real estate transaction.

She was not embarrassed, nor did the suggestion seem impertinent. But
she said:

"I had expected to lunch at the hotel."

He reddened a little. Guilt shows its colors.

"Had you rather?" he asked.

"Why, no. I'd rather lunch with you at Delmonico's and talk houses."
And, a little amused at this young man's transparent guile, she added:
"I think it would be very agreeable for us to lunch together."

                  *       *       *       *       *

She came from the dressing-room fresh and flushed as a slightly
chilled rose, rejoining him in the lobby, and presently they were
seated in the palm room with a discreet and hidden orchestra playing,
"Oh! How I Hate To Get Up in the Morning," and rather busy with a
golden Casaba melon between them.

"Isn't this jolly!" he said, expanding easily, as do all young men in
the warmth of the informal.

"Very. What an agreeable business yours seems to be, Mr. Shotwell."

"In what way?" he asked innocently.

"Why, part of it is lunching with feminine clients, isn't it?"

His close-set ears burned. She glanced up with mischief brilliant in
her brown eyes. But he was busy with his melon. And, not looking at
her:

"Don't you want to know me?" he asked so clumsily that she hesitated
to snub so defenceless a male.

"I don't know whether I wish to," she replied, smiling slightly. "I
hadn't aspired to it; I hadn't really considered it. I was thinking
about renting a house."

He said nothing, but, as the painful colour remained in his face, the
girl decided to be a little kinder.

"Anyway," she said, "I'm enjoying myself. And I hope you are."

He said he was. But his voice and manner were so subdued that she
laughed.

"Fancy asking a girl such a question," she said. "You shouldn't ask a
woman whether she doesn't want to know you. It would be irregular
enough, under the circumstances, to say that you wanted to know her."

"That's what I meant," he replied, wincing. "Would you consider it?"

She could not disguise her amusement.

"Yes; I'll consider it, Mr. Shotwell. I'll give it my careful
attention. I owe you something, anyway."

"What?" he asked uncertainly, prepared for further squelching.

"I don't know exactly what. But when a man remembers a woman, and the
woman forgets the man, isn't something due him?"

"I think there is," he said so na√Øvely that Palla was unable to
restrain her gaiety.

"This is a silly conversation," she said, "--as silly as though I had
accepted the cocktail you so thoughtfully suggested. We're both
enjoying each other and we know it."

"Really!" he exclaimed, brightening.

His boyish relief--everything that this young man said to her--seemed
to excite the girl to mirth. Perhaps she had been starved for laughter
longer than is good for anybody. Besides, her heart was naturally
responsive--opened easily--was easily engaged.

"Of course I'm inclined to like you," she said, "or I wouldn't be here
lunching with you and talking nonsense instead of houses----"

"We'll talk houses!"

"No; we'll look at them--later.... Do you know it's a long, long
time since I have laughed with a really untroubled heart?"

"I'm sorry."

"Yes, it isn't good for a girl. Sadness is a sickness--a physical
disorganisation that infects the mind. It makes a strange emotion of
love, too, perverting it to that mysticism we call religion--and
wasting it.... I suppose you're rather shocked," she said smilingly.

"No.... But have you no religion?"

"Have you?"

"Well--yes."

"Which?"

"Protestant.... Are you Catholic?"

The girl rested her cheek on her hand and dabbed absently at her
orange ice.

"I was once," she said. "I was very religious--in the accepted sense
of the term.... It came rather suddenly;--it seemed to be born as part
of a sudden and close friendship with a girl--began with that
friendship, I think.... And died with it."

She sat quite silent for a while, then a tremulous smile edged her
lips:

"I had meant to take the veil," she said. "I did begin my novitiate."

"Here?"

"No, in Russia. There are a few foreign cloistered orders there....
But I had a tragic awakening...." She bent her head and quoted softly,
"'For the former things have passed away.'"

The orange ice was melting; she stirred it idly, watching it
dissolve.

"No," she said, "I had utterly misunderstood the scheme of things.
Divinity is not a sad, a solemn, a solitary autocrat demanding selfish
tribute, blind allegiance, inexorable self-abasement. It is not an
insecure tyrant offering bribery for the cringing, frightened
servitude demanded."

She looked up smilingly at the man: "Nor, within us, is there any soul
in the accepted meaning,--no satellite released at death to revolve
around or merge into some super-divinity. No!

"For I believe,--I know--that the body--every one's body--is
inhabited by a complete god, immortal, retaining its divine entity,
beholden to no other deity save only itself, and destined to encounter
in a divine democracy and through endless futures, unnumbered brother
gods--the countless divinities which have possessed and shall possess
those tenements of mankind which we call our bodies.... You do not, of
course, subscribe to such a faith," she added, meeting his gaze.

"Well----" He hesitated. She said:

"Autocracy in heaven is as unthinkable, as unbelievable, and as
obnoxious to me as is autocracy on earth. There is no such thing as
divine right, here or elsewhere,--no divine prerogatives for tyranny,
for punishment, for cruelty."

"How did you happen to embrace such a faith?" he asked, bewildered.

"I was sick of the scheme of things. Suffering, cruelty, death
outraged my common sense. It is not in me to say, 'Thy will be done,'
to any autocrat, heavenly or earthly. It is not in me to fawn on the
hand that strikes me--or that strikes any helpless thing! No! And the
scheme of things sickened me, and I nearly died of it----"

She clenched her hand where it rested on the table, and he saw her
face flushed and altered by the fire within. Then she smiled and
leaned back in her chair.

"In you," she said gaily, "dwells a god. In me a goddess,--a joyous
one,--a divine thing that laughs,--a complete and free divinity that
is gay and tender, that is incapable of tyranny, that loves all things
both, great and small, that exists to serve--freely, not for
reward--that owes allegiance and obedience only to the divine and
eternal law within its own godhead. And that law is the law of
love.... And that is my substitute for the scheme of things. Could you
subscribe?"

After a silence he quoted: "Could you and I with Him conspire----"

She nodded: "'To grasp this sorry scheme of things entire----' But
there is no 'Him.' It's you and I.... Both divine.... Suppose we
grasp it and 'shatter it to bits.' Shall we?"

"'And then remould it nearer to the heart's desire?'"

"Remould it nearer to the logic of common sense."

Neither spoke for a few moments. Then she drew a swift, smiling
breath.

"We're getting on rather rapidly, aren't we?" she said. "Did you
expect to lunch with such a friendly, human girl? And will you now
take her to inspect this modest house which you hope may suit her, and
which, she most devoutly hopes may suit her, too?"
