he finds you here between now and sundown."

"I'll try the launch there. Tell the lad his fare ain't goin' back to
Shanghai. Of course it makes it a bit inconvenient, packing and unpacking;
but I guess I can live through it. But what about the woman?"

Cleve plucked at his chin.

"Messes up the show a bit. Pippin, though. I like 'em when they walk
straight and look straight like this one. Notice her hair? You never tame
that sort beyond parlour manners. But I don't like her on board here, or
the young fellow, either. Don't know him, but he's likely to bust the
yacht wide open if he gets loose."

"Well, so long, Mary! Know what my first move'll be?"

"A bottle somewhere. But mind your step! Don't monkey with the stuff
beyond normal. You know what I mean."

"Sure! Only a peg or two, after all this psalm-singing!"

"I know, Flint. But this game is no joke. You know what happened in town?
Morrissy was near croaked."

Flint's face lost some of its gayety.

"Oh, I know how to handle the stuff! See you later."

                   *       *       *       *       *

Cleigh decided to see what the girl's temper was, so he entered the
passage on the full soles of his shoes. He knocked on her door.

"Miss Norman?"

"Well?"

That was a good sign; she was ready to talk.

"I have come to repeat that offer."

"Mr. Cleigh, I have nothing to say so long as the key is on the wrong side
of the door."

Cleigh heard a chuckle from Cabin Two.

"Very well," he said. "Remember, I offered you liberty conditionally. If
you suffer inconveniences after to-night you will have only yourself to
thank."

"Have you calculated that some day you will have to let me go?"

"Yes, I have calculated on that."

"And that I shall go to the nearest authorities and report this action?"

"If you will think a moment," said Cleigh, his tone monotonously level,
"you will dismiss that plan for two reasons: First, that no one will
believe you; second, that no one will want to believe you. That's as near
as I care to put it. Your imagination will grasp it."

"Instantly!" cried the girl, hotly. "I knew you to be cold and hard, but I
did not believe you were a scoundrel--having known your son!"

"I have no son."

"Oh, yes, you have!"

"I disowned him. He is absolutely nothing to me."

"I do not believe that," came back through the cabin door.

"Nevertheless, it is the truth. The queer part is, I've tried to resurrect
the father instinct, and can't. I've tried to go round the wall--over it.
I might just as well try to climb the Upper Himalayas."

In Cabin Two the son stared at the white ceiling. It seemed to him that
all his vitals had been wrenched out of him, leaving him hollow, empty. He
knew his father's voice; it rang with truth.

"I offer you ten thousand."

"The key is still on the outside."

"I'm afraid to trust you."

"We understand each other perfectly," said Jane, ironically.

The son smiled. The sense of emptiness vanished, and there came into his
blood a warmth as sweet as it was strong. Jane Norman, angel of mercy. He
heard his father speaking again:

"Since you will have it so, you will go to Hong-Kong?"

"To Patagonia if you wish! You cannot scare me by threatening me with
travel on a private yacht. I had the beads, it is true; but at this moment
I haven't the slightest idea where they are; and if I had I should not
tell you. I refuse to buy my liberty; you will have to give it to me
without conditions."

"I'm sorry I haven't anything on board in shape of women's clothes, but
I'll send for your stuff if you wish."

"That is the single consideration you have shown me. My belongings are at
the American consulate, and I should be glad to have them."

"You will find paper and ink in the escritoire. Write me an order and I
promise to attend to the matter personally."

"And search through everything at your leisure!"

Cleigh blushed, and he heard his son chuckle again. He had certainly
caught a tartar--possibly two. With a twisted smile he recalled the old
yarn of the hunter who caught the bear by the tail. Willing to let go, and
daring not!

"Still I agree," continued the girl. "I want my own familiar things--if I
must take this forced voyage. But mark me, Mr. Cleigh, you will pay some
day! I'm not the clinging kind, and I shall fight you tooth and nail from
the first hour of my freedom. I'm not without friends."

"Never in this world!" came resonantly from Cabin Two.

Cleigh longed to get away. There was a rumbling and a threatening inside
of him that needed space--Gargantuan laughter. Not the clinging kind, this
girl! And the boy, walking straight at Dodge's villainous revolver! Why,
he would need the whole crew behind him when he liberated these two! But
he knew that the laughter striving for articulation was not the kind heard
in Elysian fields!




CHAPTER IX


"If you will write the order I will execute it at once. The consulate
closes early."

"I'll write it, but how will I get it to you? The door closes below the
sill."

"When you are ready, call, and I will open the door a little."

"It would be better if you opened it full wide. This is China--I
understand that. But we are both Americans, and there's a good sound law
covering an act like this."

"But it does not reach as far as China. Besides, I have an asset back in
the States. It is my word. I have never broken it to any man or woman, and
I expect I never shall. You have, or have had, what I consider my
property. You have hedged the question; you haven't been frank."

The son listened intently.

"I bought that string of glass beads in good faith of a Chinaman--Ling
Foo. I consider them mine--that is, if they are still in my possession.
Between the hour I met you last night and the moment of Captain Dennison's
entrance to my room considerable time had elapsed."

"Sufficient for a rogue like Cunningham to make good use of," supplemented
the prisoner in Cabin Two. "There's a way of finding out the facts."

"Indeed?"

"Yes. You used to carry a planchette that once belonged to the actress
Rachel. Why not give it a whirl? Everybody's doing it."

Cleigh eyed Cabin Four, then Cabin Two, and shook his head slightly,
dubiously. He was not getting on well. To come into contact with a strong
will was always acceptable; and a strong will in a woman was a novelty.
All at once it struck him forcibly that he stood on the edge of boredom;
that the lure which had brought him fully sixteen thousand miles was
losing its bite. Was he growing old, drying up?

"Will you tell me what it is about these beads that makes you offer ten
thousand for them? Glass--anybody could see that. What makes them as
valuable as pearls?"

"They are love beads," answered Cleigh, mockingly. "They are far more
potent than powdered pearls. You have worn them about your throat, Miss
Norman, and the sequence is inevitable."

"Nonsense!" cried Jane.

Dennison added his mite to the confusion:

"I thought that scoundrel Cunningham was lying. He said the string was a
code key belonging to the British Intelligence Office."

"Rot!" Cleigh exploded.

"So I thought."

"But hurry, Miss Norman. The sooner I have that written order on the
consulate the sooner you'll have your belongings."

"Very well."

Five minutes later she announced that the order was completed, and Cleigh
