
A FEARFUL CONSUMMATION.


Neither Slade nor his son was present at the breakfast-table on the
next morning. As for myself, I did not eat with much appetite. Whether
this defect arose from the state of my mind, or the state of the food
set before me, I did not stop to inquire; but left the stifling,
offensive atmosphere of the dining-room in a very few moments after
entering that usually attractive place for a hungry man.

A few early drinkers were already in the bar-room--men with shattered
nerves and cadaverous faces, who could not begin the day's work without
the stimulus of brandy or whisky. They came in, with gliding footsteps,
asked for what they wanted in low voices, drank in silence, and
departed. It was a melancholy sight to look upon.

About nine o'clock the landlord made his appearance. He, too, came
gliding into the bar-room, and his first act was to seize upon a brandy
decanter, pour out nearly half a pint of the fiery liquid, and drink it
off. How badly his hand shook--so badly that he spilled the brandy both
in pouring it out and in lifting the glass to his lips! What a
shattered wreck he was! He looked really worse now than he did on the
day before, when drink gave an artificial vitality to his system, a
tension to his muscles, and light to his countenance. The miller of ten
years ago, and the tavern-keeper of today! Who could have identified
them as one?

Slade was turning from the bar, when a man? came in. I noticed an
instant change in the landlord's countenance. He looked startled;
almost frightened. The man drew a small package from his pocket, and
after selecting a paper therefrom, presented it to Slade, who received
it with a nervous reluctance, opened, and let his eye fall upon the
writing within. I was observing him closely at the time, and saw his
countenance flush deeply. In a moment or two it became pale
again--paler even than before.

"Very well--all right. I'll attend to it," said the landlord, trying to
recover himself, yet swallowing with every sentence.

