left her.

It is unnecessary to say that Ellen was admired and loved by all the
friends of her husband, even by his brother judges and politicians.
Herbert Lester, the particular friend of Mr. Gorton, whose prophecy
had thus soon been verified, came many miles to express personally
his sympathy and condolence. These he changed to congratulations,
when he felt the influence of the grace and beauty of the wife of
his friend--and he declared that he would make an offer of his hand
and heart, could he find another Ellen.

Meanwhile time passed, and though Ellen was daily called upon to
yield her own particular preferences to Mr. Gorton's, as she had
done even on her bridal day, she was comparatively happy. Had she
possessed less keenness of sensibility, she might have been happier;
or had Mr. Gorton possessed more, that he could have understood her,
many tears would have been spared her. Oftentimes, things
comparatively trifling to him would wound the sensitive nature of
Ellen most painfully, and he of course would have no conception
why they should thus affect her.

Occupied as he was mostly with worldly transactions and political
affairs, Ellen's mind often, in his absence, reverted to the scenes
of her youth, and her childhood home, her mother, and the bright
band of her young sisters; and longings would come up in her heart
to behold them once more.

Two years having passed without her having seen one member of her
family, she one day asked Mr. Gorton if it would not be convenient
soon to make a visit to Chester. He answered that his arrangements
would not admit of it at present--and coldly and cruelly asked her
if she had yet heard of Grandma Nichols' decease. Ellen answered
not, and bent her head over the face of her little Frederic, who was
sleeping, to hide her tears. Perceiving her emotion, however, he
added,

"Ellen, I assure you it is impossible for me to comply with your
wish, but I will write to your mother, and urge her to visit
us--will not that do?"

