
"Do as you please, Katy."

"Some time we shall be able to pay her; and that will make it all
right."

Mrs. Redburn could not taste the biscuit, but Katy ate heartily. Her
pride was not inflated by the remembrance of brighter days. All she had
was inherited from her mother.

After breakfast she put on her bonnet and left the house, assuring her
mother she should be back by twelve o'clock. She would not tell her
where she was going, but evaded her questions, and got away as soon as
she could.

As she passed down Washington Street, she stopped before the store of
Sands & Co., for she wanted to see Master Simon Sneed. She did not like
to enter the store; so she waited on the sidewalk for half an hour,
hoping he would come out. As he did not appear, her impatience would
not permit her to lose any more time, and she timidly opened the door,
and inquired of the first salesman she saw if Mister Sneed was in.

"Mister Sneed!" laughed the clerk. "Here, Simon, is one of your
friends. Wait upon her."

Simon, with a flushed cheek, came to the door. He was horrified at the
insinuation of the salesman and wished Katy had been on the other side
of the ocean before she had come there to scandalize him by claiming
his acquaintance.

"What do you want now?" he demanded, rather rudely. "Is it not enough
that I am willing to help you, without your coming here to bring me
into contempt with my associates?"

"I didn't think there was any harm in it. I waited outside for half an
hour, and you didn't come out."

"I can't leave the affairs of this firm to attend to every little----"
and Master Simon's naturally good heart prevented him from uttering the
unkind words that had been on his tongue. "I suppose you come to know
