


This volume is not altogether a military romance, though it contains the
adventures of one of those noble-hearted and patriotic young men who went
forth from homes of plenty and happiness to fight the battles of our
imperilled country. The incidents of the story may be stirring and
exciting; yet they are not only within the bounds of probability, but have
been more than paralleled in the experience of hundreds of the gallant
soldiers of the loyal army.

The work is not intended to approach the dignity of a history, though the
writer has carefully consulted the "authorities," both loyal and rebel,
and has taken down the living words of enthusiastic participants in the
stirring scenes described in this volume. He has not attempted to give a
full picture of any battle, or other army operation, but simply of those
movements in which the hero took a part. The book is a narrative of
personal adventure, delineating the birth and growth of a pure patriotism
in the soul of the hero, and describing the perils and privations, the
battles and marches which he shared with thousands of brave men in the
army of the Potomac.

The author has endeavored to paint a picture of the true soldier, one who
loves his country, and fights for her because he loves her; but, at the
same time, one who is true to himself and his God, while he is faithful to
his patriotic impulses.

The work has been a pleasure to me in its preparation, and I hope it will
not disappoint the reasonable expectation of those partial friends whose
smile is my joy, whose frown is my grief. But, more than all, I trust this
humble volume will have some small influence in kindling and cherishing
that genuine patriotism which must ever be the salvation of our land, the
foundation of our national prosperity and happiness.




"Fort Sumter has surrendered, mother!" shouted Thomas Somers, as he rushed
into the room where his mother was quietly reading her Bible.

