“They said they could not come till after dinner. They will soon arrive.
Before they do so, I must say a few words, Tavia, and I beg you to give
heed to them. I desire you to be courteous and amiable to Mr. Annon, and
before strangers to be less attentive and affectionate to Maurice. You
mean it kindly, but it looks ill, and causes disagreeable remarks.”

“Who blames me for being devoted to my cousin? Can I ever do enough to
repay him for his devotion? Mamma, you forget he saved your son’s life.”

Indignant tears filled the girl’s eyes, and she spoke passionately,
forgetting that Mrs. Snowdon was within earshot of her raised voice.
With a frown my lady laid her hand on her daughter’s lips, saying
coldly, “I do not forget, and I religiously discharge my every
obligation by every care and comfort it is in my power to bestow. You
are young, romantic, and tender-hearted. You think you must give your
time and health, must sacrifice your future happiness to this duty. You
are wrong, and unless you learn wisdom in season, you will find that you
have done harm, not good.”

“God forbid! How can I do that? Tell me, and I will be wise in time.”

Turning the earnest face up to her own, Lady Treherne whispered
anxiously, “Has Maurice ever looked or hinted anything of love during
this year he has been with us, and you his constant companion?”

“Never, Mamma; he is too honorable and too unhappy to speak or think of
that. I am his little nurse, sister, and friend, no more, nor ever shall
be. Do not suspect us, or put such fears into my mind, else all our
comfort will be spoiled.”

Flushed and eager was the girl, but her clear eyes betrayed no tender
confusion as she spoke, and all her thought seemed to be to clear her
cousin from the charge of loving her too well. Lady Treherne looked
relieved, paused a moment, then said, seriously but gently, “This is
well, but, child, I charge you tell me at once, if ever he forgets
himself, for this thing cannot be. Once I hoped it might, now it is
impossible; remember that he continue a friend and cousin, nothing more.
I warn you in time, but if you neglect the warning, Maurice must go. No
more of this; recollect my wish regarding Mr. Annon, and let your cousin
amuse himself without you in public.”
