"I did not suppose you had; but you will keep that order in your pocket,
and remember that your first duty is to your ship and crew."

"I suppose you have learned by this time, sir, the reason why we did not
take in sail sooner on Saturday," continued Paul, blushing deeply.

"I have. Professor Hamblin feels very badly about this matter. At the
time of it, he believed he was right, for he knows less about a vessel
than even the chaplain of the ship. He acknowledges now that he was in
error. Our rules did not before apply with sufficient distinctness to
your particular case, as captain of the vessel, responsible for her
proper navigation. Mr. Hamblin did not overstep the letter of his duty
in refusing you permission to go on deck, and I only blame him for his
want of judgment. By this order, which corrects the ship's rules, you
are made independent in all matters relating to the management of the
vessel."

"I think there can be no trouble now, sir," replied Paul, delighted to
find that his conduct was approved.

"I hope not; and I do not expect any."

Mr. Lowington returned to the ship, satisfied that he had healed the
wounds of both the sufferers. Paul was happy, and he determined to treat
the professor with the utmost deference and kindness, and thus remove
the remembrance of the difficulty. At four o'clock, after the squadron
had passed Beveland, and entered the Belgian territory, Paul went down
to recite his Greek, as usual. He could not help seeing that Mr.
Hamblin's lip quivered, and that he was laboring under strong emotions,
when he took his place at the mess table. The captain was hardly less
embarrassed, but he hoped an opportunity would soon occur for him to
perform some kind act for the irritated gentleman.

When the recitation was nearly finished, and both parties had recovered
their self-possession, the vessel gave a sudden "bump," which nearly
tipped the professor off his stool; but he righted himself, and was too
much absorbed in his favorite study to think of the incident for a
moment.

"Mr. Terrill directs me to report to you that the vessel is aground!"
