times several treaties have been signed here."
The excursionists left the hotel and walked to the cathedral, which is
probably the oldest church in Germany. This is the chapel for which the
city is named, and was intended by Charlemagne as his burial-place. It
was consecrated by Pope Leo III., assisted by three hundred and
sixty-five archbishops and bishops. It was partially destroyed by
barbarians, but was rebuilt by the Emperor Otho III., and much of the
primitive structure still remains. Under the centre of the dome is a
marble slab in the floor on which are the words CAROLO MAGNO,
indicating the spot where the tomb of Charlemagne was located. It was
probably a little chapel above ground. It was opened in 1165, and the
body was found sitting on a throne, clothed in imperial robes, a
sceptre in the hand, and a copy of the Gospels on the knee. The crown
was on the bony brow, and his sword and other articles near him. All
these relics were subsequently used at the coronation of the emperors,
but are now kept at Vienna, except the throne, which is still here.
The church has an abundance of relics, including the skull and arm-bone
of Charlemagne, though the latter has, unfortunately, turned out to be
a leg-bone! It is said that the rest of the bones of his body were
found here in a chest in a dark closet; but we are not told by what
means they were identified. If some of the apostles, martyrs, and
worthies of the past had had a dozen skulls each, sight-seers might be
more credulous. There are also in this church a lock of the Virgin's
hair, the leathern girdle of Christ with the seal of Constantine upon
it, a nail of the cross, the sponge which was filled with vinegar for
the Saviour, blood and bones of St. Stephen, and bits of Aaron's rod.
In addition to these precious articles, the cathedral has what are
called the Grand Relics, which are shown only once in seven years, and
then for but two weeks. At the exhibition in 1860, half a million
people resorted to Aix to see them. Charlemagne received them direct
from the Patriarch of Jerusalem, and from Haroun-al-Raschid. They are
enclosed in a shrine of silver-gilt, of the workmanship of the ninth
century. There are four principal articles: The cotton robe, five feet
long, worn by the Virgin at the Nativity; the swaddling clothes, of a
coarse yellow cloth like sacking, in which the infant Saviour was
wrapped; the cloth on which the head of John the Baptist was laid; and
the scarf worn by the Saviour, at the crucifixion, which bears the
stains of blood. Other articles, such as religious emblems, are
doubtless of great antiquity.
The party visited the HÃ´tel de Ville, on the spot where stood the
