night in my room, or sit by me in the evening, and pet me. She ‘couldn’t
bear to have men around, cluttering up everything!’ she would growl the
instant his back was turned, with a deal more of the same talk, until
I was afraid to ask him to take a seat the next time he came in. He was
continually bringing home baskets of fruit, and game, and bouquets for
me. She let me have the flowers, but she ate nine-tenths of the nice
things herself, I never suspecting her, and he was too delicate to ask
if I enjoyed his presents. At length he surprised her in the act of
devouring a bunch of hot-house grapes, for which he had paid almost
their weight in gold, and then all came to light, and he sent her off in
a hurry. Poor Fred, there were great tears in his eyes when he learned
what persecution I had undergone, rather than vex him by complaints.”

“It would have been better had you told him sooner, dear! It would have
spared you and him much suffering.”

“I knew how engrossed he was by his business, and how ignorant he was of
household or medical matters, and I saved him all the bother I could.
I have tried, in some things and some times, to be a good wife, Aunt
Rachel! But often I have failed, O, how egregiously! and”--beginning to
weep--“the thought pierces my heart by day and by night. What if I never
have an opportunity of doing any better, of covering up the traces of my
footsteps?”

Mrs. Sutton patted the wasted hand with her cool one, but essayed no
other soothing.

“Where is your husband now? I understood from your note that he was with
you.”

“He rode over to Dr. Ritchie’s this morning, directly he had given me my
breakfast. He thinks highly of his skill, and he would not be contented
without bringing him to see me. I really believe he is anxious I should
get well! Strange--isn’t it? when I am such a burden upon his mind and
hands.”

Aunt Rachel smiled.

“Not at all strange, you ridiculous child! Two of the most dearly-loved
wives I ever knew were invalids, and bedridden, not for weeks only,
