"I've got something to tell you," said Ethel, leaning toward her
father as they still sat at the table. Mr. Ridley saw a new light in
his daughter's face.

"What is it, dear?" he said.

"Mrs. Birtwell was here to-day, and is going--"

The instant change observed in her father's manner arrested the
sentence on Ethel's lips. A dark shadow swept across his face and he
became visibly agitated.

"Going to do what?" he inquired, betraying some anger.

"Going to help me all she can. She was very kind, and wants me to go
and see her to-morrow. I think she's very good, father."

Mr. Ridley dropped his eyes from the flushed, excited face of his
child. The frown left his brow. He seemed to lose himself in
thought. Leaning forward upon the table, he laid his face down upon
his folded arms, hiding it from view.

A sad and painful conflict, precipitated by the remark of his
daughter, was going on in the mind of this wretched man. He knew
also too well that he was standing on the verge of a dreadful
condition from the terrors of which his soul shrunk back in
shuddering fear. All day he had felt the coming signs, and the hope
of escape had now left him. But love for his daughter was rising
above all personal fear and dread. He knew that at any moment the
fiend of delirium might spring upon him, and then this tender child
would be left alone with him in his awful conflict. The bare
possibility of such a thing made him shudder, and all his thought
was now directed toward the means of saving her from being a witness
of the appalling scene.

The shock and anger produced by the mention of Mrs. Birtwell's name
had passed off, and his thought was going out toward her in a vague,
groping way, and in a sort of blind faith that through her help in
his great extremity might come. It was all folly, he knew. What
could she do for a poor wretch in his extremity? He tried to turn
