import one, and this saves me so much trouble. Put it up for me, dear,
at the price mamma paid for it, not a cent less, because it has never
been worn, and I've no duties to pay on it, so it is a good bargain for
me."

Then, before Clara could thank her, she turned to the head-gear, and
fell into raptures over a delicate affair, all blonde and
forget-me-nots.

"Such a sweet thing! I must have it before any one else snaps it up.
Try it on, love, and give it a touch if it doesn't fit."

Clara knew it would be vain to remonstrate, for Mrs. Tower had not a
particle of taste, and insisted on wearing blue, with the complexion of
a lobster. On it went, and even the wearer could not fail to see that
something was amiss.

"It's not the fault of the cap, dear. I always was a fright, and my
dreadful color spoils whatever I put on, so I have things handsome, and
give up any attempt at beauty," she said, shaking her head at herself in
the glass.

"You need not do that, and I'll show you what I mean, if you will give
me leave; for, with your fine figure and eyes, you can't help being an
elegant woman. See, now, how I'll make even this cap becoming." And
Clara laid the delicate flowers among the blonde behind, where the
effect was unmarred by the over-red cheeks, and nothing but a soft ruche
lay over the dark hair in front.

"There, isn't that better?" she asked, with her own blooming face so
full of interest it was a pleasure to see her.

"Infinitely better; really becoming, and just what I want with my new
silver-gray satin. Dear me, what a thing taste is!" And Mrs. Tower
regarded herself with feminine satisfaction in her really fine eyes.

Here a new arrival interrupted them, and Clara went to meet several
girls belonging to what had lately been her own set. The young ladies
did not quite know how to behave; for, though it seemed perfectly
natural to be talking over matters of dress with Clara, there was an air
