"But nobody's life depends on your going away to-morrow morning. What do
you mean? The deuce and all, you know, I don't understand you a bit."

"I cannot tell you, Mr. Ghyrkins; but something depends on my going,
which is of as great importance to the person concerned as life itself.
Believe me," he said, going near to the old gentleman and laying a hand
on his arm, "I do not go willingly."

"Well, I hope not, I am sure," said Ghyrkins gruffly, though yielding.
"If you will, you will, and there's no holding you; but we are all very
sorry. That's all. Mahmoud! bring fire, you lazy pigling, that I may
smoke." And he threw himself into a chair, the very creaking of the cane
wicker expressing annoyance and dissatisfaction.

So there was an end of it, and Isaacs strode off through the moonlight
to his quarters, to make some arrangement, I supposed. But he did not
come back. Miss Westonhaugh retired also to her tent, and no one was
surprised to see her go. Kildare rose presently and asked if I would not
stroll to the well, or anywhere, it was such a jolly night. I went with
him, and arm in arm we walked slowly down. The young moon was bright
among the mango-trees, striking the shining leaves, that reflected a
strange greenish light. We moved leisurely, and spoke little. I
understood Kildare's silence well enough, and I had nothing to say. The
ground was smooth and even, for the men had cut the grass close, and the
little humped cow that belonged to the old Brahmin cropped all she could
get at.

We skirted round the edge of the grove, intending to go back to the
tents another way. Suddenly I saw something in front that arrested my
attention. Two figures, some thirty yards away. They stood quite still,
turned from us. A man and a woman between the trees, an opening in the
leaves just letting a ray of moonlight slip through on them. His arm
around her, the tall lissome figure of her bent, and her head resting on
his shoulder. I have good eyes and was not mistaken, but I trusted
Kildare had not seen. A quick twitch of his arm, hanging carelessly
through mine, told me the mischief was done before I could turn his
attention. By a common instinct we wheeled to the left, and passing into
the open strolled back in the direction whence we had come. I did not
look at Kildare, but after a minute he began to talk about the moonlight
and tigers, and whether tigers were ever shot by moonlight, and
