"Just about. It was one of my mother's wedding presents, and she gave it
to me when I was fifteen. Deary me, how well I remember that day!" and
grandma seemed to fall a-dreaming as her eyes rested on the letters E.
R. M. rudely cut in the wood, and below these were three others with
something meant for a true lover's knot between.

"Whose initials are these?" asked Min, scenting a romance with girlish
quickness, for grandma was smiling as if her eyes read the title to some
little story in those worn letters.

"Elizabeth Rachel Morgan, and Joel Manlius Shirley. Your blessed
grandfather cut our names there the day I was sixteen, and put the
flourish between to show what he wanted," added the old lady, laughing
as she made the wheel hum again.

"Tell about it, please do," begged Min, remembering that grandma had
been a beauty and a belle.

"It's a long tale, my darling, and I couldn't tell it now. Sometime when
I'm teaching you to spin I'll do it, maybe."

But the girl was determined to have her story; and after tea, when the
little ones were in bed, the elders playing whist in the parlor, and the
young folks deciding what game to begin, Minnie sat down and tried to
spin, sure that the familiar sound would lure grandma to give the lesson
and tell the tale.

She was right, for the wheel had not gone around many times, when the
tap of the cane was heard, and the old lady came rustling in, quite
ready for a chat, now that three cups of her own good tea and a nap in
the chimney corner had refreshed her.

"No, dear, that's not the way; you need a dish of water to wet your
fingers in, and you must draw the flax out slow and steady, else it runs
to waste, and makes a poor thread. Fetch me that chair, and I'll show
you how, since you are bent on learning."

Establishing herself in the straight-backed seat, a skilful tap of the
foot set the wheel in swift and easy motion, and the gray thread twisted
fine and evenly from the distaff.
