the other barges. When his boat was headed into the wind, he called upon
the crew to lay upon their oars.

"That's a bad egg for them," said Life, chuckling at the misfortune of
the enemy.

"There are three of their oars floating off into the lake," Phil Gawner
added.

"Don't you think we had better go out and tow them in, Dory?" laughed
Ned Bellows.

"Until they get overboard, we will continue to mind our own business;
but if they need help we must do all we can for them," replied the
coxswain. "While we are waiting we might as well run out and pick up
their oars."

The orders were given to start again, and the Winooski dashed out into
the heavy waves. Dory discovered two more oars which had been lost by
the Racer. The two bowmen were directed to pick them up when they came
to them, and the five were quickly secured. They were stowed away under
the thwarts.

By this time the Chesterfield barges were in condition to make another
effort to reach the shore, or to get into smooth water. Wash Barker was
yelling at his crew, and striving to bring order out of confusion. Mad
Twinker was doing the same in the Racer; though neither of them had any
brilliant success. But at last they got the remnant of their oars into
the water. Then it was found that the three oars had all been lost from
the starboard side of the Dasher, and Wash proceeded to bring about an
equilibrium in his propelling force.

When the Winooski had picked up the oars, Dory took her to a position
between the barges and the shore. He did not regard the battle as ended;
in fact it had hardly begun, though the coxswain considered his tactics
a success thus far. After a great deal of loud talk on the part of the
coxswains, and a great deal of "talking back" on the part of the crews,
the Chesterfields were in condition to resume their effort to reach the
shore.

