longer respects himself and finds himself no longer respected, when the
actuality of existence is at variance with his hopes, he kills himself,
and thereby offers homage to the world in refusing to remain before it
divested of his virtues or of his splendors.... Suicide is of three
distinct classes: first, there is the suicide which is but the crisis
of a long illness, and undoubtedly belongs to pathology; then, there is
the suicide which is caused by despair; and lastly, the suicide from
ratiocination. Of these three, the first alone is irrevocable.
Sometimes the three classes unite, as in the case of Jean-Jacques
Rousseau.... Suicide was permitted by Epicurus. It was the finishing
touch to his philosophy. Where there was no enjoyment to the senses it
was right and proper for the animated being to seek repose in inanimate
nature. Man’s only aim consisting in happiness, or in the hope of
happiness, death became a benefit to him who suffered, and who suffered
hopelessly. He did not recommend suicide, nor did he blame it; he was
content to say, “Death is not a subject for laughter, nor is it a
subject for tears.” More moral and more imbued with the sentiment of
duty, Zeno in certain cases forbade suicide to the stoic. Man, he
taught, differs from the brute in that he disposes sovereignly of his
person; divested of the right of life and death over himself, he
becomes the slave of men and events. To man, therefore, freedom in all
things should belong: freedom from passions, which should be sacrificed
to duties; freedom from fellow creatures in exhibiting the steel or the
poison which disarms attack; freedom from destiny in setting a limit
beyond which it can have no effect.... Among the atheists of to-day,
the coward alone accepts a dishonored life.




                              CHAPTER VI.

                             BIBLIOGRAPHY.

                  “Habent sua fati libelli.”—MARTIAL.

The following catalogue is a list of the works which are contained in
the “Comédie Humaine,” together with those with which it was to have
been completed. The titles in italics are those of the latter class.

