
Three days later he came back to remain some time; he took a room at the
Seminole, saying that his hours were quite too uncertain for a
well-regulated household like that of the Moores.

His hours proved to be uncertain indeed, save that a certain number of
them were sure to be spent with Garda Thorne. A few also were spent in
bringing Torres out of his seclusion. For Lucian took a fancy to the
young Cuban; "I don't think you half appreciate him," he said, in his
easy, unattached way--unattached to any local view. "He's a perfect mine
of gold in the way of peculiarities and precious oddities; he repays you
every time."

"I was not aware that oddities had so much value in the market,"
remarked Dr. Kirby, dryly.

"My dear sir, the greatest!" said Lucian, still in his detached tone.

The Doctor was not very fond of Lucian. The truth was, the Doctor did
not like to be called "my dear sir;" the possessive pronoun and the
adjective made a different thing of it from his own Johnsonian mode of
address.

"I appreciate Mr. Torres," Garda remarked, "I always have appreciated
him. He's like a thunder-cloud on the edge of the sky; you feel that he
could give out some tremendous flashes if he pleased; some day he will
please."

"I'll tell him that," said Spenser, who, among his other
accomplishments, had that of speaking Spanish.

Whether he told or not, the young Cuban at any rate appeared among them
again. He was tired, possibly, of the consumption of his soul. But there
was this advantage about Torres, that though he might consume his own,
he had no desire to consume the soul (or body either) of any one else;
whereas Manuel appeared to cherish this wish to an absolutely sanguinary
degree. The dislike he had had for Evert Winthrop was nothing compared
with the rage with which he now regarded Lucian Spenser. To tell the
truth, Lucian trespassed upon his own ground: if Manuel was handsome,
Lucian was handsomer still. "A finer-looking young man than Lucian
