River (a connection with the world we know), which is here a rapid,
clear stream, in permanent rock-laid banks. At the town a dam has been
thrown across it, and the width above the dam, where we crossed it, is
about 1800 feet. The day was fair and not cold, but a gale of wind
from the south-west blew with such violence that the ferry-boat was
unmanageable, and we went over in little skiffs, much tossed about by
the white-capped waves.

In June, 1886, there was not a house within twelve miles of this place.
The country is now taken up and dotted with claim shanties, and Great
Falls is a town of over 1000 inhabitants, regularly laid out, with
streets indeed extending far on to the prairie, a handsome and
commodious hotel, several brick buildings, and new houses going up in
all directions. Central lots, fifty feet by two hundred and fifty, are
said to sell for $5000, and I was offered a corner lot on Tenth Street,
away out on the prairie, for $1500, including the corner stake.

It is difficult to write of this country without seeming exaggeration,
and the habitual frontier boastfulness makes the acquisition of bottom
facts difficult. It is plain to be seen that it is a good grazing
country, and the experimental fields of wheat near the town show that it
is equally well adapted to wheatraising. The vegetables grown there are
enormous and solid, especially potatoes and turnips; I have the outline
of a turnip which measured seventeen inches across, seven inches deep,
and weighed twenty-four pounds. The region is underlaid by bituminous
coal, good coking quality, and extensive mines are opening in the
neighborhood. I have no doubt from what I saw and heard that iron of
good quality (hematite) is abundant. It goes without saying that the
Montana mountains are full of other minerals. The present advantage
of Great Falls is in the possession of unlimited water-power in the
Missouri River.

As to rainfall and climate? The grass shows no lack of rain, and the
wheat was raised in 1887 without irrigation. But irrigation from the
Missouri and Sun rivers is easy, if needed. The thermometer shows a more
temperate and less rigorous climate than Minnesota and north Dakota.
Unless everybody fibs, the winters are less severe, and stock ranges and
fattens all winter. Less snow falls here than farther east and south,
and that which falls does not usually remain long. The truth seems to be
that the mercury occasionally goes very low, but that every few days
