
Asrael gazed at him and knew that this was the will of Allah, for the
angels are thus immediately made conscious of the divine commands. He
took up his pen to write, but before he had traced the first letter he
paused.

'This is the night Al Kadr,' he said. 'If thou wilt, tell me therefore
thy story, for I am now at leisure to hear it.'

'Thou knowest that I am of the upright genii,' Khaled answered, 'and I
am well disposed towards men. In the city of Riad, in Arabia, there
rules a powerful king, the Sultan of the kingdom of Nejed, blessed in
all things save that he has no son to inherit his vast dominions. One
daughter only has been born to him in his old age, of such marvellous
beauty that even the Black Eyed Virgins enclosed in the fruit of the
tree Sedrat, who wait for the coming of the faithful, would seem but
mortal women beside her. Her eyes are as the deep water in the wells of
Zobeideh when it is night and the stars are reflected therein. Her hair
is finer than silk, red with henna, and abundant as the foliage of the
young cypress tree. Her face is as fair as the kernels of young almonds,
and her mouth is sweeter than the mellow date and more fragrant than
'Ood mingled with ambergris. She possesses moreover all the virtues
which become women, for she is as modest as she is beautiful and as
charitable as she is modest. From all parts of Arabia and Egypt, and
from Syria and from Persia, and even from Samarkand, from Afghanistan,
and from India princes and kings' sons continually come to ask her in
marriage, for the fame of her beauty and of her virtues is as wide as
the world. But her father, desiring only her happiness, leaves the
choice of a husband to herself, and for a long time she refused all her
suitors. For there is in the palace at Riad a certain secret chamber
from which she can observe all those who come and hear their
conversation and see the gifts which they bring with them.

'At last there came as a suitor an unbeliever, a prince of an island by
the shores of India, beautiful as the moon, whose speech was honey, and
who surpassed all the suitors in riches and in the magnificence of the
presents he brought. For he came bearing with him a hundred pounds'
weight of pure gold, and five hundred ounces of ambergris, and a great
weight of musk and aloes and sandal wood, and rich garments without
number, and many woven shawls of Kashmir, of which the least splendid
