"I thank you sincerely," said Ghisleri, pressing his hand again. "You
are very generous."

"No, but I try to be just."

They parted, and Ghisleri pursued his way, meditating on the
contradictions of life, and wondering why at the most critical moment of
his existence the one man who had come forward unasked and of his own
free impulse to defend him publicly and to offer his help, should be his
oldest and most implacable enemy. He was profoundly conscious of the
man's generosity. The world, he said to himself, might not be such a bad
place after all. But he did not guess how soon he was to need the
assistance so freely proffered.

He went home at once. Bonifazio closed the door behind him and followed
him respectfully into the sitting-room.

"I beg pardon, signore," he began, standing still as he waited for
Ghisleri to turn and look at him.

"Do you need money?" asked the latter carelessly.

"No, signore. You have perhaps forgotten that you gave me money
yesterday. It is something which I have had upon my conscience a long
time, and now that you are falsely accused, signore, it is my duty to
speak, if you permit me."

"Tell me what it is." Ghisleri sat down at his writing-table, and lit a
cigarette.

"It is a very secret matter, signore. But if I keep it a secret any
longer, I shall be doing wrong, though I also did wrong in coming by the
information I have, though I did not know it. I have also been to a
lawyer who understands these matters, and takes an interest in the case,
and he has told me that unless some saint performs a miracle nothing can
save you at the trial. So that I must give my evidence. But if I do, the
Princess Adele will go to the galleys, and the house of Savelli will be
quite ruined. For the Princess murdered Lord Herbert Arden, and tried to
murder Donna Laura, as we call her. She invited them to dinner and gave
them napkins which she with her own hand had poisoned with infection of
