silence to the old gate, (fastened with a rope tied in a sailor’s
knot), that gave the short cut across the meadow to the Mainsail
summer hotel.

“He is watching for me. How sober he looks! Perhaps something
dreadful has happened to Mrs. Salt. Wait a minute. Let me run in!”

She tossed her sun-umbrella, gloves, and saxifrage in a heap across
Bayard’s arm, and ran like a girl or a collie swaying across the
meadow in the wind. In a few minutes she walked back, flushed and
laughing.

“Pepper can’t go!” she cried. “He’s got the colic. He’s swallowed a
celluloid collar. Mr. Salt says he thought it was sugar. I must go
right along and catch the car.”

“You have eight minutes yet,” said Bayard joyously, “and I can go
too!”

The car filled up rapidly; they chatted of little things, or sat in
silence. Jane Granite came aboard as they passed her mother’s door.
Bayard lifted his hat to her cordially; she was at the further end
of the car; she got off at a grocery store, to buy prunes, and did
not look back. She had only glanced at Helen Carruth. Bayard did
not notice when Jane left.

The train came in and went out. Helen stood on the platform leaning
over to take her saxifrage: a royal vision, blurring and melting in
purple and gold before his eyes.

The train came in and went out; her laughing eyes looked back from
the frame of the car window. The train went out. He turned away
and went slowly home.

Jane had not returned, and Mrs. Granite was away. The house was
deserted, and the evening was coming on cold. He climbed the steep
stairs wearily to his rooms, and lighted a fire, for he coughed a
good deal. He had to go down into the shed and bring up the wood
and coal. He was so tired when this was done that he flung himself
upon the old lounge. He looked slowly about his dismal rooms: at
