composition on something she had seen or read was within the scope of
her thought, but to tell about people and make them talk, and have
pleasant and curious and sad and joyous happenings, did puzzle her
greatly.

Ben was not to go until the first of September. So he would help Steve,
go to the country for a visit, and have a good time generally before he
began his life-work. Stephen's house was approaching completion, and it
was wonderful to see how the rows of buildings were stretching out, as
if presently the city would be depleted of its residents. One wondered
where all the people came from.

John Robert Charles had grown quite confidential with his father and
began to think him as nice as Mr. Underhill--not as funny, for Mr.
Underhill had a way of joking and telling amusing stories and teasing a
little, that was very entertaining, and never sharp or ill-natured.

He had carried off the honors of his class and was proud of it. Mr. Reed
showed his satisfaction as well. Mrs. Reed was rather doubtful and
severe, and thought it her duty to keep Charles from undue vanity. She
was in a fret because she had to go away and leave the house and waste a
whole month.

"I don't want to go," said Charles to his father. "It's awful lonesome
up there in the mountains, and there's no one to talk to. Aunt Rhoda's
deaf, and Aunt Persis hushes you up if you say a word. And the old
gardener is stupid. There are no books to read, and I do get so tired."

"Well, we'll see," replied his father.

To his wife Mr. Reed said: "Why do you go off if you don't want to?"

"I won't have Charles running the streets and getting into bad company,
and wearing out his clothes faster than I can mend them," she replied
shortly.

It would not be entertaining for Charles in his office, and he didn't
just see what the boy could do. But he met a friend who kept a sort of
fancy toy store, musical instruments and some curios, down Broadway, and
learned that they were very much in want of a trusty, reliable lad who
