
“And I shall not come back—not in any circumstances. You have proved
that your attacks are more or less under your own control. A sojourn at
some foreign baths will probably cure you. I have given you all of my
life that I intend to give you. I know that self-sacrifice is the ideal
of happiness of some women, but it is not mine. When I leave here on the
first of November it will be forever. There is no inducement, material
nor sentimental, that will bring me back. Do you understand that much
clearly?”

He burst into a volley of oaths, and beat his knees with his fists.
Patience continued as soon as she could be heard:—

“Now, it can do you no possible good to retain a legal hold on me, nor
can you care to hear of your name becoming familiar in Park Row. Give me
my freedom, and I will take my own name—”

“You’ll get no divorce,” he roared, “now nor ever. Do you understand
that? I’ll brace up and live until I’m ninety—by God I will! I’ll go
abroad and live at a water cure. You’ll never be the wife of any other
man. Do you understand that?”

“Oh, Beverly,” she said, breaking suddenly, “don’t be cruel,—don’t!
What good can it do you? Give me my freedom.”

He grasped her wrists. His eyes were full of rage and malevolence. “Do
you want to marry some one else?” he asked. “Some damned newspaper man,
I suppose.”

Patience stood up and shook him off. “If ever I do marry another man,”
she said cuttingly, “you may be sure he will have brains this time, and
that he will also be a gentleman. The most vulgar persons I have ever
known have been socially the most highly placed.”

As she moved away he sprang after her and caught her arm. “Now look
here,” he said hoarsely, “you’ll neither marry, nor will you have a
lover, unless you want all New York to know it. The moment you leave
this place a detective goes after you. You’ll do nothing that I don’t
know. I may not have brains, but I’ll get the best of you all the same.”

