
“Of course, of course!  I understand that any heroine of your
acquaintance must be in society.  But I thought—I didn’t know—but for the
moment—Saratoga seems to be so tremendously mixed; and Mr. March says
there is no society here: But if she is from Boston—”

“I didn’t say she was from Boston, Mr. Kendricks.”

“Oh, I beg your pardon!”

“She is from De Witt Point,” said Mrs. March, and she apparently enjoyed
his confusion, no less than my bewilderment at the course she was taking.

I was not going to be left behind, though, and I said: “I discovered this
heroine myself, Kendricks, and if there is to be any giving away—”

“Now, Basil!”

“I am going to do it.  Mrs. March would never have cared anything about
her if it hadn’t been for me.  I can’t let her impose on you.  This
heroine is no more in society than she is from Boston.  That is the
trouble with her.  She has come here for society, and she can’t find
any.”

“Oh, that was what you were hinting at this morning,” said Kendricks.  “I
thought it a pure figment of the imagination.”

“One doesn’t imagine such things as that, my dear fellow.  One imagines a
heroine coming here, and having the most magnificent kind of social
career—lawn-parties, lunches, teas, dinners, picnics, hops—and going back
to De Witt Point with a dozen offers of marriage.  That’s the kind of
work the imagination does.  But this simple and appealing situation—this
beautiful young girl, with her poor little illusions, her secret hopes
half hidden from herself, her ignorant past, her visionary future—”

“Now, I am going to tell you all about her, Mr. Kendricks,” Mrs. March
broke in upon me, with defiance in her eye; and she flung out the whole
fact with a rapidity of utterance that would have left far behind any
attempt of mine.  But I made no attempt to compete with her; I contented
myself with a sarcastic silence which I could see daunted her a little at
