
I went to my rod, which I saw nodding its tip in the water, and found
an eel fast to the bait, yet not hooked, so summoned Bareshanks to rid
me of the snaky thing and strolled sulkily over to Sir William.

The Baronet had enticed and prettily netted a plump lake salmon, by
far the choicest fish taken; so, the match being ended, and luncheon
served under the pines, Silver Heels plaited a wreath of red-oak, and
crowned Sir William for his third prize.

Peter with his motley string of fish, some two dozen brace in all, and
mostly trout at that, clamoured for the first prize, which was a
Barlow-knife like the one Silver Heels had gained in the foot-race a
year ago; and he clutched his prize and straightway fell a-hacking the
wagon till Sir William collared him.

Silver Heels received the other reward, a gold guinea; and she placed
it in her bosom, and kissed Sir William heartily.

"Faith," said the Baronet, "you had best kiss your cousin yonder, who
saved you from a bath in the brook with your pike!"

Silver Heels came up to me, laying both hands on my shoulders, and
held up her lips. I kissed her maliciously and praised her skill,
vowing that she was a very Huron for slaughter, which boorish jest set
her face a sorrowful red.

Meanwhile young Bareshanks had laid a clean cloth upon the moss, and
there was pot-pie and roast capon, and a dish of apples and
gingerbread. Ale, too, and punch chilled in the brook, and small-beer
for the children, with a few drops of wine to drink Sir William's
health.

With a cup of ale in one hand and a slice of cold capon on a trencher
of bread, I munched and drank and rallied Silver Heels because of her
pity for the pike; but she did not like it, yet ventured no retort,
such as was formerly her custom.

Presently, Sir William having done scant justice to pot-pie and ale,
called for his rod and flies, and he and Mr. Duncan lighted their
