will to lash my own self to life, and tear out of my own heart a
little of what power is in it. At such times, Helen, I find just
this one wish in my mind,--that God would send to me, cost what it
might, some of the fearful experience that rouses a man’s soul
within him, and makes him live his life in spite of all his dullness
and his fear.”

David had not finished, but he halted, because he saw a strange look
upon the girl’s face. She did not answer him at once, but sat gazing
at him; and then she said in a very grave voice, “David, I do not
like to hear such words as that from you.”

“What words, dearest?”

“Do you mean actually that it sometimes seems to you wrong to live
happily with me as you have?”

David laid his hand quietly upon hers, watching for a minute her
anxious countenance. Then he said in a low voice: “You ought not to
ask me about such things, dear, or blame me for them. Sometimes I
have to face the very cruel thought that I ought not ever to have
linked my fate to one so sweet and gentle as you, because what I
ought to be doing in the world to win a right conscience is
something so hard and so stern that it would mean that I could never
be really happy all my life.”

David was about to go on, but he stopped again because of Helen’s
look of displeasure. “David,” she whispered, “that is the most
unloving thing that I have ever heard from you!”

“And you must blame me, dear, because of it?” he asked.

“I suppose,” Helen answered, “that you would misunderstand me as
long as I chose to let you. Do you not suppose that I too have a
conscience,--do you suppose that I want any happiness it is wrong
for us to take, or that I would not dare to go anywhere that your
duty took you? And do you suppose that anything could be so painful
to me as to know that you do not trust me, that you are afraid to
live your life, and do what is your duty, before me?”

