deal more, and wrote them over again. I'll give them to you, and you
must consider how good a chance I have of passing. Oh, if I should
fail!"

"You could go in later on. I do not think you will. I have wondered
about you so many times this summer, and I have always seen you under
the disadvantages of the Center, and the few helps you would have. You
might have written me a letter."

"Oh, did you mean that I should?"

She asked it in sweet, eager unconsciousness, which showed that it would
have been a pleasure. He had not suggested it from a wonder as to
whether Aunt Jane would approve.

"I should have enjoyed an answer about your new life," he replied with
interest. "I am very glad this happened to you instead of an uneventful
summer on the farm and retrograding, I am afraid. And you like
this"--old lady, he was about to say, but checked himself--"this Mrs.
Van Dorn."

"It's something more than like. I cannot describe it in any word, that
I know, unless it is like something I was reading a few days ago,
fascination. When she talks about the places and people she has seen it
seems as if I could listen forever. And then, you may think this queer,"
and she colored vividly, "sometimes I like Mrs. Dayton the best. I wish
I didn't change about so. It is the same with books. Am I very
inconstant, fickle?"

"If we couldn't change our minds, think what fossils we should soon be,"
and he laughed good-humoredly. "Yes, I should like to see her."

She started, then she came back a step. "I have not really talked over
the plan of--of earning my way with her," and her voice fell a little.
"Mrs. Dayton thought it best not to say anything until we had some
certainty. She is going away soon. Her real companion comes next week."

He nodded that he understood the delicate charge. "And where is Mrs.
Dayton?"

