
" Trixy 's lost ! " 

" No ! No ! No ! " cried Miriam. 



 

" Not stolen ? " exclaimed Surbridge. 

But Dan repeated dully : " Trixy 's lost. I 
tell you Trixy 's lost. I 've hunted for her 
every wheres. Everybody 's hunted. Nobody 
can't find her." 

" Give me the circumstances," urged Sur- 
bridge, " if you can. Tell me when it hap- 
pened, and where. Try, Dan. Think how it 
was." 

" I can't," muttered Dan, " my — my head 
won't let me. It was last nig-ht — she had on 
her little coat you made her, Miss Laurie — 
it was sort of cold — and we 'd been playing 
at one of them beaches — I can't think the 
name — my head is bad. We was jest goin' 
home — you never see her play so pretty — 
I put her clown — I — think I put her down, 
and when I looked she wasn't there. I tried 
to hurry, but I 'm lame, you know. She wasn't 
there. — Sir?" 

For the first time since he had known her, 
Dan, disregarding his goddess, turned else- 
where for divine interference ; it was as if 
he felt that his extremity was a matter be- 
tween men. 

" Mr. Surbridge, sir," said Dan, " you told 
