'Yes, I will be a nun,' continued Madame Bonanni unmoved. 'I will go
into religion. When your mother is a nun, my child, I presume that the
Church will protect her, and no one will dare to say anything against
her. Then you can marry or not, as you please, but you will no longer
be ashamed of your mother! I shall be a blue nun with a white bonnet
and a black veil, and I shall call myself Sister Juliet, because that
has been my great part, and the name will remind me of old times. Don't
you think "Sister Juliet" sounds very well? And dark blue is becoming
to me--I always said so.'

'Yes--yes,' answered Lushington in an uncertain tone and biting his
lip.

'I cannot do more than that for you, my treasure,' said his mother, a
touch of real human sadness in her voice. 'You will not take the
miserable money--but perhaps you will take the sacrifice, if I shut
myself up in a convent and wear a hair shirt, and feed sick babies, and
eat cabbage. How could any one say a word against me then? And you will
be happy, Tom. That is all I ask.'

'I shall not be happy, if you make yourself miserable, mother,' said
Lushington, smiling.

'Miserable? Ah, well, I daresay there will not be cabbage every day,'
answered Madame Bonanni thoughtfully. 'And I like fish. Fortunately, I
am fond of fish. The simplest, you know. Only a fried sole with a
meuni√®re sauce. Bah! When I talk of eating you never believe I am in
earnest. Go away, my beloved child! Go and write to little Miss Donne
that she may have all my engagements, because I am entering religion.
You shall see! She will marry you in a week. Go over to Paris and talk
to her. She is crying her eyes out for you, and that is bad for the
voice. It relaxes the vocal cords frightfully. I always have to gargle
for half-an-hour if I have been crying and am going to sing.'

Through all her rambling talk, half earnest and half absurd, Lushington
detected the signs of a coming change. He did not think she would leave
the stage so suddenly as she said she would; he assuredly did not
believe that she would ever 'enter religion'; but he saw for the first
time that she was tired of the life she had led, that she felt herself
growing old and longed for rest and quiet. She had lived as very few
