quietly, and found the article at once. It was as 'horrid' as the
Primadonna said it was. No names were given in full, but there could
not be the slightest mistake about the persons referred to, who were
all clearly labelled by bits of characteristic description. It was all
in the ponderously airy form of one of those more or less true stories
of which some modern weeklies seem to have an inexhaustible supply,
but it was a particularly vicious specimen of its class so far as
Mr. Van Torp was concerned. His life was torn up by the roots and
mercilessly pulled to pieces, and he was shown to the public as a
Leicester Square Lovelace or a Bowery Don Juan. His baleful career was
traced from his supposed affair with Mrs. Isidore Bamberger and her
divorce to the scene at Margaret's hotel in New York, and from that
to the occasion of his being caught with Lady Maud in Hare Court by a
justly angry husband; and there was, moreover, a pretty plain allusion
to little Ida Moon.

Lady Maud read the article quickly, but without betraying any emotion.
When she had finished she raised her eyebrows a very little, and gave
the paper back to Margaret.

'It is rather nasty,' she observed quietly, as if she were speaking of
the weather.

'It's utterly disgusting,' Margaret answered with emphasis. 'What
shall you do?'

'I really don't know. Why should I do anything? Your position is
different, for you can write to the papers and deny all that concerns
you if you like--though I'm sure I don't know why you should care.
It's not to your discredit.'

'I could not very well deny it,' said the Primadonna thoughtfully.
Almost before the words had left her lips she was sorry she had
spoken.

'Does it happen to be true?' asked Lady Maud, with an encouraging
smile.

'Well, since you ask me--yes.' Margaret felt uncomfortable.

