
“Ah, but all the more for the shame of a surrender! Of course I admit
that when it’s a question of a life spent, like his, in waiting,
acquisitively, for the cat to jump, the only thing for one, at a given
moment, as against that signal, is to be found one’s self by the animal
in the line of its trajectory. That’s exactly,” he laughed, “where we
are!”

She cast about as intelligently to note the place. “Your great idea, you
mean, has so worked--with the uproar truly as loud as it has seemed to
come to us here?”

“All beyond my wildest hope,” Hugh returned; “since the sight of the
picture, flocked to every day by thousands, so beautifully tells. That
we must at any cost keep it, that the nation must, and hang on to it
tight, is the cry that fills the air--to the tune of ten letters a day
in the Papers, with every three days a gorgeous leader; to say nothing
of more and more passionate talk all over the place, some of it awfully
wild, but all of it wind in our sails.”

“I suppose it was that wind then that blew me round there to see the
thing in its new light,” Lady Grace said. “But I couldn’t stay--for
tears!”

“Ah,” Hugh insisted on his side for comfort, “we’ll crow loudest yet!
And don’t meanwhile, just don’t, those splendid strange eyes of the
fellow seem consciously to plead? The women, bless them, adore him,
cling to him, and there’s talk of a ‘Ladies’ League of Protest’--all of
which keeps up the pitch.”

“Poor Amy and I are a ladies’ league,” the girl joylessly joked--“as we
now take in the ‘Journal’ regardless of expense.”

“Oh then you practically have it all--since,” Hugh, added after
a brief hesitation, “I suppose Lord Theign himself doesn’t languish
uninformed.”

“At far-off Salsomaggiore--by the papers? No doubt indeed he isn’t
spared even the worst,” said Lady Grace--“and no doubt too it’s a drag
on his cure.”
