for the mercy of God and the words of humiliation now sounding in her
ears.

She stared at him. And the terrible thing was that he was grinning
still--grinning through all the agony of his shame and dreadful
abasement. And she longed to turn away--to shut out his face from her
sight. But dared not.

"That is all," he said heavily. "Perhaps there is a little more to
say--but it will leave you indifferent, very naturally. Yet, may I say
that this--this heart-breaking crisis in her life, and--in
mine--has--brought us together? And--a little more. My wife is to become
a mother. Which is why I venture to hope that you will be merciful to us
both in your thoughts. I do not ask for your pardon, which you could
never give----"

"Mr. Clydesdale!" She had risen, trembling, both little hands flat on
the desk top to steady her, and was looking straight at him.



"I--my thoughts----" she stammered "are not cruel. Say so to your wife.
I--I have never thought mercilessly. Every instinct within me is
otherwise. And I know what suffering is. And I do not wish it for
anybody. Say so to your wife, and that I wish her--happiness--with her
baby."

She was trembling so that he could scarcely control between his two huge
fists the little hand that he saluted in wordless gratitude and grief.

Then, without looking at her again, or speaking, he went his way. And
she dropped back into her chair, the tears of sheer happiness and
excitement flowing unchecked.

But she was permitted no time to collect her thoughts, no solitude for
happy tears, and, at the clerk's sharp knocking, she dried her eyes
hastily and bade him enter.

The card he laid on her desk seemed to amaze her.

