out a box of Russian cigarettes. "I keep these here," she announced,
"because I don't want to shock mother; and I seldom indulge these days
in expensive habits. But I shall celebrate and smoke all evening. It is
jolly to have you like this again, Jimmy. I heard you were engaged. Is
it true? You would seem to have deserted every one else."

Mr. Broderick coloured and looked as sheepish as a highly sophisticated
star reporter may. "Well, not quite," he admitted. "It's been heavy
running, and I don't have all the time there is on my hands. But--I
hope--well, I think now it'll be pretty plain sailing--"

"Good, Jimmy, good!"

For a moment he, too, gazed into the coals, his eyes softening; then
once more he banished the dainty image evoked; no nonsense for him in
Elsinore, with the Balfame tangle to unravel to the glory of the New
York News.

"Alys," he said, stretching out his long legs and looking innocent and
comfortable, "I want to have a confidential talk with you about Mrs.
Balfame." He paused and then looked her straight in the eyes as he
launched his bolt. "I have come to the conclusion that she shot him--"

"Jim Broderick!" Alys sprang to her feet, her eyes wide and full of
angry light. "Oh, you newspaper men!--How utterly abominable!"

"Why? Sit down, my dear. Somebody did it--not? as our friends the
Germans say. And undoubtedly that some one is the person most interested
in getting him out of the way."

"But not Mrs. Balfame! Why--I've been brought up on Mrs. Balfame. I'd as
soon suspect my own mother."

"No, my friend, you would not. Mrs. Crumley is adorable in her own way,
but she is frankly and comfortably in her fifties. She is not a
beautiful woman who looks fully ten years younger than she has any right
to look. See?"

"Oh--but--"

