bank loans, you will find most completely set forth in an extremely able
book, "The Strangle Hold," by H. C. Cutting, an American business man,
whom you may address at San Lorenzo, California. Another method,
utilizing the third factor in industry, the consumer, is the method of
banking by consumers' unions. Such are the Raffeisen banks, widely known
in Germany, and a specimen of which exists in the single tax colony at
Arden, Delaware. Those who wish to know about the co-operative bank, or
other forms of co-operation, may apply to the Co-operative League of
America, 2 West 13th Street, New York, whose president is Dr. James P.
Warbasse. Information concerning public ownership may be had from the
Public Ownership League, 127 N. Dearborn Street, Chicago; also from the
Socialist party, 220 South Ashland Boulevard, Chicago, and from the
Bureau of Social Research of the Rand School of Social Science, New
York.

Also, I ought to mention the very interesting plan for social
reconstruction set forth by Mr. King C. Gillette, inventor of the safety
razor. This plan you may find in your public library in two encyclopedic
volumes, "Gillette's Social Redemption," and "Gillette's World
Solution." The politician seeks to solve the industrial problem by means
of the state, and the labor leader seeks to solve it by the unions; it
is to be expected that Mr. Gillette, a capitalist, should seek to solve
it by means of the corporation. He points out that the modern "trust" is
the greatest instrument of production yet invented by man; and he asks
why the people should not form their own "trust," to handle their own
affairs, and to purchase and take over the industries from their present
private masters. It is interesting to note that Mr. Gillette's solution
is fully as radical and thorough-going as those of the State Socialists
or the Syndicalists. The "People's Corporation" which he projects and
plans some day to launch upon the world would be a gigantic "consumers'
union," whose "credit power" would speedily dominate and absorb all
other powers in modern society; it would make us all stockholders, and
give us our share of the benefits of social productivity.




CHAPTER LXXI

THE NEW WORLD
