
"She hasn't.  She's in love with you."

"What!"  Clavering dropped his fork.  When the waiter had rushed to
present him with another and retired, he still stared at Oglethorpe as
if he had been stunned by a blow between the eyes.  "Whatever--what on
earth put such an idea into Mrs. Oglethorpe's head?  The child can't
endure me.  She pretty well proved it last night, and I've always known
she disliked me--since she grew up, that is.  To be perfectly frank,
aside from the fact that I don't care for young girls, she always
irritates me like the deuce, and I've never made any secret of it.
Night before last I couldn't well have made myself more disagreeable if
I'd rehearsed for the part."

Oglethorpe grinned.  "Lot you know about girls.  Just the way to make
'em crazy about you.  Like all idealists, you don't know a thing about
women.  Being a rank materialist myself, I know 'em like a book.  The
emancipated flapper is just plain female under her paint and outside
her cocktails.  More so for she's more stimulated.  Where girls used to
be merely romantic, she's romantic--callow romance of youth, perhaps,
but still romantic--plus sex-instinct rampant.  At least that's the way
I size 'em up, and its logic.  There's no virginity of mind left,
mauled as they must be and half-stewed all the time, and they're wild
to get rid of the other.  But they're too young yet to be promiscuous,
at least those of Janet's sort, and they want to fall in love and get
him quick.  See the point?"

"No doubt you're right.  But I'm not the object of Janet's young
affections.  She's either led your mother to believe it for purposes of
her own, or Mrs. Oglethorpe has merely jumped at that conclusion--well,
Heaven only knows why."

"You know why.  Because she'd like it.  So would I."

"Good Lord, Jim!  I'm nearly old enough to be her father.  Barely ten
years younger than yourself."

"You'll never be as old as I am this minute, and I'd give my eyes to
see you married to her.  Moreover, I'm convinced mother's right.  Janny
let out something--broke down, I fancy, although mother wouldn't give
