painful than utter ruin. From ruin he was saved; but he was an altered
and an humbled man. Many times since have unfortunate debtors been in
his power, and, although he has not acted towards them with much
liberality, (for it was not in him to do so,) he has not oppressed them.




A NEW PLEASURE.


THE whole purpose of Mr. Bolton's life had been the accumulation of
property, with an end to his own gratification. To part with a dollar
was therefore ever felt as the giving up of a prospective good; and it
acted as the abridgment of present happiness. Appeals to Mr. Bolton's
benevolence had never been very successful; and, in giving, he had not
experienced the blessing which belongs of right to good deeds. The
absolute selfishness of his feelings wronged him of what was justly his
due.

Thus passed the life of Mr. Bolton. Dollar was added to dollar, house
to house, and field to field. Yet he was never satisfied with gaining;
for the little he had, looked so small compared with the wealth of the
world, after the whole of which his heart really panted, as to appear
at times actually insignificant. Thus, as he grew older, he set a value
upon what he had, as the means of gaining more, and in his parting with
money, did so at the expense of a daily increasing reluctance.

In the beginning of life, Mr. Bolton possessed a few generous feelings,
the remains of early and innocent states stored up in childhood. His
mother, a true woman, perceiving the strong selfish and accumulative
bent of his character, had sought in every possible way to implant in
his mind feelings of benevolence and regard for others. One mode of
doing this had been to introduce him into scenes that appealed to his
sympathies. She often took him with her to see poor or sick persons,
and so interested him in them as to create a desire in his mind to
afford relief. So soon as she perceived this desire awakened, she
devised some mode of bringing it into activity, so that he might feel
the delights which spring from a consciousness of having done good to
another.

But so strong was the lad's hereditary love of self, that she ever
found difficulty in inducing him to sacrifice what he already
considered his own, in the effort to procure blessings for others, no
matter how greatly they stood in need. If urged to spend a sixpence of
his own for such a purpose, he would generally reply:

"But you've got a great many more sixpences than I have, mother: why
don't you spend them?"

To this, Mrs. Bolton would answer as appropriately as possible; but she
found but poor success in her efforts, which were never relaxed.

In early manhood, as Mr. Bolton began to come in actual contact with
the world, the remains of early states of innocence and sympathy with
others came back, as we have intimated, upon him, and he acted, in many
instances, with a generous disregard of self. But as he bent his mind
more and more earnestly to the accumulation of money, these feelings
had less and less influence over him. And as dollar after dollar was
added to his store, his interest in the welfare of others grew less and
less active. Early friendships were gradually forgotten, and the first
natural desire to see early friends prosperous like himself, gradually
died out. "Every man for himself," became the leading principle of his
life; and he acted upon it on all occasions. In taking a pew in church
and regularly attending worship every Sabbath, he was governed by the
idea that it was respectable to do so, and gave a man a standing in
society, that reacted favourably upon his worldly interests. In putting
his name to a subscription paper, a thing not always to be avoided,
even by him, a business view of the matter was invariably taken, and
the satisfaction of mind experienced on the occasion arose from the
reflection that the act would benefit him in the long run. As to the
minor charities, in the doing of which the left hand has no
acquaintance with the deeds of the right hand, Mr. Bolton never
indulged in them. If his left hand had known the doings of his right
hand in matters of this kind, said hand would not have been much wiser
for the knowledge.

Thus life went on; and Mr. Bolton was ever busy in gathering in his
golden harvest; so busy, that he had no time for any thing else, not
even to enjoy what he possessed. At last, he was sixty years old, and
his wealth extended to many hundreds of thousands of dollars. But he
was farther from being satisfied than ever, and less happy than at any
former period in his life.

One cause of unhappiness arose from the fact that, as a rich man, he
was constantly annoyed with applications to do a rich man's part in the
charities of the day. And to these applications it was impossible
always to turn a deaf ear. Give he must sometimes, and giving always
left a pain behind, because the gift came not from a spirit of
benevolence. There were other and various causes of unhappiness, all of
which combining, made Mr. Bolton, as old age came stealing upon him,
about as miserable as a man could well be. Money, in his eyes the
greatest good, had not brought the peace of mind to which he had looked
forward, and the days came and went without a smile. His children had
grown up and passed into the world, and were, as he had been at their
ages, so all-absorbed by the love of gain, as to have little love to
spare for any thing else.

About this time, Mr. Bolton, having made one or two losing operations,
determined to retire from business, invest all his money in real estate
and other securities, and let the management of these investments
constitute his future employment. In this new occupation he found so
little to do in comparison with his former busy life, that the change
proved adverse, so far as his repose of mind was concerned.

It happened, about this time, that Mr. Bolton had occasion to go some
twenty miles into the country. On returning home, and when within a few
miles of the city, his carriage was overset, and he had the misfortune
to fracture a limb. This occurred near a pleasant little farm-house
that stood a few hundred yards from the road; the owner of which,
seeing the accident, ran to the overturned carriage and assisted to
extricate the injured man. Seeing how badly he was hurt, he had him
removed to his house, and then, taking a horse, rode off two miles for
a physician. In the mean time, the driver of Mr. Bolton's carriage was
despatched to the city for some of his family and his own physician.
The country doctor and the one from the city arrived about the same
time. On making a careful examination as to the nature of Mr. Bolton's
injuries, it was found that his right leg, above the knee, was broken,
and that one of his ankles was dislocated. He was suffering great pain,
and was much exhausted. As quickly as it could be done, the bone was
set, and the dislocation reduced. By this time it was nightfall, and
too late to think seriously of returning home before morning. The
moment Mr. Gray, the farmer, saw the thoughts of the injured man and
his friends directed towards the city, he promptly invited them to
remain in his house all night, and as much longer as the nature of Mr.
Bolton's injuries might require. This invitation was thankfully
accepted.

During the night, Mr. Bolton suffered a great deal of pain, and in the
morning, when the physicians arrived, it was found that his injured
limb was much inflamed. Of course, a removal to the city was out of the
question. The doctors declared that the attempt would be made at the
risk of his life. Farmer Gray said that such a thing must not be
thought of until the patient was fully able to bear the journey; and
the farmer's wife as earnestly remonstrated against any attempt at
having the injured man disturbed until it could be perfectly safe to do
so. Both tendered the hospitalities of their humble home with so much
sincerity, that Mr. Bolton felt that he could accept of them with
perfect freedom.

It was a whole month ere the old gentleman was in a condition to bear
the journey to town; and not once in the whole of that time had Mr. and
Mrs. Gray seemed weary of his presence, nor once relaxed in their
efforts to make him comfortable. As Mr. Bolton was about leaving, he
tendered the farmer, with many expressions of gratitude for the
kindness he had received, a hundred-dollar bill, as some small
compensation for the trouble and expense he had occasioned him and his
family. But Mr. Gray declined the offer, saying, as he did so:

"I have only done what common humanity required, Mr. Bolton; and were I
to receive money, all the pleasure I now experience would be gone."

It was in vain that Mr. Bolton urged the farmer's acceptance of some
remuneration. Mr. Gray was firm in declining to the last. All that
could be done was to send Mrs. Gray a handsome present from the city;
but this did not entirely relieve the mind of Mr. Bolton from the sense
of obligation under which the disinterested kindness of the farmer had
laid him; and thoughts of this tended to soften his feelings, and to
awaken, in a small measure, the human sympathies which had so long
slumbered in his bosom.

Several months passed before Mr. Bolton was able to go out, and then he
resumed his old employment of looking after his rents, and seeking for
new and safe investments that promised some better returns than he was
yet receiving.

One day, a broker, who was in the habit of doing business for Mr.
Bolton, said to him:

"If you want to buy a small, well-cultivated farm, at about half what
it is worth, I think I know where you can get one."

"Do you?"

"Yes. Three years ago it was bought for three thousand dollars, and
seven hundred paid down in cash. Only eight hundred dollars have since
been paid on it; and as the time for which the mortgage was to remain
has now expired, a foreclosure is about to take place. By a little
management, I am satisfied that I can get you the farm for the balance
due on the mortgage."
