"Yes; but, like the viper, I think he is by this time aware that he is
biting on a file."

"Ah! Have you dismissed him from your service?"

"Yes, sir."

"You have served him right. No man who attempted to injure me should
eat my bread. What did he say?"

"Nothing. What could he say? When I told him to find himself another
place as quickly as possible, his guilt wrote itself in his
countenance."

"Has he obtained a situation?"

"I don't know; and, what is more, don't care."

"I hope he has, for the sake of his family. It's a pity that they
should suffer for his evil deeds."

"I didn't think of them, or I might not have dismissed him; but it is
done now, and there the matter rests."

And there Mr. Everton let it rest, so far as Ayres was concerned. The
individual obtained in his place had been, for some years, connected
with the press as news collector and paragraph writer. His name was
Tompkins. He was not a general favourite, and had never been very
highly regarded by Mr. Everton; but he must have some one to fill the
place made vacant by the removal of Ayres, and Tompkins was the most
available person to be had. There was a difference in the Journal after
Tompkins took the place of assistant editor, and a very perceptible
difference; it was not for the better.

About three months after Mr. Everton had dismissed Ayres from his
establishment, a gentleman said to him,

"I am told that the young man who formerly assisted in your paper is in
very destitute circumstances."

"Ayres?"

"Yes. That is his name."

"I am sorry to hear it. I wish him no ill; though he tried to do me all
the harm he could."

"I am sorry to hear that. I always had a good opinion of him; and come,
now, to see if I can't interest you in his favour."

Everton shook his head.

"I don't wish to have any thing to do with him."

"It pains me to hear you speak so. What has he done to cause you to
feel so unkindly towards him?"

"He attacked me in another newspaper, wantonly, at the very time he was
employed in my office."

"Indeed!"

"Yes, and in a way to do me a serious injury."

"That is bad. Where did the attack appear?"

"In the Gazette."

"Did you trace it to him?"

"Yes; or, rather, it bore internal evidence that enabled me to fix it
upon him unequivocally."

"Did you charge it upon him?"

"No. I wished to have no quarrel with him, although he evidently tried
to get up one with me. I settled the matter by notifying him to leave
my employment."

"You are certain that he wrote the article?"

"Oh, yes; positive."

And yet the very pertinence of the question threw a doubt into the mind
of Mr. Everton.

The gentleman with whom he was conversing on retiring went to the
office of the Gazette, with the editor of which he was well acquainted.

"Do you remember," said he, "an attack on Mr. Everton, which, some time
ago, appeared in your paper?"

The editor reflected a few moments, and then replied:

"A few months since, two or three articles were published in the
Gazette that did refer to Everton in not a very kind manner."

"Do you know the author?"

"Yes."

"Have you any reasons for wishing to conceal his name?"

"None at all. They were written by a young man who was then in my
office, named Tompkins."

"You are certain of this?"

"I am certain that he brought them to me in his own manuscript."

"Everton suspected a man named Ayres to be the author."

"His assistant editor at the time?"

"Yes; and what is more, discharged him from his employment on the
strength of this suspicion."

"What injustice! Ayres is as innocent as you are."

"I am glad to hear it. The consequences to the poor man have been very
sad. He has had no regular employment since, and his family are now
suffering for even the common necessaries of life."

"That is very bad. Why didn't he deny the charge when it was made
against him?"

"He was never accused. Everton took it for granted that he was guilty,
and acted from this erroneous conclusion."

"What a commentary upon hasty judgments! Has he no employment now?"

"None."

"Then I will give him a situation. I know him to be competent for the
place I wish filled; and I believe he will be faithful."

Here the interview ceased, and the gentleman who had taken the pains to
sift out the truth returned to Everton's office.

"Well," said he, on entering, "I believe I have got to the bottom of
this matter."

"What matter?" asked Everton, looking slightly surprised.

"The matter of Ayres's supposed attack upon you."

"Why do you say supposed?"

"Because it was only supposed. Ayres didn't write the article of which
you complain."

"How do you know?"

"I've seen the editor of the Gazette."

"Did he say that Ayres was not the author?"

"He did."

"Who wrote it then?"

"A man named Tompkins, who was at the time employed in his office."

Everton sprang from his chair as if he had been stung.

"Tompkins!" he exclaimed.

"So he says."

"Can it be possible! And I have the viper in my employment."

"You have?"

"Yes; he has filled the place of Ayres nearly ever since the latter was
dismissed from my office."

"Then you have punished the innocent and rewarded the guilty."

"So much for taking a thing for granted," said Everton, as he moved,
restlessly, about the floor of his office.
