
It was a strange sight to Jenny to see the young man thus moved. Her
innocent heart was drawn toward him with a pitying interest, and she
yearned to speak words of comfort, but knew not what to say.

After Mark grew composed again, he asked Jenny a great many
questions touching her knowledge of his mother; and listened with
deep interest and emotion to many little incidents of Jenny's
intercourse with her, which were related with all the artlessness
and force of truth. In the midst of this singular interview, Mrs.
Lee came in and surprised the young couple, who, forgetting all
reserve, were conversing with an interest in their manner, the
ground of which she might well misunderstand. Jenny started and
looked confused, but, quickly recovering herself, introduced Mark as
the grandson of Mr. Lofton.

The old lady did not respond to this with the cordiality that either
of the young folks had expected. No, not by any means. A flush of
angry suspicion came into her face, and she said to Jenny as she
handed her the bonnet she hurriedly removed--

"Here--take this into the other room and put it away."

The moment Jenny retired, Mrs. Lee turned to Mark, and after looking
at him somewhat sternly for a moment, surprised him with this
speech--

"If I ever find you here again, young man, I'll complain to your
grandfather."

"Will you, indeed!" returned Mark, elevating his person, and looking
at the old lady with flashing eyes. "And pray, what will you say to
the old gentleman?"

"Fine doings, indeed, for the likes o' you to come creeping into a
decent woman's house when she is away!" resumed Mrs. Lee. "Jenny's
not the kind you're looking after, let me tell you. What would your
poor dear mother, who is in heaven, God bless her! think, if she
knew of this?"

The respectful and even affectionate reference to his mother,
softened the feelings of Mark, who was growing very angry.

"Good morning, old lady," said he, as he turned away; "you don't
know what you're talking about!" and springing from the door, he
hurried off with rapid steps. On reaching a wood that lay at some
distance off, Mark sought a retired spot, near where a quiet stream
went stealing noiselessly along amid its alder and willow-fringed
banks, and sitting down upon a grassy spot, gave himself up to
meditation. Little inclined was he now for sport. The birds sung in
the trees above him, fluttered from branch to branch, and even
dipped their wings in the calm waters of the stream, but he heeded
them not. He had other thoughts. Greatly had old Mrs. Lee, in the
blindness of her suddenly aroused fears, wronged the young man. If
the sphere of innocence that was around the beautiful girl had not
been all powerful to subdue evil thoughts and passions in his
breast, the reference to his mother would have been effectual to
that end.

For half an hour had Mark remained seated alone, busy, with thoughts
and feelings of a less wandering and adventurous character than
usually occupied his mind, when, to his surprise, he saw Jenny
Lawson advancing along a path that led through a portion of the
woods, with a basket on her arm. She did not observe him until she
had approached within some fifteen or twenty paces; when he arose to
his feet, and she, seeing him, stopped suddenly, and looked pale and
alarmed.

"I am glad to meet you again, Jenny," said Mark, going quickly
toward her, and taking her hand, which she yielded without
resistance. "Don't be frightened. Mrs. Lee did me wrong. Heaven
knows I would not hurt a hair of your head! Come and sit down with
me in this quiet place, and let us talk about my mother. You say you
knew her and loved her. Let her memory make us friends."

Mark's voice trembled with feeling. There was something about the
girl that made the thought of his mother a holier and tenderer
thing. He had loved his mother intensely, and since her death, had
felt her loss as the saddest calamity that had, or possibly ever
could, befall him. Afloat on the stormy sea of human life, he had
seemed like a mariner without helm or compass. Strangely enough,
since meeting with Jenny at the cottage a little while before, the
thought of her appeared to bring his mother nearer to him; and when,
so unexpectedly, he saw her approaching him in the woods, he felt
momentarily, that it was his mother's spirit guiding her thither.

Urged by so strong an appeal, Jenny suffered herself to be led to
the retired spot where Mark had been reclining, half wondering, half
fearful--yet impelled by a certain feeling that she could not well
resist. In fact, each exercised a power over the other, a power not
arising from any determination of will, but from a certain spiritual
affinity that neither comprehended. Some have called this "destiny,"
but it has a better name.

"Jenny," said Mark, after they were seated--he still retained her
hand in his, and felt it tremble--"tell me something about my
mother. It will do me good to hear of her from your lips."

The girl tried to make some answer, but found no utterance. Her lips
trembled so that she could not speak. But she grew more composed
after a time, and then in reply to many questions of Mark, related
incident after incident, in which his mother's goodness of character
stood prominent. The young man listened intently, sometimes with his
eyes upon the ground, and sometimes gazing admiringly into the sweet
face of the young speaker.

Time passed more rapidly than either Mark or Jenny imagined. For
full an hour had they been engaged in earnest conversation, when
both were painfully surprised by the appearance of Mrs. Lee, who had
sent Jenny on an errand, and expected her early return. A suspicion
that she might encounter young Clifford having flashed through the
old woman's mind, she had come forth to learn if possible the cause
of Jenny's long absence. To her grief and anger, she discovered them
sitting together engaged in earnest conversation.

"Now, Mark Clifford!" she exclaimed as she advanced, "this is too
bad! And Jenny, you weak and foolish girl! are you madly bent on
seeking the fowler's snare? Child! child! is it thus you repay me
for my love and care over you!"

Both Mark and Jenny started to their feet, the face of the former
flushed with instant anger, and that of the other pale from alarm.

"Come!" and Mrs. Lee caught hold of Jenny's arm and drew her away.
As they moved off, the former, glancing back at Mark, and shaking
her finger towards him, said--

"I'll see your grandfather, young man!"

Fretted by this second disturbance of an interview with Jenny, and
angry at an unjust imputation of motive, Mark dashed into the woods,
with his gun in his hand, and walked rapidly, but aimlessly, for
nearly an hour, when he found himself at the summit of a high
mountain, from which, far down and away towards the east, he could
see the silvery Hudson winding along like a vein of silver. Here,
wearied with his walk, and faint in spirit from over excitement, he
sat down to rest and to compose his thoughts. Scarcely intelligible
to himself were his feelings. The meeting with Jenny, and the effect
upon him, were things that he did not clearly understand. Her
influence over him was a mystery. In fact, what had passed so
hurriedly, was to him more like a dream than a reality.

No further idea of sport entered the mind of the young man on that
day. He remained until after the sun had passed the meridian in this
retired place, and then went slowly back, passing the cottage of
Mrs. Lee on his return. He did not see Jenny as he had hoped. On
meeting Mr. Lofton, Mark became aware of a change in the old man's
feelings towards him, and he guessed at once rightly as to the
cause. If he had experienced any doubts, they would have been
quickly removed.

"Mark!" said the old gentleman, sternly, almost the moment the
grandson came into his presence, "I wish you to go back to New York
to-morrow. I presume I need hardly explain my reason for this wish,
when I tell you that I have just had a visit from old Mrs. Lee."

The fiery spirit of Mark was stung into madness by this further
reaction on him in a matter that involved nothing of criminal
intent. Impulsive in his feelings, and quick to act from them, he
replied with a calmness and even sadness in his voice that Mr.
Lofton did not expect--the calmness was from a strong effort: the
sadness expressed his real feelings:

"I will not trouble you with my presence an hour longer. If evil
arise from this trampling of good impulse out of my heart, the sin
rest on your own head. I never was and never can be patient under a
false judgment. Farewell, grandfather! We may never meet again. If
you hear of evil befalling me, think of it as having some connection
with this hour."

With these words Mark turned away and left the house. The old man,
in grief and alarm at the effect of his words, called after him, but
he heeded him not.

"Run after him, and tell him to come back," he cried to a servant
who stood near and had listened to what had passed between them. The
order was obeyed, but it was of no avail. Mark returned a bitter
answer to the message he brought him, and continued on his way. As
he was hurrying along, suddenly he encountered Jenny. It was strange
that he should meet her so often. There was something in it more
