
"I can."

"All right. I'll take it."

"Give me your note at sixty days, and I'll have the shares
transferred at once."

In five minutes from the time Perkins entered the store of Mr.
Jones, he left with the merchant's note for over four thousand
dollars in his hand. The shares in the Riverland Railroad had been
steadily advancing for some months, and Mr. Jones entertained not
the shadow of a doubt that in a very short period they would be up
to par. He had already purchased freely, and at prices beyond
eighty-two dollars. The speculation he regarded as entirely safe,
and one that would "pay" handsomely.

"I think that will pay a good deal better than hunting up the poor
widows of insolvent merchants," said Mr. Jones to himself, as he
walked the length of his store once or twice, rubbing his hands
every now and then with irrepressible glee. "If I'd been led off by
Smith on that fool's errand, just see what I would have lost.
Operations like that don't go a begging long. But this gentleman
knows in what quarter his interest lies."

Not long after the departure of Perkins, a small wholesale dealer,
named Armor, came into the store of Mr. Jones.

"I have several lots that I am anxious to close out this morning,"
said he. "Can I do any thing here?"

"What have you?" asked Mr. Jones.

"Ten boxes of tobacco, fifty prime hams, ten boxes Havana cigars,
some rice, &c."

Now, these were the very articles Mr. Jones wanted, and which he
would have to purchase in a day or two. But he affected indifference
as he inquired the price. The current market rates were mentioned.

"No temptation," said Mr. Jones, coldly.

"They are prime articles, all; none better to be had," said the
dealer.

"If I was in immediate want of them, I could give you an order;
but"----

"Will you make me an offer?" inquired Armor, somewhat earnestly. "I
have a good deal of money to raise to-day, and for cash will sell at
a bargain."

Mr. Jones mused for some time. He was not certain whether, in making
or requiring an offer, he would get the best bargain out of his
needy customer. At last he said--

"Put down your prices to the very lowest figure, and I can tell you
at a word whether I will close out these lots for you. As I said
before, I have a good stock of each on hand."

For what a small gain will some men sacrifice truth and honour!

The dealer had notes in bank that must be lifted, and he saw no way
of obtaining all the funds he needed, except through forced sales,
at a depression on the market prices. So, to make certain of an
operation, he named, accordingly, low rates--considerably below
cost.

Mr. Jones, who was very cunning, and very shrewd, accepted the
prices on two or three articles, but demurred to the rest, and these
the most important of the whole. Finally, an operation was made, in
which he was a gainer, in the purchase of goods for which he had
almost immediate sale, of over two hundred dollars, while the needy
merchant was a loser by just that sum.

"That paid!" was the self-congratulatory ejaculation of Mr. Jones,
"and handsomely, too. I should like to do it over again, about a
dozen times before night. Rather better than widow speculations--ha!
ha!"

We shall see. On leaving the store of his neighbour, Mr. Smith went
to the hotel at which he understood Mrs. Lloyd had taken lodgings,
and made inquiry for her. A lady in deep mourning, accompanied by
two daughters, one a lovely girl, not over twenty years of age, and
the other about twelve, soon entered the parlour.

"Mrs. Lloyd, I believe," said Mr. Smith.

The lady bowed. As soon as all parties were seated, the gentleman
said--

"My name is Smith. During your former residence in this city, I was
well acquainted with your husband. Permit me to offer my heartfelt
sympathy in the painful bereavement you have suffered."

There was a slight pause, and then Mr. Smith resumed--

"Hearing of your return to this city, I have called to ask if there
are any good offices that I can render you. If you have any plans
for the future--if you want advice--if a friend in need will be of
service--do not hesitate to speak freely, My high regard for your
husband's memory will not suffer me to be indifferent to the welfare
of his widow and children."

Mr. Smith had not purposed making, when he called, so general a
tender of service. But there was something in the lady's fine
countenance which told him that she had both independence and
decision of character, and that he need not fear an abuse of his
generous kindness.

Touched by such an unexpected declaration, it was some moments
before she could reply. She then said--

"I thank you, in the name of my departed husband, for this
unlooked-for and generous offer. Though back in the city, which was
formerly my home, I find myself comparatively a stranger. Yesterday
I made inquiry for Mr. Edward Hunter, an old and fast friend of Mr.
Lloyd's, and to my pain and regret learned that he was deceased."

"Yes, madam; he died about two months ago."

"With him I purposed consulting as to my future course of action;
but his death has left me without a single friend in the city to
whose judgment I can confide my plans and purposes."

"Mr. Hunter was one of nature's noblemen," said Mr. Smith, warmly;
"and you are not the only one who has cause to mourn his loss. But
there are others in our city who are not insensible to the claims of
humanity--others who, like him, sometimes let their thoughts range
beyond the narrow sphere of self."

"My object in returning to this place," resumed Mrs. Lloyd, "was to
get started in some safe and moderately profitable business. A short
time before my husband's removal, by the death of a distant relative
I fell heir to a small piece of landed property, which I recently
sold in New Orleans. By the advice of my agent there, I have
invested the money in fifty shares of Riverland Railroad stock,
which he said I could sell here at a good advance. These shares are
now in the hands of a broker, named Perkins, who is authorized to
sell them at eighty-two dollars a share."

"He'll find no difficulty in doing that, ma'am. I would have taken
them at eighty-three."

At this stage of the conversation, Perkins himself entered the
parlour.

"Ah, Mr. Smith!" said he, "I called at your place of business this
morning, but was not so fortunate as to find you in. I had fifty
shares of Riverland stock, the property of Mrs. Lloyd here, which I
presumed you would like to buy."

"You were not out of the way in your presumption. Have you made the
sale?"

"Oh yes. Not finding you in, I saw Mr. Jones, who took the shares at
a word."

"At what price?"

"Eighty-two. I have his note at sixty days for the amount, which you
know is perfectly good."

"Mrs. Lloyd need not have the slightest hesitation in accepting it;
and if she wishes the money, I can get it cashed for her." Then
rising, he added, "I will leave you now, Mrs. Lloyd, as business
requires both your attention and mine. To-morrow I will do myself
the pleasure to call on you again."

As Mr. Smith bowed himself out, he noticed, more particularly, the
beautiful smile of the elder daughter, whose eyes, humid from
grateful emotion, were fixed on his countenance with an expression
that haunted him for hours afterward.

"I hardly think that paid," was the remark of Mr. Jones, on meeting
Mr. Smith some hours afterward.

"What?" asked the latter.

"Your visit to Lloyd's widow."
