Something in the tone of voice touched her unpleasantly. I saw the light
in her eyes glow intenser, and her lips arch.

“Why not?” she asked, looking at me steadily. I could have given another
meaning to my question from the one I intended to convey, had it so
pleased me, and thus avoided a probable offence. But I wished to see a
little deeper into the quality of her mind, and so used the probe that
was in my hand.

“If you find a will, devising the property out of your line, all your
present prospects are at an end,” said I.

“I know it.”

Her voice was firm as well as emphatic.

“Then why not take the other horn of this dilemma? Give up searching for
a will that can hardly be in your favor, and go on to prove your title
through consanguinity.”

“And thus shut my eyes to the probable rights of others, in order to
secure a personal advantage? Do you think I would do this, Doctor? If
so, you have mistaken me.”

There was a tone of regret in her voice.

“Pardon me,” I replied. “The suggestion was natural under the
circumstances, and I gave it utterance.”

“Were you in my place, would you give up the search here?”

She fixed on me a penetrating look.

The probe had changed hands.

“It is difficult,” I answered, “for us to say what we would do if we
were to change places with another. In my experience, it is easy to see
what is right for our neighbor, but very difficult to see the right way
for ourselves, when under the allurement of some personal advantage.”

“Would it be right in me to give up the search?”

“I think not.”

My answer was without hesitation.

“And I will not,” she said, firmly. “If my brother has devised his
property, I have only to know the terms of his will. If it is against
me, well. I shall not oppose its operation.”

“It sometimes happens,” I suggested, “that a testator is manifestly
out of his right mind as to the direction given to his property, and
bequeaths it in a manner so evidently unwise and improper, that both
justice and humanity are served in the act of setting aside the will.
And it might prove so in this case.”

“I know not how that may be,” Mrs. Montgomery answered, soberly, yet
firmly. “But this I do know”--she spoke resolutely--“God helping me, I
will not stain my hands with gold that, in any legal right, belongs to
another. What is clearly mine, I will take and use as it is my right
and duty. But I must be certain that it is mine. If there is no will, I
am clear as to who is the owner of this estate; if there is a will, and
I and mine are not included in its provisions, I will step aside. First,
however, the obligation to search for a will is imperative; and I shall
continue it until clearly satisfied that no such document exists.”

What a womanly dignity there was in Mrs. Montgomery as she said this,
drawing her tall form up to its full height in speaking--not proudly,
but with conscious integrity!

“What is right is always best.” I made the remark as well approvingly as
in expression of an immutable truth.

“Always, always,” she replied, with earnestness. “There is no blinder
folly than that of grasping a present worldly good, at the expense of
violated justice. Whoever does so, comes out that far wrong in the end.
There is only one way that leads to peace of mind: the way of honor and
right. All other ways, no matter into what rich harvest fields they may
lead in the beginning, terminate in wretchedness. There never has been,
and never will be, any exception to this rule. We see its operation
daily, turn our eyes whatsoever way we choose. And God forbid that I
should deliberately enter the way that leads to ultimate unhappiness!
Self-denial in the present is better than gnawing regret in the future.
The good things of this world prove to be curses instead of blessings,
unless the mind be rightly adjusted for their enjoyment. And such a
right adjustment is impossible where the very fact of their possession
involves a moral wrong. I see this so clearly, Doctor, that I shudder
inwardly at the bare imagination of committing such a wrong.”

“It is by trial that God proves us,” said I, “and may He bring you out
of this one, should the trial come, as gold from the refiner’s furnace!”

“Amen!” was her solemnly uttered response; “if it should come, may I be
found strong enough to do the right!”

For over a week this search for a will was continued, until it was
clear to all concerned that no such document was in existence. Then
preparation was made for the visit to England, in search of evidence
bearing upon the identity of Mrs. Montgomery as the sister of Captain
Allen. Two or three months elapsed, however, before Mr. Wallingford
could so arrange his business as to be absent for the length of time
it might take to complete his mission. He sailed for England in June,
between three and four months after the marriage of Delia Floyd. He
called to see me on the day before leaving, and I had a brief but
pleasant talk with him. He was in good health and good spirits, and
anticipated a successful visit.

“I shall gain,” he remarked, “in two ways by this trip. Professionally
and intellectually. I have had many a dream of that land of our
forefathers--England--now to be realized. I shall see London, walk its
streets, and linger amid its historic places. Don’t smile at this
almost boyish enthusiasm, Doctor. London has always been the Mecca of my
desires.”

I had never seen him so animated. A higher life seemed flowing in his
veins. His countenance had a brighter aspect than usual, and his head
an erecter carriage. There was a depth of meaning in his eyes never
observed before--a look as if some new born hope were lending its
inspiration to his soul. Altogether manlier was his aspect and bearing
than I had ever seen it.

“God speed your mission,” said I, as I shook hands with him in parting.

“If it depends on human agency, directed with earnestness, patience, and
will, my mission will have a prosperous result,” he replied. “It is to
be my first entirely self-reliant experience, and I think the discipline
of mind it will involve must strengthen me for higher professional work
than any in which I have yet been engaged. You are aware, Doctor, that
my heart is in my profession.”

“So I have seen from the beginning.”

“I will not deny,” he added, “that I have ambition. That I wish to be
distinguished at the bar.”

“An honorable ambition,” said I.

“Nor that, sometimes--in moments of weakness, perhaps--my dreams
have gone higher. But I am a very young man, and youth is ardent and
imaginative,” he added.

“And you have this great advantage,” I replied, “that, with every year
added to your life, you may, if you will, grow wiser and stronger. You
stand, as all young minds, at the bottom of a ladder. The height to
which you climb will depend upon your strength and endurance.”

“If we both live long enough, Doctor, you may see me on the topmost
rundle, for I shall climb with unwearying effort.”

He spoke with a fine enthusiasm, that lent a manly beauty to his face.

“Climb on,” I answered, “and you will rise high above the great mass,
who are aimless and indolent. But you will have competitors, few, but
vigorous and tireless. In the contest for position that you must wage
with these, all your powers will be taxed; and if you reach the
topmost rundle to which you aspire, success will be, indeed, a proud
achievement.”

“I have the will, the ambition, the courage, and the endurance, Doctor,”
 was his reply. “So, if I fail, the fault will lie here,” and he touched,
significantly, his forehead.

“For lack of brains?” said I, smiling.

“Yes. The defect will lie there,” he answered, smiling in return.

“Brains are remarkable for latent capacity. If stimulated, they develop
new powers, and this almost without limit. All they want is to be well
supplied with the right kind of food, and well worked at the same time.”

“I believe that, Doctor, and find vast encouragement in the thought,”
 and Wallingford laughed pleasantly.

Our parting words were growing voluminous. So we shook hands again,
repeated our mutual good wishes, and separated. In the afternoon he
started for Boston, from whence he sailed, on the next day, for England.

This was towards the latter end of June. He was to write to Mrs.
Montgomery immediately on his arrival out, and again as soon as he had
obtained an interview with the Willoughby family. Early in August,
