the front gate of the little cottage.

"That's so, Jack; and it made my blood boil to hear them talk," replied
Thomas. "And I couldn't help calling things by their right names."

"Bully for you, Tom!" added John, as he turned round, and glanced at the
house to assure himself they were out of the hearing of their mother.
"Between you and me, Tom, there will be music in Pinchbrook to-night."

He lowered his voice, and spoke in tones big with mystery and heavy with
importance.

"What do you mean?" asked Thomas, his interest excited by the words
and manner of his brother.

"There is fun ahead."

"Tell me what it's all about."

"You won't say a word--will you?"

"Of course I won't."

"Not to mother, I mean, most of all."

"Certainly not."

"Squire Pemberton has been talking too loud for his own good."

"I know that; he was in the store this forenoon, and Jeff Davis himself is
no bigger traitor than he is."

"Some of the people are going to make him a call to-night."

"What for?"

"What do you suppose? Can't you see through a millstone, Tom, when there
is a hole in it?"

"I don't know what you mean."

"You can come with us if you like, and then you will know all about it,"
added John, mysteriously.

"But what are you going to do?"

"We are going to make him hoist the American flag on his house, or hang it
out of his window."

"Well, suppose he won't."

"Then we'll hang him where the flag ought to be. We'll pull the house down
over his head."

"I'm with you, Jack," replied Thomas, with enthusiasm.

"We won't have a traitor in Pinchbrook. If we can't cure him, we'll ride
him on a rail out of the town."

"I don't know as you and I ought to get into this scrape," added Thomas,
thoughtfully.

"Why not?"

"You know the squire has a mortgage on our house, and he may get ugly."

"Let him, if he likes. I'm not going to tolerate a traitor because he has
a mortgage on my father's house. Besides, that is a fair business
transaction; the squire gets his interest."

"Mother is afraid of him, as she is of the evil spirit."

"Women are always timid," said John, sagely.

"By George! there comes the very man himself!" exclaimed Thomas, as he
discovered a horse and chaise slowly approaching.

"So it is; that old chaise looks rather the worse for the wear. It looks
as though it had been through the wars."

The vehicle did bear very evident marks of hard usage. One of the shafts
was broken, the dasher wrenched off, and the top stove in. The horse was
covered with mud, and limped badly from the effects of his fall. The
broken shaft and the harness were now plentifully adorned with ropes and
old straps. In fact, the catastrophe had utterly ruined all claim which
the chaise ever might have had to be considered a "hahnsome kerridge."

"There'll be fun nearer home, I reckon," said John, as he obtained his
first view of the sour visage of the squire.

"Can't help it," added Thomas.

"Keep a stiff upper lip, Tom."

"I intend to do so."

"Don't say a word about to-night, Tom."

"Of course not."

When the chaise had approached near enough to enable the squire to
recognize the author of his misfortunes, he stopped the horse, and got out
of the vehicle, with the whip in his hand.

"Now, you young scoundrel, I will teach you to insult me and my son, and
destroy my property. Stay in the chaise, Fred, and hold the horse," he
added to his son.

But there was not much need of holding the horse now, for he was too lame
to run fast or far. Thomas and John came to a halt; and if the squire had
been a prudent man, he might have seen by the flash of their eyes, that he
was about to engage in an unsafe operation.

"I am going to horsewhip you within an inch of your life, you villain,
you!" roared the squire, brandishing the whip.

"No, you are not," replied Thomas, coolly.

"If you drop the weight of that lash on my brother, I'll smash your head,"
added John.

The squire paused, and glanced at the wiry form of the young sailor.
Better thoughts, or at least wiser ones, came to his aid.

"I can bring you to your senses in another way," said he, dropping his
whip, and getting into the chaise again. "You will hear from me before the
week is out."

"Let him go; don't say a word, Tom," added John.

"He will prosecute me, I suppose he means by that."

"Let him prosecute and be hanged! I'll bet by to-morrow morning he will
think better of it. At any rate, he will find out what the people of
Pinchbrook think of him."

The boys resumed their walk, and soon reached the store, where they found
the group of idlers, that always frequent shops in the country, busily
engaged in discussing the affair in which Thomas had been the principal
actor. As the boys entered, the hero of the Pinchbrook Battle was saluted
with a volley of applause, and his conduct fully approved and commended,
for a copperhead in that day was an abomination to the people.




CHAPTER III.

TAMING A TRAITOR.


With the exception of Squire Pemberton, Pinchbrook was a thoroughly loyal
town; and the people felt that it was a scandal and a disgrace to have
even a single traitor within its border. The squire took no pains to
conceal his treasonable sentiments, though the whole town was in a blaze
of patriotic excitement. On the contrary, he had gone out of his way, and
taken a great deal of pains, to condemn the government and the people of
the North.

Squire Pemberton was a wealthy man, and he had always been a person of
great influence in the place. He had occupied all the principal official
positions in town and county. He had come to regard himself, as his
townsmen were for the most part willing to regard him, as the social and
political oracle of the place. What he thought in town meeting was
generally the sense of his fellow-citizens, and when he expressed himself
in words, his word was law.

When, on Sunday morning, with Fort Sumter in ruins, with the national flag
trodden under the feet of traitors, with the government insulted and
threatened, Squire Pemberton ventured to speak in tones of condemnation of
the free North, the people of Pinchbrook listened coldly, at first, to the
sayings of their oracle; and when he began to abuse the loyal spirit of
the North, some ventured to dissent from him. The oracle was not in the
habit of having men dissent, and it made him angry. His treason became
more treasonable, his condemnation more bitter. Plain, honest men, to
whatever party they might have belonged, were disgusted with the great man
of Pinchbrook; and some of them ventured to express their disapprobation
of his course in very decided terms. Some were disposed to be indulgent
because the Squire had a sister in Georgia who had married a planter. But
there was not found a single person, outside of his own family, who was
