
"It could not, Adam; you had wholly roused it, and it cried for you so
long, so bitterly, oh, why did you not come to answer it before?"

"How could I till the year was over? Was I not obeying you in keeping
that accursed promise? God knows I have made many blunders, but I think
the most senseless was that promise; the most short-sighted, that
belief. What right had I to fetter my tongue, or try to govern love?
Shall I ever learn to do my own work aright, and not meddle with the
Lord's? Sylvia, take this presumptuous and domineering devil out of me
in time, lest I blunder as blindly after you are mine as I have before.
Now let me finish before Mark comes to find us. I went away, you know,
singing the farewell I dared not speak, and for nine months kept myself
sane and steady with whatever my hands found to do. If ever work of mine
is blessed it will be that, for into it I put the best endeavor of my
life. Though I had renounced you, I kept my love; let it burn day and
night, fed it with labor and with prayer, trusting that this selfish
heart of mine might be recast and made a fitter receptacle for an
enduring treasure. In May, far at the West, I met a woman who knew
Geoffrey; had seen him lately, and learned that he had lost you. She was
his cousin, I his friend, and through our mutual interest in him this
confidence naturally came about. When she told me this hope blazed up,
and all manner of wild fancies haunted me. Love is arrogant, and I
nourished a belief that even I might succeed where Geoffrey failed. You
were so young, you were not likely to be easily won by any other, if
such a man had asked in vain, and a conviction gradually took possession
of me that you had understood, had loved, and were yet waiting for
me. A month seemed an eternity to wait, but I left myself no moment for
despair, and soon turned my face to Cuba, finding renewed hope on the
way. Gabriel went with me, told me how Ottila had searched for me, and
failing to find me had gone back to make ready for my coming. How she
had tried to be all I desired, and how unworthy I was of her. This was
well, but the mention of your name was better, and much close
questioning gave me the scene which he remembered, because Ottila had
chidden him sharply for his disclosures to yourself. Knowing you so
well, I gathered much from trifles which were nothing in Gabriel's eyes.
I felt that regard for me, if nothing warmer, had prompted your interest
in them; and out of the facts given me by Faith and Gabriel I built
myself a home, which I have inhabited as a guest till now, when I know
myself its master, and welcome its dear mistress, so my darling."

He bent to give her tender greeting, but Sylvia arrested him.

"Not yet, Adam! not yet! Go on, before it is too late to tell me as you
wish."

He thought it was some maidenly scruple, and though he smiled at it he
respected it, for this same coyness in the midst of all her whims had
always been one of her attractions in his eye.

"Shy thing! I will tame you yet, and draw you to me as confidingly as I
drew the bird to hop into my hand and eat. You must not fear me, Sylvia,
else I shall grow tyrannical; for I hate fear, and like to trample on
whatever dares not fill its place bravely, sure that it will receive its
due as trustfully as these little mosses sit among the clouds and find a
spring to feed them even in the rock. Now I will make a speedy end of
this, pleasant as it is to sit here feeling myself no longer a solitary
waif. I shall spare you the stormy scenes I passed through with Ottila,
because I do not care to think of my Cleopatra while I hold 'my fine
spirit Ariel' in my arms. She had done her best, but had I been still
heart-free I never could have married her. She is one of those tameless
natures which only God can govern; I dared not, even when I thought I
loved her, for much as I love power I love truth more. I told her this,
heard prayers, reproaches, threats, and denunciations; tried to leave
her kindly, and then was ready for my fate with you. But I was not to
have my will so easily. I had fallen into the net, and was not to leave
it till the scourging had been given. So like that other wandering
Christian, I cried out, submitted, and was the meeker for it. I had to
wait a little before the ship sailed; I would not stay at El Labarinto,
Gabriel's home, for Ottila was there; and though the fever raged at
Havana, I felt secure in my hitherto unbroken health. I returned there,
and paid the penalty; for weeks of suffering taught me that I could not
trifle with this body of mine, sturdy as it seemed."

"Oh, Adam, who took care of you? Where did you lie and suffer all that
time?"

"Never fret yourself concerning that; I was not neglected. A sister of
the 'Sacred Heart' took excellent care of me, and a hospital is as good
as a palace when one neither knows nor cares where he is. It went hardly
with me, I believe; but being resolved to live, I fought it through.
Death looked at me, had compassion, and passed by. There is a Haytien
proverb which must comfort you if I am a gaunt ghost of my former self:
'A lean freeman is better than a fat slave.' There comes the first smile
I have seen; but my next bit of news will bring a frown, I think. When I
was well enough to creep out, I learned that Ottila was married. You
heard the rumor, doubtless, but not the name, for Gabriel's and mine
were curiously blended in many minds by the suddenness of my
disappearance and his appearance as the bridegroom. It was like
her,--she had prepared for me as if sure I was to fill the place I had
left, hoping that this confidence of hers would have its due effect upon
me. It did try me sorely, but an experience once over is as if it had
never been, as far as regret or indecision is concerned; therefore
wedding gowns and imperious women failed to move me. To be left a
groomless bride stung that fiery pride of hers more than many an actual
shame or sin would have done. People would pity her, would see her loss,
deride her wilful folly. Gabriel loved her as she desired to be loved,
blindly and passionately; few knew of our later bond, many of our
betrothal, why not let the world believe me the rejected party come back
for a last appeal? I had avoided all whom I once knew, for I loathed the
place; no one had discovered me at the hospital, she thought me gone,
she boldly took the step, married the poor boy, left Cuba before I was
myself again, and won herself an empty victory which I never shall
disturb."

"How strange! Yet I can believe it of her, she looked a woman who would
dare do anything. Then you came back, Adam, to find me? What led you
here, hoping so much and knowing so little?"

"Did you ever know me do anything in the accustomed way? Do I not always
aim straight at the thing I want and pursue it by the shortest road? It
fails often, and I go back to the slower surer way; but my own is always
tried first, as involuntarily as I hurled myself down that slope, as if
storming a fort instead of meeting my sweetheart. That is a pretty old
word beloved of better men than I, so let me use it once. Among the
first persons I met on landing was a friend of your father's; he was
just driving away in hot haste, but catching a glimpse of the familiar
face, I bethought me that it was the season for summer travel, you might
be away, and no one else would satisfy me; he might know, and time be
saved. I asked one question, 'Where are the Yules?' He answered, as he
vanished, 'The young people are all at the mountains.' That was enough,
and congratulating myself on the forethought which would save me some
hundred miles of needless delay, away I went, and for days have been
searching for you every where on that side of these hills which I know
so well. But no Yules had passed, and feeling sure you were on this side
I came, not around, but straight over, for this seemed a royal road to
my love, and here I found her waiting for me by the way. Now Sylvia, are
your doubts all answered, your fears all laid, your heart at rest on
mine?"

As the time drew nearer Sylvia's task daunted her. Warwick was so
confident, so glad and tender over her, it seemed like pronouncing the
death doom to say those hard words, "It is too late." While she
struggled to find some expression that should tell all kindly yet
entirely, Adam, seeming to read some hint of her trouble, asked, with
that gentleness which now overlaid his former abruptness, and was the
more alluring for the contrast--

"Have I been too arrogant a lover? too sure of happiness, too blind to
my small deserts? Sylvia, have I misunderstood the greeting you have
given me?"

"Yes, Adam, utterly."

He knit his brows, his eye grew anxious, his content seemed rudely
broken, but still hopefully he said--

"You mean that absence has changed you, that you do not love me as you
did, and pity made you kind? Well, I receive the disappointment, but I
do not relinquish my desire. What has been may be; let me try again to
earn you; teach me to be humble, patient, all that I should be to make
myself more dear to you. Something disturbs you, be frank with me; I
have shown you all my heart, what have you to show me in return?"

"Only this."

She freed herself entirely from his hold and held up her hand before
him. He did not see the ring; he thought she gave him all he asked, and
with a glow of gratitude extended both his own to take it. Then she saw
that delay was worse than weak, and though she trembled she spoke out
bravely ending his suspense at once.

"Adam, I do not love you as I did, nor can I wish or try to bring it
back, because--I am married."

He sprung up as if shot through the heart, nor could a veritable bullet
from her hand have daunted him with a more intense dismay than those
three words. An instant's incredulity, then conviction came to him, and
he met it like a man, for though his face whitened and his eye burned
with an expression that wrung her heart, he demanded steadily,--

"To whom?"

This was the hardest question of all, for well she knew the name would
wound the deeper for its dearness, and while it lingered pitifully upon
her lips its owner answered for himself. Clear and sweet came up the
music of the horn, bringing them a familiar air they all loved, and had
often sung together. Warwick knew it instantly, felt the hard truth but
rebelled against it, and put out his arm as if to ward it off as he
exclaimed, with real anguish in countenance and voice--
