The light step of the moccasoned feet of the savages was now distinctly
heard in the barn. Their guttural jargon grated harshly on the ears of
the fugitives in their concealment, as they tremblingly waited the
issue.




CHAPTER XIV.

THE INDIAN BOY.


Above the voices of the other savages, the harsh and heavy tones of
Lean Bear were prominent. He spoke in the Indian dialect, and of course
the anxious fugitives could not understand what he said; but he seemed
to be angry and impatient, disappointed and chagrined; and Ethan and
Fanny readily inferred that, as he was searching for them, he was the
more ferocious because he could not find them. They lay silent and
motionless in their hiding-place, hardly daring to breathe, lest a
sound should reach the quick ears of their relentless foes.

The Indians searched in every nook and cranny of the barn where a human
being could possibly be concealed. They climbed to the top of the mow,
pulled over the hay, jumped upon it, and thrust their knives deep down.
The fugitives felt the weight of the pursuers pressing heavily down
upon them; they realized that the points of the bloody knives were
within a short distance of their vital organs; but, breathless and
silent, they lay in the most agonizing suspense, expecting to be
dragged from their retreat, and subjected to atrocities which it froze
their blood to think of.

The remorseless miscreants howled with disappointed rage as the search
was abandoned. Fanny and Ethan drew a long sigh of relief when they
heard their foes on the floor beneath them. The good Father to whom
they prayed so earnestly had dimmed the eyes of the savages so that
they could not see, and the danger of that terrible moment passed by
them. Fanny breathed her thanks to God for her safety--she did not dare
to speak them.

The savages consulted together, using brief, sharp, and exciting
sentences. Their words were not understood, and no clew to their future
purposes could be obtained. Lean Bear spoke in tones even more savage
than he had used before, and the steps of the Indians were heard as
they left the barn.

"Hev they gone?" asked Ethan, in a convulsive whisper.

"Yes, I think they have," replied Fanny, in a tone not less agitated.
"Let us thank God that we are still safe."

"Don't whistle till you get out o' the woods," added Ethan, who
referred, not to the thanks, but to the exultation which his companion
appeared to feel at their apparent safety.

"We must be thankful and submissive, Ethan. We have been saved this
time, whatever may happen next."

"I am thankful."

"I know you are. We must trust in our Father in heaven if we expect him
to hear our prayer."

"'Sh!" interposed Ethan, as he became silent and motionless again.

The voices of the Indians were heard near the barn again, and other
moments of agonizing suspense were in store for the fugitives. The
gruff tones of Lean Bear rose above those of his companions, and it was
evident that they had not yet given up the search.

"Ho, ho, ho! He, he, he!" yelled the monsters, which cries were to them
expressions of satisfaction.

It was painfully clear to Ethan and Fanny that the Indians had made
some important discovery, or done some act which would accomplish their
purpose. More agonizing than the thought came the reality, a few
moments afterwards, while the wretches outside of the barn were still
shouting their hideous yells. A smell of smoke, accompanied by a sharp,
crackling sound, assured the waiting, trembling couple in the hay-mow
that their worst fears were realized. The Indians had set fire to the
barn.

"We are lost!" exclaimed Fanny. "They have set fire to the barn!"

"'Sh! Don't say a word," interposed Ethan.

"We shall be burned to death!"

"Don't give up; keep still."

"Keep still?" repeated Fanny, amazed at the self-possession of her
companion. "We shall be burned to death in a few minutes."

"Don't say nothin', Fanny."

It was not easy to keep still in that terrible moment of peril, but
Ethan seemed to know what he was about, and his coolness and courage
acted as inspiration upon his terrified companion. Fanny prayed again,
in a hardly audible whisper; but this time, Ethan, though perhaps his
heart was with her, was thinking of something else. She felt more calm
after her prayer, though the dense smoke and the snapping flames
admonished her that death was close at hand. The rough prairie boy
looked resolute, and seemed to have conquered his fears. She wondered
whether he had discovered any possible avenue of escape, for nothing
but the promptings of a strong hope, whether real or delusive, could
have produced such a change in his bearing.

"Better be burned up, than butchered by the redskins," said he, at
last.

Was this the explanation of his new-born courage? It was a terrible
alternative, but Fanny was forced to believe that what he said was
true.

"Is there no escape for us?"

"Don'no; whar's the Injins now?"

"I don't hear them," replied Fanny.

"Nuther do I. We must stay here jest as long as we kin."

"But the barn is on fire! If we are going to get out at all, we must do
so at once."

"Don't hurry. The fire's all out to t'other end o' the barn. It won't
hurt us jest yit," said Ethan, with wonderful coolness. "I s'pose the
Injins is in a hurry, and they won't stop no longer'n they want to.
Jest as soon as they move off we'll git out."

"How shall we get out after the barn is all in a blaze?"

"That's easy enough. I ain't a bit afeered of the fire, but I am pesky
skeered of the Injins."

The confidence of Ethan increased the courage of Fanny. She had more to
dread from the Indians than he had, and if he preferred to die by the
flames, she ought to be willing to share his fate. She commended her
soul and that of her companion to God, and tried to be calm and
resolute, and she succeeded to an extent which astonished herself.

The fire was rapidly leaping upward, and the barn was soon enveloped in
flames. The Indians could not now be seen through the cracks, nor could
their voices be heard, and the fire-besieged fugitives supposed they
had gone to new fields of blood and rapine.

"We can't stand it much longer--kin we?" said Ethan, as they heard the
crash of some falling timbers at the other end of the building.

"We are not burned yet, but I am nearly suffocated by the smoke,"
replied Fanny. "Do you suppose the Indians are gone?"

"I reckon they be; but they hain't gone fur yit," added Ethan, as he
applied his shoulder to one of the boards on the side of the barn.

"Let me help you," said Fanny.

"You ain't nothin' but a gal, and you can't do much," replied Ethan.

He was a stout boy, and the board, only slightly nailed, gave way
before the pressure he applied to it; but it required a great deal of
labor to detach it from the timbers above and below. He had not begun
this work a moment too soon, for the flames were sweeping over the
surface of the mow, and the roof was falling in upon them. The barn was
stored full of new hay, which, being partially green, did not burn very
readily, especially the solid masses of it. The heat was intense, and
nothing but a greater peril without could have forced them to remain so
long in the building.

The first board was removed, and then a second, leaving an opening wide
enough for them to get out. They were about fifteen feet above the
level of the ground, but there was no difficulty, even to Fanny, in the
descent, though some young ladies might have regarded this minor
obstacle as one of some importance. Ethan thrust his head out at the
aperture, and looked in every direction his position commanded a view
of, in search of the Indians, but none of them were in sight.

"Be quick, Ethan, or the fire will be upon us," said Fanny, who began
to feel the near approach of the flames above her.

