Ida was delighted with her escape, and, with the hope of soon seeing
her friends in New York, She put implicit faith in her guide, and was
willing to submit to any conditions which he might impose.

On emerging into the street, her companion summoned a cab. He had
reasons for not wishing to encounter any one whom he knew.

At length they reached his lodgings.

They were furnished more richly than any room Ida had yet seen; and
formed, indeed, a luxurious contrast to the dark and scantily-furnished
apartment which she had occupied for the last fortnight.

“Well, are you glad to get away from Peg?” asked John Somerville, giving
Ida a seat at the fire.

“Oh, so glad!” said Ida.

“And you wouldn’t care about going back?”

The child shuddered.

“I suppose,” said she, “that Peg will be very angry. She would beat me,
if she should get me back again.”

“But she sha’n’t. I will take good care of that.”

Ida looked her gratitude. Her heart went out to those who appeared to
deal kindly with her, and she felt very grateful to her companion for
his instrumentality in effecting her deliverance from Peg.

“Now,” said Somerville, “perhaps you will be willing to tell me what it
was you were required to do.”

“Yes,” said Ida; “but she must never know that I told. It was to pass
bad money.”

“Ha!” exclaimed her companion. “Do you mean bad bills, or spurious
coin?”

“It was silver dollars.”

“Does she do much in that way?”

“A good deal. She goes out every day to buy things with the money.”

“I am glad to learn this,” said John Somerville, thoughtfully.

“Ida,” said he, after a pause, “I am going out for a time. You will find
books on the table, and can amuse yourself by reading; I won’t make you
sew, as Peg did,” he said, smiling.

Ida laughed.

“Oh, yes,” said she, “I like reading. I shall amuse myself very well.”

Mr. Somerville went out, and Ida, as he recommended, read awhile. Then,
growing tired, she went to the window and looked out. A carriage was
passing slowly, on account of a press of carriages. Ida saw a face that
she knew. Forgetting her bonnet in her sudden joy, she ran down the
stairs, into the street, and up to the carriage window.

“O Jack!” she exclaimed; “have you come for me?”

It was Mrs. Clifton’s carriage, returning from Peg’s lodgings.

“Why, it’s Ida!” exclaimed Jack, almost springing through the window of
the carriage. “Where did you come from, and where have you been all the
time?”

He opened the door of the carriage, and drew Ida in.

Till then she had not seen the lady who sat at Jack’s side.

“My child, my child! Thank God, you are restored to me,” exclaimed Mrs.
Clifton.

She drew the astonished child to her bosom. Ida looked up into her face.
Was it Nature that prompted her to return the lady’s embrace?

“My God, I thank thee!” murmured Mrs. Clifton; “for this, my child, was
lost and is found.”

“Ida,” said Jack, “this lady is your mother.”

“My mother!” said the child, bewildered. “Have I two mothers?”

“Yes, but this is your real mother. You were brought to our house when
you were an infant, and we have always taken care of you; but this lady
is your real mother.”

Ida hardly knew whether to feel glad or sorry.

“And you are not my brother?”

“You shall still consider him your brother, Ida,” said Mrs. Clifton.
“Heaven forbid that I should wean your heart from the friends who have
cared so kindly for you! You shall keep all your old friends, and love
them as dearly as ever. You will only have one friend the more.”

“Where are we going?” asked Ida, suddenly.

“We are going home.”

“What will the gentleman say?”

“What gentleman?”

“The one that took me away from Peg’s. Why, there he is now!”

Mrs. Clifton followed the direction of Ida’s finger, as she pointed to a
gentleman passing.

“Is he the one?”

“Yes, mamma,” said Ida, shyly.

Mrs. Clifton pressed Ida to her breast. It was the first time she had
ever been called mamma. It made her realize, more fully, her present
happiness.

Arrived at the house, Jack’s bashfulness returned. He hung back, and
hesitated about going in.

Mrs. Clifton observed this.

“Jack,” said she, “this house is to be your home while you remain in
Philadelphia. Come in, and Thomas shall go for your baggage.”

“Perhaps I had better go with him,” said Jack. “Uncle Abel will be glad
to know that Ida is found.”

“Very well; only return soon.”

“Well!” thought Jack, as he re-entered the carriage, and gave the
direction to the coachman; “won’t Uncle Abel be a little surprised when
he sees me coming home in such style!”



CHAPTER XXVI. “NEVER TOO LATE TO MEND.”



MEANWHILE, Peg was passing her time wearily enough in prison. It was
certainly provoking to be deprived of her freedom just when she was
likely to make it most profitable. After some reflection, she determined
to send for Mrs. Clifton, and reveal to her all she knew, trusting to
her generosity for a recompense.

To one of the officers of the prison she communicated the intelligence
that she had an important revelation to make to Mrs. Clifton, and
absolutely refused to make it unless the lady would visit her in prison.

Scarcely had Mrs. Clifton returned home, after recovering her child,
than the bell rang, and a stranger was introduced.

“Is this Mrs. Clifton?” he inquired.

“It is.”

“Then I have a message for you.”

The lady inclined her head.

“You must know, madam, that I am one of the officers connected with the
City Prison. A woman was placed in confinement this morning, who says
she has a most important communication to make to you, but declines to
make it except to you in person.”

“Can you bring her here, sir?”

“That is impossible. We will give you every facility, however, for
visiting her in prison.”

“It must be Peg,” whispered Ida; “the woman that carried me off.”

Such a request Mrs. Clifton could not refuse. She at once made ready to
accompany the officer. She resolved to carry Ida with her, fearful that,
unless she kept her in her immediate presence, she might disappear again
