THE PICKET BOAT.


Through the deep darkness and the dense fog the boat made its way. There
was not an object to be seen, on ship or shore, to guide its course; and
in front of Somers there was a patent binnacle, whose lights were
reflected on the compass, but did not even soften the gloom without,
into which he continued to gaze with the most anxious solicitude. He had
carefully estimated the currents the whale-boat would encounter, and
calculated the force of the wind, so as to determine her lee-way with
the nicest practicable accuracy.

The young commander of the expedition hoped to strike a certain point of
the land to the eastward of the fort on Mobile Point, distant five and a
half miles from the ship. Half a mile east or west of the desired point
might involve him in serious if not fatal difficulties, and everything
depended upon the accuracy of his calculations. His early experience as
a boatman at Pinchbrook Harbor was of incalculable service to him, since
nothing can supply the place of actual observation in the making of
such nice estimates as were required for success in the present
instance.

The rain poured down in torrents, and the sea was rough and uneasy; but
Somers, never for an instant turned aside from the grand object before
him by the discomforts of his situation, watched his compass and closely
observed every motion of the whale-boat. He was fired with zeal, but he
was not excited, for he knew how much depended upon cool judgment and
careful execution of the details of his work.

"Breakers ahead!" said the bowman, in a low tone; and the words were
passed aft to the officer.

Breakers were to be expected; and of course Somers was not appalled by
the announcement. The boat dashed on till she reached the broken water;
but the surf on the shore, thrown up by the storm, was absolutely
fearful. A stunning roar broke upon the ears of the young officer as the
frail craft approached the foaming billows that shattered themselves on
the beach.

"That's a heavy surf, Mr. Somers," said Tom Longstone.

"So much the better," replied the officer, cheerfully.

"This whale-boat will not be much better than a cockle-shell in that
surf."

"She will go through it, if she is well handled."

"Ay, ay, sir; of course she will."

"The rebels will not expect a boat to land in such a surf and on such a
night. We shall not be expected," replied Somers, in a loud tone, for
whispers and soft speech could not be heard above the roar of the
billows.

The commander of the expedition stood up in the stern-sheets, and
attempted to penetrate the gloom and fog in the direction of the beach;
but neither sight nor sound of the shore could be obtained. To plunge
through that boiling surf upon a rebel battery or an artillery company,
would be a sad conclusion of the night's work; but even this must be
risked, for it was not possible to obtain a single item of information
in regard to the surroundings on shore.

"Oars!" shouted Somers, when he had completed his unsatisfactory survey
shoreward, and there was not the slightest danger of his order being
heard by an enemy beyond the thundering roll of the sea. "Hold water!"

The onward progress of the boat was stopped.

"Back the starboard, pull the port oars!" added the officer, who had now
taken the management of the boat out of the hands of the coxswain.
"Oars!" he continued, when the boat was turned so as to head directly
from the shore.

"Now, my lads, pull steady, and mind the orders promptly," said the
confident young officer. "There's a heavy surf; but if you pull strong,
and mind quick, we shall be through it in a moment."

"Ay, ay, sir!" responded the blue-jackets.

"Stern, all!" continued Somers, when he had carefully observed the sweep
of the last wave.

The oarsmen backed water, and the boat moved towards the shore, stern
foremost. In a moment she was lifted up by a great billow and swept
furiously towards the beach.

"Steady!" said Somers, gazing forward over the heads of the men,
watching the approach of the next foam-crested wave.

The men were entirely cool, and their iron muscles held the boat under
perfect control. A huge roller was coming in, fiercely, rapidly, at
double or triple the speed of the whale-boat, and the first great peril
of the surf was at hand.

The danger was, as our inexperienced readers may not understand, that
the stern of the boat, suddenly struck by the swift-flying wave, would
be lifted high in air, and the bow forced under; or that the boat would
broach to, and be rolled over in the sea. In either case the boat would
be swamped, and eventually be stove on the beach. Somers saw one of
these rushing billows coming down with frightful velocity upon the
whale-boat.

"Oars!" cried he; and the men ceased backing her.

"Give way!" he added, with an energy which was at once communicated to
the muscles of the men; and they pulled steadily, as a well-disciplined
crew always does, but with a firmness and strength which caused the boat
to dart forward towards the savage roller.

She met the billow; her bow rose upon it; she passed over without being
ingulfed by it.

"Oars! Hold water! Stern, all!" continued the young officer; and again
the whale-boat moved towards the shore.

The manoeuvre described was repeated several times, until the boat had
passed through the surf, and struck heavily on the sandy beach. The men
in the bow were then ordered to jump into the water; and as the forward
part was thus lightened, the successive rollers bore the boat farther
and farther upon the beach, until the whole crew were landed. The first
step of the expedition had been safely accomplished.

Somers ordered the men to haul up the boat high and dry upon the beach.
There was not a person to be seen, or a sound to be heard, which
indicated the presence of an enemy. The young officer had now to prove
the correctness of his calculations, for as yet he knew not upon what
portion of the point he had landed. A careful survey of the ground was
therefore immediately to be made. It was necessary to have assistance in
this; and Somers selected two first-class firemen, very intelligent men,
machinists and engineers, who were in training for situations in
government ships. They had been brought to work the engine of the Ben
Lomond, if, fortunately, she were captured.

Tom Longstone was left in charge of the boat and crew, and the two
firemen followed the commander of the expedition, who moved towards the
north. When he had proceeded a short distance, he explained to his
companions his object.

"About an eighth of a mile from the beach," said he, "there is a creek,
which widens into a little bay. I wish to find this creek; it will lead
us into Mobile Bay. Conant, you will go east, and, Wade, you will go
west. You must be very careful, or you will lose your way. You will not
go more than half a mile, as nearly as you can judge, in either
direction. If you find it, return to the beach, and take notice of the
best way to reach it."

The firemen parted, and Somers moved forward himself. He did not find
the creek in the direction he had chosen, and returned to the beach,
after a search of about an hour. Wade was there before him; but Conant
had not yet made his appearance, though he did not long delay the
expedition.

"I have found it, sir," said Conant, when he returned. "It lies in this
direction:" he pointed to the north-east. "It isn't a quarter of a mile
distant; but I had some difficulty in finding a good path."

"Did you see anybody, or anything?"

"Nothing, sir."

The whale-boat was then turned over; each man took off his pea-jacket,
rolled it up, and put it on his shoulder. The boat was then lifted up,
and placed on the shoulders of the sailors, the garment acting as a
cushion to support the weight, without injury to the bearers. After a
great many trials and difficulties incident to the darkness of the night
and the character of the ground, the creek was reached, and the
whale-boat launched. Unfortunately, the water was very shallow, and even
the light draught of the boat was too great for rapid progress, though
by various expedients this obstacle was overcome, and the expedition
reached the mouth of the creek at about half past twelve o'clock in the
morning.

Somers was entirely dependent upon his memory and the compass for
sailing directions; and the careful study he had made of the navigation
of the bay enabled him to move with considerable confidence. The creek
disembogued in a nearly landlocked bay, whose comparatively still waters
were passed, and the boat began to be tossed by the waves of the broad
bay.

