
“In that case,” dryly returned his client, who could not resist the
temptation of a hit at his coadjutor, “I advise you by all means to try
it.”

“Truly,” replied Mr. Sharp, who was dimly conscious of the covert
sarcasm, but deemed it politic not to notice it directly, “there is no
profession that racks the brain like mine, sir. The mightiest intellects
of ancient as well as of modern times——”

Mr. Sharp here assumed a standing posture, and was about to pronounce a
eulogy upon the different great men who had, during the last twenty
centuries, graced the profession which he adorned.

But the lawyer was saved the trouble of proceeding, by the expression of
a wish on the part of Lewis to attend to business.

“Certainly, by all means,” said Mr. Sharp, briskly resuming his seat,
and drawing before him a sheet of blank paper. “Business before
pleasure, or rather, with me, business is pleasure.”

“I have, as you know,” Lewis commenced, “lent the sum of three hundred
dollars to Robert Ford, through your agency.”

“And very liberal it was in you, I am sure,” said Mr. Sharp, with
benignant approval.

“By no means. I never professed to be a philanthropist, and I freely
acknowledge that in this act I was influenced by any but benevolent
motives. It was done solely with a view to promote my own interests.”

Here he paused; and Mr. Sharp, while waiting for a further explanation,
rubbed his hands and nodded genially, as if to indicate how thoroughly
he indorsed the views of his principal.

“I need not remind you,” continued Lewis, not heeding this little
manifestation, “of how great importance it is to me that Robert Ford,
who is the only obstacle between me and his father’s fortune, should be
kept entirely out of the way of any possibility of meeting his father.
Such an encounter fortunately is not very probable, since neither is
aware of the other’s presence in the city. When, however I consider how
trifling a chance, such for instance as a glance at a Directory, might
lead to that knowledge, I feel more and more how essential it is to my
interests that some decisive step should be taken. I may say in
confirmation of this, that my uncle, whose health is in a very critical
state, has conceived a fancy, Heaven knows how, that my cousin is still
alive, notwithstanding the evidence of his death in Chicago, which I
placed in his hands.”

“That is awkward.”

“Yes, it is very awkward, especially as he has insisted on my drawing up
an advertisement for this precious cousin of mine, and having it
inserted in the daily papers.”

“And you have done so?”

“Not I. It would be suicidal. I drew up the advertisement, however, as
he requested, and he supposes that it has been inserted.”

Mr. Sharp surveyed Lewis with a glance of approval. It was a tribute to
superior rascality.

“Now I will explain to you,” pursued Lewis, “why I have lent money to
Robert Ford. My uncle is dangerously ill; he cannot live many weeks at
farthest. It is absolutely essential that some attempt should be made to
place my cousin where he cannot do me any harm. If the laws permitted
it, I would gladly have him imprisoned for debt. That is, unluckily, out
of the question. I have it in my power, however, to annoy him in such a
way as perhaps to drive him from the city.”

“What do you propose to do?”

“Seize the furniture in execution, either with or without legal
sanction. Robert is far from being a man of the world, and there is no
risk in going to lengths with him, which would be dangerous with
others.”

“I have it,” said Sharp, eagerly.

“Well.”

“Your cousin is quite devoted to a heap of old machinery, out of which
he expects to make a flying machine or something of the kind. To seize
upon that would be the most serious blow you could inflict upon him.”

“I believe you are right. Robert was always a visionary. If that should
prove insufficient to drive him away, I will authorize you to offer him
some pecuniary inducements in a guarded manner—some remunerative
employment which will call him elsewhere, and which he will be the more
tempted to undertake if his present occupation is gone. Only let him be
kept out of the way until——”

“You are called upon to lament the death of your venerable relation,”
suggested Sharp.

“Then,” pursued Lewis, “he may go where he pleases, so far as I am
concerned.”

“My dear sir, you should have been a lawyer. You would have been an
ornament to the profession,” said Mr. Sharp, with complimentary
emphasis.

“Rather an equivocal compliment, I am afraid,” returned Lewis, dryly.
“But in order to carry out this plan of ours, beyond a doubt, we must
ascertain that my cousin will be unable to pay the money when called
upon.”

“I think I may pledge you,” said the lawyer, “that you need entertain no
apprehensions on that score. From what I have seen I conjecture that at
the time of your loan he had but little money on hand, and I know that
he has expended a considerable sum since.”

“It is best to be certain, however.”

“Undoubtedly. I will myself call down there this afternoon, if you think
best, and ascertain this point without exciting his suspicions.”

“Do so; and should you find the prospect favorable, take measures to
have the demand presented to-morrow. If not discharged, you know how to
proceed.”

“You may rely upon my following your directions to the letter,” returned
the attorney, as sweeping his fingers once more through his blushing
locks, he bowed his client gracefully out.




                             CHAPTER XXII.
                           PREPARING THE WAY.


Promptness was one of the valuable characteristics of Mr. Sharp. But no
general remark is without its exceptions.

On the present occasion our legal friend decided to call at once on Mr.
Ford, in pursuance of the commission which he received from Lewis Rand.
It involved a species of double dealing for which Mr. Sharp felt that he
had peculiar qualifications.

Taking down from the nail his invariable white hat, he adjusted it
somewhat jauntily upon his head, and walked forth with a benevolent
smile irradiating his countenance, as if he were meditating some scheme
by which he expected to add largely to the sum-total of human happiness.
There are others than he who go out with a smile upon the lips, but an
evil purpose in their hearts.

The lawyer took his way to Mrs. Morton’s lodging-house. He went up
stairs, and entered Mr. Ford’s room without ceremony, knowing that Helen
would be absent at that hour, and that the habitual abstraction of her
father would probably prevent his knock being heard.

“Ah, good afternoon, Mr. Ford,” he said, with affability, cordially
grasping the inventor’s hand. “Still at your work, I see. I could not
resist the impulse to call and inquire after your progress. It seems
such a welcome relief to come from the close, dusty court-room to this
little retreat of yours. And how are you getting on, my dear friend?”

“I am advancing as rapidly as I anticipated,” said Mr. Ford, pausing in
the midst of an intricate calculation. “I feel that I have every reason
to be encouraged.”

“I am delighted to hear it,” exclaimed the lawyer, with friendly
enthusiasm. “Then you really think that before many years we shall be
able to skim from country to country on the wings of the wind, so to
speak.”

“I have not a doubt of it,” answered the inventor, in a tone of quiet
confidence. “We already know how great a degree of speed has been
attained by our steamers and locomotives, in the face of far greater
obstacles than are to be encountered in the case of aërial navigation.
The great impediment to the speed of the locomotive is, as you are
doubtless aware, the friction that necessarily results from its constant
contact with the earth.”

Mr. Sharp nodded assent.

“While the speed of the ocean-steamer is in like manner very materially
lessened by the resistance of the water.”
