Mrs. Snowdon was opening the general’s letters for him, and, having
finished her little task, she roamed away into the library, as if in
search of a book. Presently returning with one, she approached Treherne,
and, putting it into his hand, said, in her musically distinct voice,
“Be so kind as to find for me the passage you spoke of last night. I am
curious to see it.”

Instantly comprehending her stratagem, he opened it with apparent
carelessness, secured the tiny note laid among the leaves, and,
selecting a passage at hazard, returned her book and resumed his own.
Behind the cover of it he unfolded and read these words:

    I understand, but do not be anxious; the line I left was merely
    this--“I must see you alone, tell me when and where.” No one can
    make much of it, and I will discover the thief before dinner. Do
    nothing, but watch to whom I speak first on entering, when we meet
    in the evening, and beware of that person.

Quietly transferring the note to the fire with the wrapper of the
magazine, he dismissed the matter from his mind and left Mrs. Snowdon
to play detective as she pleased, while he busied himself about his
own affairs.

It was a clear, bright December day, and when the young people separated
to prepare for a ride, while the general and the major sunned themselves
on the terrace, Lady Treherne said to her nephew, “I am going for an
airing in the pony carriage. Will you be my escort, Maurice?”

“With pleasure,” replied the young man, well knowing what was in
store for him.

My lady was unusually taciturn and grave, yet seemed anxious to say
something which she found difficult to utter. Treherne saw this, and
ended an awkward pause by dashing boldly into the subject which
occupied both.

“I think you want to say something to me about Tavie, Aunt. Am I right?”

“Yes.”

“Then let me spare you the pain of beginning, and prove my sincerity by
openly stating the truth, as far as I am concerned. I love her very
dearly, but I am not mad enough to dream of telling her so. I know that
it is impossible, and I relinquish my hopes. Trust me. I will keep
silent and see her marry Annon without a word of complaint, if you will
it. I see by her altered manner that you have spoken to her, and that my
little friend and nurse is to be mine no longer. Perhaps you are wise,
but if you do this on my account, it is in vain--the mischief is done,
and while I live I shall love my cousin. If you do it to spare her, I am
dumb, and will go away rather than cause her a care or pain.”

“Do you really mean this, Maurice?” And Lady Treherne looked at him with
a changed and softened face.

Turning upon her, Treherne showed her a countenance full of suffering
and sincerity, of resignation and resolve, as he said earnestly, “I do
mean it; prove me in any way you please. I am not a bad fellow, Aunt,
and I desire to be better. Since my misfortune I’ve had time to test
many things, myself among others, and in spite of many faults, I do
cherish the wish to keep my soul honest and true, even though my body be
a wreck. It is easy to say these things, but in spite of temptation, I
think I can stand firm, if you trust me.”

“My dear boy, I do trust you, and thank you gratefully for this
frankness. I never forget that I owe Jasper’s life to you, and never
expect to repay that debt. Remember this when I seem cold or unkind, and
remember also that I say now, had you been spared this affliction, I
would gladly have given you my girl. But--”

“But, Aunt, hear one thing,” broke in Treherne. “They tell me that any
sudden and violent shock of surprise, joy, or sorrow may do for me what
they hope time will achieve. I said nothing of this, for it is but a
chance; yet, while there is any hope, need I utterly renounce Octavia?”

“It is hard to refuse, and yet I cannot think it wise to build upon a
chance so slight. Once let her have you, and both are made unhappy, if
the hope fail. No, Maurice, it is better to be generous, and leave her
free to make her own happiness elsewhere. Annon loves her, she is
heart-whole, and will soon learn to love him, if you are silent. My poor
boy, it seems cruel, but I must say it.”

“Shall I go away, Aunt?” was all his answer, very firmly uttered, though
his lips were white.

“Not yet, only leave them to themselves, and hide your trouble if you
can. Yet, if you prefer, you shall go to town, and Benson shall see that
you are comfortable. Your health will be a reason, and I will come, or
write often, if you are homesick. It shall depend on you, for I want to
be just and kind in this hard case. You shall decide.”

“Then I will stay. I can hide my love; and to see them together will
soon cease to wound me, if Octavia is happy.”

“So let it rest then, for a time. You shall miss your companion as
little as possible, for I will try to fill her place. Forgive me,
Maurice, and pity a mother’s solicitude, for these two are the last of
many children, and I am a widow now.”

Lady Treherne’s voice faltered, and if any selfish hope or plan
lingered in her nephew’s mind, that appeal banished it and touched his
better nature. Pressing her hand he said gently, “Dear Aunt, do not
lament over me. I am one set apart for afflictions, yet I will not be
conquered by them. Let us forget my youth and be friendly counselors
together for the good of the two whom we both love. I must say a word
about Jasper, and you will not press me to explain more than I can
without breaking my promise.”

“Thank you, thank you! It is regarding that woman, I know. Tell me all
you can; I will not be importunate, but I disliked her the instant I saw
her, beautiful and charming as she seems.”

“When my cousin and I were in Paris, just before my illness, we met her.
She was with her father then, a gay old man who led a life of pleasure,
and was no fit guardian for a lovely daughter. She knew our story and,
having fascinated both, paused to decide which she would accept: Jasper,
for his title, or me, for my fortune. This was before my uncle changed
his will, and I believed myself his heir; but, before she made her
choice, something (don’t ask me what, if you please) occurred to send us
from Paris. On our return voyage we were wrecked, and then came my
illness, disinheritance, and helplessness. Edith Dubarry heard the
story, but rumor reported it falsely, and she believed both of us had
lost the fortune. Her father died penniless, and in a moment of despair
she married the general, whose wealth surrounds her with the luxury she
loves, and whose failing health will soon restore her liberty--”

“And then, Maurice?” interrupted my lady.

“She hopes to win Jasper, I think.”

“Never! We must prevent that at all costs. I had rather see him dead
before me, than the husband of such a woman. Why is she permitted to
visit homes like mine? I should have been told this sooner,” exclaimed
my lady angrily.

“I should have told you had I known it, and I reproved Jasper for his
neglect. Do not be needlessly troubled, Aunt. There is no blemish on
Mrs. Snowdon’s name, and, as the wife of a brave and honorable man, she
is received without question; for beauty, grace, or tact like hers can
make their way anywhere. She stays but a week, and I will devote myself
to her; this will save Jasper, and, if necessary, convince Tavie of my
indifference--” Then he paused to stifle a sigh.

“But yourself, have you no fears for your own peace, Maurice? You must
not sacrifice happiness or honor, for me or mine.”

“I am safe; I love my cousin, and that is my shield. Whatever happens
remember that I tried to serve you, and sincerely endeavored to
forget myself.”

“God bless you, my son! Let me call you so, and feel that, though I deny
you my daughter, I give you heartily a mother’s care and affection.”

Lady Treherne was as generous as she was proud, and her nephew had
conquered her by confidence and submission. He acted no part, yet, even
in relinquishing all, he cherished a hope that he might yet win the
heart he coveted. Silently they parted, but from that hour a new and
closer bond existed between the two, and exerted an unsuspected
influence over the whole household.

      

Maurice waited with some impatience for Mrs. Snowdon’s entrance, not
only because of his curiosity to see if she had discovered the thief,
but because of the part he had taken upon himself to play. He was equal
to it, and felt a certain pleasure in it for a threefold reason. It
would serve his aunt and cousin, would divert his mind from its own
cares, and, perhaps by making Octavia jealous, waken love; for, though
he had chosen the right, he was but a man, and moreover a lover.

Mrs. Snowdon was late. She always was, for her toilet was elaborate, and
she liked to enjoy its effects upon others. The moment she entered
Treherne’s eye was on her, and to his intense surprise and annoyance she
addressed Octavia, saying blandly, “My dear Miss Treherne, I’ve been
admiring your peacocks. Pray let me see you feed them tomorrow. Miss
Talbot says it is a charming sight.”

“If you are on the terrace just after lunch, you will find them there,
and may feed them yourself, if you like” was the cool, civil reply.

“She looks like a peacock herself in that splendid green and gold dress,
