advantages about boot-blackin'."

"Indeed!" said Roswell, superciliously. "As I was never in the business,
I can't of course decide."

"Then I was in business for myself, you see, and was my own master. Now
I have to work for another man."

"You don't seem to be working very hard now," said Roswell, enviously.

"Not very," said Dick. "You must be tired carrying that heavy bundle.
I'll carry it for you as far as I go."

Roswell, who was not above accepting a favor from a boy he didn't like,
willingly transferred it to our hero.

"I carried it out just to oblige," he said, as if he were not in the
daily habit of carrying such packages.

"That's very kind of you," said Dick.

Roswell did not know whether Dick spoke sarcastically or not, and
therefore left the remark unnoticed.

"I don't think I shall stay where I am very long," he said.

"Don't you like?" asked Dick.

"Not very well. I'm not obliged to work for a living," added Roswell,
loftily, but not altogether truly.

"I am," said Dick. "I've had to work for a living ever since I was six
years old. I suppose you work because you like it."

"I'm learning business. I'm going to be a merchant, as my father was."

"I'll have to give up the bundle now," said Dick. "This is as far as I
am going."

Roswell took back his bundle, and Dick went up the steps of Mr.
Rockwell's residence and rang the door-bell.




CHAPTER X.

A STORE ON SIXTH AVENUE.


Roswell kept on his way with his heavy bundle, more discontented than
ever. The bundle seemed heavier than ever. Dick had no such bundles to
carry. He had an easier time, his business position was better, and his
wages more than double. And all this in spite of the glaring fact that
Roswell was a gentleman's son, and Dick wasn't. Surely fortune was very
blind, and unfair in the distribution of her favors.

"I suppose he'll be crowing over me," thought Roswell, bitterly, judging
from what would have been his own feeling had the case been reversed. "I
hope he'll have to go back to boot-blacking some day. I wish mother'd
buy me a gold watch and chain. There'd be some sense in my wearing
it."

Roswell evidently thought it very inappropriate that Dick should wear a
handsome gold watch, more especially as he was quite sure beforehand
that his mother would not gratify his own desire to possess one. Still
he resolved to ask.

There was another thing he meant to ask. Feeling that his services were
worth more than the wages he received, and convincing himself that his
employers would be unwilling to lose him, he determined to ask an
advance of two dollars a week, making six dollars in all. Not that he
considered that even this would pay him, but as he could hardly hope
that he would be appreciated according to his deserts, he limited his
request to that sum. He concluded to defer making his application until
Saturday evening, when he would receive his week's wages.

He consulted his mother upon this subject, and she, having nearly as
high an opinion of her promising son as he had himself, consented to the
application. If his cousin, James Gilbert, had heard of his intention,
he was enough of a business man to have dissuaded him from the attempt.
Though he saw fit to espouse the cause of Roswell against Dick, it was
more because he disliked the latter than because he was blind to the
faults of the former. Indeed, he had a very moderate opinion of his
young cousin's capabilities.

The days slipped by, and Saturday night came. It was nine o'clock before
Roswell was released, the Saturday-night trade being the best of the
week. The other clerks had been paid, Roswell's turn coming last,
because he was the youngest.

The designation of the firm was HALL & TURNER. Mr. Hall, the
senior partner, usually went home early in the evening; and Mr. Turner,
the junior partner, a man of about thirty-five, attended to the evening
business, and paid the weekly wages.

"Here, Crawford," he said, counting out four one dollar bills; "it's
your turn now."

"I want to speak to you for a moment, Mr. Turner," said Roswell,
beginning to feel a little nervous; for now that the time had come for
making his request, he felt a little uncertain how it would be received.

"Very well," said his employer, showing a little surprise; "be quick
about it, for I want to get through."

"I want to know if you will not be willing to raise my wages," said
Roswell, rather awkwardly.

"On what ground do you ask for it?" said Mr. Turner, looking up.

"I thought I might be worth more," said Roswell.

"How long have you been in my employment,--do you remember?"

"About four months," said Roswell.

"Do you think you have learned enough in that time to make you worth
more?"

"Yes, sir," said Roswell, with a little hesitation.

"How much more would satisfy you?"

"Two dollars more,--for the present," said Roswell, beginning to feel a
little hopeful.

"That is six dollars a week."

"Yes, sir."

"And how soon would you expect another advance?" asked Mr. Turner,
quietly.

"In about six months."

"You are quite moderate in your demands, certainly."

There was something in Mr. Turner's tone which struck Roswell as
unfavorable, and he hastily said in his own justification:--

"There's a friend of mine, no older than I am, who gets ten dollars a
week."

Certainly Roswell must have spoken inadvertently, or he would hardly
have referred to Dick as his friend; but his main idea at present was to
produce an impression upon the mind of Mr. Turner.

"Is your friend in a dry goods store?" asked Mr. Turner.

"No, sir."

"Then I don't see that his wages have any bearing upon your case. There
may be some special circumstances that affect his compensation. How long
has he been in the service of his present employer?"

"Only a week or two."

"Is this his first place?"

"Yes, sir."

"It may be that he is some relative of his employer."

"That isn't very likely," said Roswell, his lip curling. "He used to be
a boot-black about the streets."

"Indeed!" said Mr. Turner, keenly. "I think you said he was a friend of
yours."

"No, sir," said Roswell, proudly; "I haven't the honor."

"You certainly said 'There's a friend of mine, no older than I am, who
gets ten dollars a week.'"

"I didn't mean to speak of him as my friend," said Roswell; "I'm a
gentleman's son."

"If you are, his friendship might do you no harm. If he receives the
wages you state, he must be a smart fellow. If he didn't earn as much,
