until he was ready to leave the country.

Mrs. Vincent did not wish to return to her native land. Her husband had
ruined himself and disgraced his family, and she did not care to meet
the obloquy which awaited her in the midst of her friends. The consul
informed her, when she had stated her views, that she could make a good
living, and perhaps a competency, by keeping a boarding-house in
Melbourne. Mr. Watson promptly offered to assist her to the means for
making a beginning. Before the yacht sailed on her home voyage, the
consul had purchased for her such an establishment as she needed, and
she was in a fair way to do better for herself than her husband had
ever done for her.

The consul met the family in the cabin of the yacht, and Mat Mogmore's
case came up for discussion. The steward, and the other seamen from the
Caribbee, had gone on shore to shift for themselves, as Mat would have
done if he had been permitted.

"Mat says he got into a scrape, and Dock helped him out," said Levi,
when the matter was brought up. "The old rascal had him in his power
then, and made a tool of him in this business."

"What scrape did he get into?" asked Mr. Watson.

"I don't know. He began to tell me when your boat came alongside,"
replied Levi. "He said my uncle borrowed a screw-driver of him; but I
don't know what this had to do with it."

"Send for him, Levi," added Mr. Watson. "If he tells the truth, and
means to do well, perhaps we may do something to help him."

The steward was called, and directed to bring the prisoner--for such he
was--into the cabin. Mat was on the stool of repentance. All his
expectations had been blasted; and, whichever way he turned, the
prospect was dark and forbidding, as it must sooner or later be to all
evil-doers. Even if permitted to go on shore, he was alone and
friendless in a strange land. The share he was to receive of Bessie's
ransom had failed him; another evil speculation had also come to
nought. If he returned to his native land in the yacht, it was only to
be covered with merited disgrace, and to spend years of his life in the
state prison.

When Mat Mogmore entered the cabin under the escort of the steward, he
felt like a ruined man--one who, by his own folly and wickedness, had
sacrificed all his hopes in this world. Mr. Watson and the consul spoke
to him with the utmost plainness, the latter informing him that, if he
declined to return home in the yacht, he should procure his arrest on a
criminal charge.

"I will return in her, if you say so," blubbered Mat, whose pluck was
all gone.

"If you wish to explain your conduct, you may do so," added Mr. Watson.

"I don't know as it's any use. I wish I had been drowned in the
Caribbee."

"You began to tell me your story," said Levi.

"I was going to tell you how I happened to help Captain Vincent. He
made me do it. I'll tell you about it, if you like."

"Go on," added Mr. Watson.

"Perhaps I'm worse than you think I am; but I'll tell the whole truth."

"That's what we want."

"Levi's uncle borrowed a screw-driver of me in the shop. I wanted to
use it pretty soon, and I went over to Mr. Fairfield's after it. He was
fixing a board to put over a hole in the plastering in his chamber. I
saw he had cut away the laths, and I knew he wasn't putting up the
piece to keep the cold out, as he said. I made up my mind he had money
hid in that hole. At the fire, when the folks had left the room, and
all the men were on the roof, I took off that board, for I thought the
money would be all lost if there was any there. I found the four bags
of gold. I dropped them out the window into the lilac bushes, and put
the board up again. I didn't mean to steal it then. I never stole
anything in my life, not even a pin."

"What did you put the board up again for?" asked Levi.

"I didn't screw it up till afterwards. I carried the gold over to the
shop, and hid it under the floor. Then I went back and fastened up the
board, just as I found it. While I was doing this Dock Vincent came in,
and saw what I was doing. I turned it off as well as I could, and
helped move the furniture where the water was coming down upon it.
There was a lot of money in those bags, and I didn't like to give them
up. Dock had said something to me about going to Australia with him,
and I thought I could take the money out here with me.

"Just as soon as it came out that the gold was gone, Captain Vincent
pitched into me. He knew then what I was screwing up that board for. It
wasn't any use to deny it to him after what he had seen. I said I would
give it back to the old man, and tell him I had taken it to keep it
from being lost in the fire. Dock said it wan't worth while to do that;
the old man had lost it, and he wouldn't feel any worse if he didn't
find it. We talked it over, and after a while I agreed to divide with
him.

"Then he began to tell me, a little at once, about carrying off Miss
Watson again. I didn't like the job; but Dock said he'd send me to jail
for stealing the gold if I didn't go in with him; and I had to go. When
the new Starry Flag came round, he told me Levi wanted to hire me
before the mast, and told me to engage with him, so as to help him get
Miss Watson when the time came. All along, Dock said that Levi was in
his way. If he could get rid of him, he could carry her off without any
trouble. So he laid the stealing to him, and tried to prove it on him.

"Dock told me to put the bag and some of the gold in the state-room,
but I hadn't any chance to do it; the steward was in my way all the
time. The yacht was going off the next day, and Dock wanted to have
Levi taken up before he started. I handed the bag I had fixed to Ben
Seaver, and told him I had forgotten to do what the captain had
ordered. I asked him to give it to the steward, and tell him Levi
wanted him to put it into a locker in his state-room. Ben did just what
I told him; and I knew he was going off that day. Levi was taken up;
but things didn't work as Dock wanted. He was discharged.

"All this time the money was hid under the shop. After the examination,
Dock wanted the money divided. I had taken out one hundred and fifty
dollars. We put fifty in the bag before, and divided a hundred. I
agreed to meet him at the old fish-house, that was burned, and I
carried the bags down, and put them under an old sail, where I could
get the money when we wanted it.

"Dock and I met in the fish-house at ten o'clock. He had a lantern, so
that we could see to count the money. We sat down on the rocks to talk
the matter over, for Dock wanted the whole of the money then, and
promised to give me my share when we got to Australia. I didn't like
this; and while we were talking about it, the steward tumbled down
through the floor of the loft right between us. I never was so scared
in my life. I thought the evil one was after me for what I had done.
Dock was as scared as I was, and we both ran off as fast as our legs
would carry us.

"We went into Dock's back kitchen, and staid there till the alarm of
fire was given. We meant to go back, but neither of us dared to do so.
The fish-house got afire, and burned up; and that was the last we saw
of the gold. Augustus can tell you better than I can where it went to."

"I have told that already," interposed the steward.

"When the Caribbee was ready to sail," continued Mat, "Dock went to New
York, and told Captain Gauley to follow as soon as Miss Watson was on
board. I was told to watch my chance when Levi was on board the yacht,
and go to her, saying he had sent me for her. I waited three days
without having such a chance, when the race at Portland fixed things
just as I wanted them. You know how I worked it. I wouldn't have done
it if I hadn't been afraid Dock would send me to jail. As soon as we
got to New York, Captain Gauley sent a letter to Boston, where Dock was
keeping himself out of sight till he could get the money. I suppose he
sent his letter to Mr. Watson as soon as he heard Miss Watson was
missing. We waited ten days below New York; but Dock didn't come. Then
Captain Gauley got a letter from him, saying things were going wrong
with him, and ordering the vessel to sail without him. He was to come
out here by steamer."

Mat Mogmore's confession made everything plain. What was not understood
before was clear enough now. Dock Vincent did not believe in the power
of goodness; and when he took advantage of the robbery to charge the
crime upon Levi, he did not realize that a young man's character is his
tower of strength. He failed to break down his reputation, failed to
ruin him, failed to injure him in the opinion of any for more than a
brief period. Perhaps, if he could have ruined Levi, and got him out of
the way, as he desired, he might have succeeded in his wicked
intention, though God does not often permit such iniquity to prosper.

By the next steamer Mr. Watson's family departed for home. The Starry
Flag was carefully repaired, an abundant supply of provisions put on
board, and she sailed for the United States. Mat Mogmore returned
voluntarily in her. As Mr. Watson had decided to spend two or three
months in Europe on his return, Levi did not hasten his homeward
voyage. At the Cape of Good Hope he staid a couple of weeks, to see the
country. He remained about the same time at St. Helena, at Ascension,
at the Cape Verde Islands, and at the Bermudas, thus avoiding the
winter storms of the North Atlantic, besides seeing the wonders of the
sunny isles of the ocean.

About the middle of May The Starry Flag was discovered entering Sandy
