
I had renounced the world before I knew what the world was. I had joined
my father's church and was looked upon as one destined in time to take
up my father's work of the ministry.

Four years had passed and I came back to my mother, weakened and
doubting, indisposed to take up the holy work to which in my early days
I looked forward with enthusiasm, yet with all the sadness which comes
from indecision as to one's life-object.

To be a minister is to embrace a life of poverty, of toil, of
self-denial. To do this, not only with cheerfulness but with an
enthusiasm which shall bear down all before it, which shall elevate it
into the region of moral poetry and ideality, requires a fervid,
unshaken faith. The man must feel the power of an endless life, be
lifted above things material and temporal to things sublime and eternal.

Now it is one peculiarity of the professors of the Christian religion
that they have not, at least of late years, arranged their system of
education with any wise adaptation to having their young men come out of
it Christians. In this they differ from many other religionists. The
Brahmins educate their sons so that they shall infallibly become
Brahmins; the Jews so that they shall infallibly be Jews; the
Mohammedans so that they shall be Mohammedans; but the Christians
educate their sons so that nearly half of them turn out
unbelievers--professors of no religion at all.

There is a book which the Christian world unite in declaring to be an
infallible revelation from Heaven. It has been the judgment of critics
that the various writings in this volume excel other writings in point
of mere literary merit as much as they do in purity and elevation of the
moral sentiment. Yet it is remarkable that the critical study of these
sacred writings in their original tongues is not in most of our
Christian colleges considered as an essential part of the education of a
Christian gentleman, while the heathen literature of Greece and Rome is
treated as something indispensable, and to be gained at all hazards.

It is a fact that from the time that the boy begins to fit for college,
his mind is so driven and pressed with the effort to acquire the
classical literature, that there is no time to acquire the literature of
the Bible, neither is it associated in his mind with the dignity and
respect of a classical attainment. He must be familiar with Horace and
Ovid, with Cicero and Plato, Ã†schylus and Homer in their original
tongues, but the majestic poetry of the Old Testament, and its sages and
seers and prophets, become with every advancing year more unintelligible
to him. A thoroughly educated graduate of most of our colleges is
unprepared to read intelligently many parts of Isaiah or Ezekiel or
Paul's epistles. The scripture lessons of the church service often
strike on his ear as a strange quaint babble of peculiar sounds, without
rhyme or reason. Uncultured and uneducated in all that should enable him
to understand them, he is only preserved by a sort of educational awe
from regarding them as the jargon of barbarians.

Meanwhile, this literature of the Bible, strange, weird, sibylline, and
full of unfulfilled needs and requirements of study, is being assailed
in detail through all the courses of a boy's college life. The
objections to it as a divine revelation relate to critical questions in
languages of which he is ignorant, and yet they are everywhere; they are
in the air he breathes, they permeate all literature, they enter into
modern science, they disintegrate and wear away, bit by bit, his
reverence and his confidence.

This work had been going on insensibly in my head during my college
life, notwithstanding the loyalty of my heart. During those years I had
learned to associate the Bible with the most sacred memories of home,
with the dearest loves of home life. It was woven with remembrances of
daily gatherings around the family altar, with scenes of deepest emotion
when I had seen my father and mother fly to its shelter and rest upon
its promises. There were passages that never recurred to me except with
the sound of my father's vibrating voice, penetrating their words with a
never dying power. The Bible was to me like a father and a mother, and
the doubts, and queries, the respectful suggestions of incredulity, the
mildly suggestive abatements of its authority, which met me, now here
and now there, in all the course of my readings and studies, were as
painful to me as reflections cast on my father's probity or my mother's
honor.

I would not listen to them, I would not give them voice, I smothered
them in the deepest recesses of my heart, while meantime the daily
pressure that came on me in the studies and requirements of college life
left me neither leisure nor inclination to pursue the researches that
should clear them up.

To be sure, nothing is so important as the soul--nothing is of so much
moment as religion, and the question "Is this God's book or is it not?"
is the question of questions. It underlies all things, and he who is
wise would drop all other things and undergo any toil and make any
studies that should fit him to judge understandingly on this point. But
I speak from experience when I say that the course of study in christian
America is so arranged that a boy, from the grammar school upward till
he graduates, is so fully pressed and overladen with all other studies
that there is no probability that he will find the time or the
inclination for such investigation.

In most cases he will do just what I did, throw himself upon the studies
proposed to him, work enough to meet the demands of the hour, and put
off the acquisition of that more important knowledge to an indefinite
future, and sigh, and go backward in his faith.

But without faith or with a faith trembling and uncertain, how is a man
to turn his back on the world that is before him--the world that he can
see, hear, touch and taste--to work for the world that is unseen and
eternal?

I will not repeat the flattering words that often fell on my ear and
said to me, "You can make your way anywhere; you can be anything you
please." And then there were voices that said in my heart, "I may have
wealth, and with it means of power, of culture, of taste, of luxury. If
I only set out for that, I may get it." And then, in contrast, came that
life I had seen my father live, in its grand simplicity, in its
enthusiastic sincerity, in its exulting sense of joy in what he was
doing, down to the last mortal moment, and I wished, oh, how fervently!
that I could believe as he did. But to be a minister merely from a sense
of duty--to bear the burden of poverty with no perception of the
unspeakable riches which Christ hath placed therein--who would not
shrink from a life so grating and so cold? To choose the ministry as a
pedestal for oratory and self-display and poetic religious sentiment,
and thus to attain distinction and easy position, and the command of
fashionable luxury, seemed to me a temptation to desecration still more
terrible, and I dreaded the hour which should close my college life and
make a decision inevitable.

It was with a sober and sad heart that I closed my college course and
parted from class-mates--jolly fellows with whom had rolled away the
four best years of my life--years that as one goes on afterwards in age
look brighter and brighter in the distance. It was a lonesome and
pokerish operation to dismantle the room that had long been my home, to
bargain away my furniture, pack my books, and bid a final farewell to
all the old quiddities and oddities that I had grown attached to in the
quaint little village. The parting from Alma Mater is a second leaving
of home--and this time for the great world. There is no staving off the
battle of life now--the tents are struck, the camp-fires put out, and
one must be on the march.




CHAPTER IX.

AN OUTLOOK INTO LIFE.


My coming back to my native town was an event of public notoriety. I had
won laurels, and as I was the village property, my laurels were duly
commented on and properly appreciated. Highland was one of those thrifty
Yankee settlements where every house seems to speak the people so
well-to-do, and so careful, and progressive in all the means of material
comfort. There was not a house in it that was not in a sort of healthy,
growing state, receiving, from time to time, some accession that showed
that the Yankee aspiration was busy, stretching and enlarging. This had
a new bay-window, and that had a new veranda; the other, new, tight,
white picket fences all round the yard. Others rejoiced in a fresh coat
of paint. But all were alive, and apparently self-repairing. There was
to every house the thrifty wood-pile, seasoning for winter; the clean
garden, with its wealth of fruit and its gay borders of flowers; and
every new kind of flower, and every choice new fruit, found somewhere a
patron who was trying a hand at it.

Highland was a place worth living in just for its scenery. It was at
that precise point of the country where the hills are inspiriting,
vivacious, reminding one of the Psalm,--"The little hills rejoice on
every side!" Mountains are grand, but they also are dreary. For a near
prospect they overpower too much, they shut out the sun, they have
savage propensities, untamable by man, shown once in a while in
land-slides and freshets; but these half-grown hills uplift one like
waves of the sea. In summer they are wonderful in all possible shades
of greenness; in autumn they are like a mystical rainbow--an ocean of
waves, flamboyant with every wonderful device of color; and even when
the leaves are gone, in November, and nothing left but the bristling
steel-blue outlines of trees, there is a wonderful purple haze, a veil
of dreamy softness, around them, that makes you think you never saw them
so beautiful.

So I said to myself, as I came rambling over hill and dale back to the
old homestead, and met my mother's bright face of welcome at the door. I
was the hero of the hour at home, and everything had been prepared to
make me welcome. My brother, who kept the homestead, had relinquished
the prospect of a college life, and devoted himself to farming, but
looked on me as the most favored of mortals in the attainments I had
made. His young wife and growing family of children clustered around my
