“Can’t afford to work on no such terms.”

Mr. Pelham might have disputed the fee, but he saw an acquaintance
approaching, and did not care to be caught chaffering with a boot-black.
He therefore reluctantly drew out a dime, and handed it to the boy, who
at once deposited it in the pocket of a ragged vest.

He stood on the sidewalk on the lookout for another customer, when Tom
marched across the street, broom in hand.

“I say, Joe, how much did he give you?”

“Ten cents.”

“How much yer goin’ to give me?”

“Nothin’!”

“You wouldn’t have got him if I hadn’t muddied his boots.”

“Did you do it a-purpose?”

Tom nodded.

“What for?”

“He called me names. That’s one reason. Besides, I wanted to give you a
job.”

Joe seemed struck by this view, and, being alive to his own interest,
did not disregard the application.

“Here’s a penny,” he said.

“Gi’ me two.”

He hesitated a moment, then diving once more into his pocket, brought up
another penny, which Tom transferred with satisfaction to the pocket of
her dress.

“Shall I do it ag’in?” she asked.

“Yes,” said Joe. “I say, Tom, you’re a smart un.”

“I’d ought to be. Granny makes me smart whenever she gets a chance.”

Tom returned to the other end of the crossing, and began to sweep
diligently. Her labors did not extend far from the curbstone, as the
stream of vehicles now rapidly passing would have made it dangerous.
However, it was all one to Tom where she swept. The cleanness of the
crossing was to her a matter of comparative indifference. Indeed,
considering her own disregard of neatness, it could hardly have been
expected that she should feel very solicitous on that point. Like some
of her elders who were engaged in municipal labors, she regarded
street-sweeping as a “job,” out of which she was to make money, and her
interest began and ended with the money she earned.

There were not so many to cross Broadway at this point as lower down,
and only a few of these seemed impressed by a sense of the pecuniary
value of Tom’s services.

“Gi’ me a penny, sir,” she said to a stout gentleman.

He tossed a coin into the mud.

Tom darted upon it, and fished it up, wiping her fingers afterwards upon
her dress.

“Aint you afraid of soiling your dress?” asked the philanthropist,
smiling.

“What’s the odds?” said Tom, coolly.

“You’re a philosopher,” said the stout gentleman.

“Don’t you go to callin’ me names!” said Tom; “’cause if you do I’ll
muddy up your boots.”

“So you don’t want to be called a philosopher?” said the gentleman.

“No, I don’t,” said Tom, eying him suspiciously.

“Then I must make amends.”

He took a dime from his pocket, and handed it to the astonished Tom.

“Is this for me?” she asked.

“Yes.”

Tom’s eyes glistened; for ten cents was a nugget when compared with her
usual penny receipts. She stood in a brown study till her patron was
half across the street, then, seized with a sudden idea, she darted
after him, and tugged at his coat-tail.

“What’s wanted?” he asked, turning round in some surprise.

“I say,” said Tom, “you may call me that name ag’in for five cents
more.”

The ludicrous character of the proposal struck him, and he laughed with
amusement.

“Well,” he said, “that’s a good offer. What’s your name?”

“Tom.”

“Which are you,—a boy or a girl?”

“I’m a girl, but I wish I was a boy.”

“What for?”

“’Cause boys are stronger than girls, and can fight better.”

“Do you ever fight?”

“Sometimes.”

“Whom do you fight with?”

“Sometimes I fight with the boys, and sometimes with granny.”

“What makes you fight with your granny?”

“She gets drunk and fires things at my head; then I pitch into her.”

The cool, matter-of-fact manner in which Tom spoke seemed to amuse her
questioner.

“I was right,” he said; “you’re a philosopher,—a practical philosopher.”

“That’s more’n you said before,” said Tom; “I want ten cents for that.”

The ten cents were produced. Tom pocketed them in a business-like
manner, and went back to her employment. She wondered, slightly, whether
a philosopher was something very bad; but, as there was no means of
determining, sensibly dismissed the inquiry, and kept on with her work.




                               CHAPTER II
                        TOM GETS A SQUARE MEAL.


About twelve o’clock Tom began to feel the pangs of hunger. The exercise
which she had taken, together with the fresh air, had stimulated her
appetite. It was about the time when she was expected to go home, and
accordingly she thrust her hand into her pocket, and proceeded to count
the money she had received.

“Forty-two cents!” she said, at last, in a tone of satisfaction. “I
don’t generally get more’n twenty. I wish that man would come round and
call me names every day.”

Tom knew that she was expected to go home and carry the result of her
morning’s work to her granny; but the unusual amount suggested to her
another idea. Her mid-day meal was usually of the plainest and
scantiest,—a crust of dry bread, or a cold sausage on days of
plenty,—and Tom sometimes did long for something better. But generally
it would have been dangerous to appropriate a sufficient sum from her
receipts, as the deficit would have been discovered, and quick
retribution would have followed from her incensed granny, who was a
vicious old woman with a pretty vigorous arm. Now, however, she could
appropriate twenty cents without danger of discovery.

“I can get a square meal for twenty cents,” Tom reflected, “and I’ll do
it.”

But she must go home first, as delay would be dangerous, and have
disagreeable consequences.

She prepared for the visit by dividing her morning’s receipts into two
parcels. The two ten-cent scrips she hid away in the lining of her
tattered jacket. The pennies, including one five-cent scrip, she put in
the pocket of her dress. This last was intended for her granny. She then
started homewards, dragging her broom after her.

She walked to Centre Street, turned after a while into Leonard, and went
