spick and span new dress from Madame de Tullegig’s, expressly for the
occasion. Was she to be outshone by unprincipled upstarts? Perish the
thought! It was treason to the cause of virtue, and the standing order
of society. Of course, the best thing to be done is to put certain
people down, if you can; but, if you cannot do that, the next best
thing is to outshine them in their own way. It may be very naughty
for them to be so dressy and extravagant, and very absurd, improper,
immoral, unnecessary, and in bad taste; but still, if you cannot help
it, you may as well try to do the same, and do a little more of it.
Mrs. Lennox was in a feverish state till all her trappings came from
New York. The bill was something stunning; but, then, it was voted by
the young people that she had never looked so splendidly in her life;
and she comforted herself with marking out a certain sublime distance
and reserve of manner to be observed towards Mrs. Seymour and the
Follingsbees.

The young people, however, came home delighted. Tom, aged twenty-two,
instructed his mother that Follingsbee was a brick, and a real jolly
fellow; and he had accepted an invitation to go on a yachting cruise
with him the next month. Jane Lennox, moreover, began besetting her
mother to have certain details in their house rearranged, with an eye
to the Seymour glorification.

“Now, Jane dear, that’s just the result of allowing you to visit in
this flash, vulgar genteel society,” said the troubled mamma.

“Bless your heart, mamma, the world moves on, you know; and we must
move with it a little, or be left behind. For my part, I’m perfectly
ashamed of the way we let things go at our house. It really is not
respectable. Now, I like Mrs. Follingsbee, for my part: she’s clever
and amusing. It was fun to hear all about the balls at the Tuileries,
and the opera and things in Paris. Mamma, when are we going to Paris?”

“Oh! I don’t know, my dear; you must ask your father. He is very
unwilling to go abroad.”

“Papa is so slow and conservative in his notions!” said the young lady.
“For my part, I cannot see what is the use of all this talk about the
Follingsbees. He is good-natured and funny; and, I am sure, I think
she’s a splendid woman: and, by the way, she gave me the address of
lots of places in New York where we can get French things. Did you
notice her lace? It is superb; and she told me where lace just like it
could be bought one-third less than they sell at Stewart’s.”

Thus we see how the starting-out of an old, respectable family in any
new ebullition of fancy and fashion is like a dandelion going to seed.
You have not only the airy, fairy globe; but every feathery particle
thereof bears a germ which will cause similar feather bubbles all over
the country; and thus old, respectable grass-plots become, in time,
half dandelion. It is to be observed that, in all questions of life
and fashion, “the world and the flesh,” to say nothing of the third
partner of that ancient firm, have us at decided advantage. It is easy
to see the flash of jewelry, the dazzle of color, the rush and glitter
of equipage, and to be dizzied by the babble and gayety of fashionable
life; while it is not easy to see justice, patience, temperance,
self-denial. These are things belonging to the invisible and the
eternal, and to be seen with other eyes than those of the body.

Then, again, there is no one thing in all the items which go to make
up fashionable extravagance, which, taken separately and by itself, is
not in some point of view a good or pretty or desirable thing; and so,
whenever the forces of invisible morality begin an encounter with the
troops of fashion and folly, the world and the flesh, as we have just
said, generally have the best of it.

It may be very shocking and dreadful to get money by cheating and
lying; but when the money thus got is put into the forms of yachts,
operas, pictures, statues, and splendid entertainments, of which you
are freely offered a share if you will only cultivate the acquaintance
of a sharper, will you not then begin to say, “Everybody is going,
why not I? As to countenancing Dives, why he is countenanced; and my
holding out does no good. What is the use of my sitting in my corner
and sulking? Nobody minds me.” Thus Dives gains one after another to
follow his chariot, and make up his court.

Our friend John, simply by being a loving, indulgent husband, had
come into the position, in some measure, of demoralizing the public
conscience, of bringing in luxury and extravagance, and countenancing
people who really ought not to be countenanced. He had a sort of
uneasy perception of this fact; yet, at each particular step, he seemed
to himself to be doing no more than was right or reasonable. It was a
fact that, through all Springdale, people were beginning to be uneasy
and uncomfortable in houses that used to seem to them nice enough, and
ashamed of a style of dress and entertainment and living that used to
content them perfectly, simply because of the changes of style and
living in the John-Seymour mansion.

Of old, the Seymour family had always been a bulwark on the side of a
temperate self-restraint and reticence in worldly indulgence; of a kind
that parents find most useful to strengthen their hands when children
are urging them on to expenses beyond their means: for they could say,
“The Seymours are richer than we are, and you see they don’t change
their carpets, nor get new sofas, nor give extravagant parties; and
they give simple, reasonable, quiet entertainments, and do not go into
any modern follies.” So the Seymours kept up the Fergusons, and the
Fergusons the Seymours; and the Wilcoxes and the Lennoxes encouraged
each other in a style of quiet, reasonable living, saving money for
charity, and time for reading and self-cultivation, and by moderation
and simplicity keeping up the courage of less wealthy neighbors to hold
their own with them.

The John-Seymour party, therefore, was like the bursting of a great
dam, which floods a whole region. There was not a family who had not
some trouble with the inundation, even where, like Rose and Letitia
Ferguson, they swept it out merrily, and thought no more of it.

“It was all very pretty and pleasant, and I’m glad it went off so
well,” said Rose Ferguson the next day; “but I have not the smallest
desire to repeat any thing of the kind. We who live in the country, and
have such a world of beautiful things around us every day, and so many
charming engagements in riding, walking, and rambling, and so much to
do, cannot afford to go into this sort of thing: we really have not
time for it.”

“That pretty creature,” said Mrs. Ferguson, speaking of Lillie, “is
really a charming object. I hope she will settle down now to domestic
life. She will soon find better things to care for, I trust: a baby
would be her best teacher. I am sure I hope she will have one.”

“A baby is mamma’s infallible recipe for strengthening the character,”
said Rose, laughing.

“Well, as the saying is, they bring love with them,” said Mrs.
Ferguson; “and love always brings wisdom.”




CHAPTER XVII.

AFTER THE BATTLE.


“WELL, Grace, the Follingsbees are gone at last, I am thankful to say,”
said John, as he stretched himself out on the sofa in Grace’s parlor
with a sigh of relief. “If ever I am caught in such a scrape again, I
shall know it.”

“Yes, it is all well over,” said Grace.

“Over! I wish you would look at the bills. Why, Gracie! I had not the
least idea, when I gave Lillie leave to get what she chose, what it
would come to, with those people at her elbow, to put things into her
head. I could not interfere, you know, after the thing was started;
and I thought I would not spoil Lillie’s pleasure, especially as I had
to stand firm in not allowing wine. It was well I did; for if wine had
been given, and taken with the reckless freedom that all the rest was,
it might have ended in a general riot.”

“As some of the great fashionable parties do, where young women get
merry with champagne, and young men get drunk,” said Grace.

“Well,” said John, “I don’t exactly like the whole turn of the way
things have been going at our house lately. I don’t like the influence
of it on others. It is not in the line of the life I want to lead, and
that we have all been trying to lead.”

“Well,” said Gracie, “things will be settled now quietly, I hope.”

“I say,” said John, “could not we start our little reading sociables,
that were so pleasant last year? You know we want to keep some little
pleasant thing going, and draw Lillie in with us. When a girl has been
used to lively society, she can’t come down to mere nothing; and I
am afraid she will be wanting to rush off to New York, and visit the
Follingsbees.”

“Well,” said Grace, “Letitia and Rose were speaking the other day of
that, and wanting to begin. You know we were to read Froude together,
as soon as the evenings got a little longer.”

“Oh, yes! that will be capital,” said John.

“Do you think Lillie will be interested in Froude?” asked Grace.

“I really can’t say,” said John, with some doubting of heart; “perhaps
it would be well to begin with something a little lighter, at first.”

“Any thing you please, John. What shall it be?”

“But I don’t want to hold you all back on my account,” said John.
