from the crew by their own merit. But at least nine of the officers
were hostile to him; some of them bitterly hostile, as Beckwith and De
Forrest. He was confident that a few of them would do all they could to
expose his deficiencies, and to make his position uncomfortable. When
he appeared in the cabin, in the uniform of his rank, he could not fail
to see the sneer which was on the faces of several of the officers. But
he maintained his dignity, resolved not to notice any demonstration
unless it was an open and palpable insult. After dinner most of the
officers went on deck, and in a short time the principal sent for the
captain.

"The fog has lifted, and the pilots say they can go to sea now. You
will get under way immediately," said the principal.

Captain Cantwell touched his cap, and called to Brown, the fourth
midshipman, who approached him with the proper salute.

"You will ask the first lieutenant to come on deck," said the captain.

"On deck, sir," reported Cumberland, touching his cap to the new
captain; and it seemed very strange to Cantwell to see the late
commodore paying this mark of respect to him.

"You will get under way immediately."

"Under way, sir," replied the executive officer, saluting his superior
again.

It is rather doubtful whether Cantwell could have given all the orders
in detail which were necessary to execute this man≈ìuvre, and
certainly his position as captain was much less trying than it would
have been as first lieutenant. If a majority of the officers were surly
and dissatisfied, a majority of the crew were delighted when they saw
the new captain on the quarter-deck; not that they had any particular
respect or regard for him personally, but because he represented their
cause, and was the evidence of their triumph. All hands were called,
and never were orders more promptly obeyed. In a few moments the Young
America was standing off before the wind, followed by the rest of the
squadron. The vessels threaded their way through the channels among
the islands, and passed out into the broad bay, for it was not deemed
prudent to take the steamer's course, nearer the main shore. The usual
routine of study was pursued during the afternoon, as the squadron,
with a light breeze, rolled lazily along towards her next port.

"Your plan does not seem to work very well, De Forrest," said the
principal to the new first purser, whose duties required his presence
in the main cabin, when he had finished his recitations.

"No, sir; we didn't have fair play. Scott got up a secret society,
and dragged more than half the seamen into it," replied De Forrest,
bitterly. "I hope such things will be prevented."

"What things?" asked Mr. Lowington, mildly.

"Secret societies, sir."

"I am not in favor of such associations for political purposes; but I
think the crew had a perfect right to organize for this election."

"But the students who joined the society had to pledge themselves to
vote for Cantwell."

"That is virtually done at all caucuses and political conventions. You
think such societies ought to be suppressed--do you?"

"I certainly do, sir."

"Then I suppose we must begin in the cabin," laughed the principal.

"We had no secret society in the cabin, sir."

"No?"

"Certainly not, Mr. Lowington."

"Inasmuch as no seaman is allowed to enter the after cabin, your
meetings there were, to all intents and purposes, secret. You proposed
to keep the offices among yourselves, and you nominated the candidates,
without consulting the crew, who were to find most of the votes to
elect them, if they were elected. I think Scott was perfectly justified
in taking the course he did. The secret society, I suspect, is rather
for amusement than for anything else. You knew of its existence, and it
is only a fair counterbalance for your meetings in the after cabin."

"We have come to the conclusion, sir, that our plan does not work very
well," added De Forrest, rather sheepishly.

"It has not been tried under favorable circumstances. I have a higher
opinion of it than you seem to have," replied Mr. Lowington. "It was
brought forward, I am told, by yourself and others, to prevent Cantwell
from becoming captain or first lieutenant. This was an unworthy
purpose, and in the eyes of the crew it amounted to persecution."

"We did not think he was fit for either of these places."

"Perhaps he was not; and if your plan had not been adopted, he would
only have been fourth lieutenant. As the matter stands now, you have
actually made an unpopular officer your captain by your attempt to
persecute him. However odd and ridiculous Scott's tactics may have been
to defeat your intentions, they were based upon a genuine love of fair
play. You have been caught in your own trap."

"I confess that we have, sir; and we would like to get out of the
trap," replied De Forrest.

"That is quite impossible. Cantwell has been fairly elected, and he
shall serve out his month."

"But after that, sir?"

"I adopted the new plan to please you, and I purpose to give it a full
and fair trial. It has some very manifest advantages, the principal one
of which is, that it makes the officers in some measure responsible
to the crew for their conduct. It encourages courtesy and kindness in
the superior. But I am aware that it has some disadvantages, not the
least of which is this electioneering, though this is inseparable from
republican institutions."

"I think we shall ask to have the old plan restored," added De Forrest.

"After two or three months' trial of the present plan, if a large
majority of the squadron desire it, I shall be willing to make the
change; but I hope to see one election which shall be fairly conducted,
and in which no false issues shall be introduced. In the last, the
main question was whether the officers should deprive Cantwell of his
merit-rank; and every other issue was in some manner related to this."

"But Cumberland, whose rank by merit was No. 1, was displaced from his
office, though all the students like him very well; perhaps not so well
as Lincoln, but very well," suggested De Forrest.

"It was known to the crew that Lincoln wished to have a caucus of
the whole ship's company--a spirit of fairness to which he owes his
election. If Cumberland desired the same thing, it was not known in the
steerage."

"The fellows say that three of the new cabin officers are members of
Scott's secret society," added De Forrest.

"Then they will be likely to interfere with the secret proceedings of
the after cabin."

"Brown, the fourth midshipman, is one of them. He may be the next
captain;" and there was an expression akin to horror on De Forrest's
face.

"He may be; and he is a better seaman than Cantwell, for he has been in
the ship two years."

"But it will be too bad to jump him over the heads of all of us."

"That is one of the difficulties incident to your plan. Even
politicians will acknowledge that the ablest and best statesmen in our
country are very seldom elected to the highest offices; but in the army
and navy, in time of war, the ablest men are almost certain to find
their proper sphere."

"I hope the old plan will be restored, sir; for I don't like the idea
of a secret society jumping the lowest officer over all our heads,
simply because he is a member. It doesn't look right to me."

"It isn't right; but I expect to see the same spirit of fairness at
the next election which was displayed at the last one. If the cabin
officers give the crew fair play, I have no doubt the seamen will
exhibit the same spirit. If you wish to do the business just right,
have a fair caucus, and you will nullify all the influence of the
secret society."

The principal went on deck then, but in the evening he had a long talk
with Scott, who declared that all he wanted was fair play, and that the
secret society would not, and could not, be used in the interest of
anything but fair play.

The next morning the squadron was approaching Helsingfors. The town is
protected by the extensive fortifications of Sveaborg, planted on seven
islands, and from its great strength the fortress has been called the
"Gibraltar of the North." The scenery in the vicinity, consisting of
vast numbers of islands, is quite picturesque. The works were bombarded
by the combined English and French squadrons during the Crimean war,
in 1855; but though the attack was a very fierce one, it was entirely
