filled with water; and the problem was, to meet this emergency in the
best manner. Other boats were at hand in case of a real accident, or
if any naturally timid fellow lost his presence of mind. While the
"wreck," as the practice boat was called, was moving along over the
waves, pulled by half a dozen boys, Cleats, without warning or notice
of his intention, opened the aperture near her keel. Sometimes she was
loaded with stones, so that she went to the bottom like a rock, though
this part of the programme was always carried out on a beach, where
the receding tide would enable the professor to recover the boat. The
crew were then to save themselves by swimming ashore, or to another
boat. Sometimes, also, the "wreck" was loaded with broken spars,
pieces of board, and bits of rope; and the problem was for the crew
to construct a raft in the water, often in a rough sea. All these
exercises, and many others, were heartily enjoyed by the boys, and a
ringing cheer always announced the safety of a crew, either on the
shore, in a boat, or on the raft.

Many persons, and even those who are tolerable swimmers, have been
drowned simply by the loss of their presence of mind. The dashing of
the waves, or the great distance of the land or other place of safety,
intimidates them, and they are unable to use their powers. But the
students of the squadron were gradually and carefully accustomed to
the water, so that they could swim a reasonable distance without
wearing themselves out, could rest their limbs by floating, and were
taught to avail themselves of any expedient to secure their safety. If
a boat was stove on the rocks in a surf, or was run down by a vessel,
the fact of being in the water did not frighten them out of their
wits, for they had been trained to feel quite at home, as in their
native element. They were actually drilled to confront danger in
every imaginable form. But a gentle and timid boy was not pitched
into the water, even after he had learned to swim. His constitutional
shrinking was slowly and skilfully overcome, so that even the most
delicate--though but few such ever found their way into the ranks of
the squadron--took to the water as a pastime. Of course the degree of
proficiency in the art of swimming, and of the acquired ability to
meet danger in the water, differed very widely in different boys; but
all were accustomed to the waves, and, in a measure, to leading the
life of a duck or a fish.

The crews of the several boats piped over the side, and took their
places, the rest of the students being distributed in the barges and
cutters, till only the adult officers remained in the ship. Each one,
as it was loaded, pulled off, and took its station in the order in
which the boat squadron usually moved. The commodore's barge and the
ship's first cutter, each twelve oars, led the van, while the other
boats came in four ranks of three each. All the boats carried the
American flag at the stern, and each one had its number at the bow.
All the Young America's boats had their numbers on a white, the
Josephine's on a green, and the Tritonia's on a blue flag.

The tactics of the boat squadron were many and various, which had
been adopted more to give interest to the exercise than for any
inherent utility. These movements were regulated by signals from the
commodore's barge. Mr. Lowington had decided to make an excursion
among the islands in the Fjord before dinner, and visit the town in
the afternoon. A pilot was put in the commodore's barge, and Captain
Cumberland, as acting flag officer, was in command of the squadron.
The principal and Professor Badois were passengers in his barge.

The cutters were formed in their usual array, and the two boats
from the yachts brought up the rear. The signal officer, who was a
quartermaster from the ship, at the order of the captain, elevated the
white flag crossed with red, with which all the signals were made. The
coxswains of the several boats could see this flag, while the oarsmen
could not, being back to the barge, and not allowed to look behind
them.

"Oars!" said each coxswain, as soon as the signal appeared.

At this command the several crews, who had been laying on their oars,
prepared for the stroke. The signal officer dropped the flag to the
port side of the barge.

"Give way!" added each coxswain; and the boat squadron moved off.

In order to keep the lines full, the larger quarter boat of the Grace
had been borrowed and manned, and now took the place of the second
cutter, which had been stove, and upon which the three carpenters of
the squadron were now at work, making the necessary repairs. The fleet
made a splendid appearance, with the flags flying, and with the
officers and crews in their best uniforms. The people on the shore,
and on board of the various vessels in the harbor, gathered to see the
brilliant array. The crew of an English steamer cheered lustily, and
the lady passengers waved their handkerchiefs. Suddenly the signal on
the commodore's barge went up again.

"Stand by to toss!" said the several coxswains, as the fleet of boats
came abreast of the steamer, which was the Orlando, bound from Hull to
Christiania.

The signal went down to the port side.

"Toss!" continued the coxswains, only loud enough to be heard by the
crews, for they had been taught that the unnecessary screaming of
orders makes an officer seem ridiculous, and injures the effect of the
manoeuvre.

At the word every oar went up, and was held perpendicularly in the air
with the left hand. A bugle blast from the barge at this moment
brought every student to his feet, with his right hand to his cap.

"One!" said the coxswain of each boat, at a dip of the signal flag.

A rousing cheer, accompanied by a swing of the cap, followed, and
was twice repeated, making up the complement of the three cheers, in
return for the salutations of the steamer's people. Her crew returned
the compliment in like manner. At another blast of the bugle, the
crews were seated with their oars still up. Again the signal in the
barge was elevated.

"Stand by!" said the coxswains, which was only a warning to be ready.

The flag dropped to port.

"Let fall!" added the coxswain; and all the oars dropped into the
water together, while the flag was again elevated. "Give way!" and the
stroke was resumed.

The passengers of the Orlando clapped their hands vigorously, as they
witnessed the perfection of the movements. The fleet proceeded up
the bay towards the west front of the town, where a considerable
collection of people had assembled to witness the novel parade. The
barge led the way to the extreme west of the bay, where the signal
flag was again exhibited, and then swung first to the port and then to
the starboard. This was the signal for coming into single line, and
the coxswain of each boat gave the orders necessary to bring it into
range. It was so managed that each boat came into the new order as it
turned to pass in front of the town; so that they proceeded in a
single line before the people, but not more than twenty feet apart.
Once more the signal flag appeared, with a double motion upwards.

"Stand by to lay on your oars!" said the coxswains. "Oars!" they
continued, as the flag swung down to starboard. "Hold water!"

These orders soon brought the boats to a stand. The signal flag moved
in a horizontal circle.

"Pull, starboard; back, port. Give way!" continued the coxswains; and
the effect of this evolution was to turn the boats as on a pivot.
"Oars!" and the crew ceased pulling, with their oars all on a level,
and the blades feathered.

The boats had been turned half round, and each coxswain aligned his
own by the barge on the right. In this position three cheers were
given in compliment to the people on the shore, though the Norwegians
seemed to be too dull and heavy to comprehend the nature of the
movement. The boats swung again, and continued on their way, in single
line, through the narrow passage between Odder√∂ and the main land.
Under the direction of the native pilot, the barge led the way among
the islands, affording the students an opportunity to see the shores.
When the fleet came into the broad channel, the order was resumed, as
at first, and after various manoeuvres, it was dismissed, each boat
returning to the vessel to which it belonged.

The appearance of the fleet, including the two beautiful yachts, and
the evolutions of the boats, had created a decided sensation on board
of the Orlando, which was crowded with passengers, most of them
tourists on their way to the interior of Norway. The crews of the
several vessels piped to dinner as soon as they returned from the
excursion; but the meal was hardly finished before visitors from the
steamer began to arrive, and the boatmen in the harbor made a good
harvest on the occasion. Among those who came to the ship was an
elegantly dressed lady, with her son and daughter, attended by a
servant man in livery. Mrs. Garberry Blacklock was duly presented to
the principal by one of the gentlemen who had introduced himself. She
was evidently a very fine lady; for she was "distinguished" in her
manners as well as in her dress. And her son, Clyde Blacklock, was as
evidently a very fine young gentleman, though he was only fourteen
years of age. It is doubtful whether Miss Celia Blacklock could be
regarded as a very fine young lady, for she appeared to be very
pretty, and very modest and retiring, with but a very moderate
estimate of her own importance.

For the tenth time Mr. Lowington briefly explained the nature of the
institution over which he presided; and the fine lady listened with
languishing ennui.

"But it is a very rough life for young gentlemen," suggested Mrs.
Blacklock. "I should fancy they would become very, very rude."

