
"Blank Island."

"Nobody lives there."

"I know it."

And Little Bobtail smiled at the perplexity of the visitor.

"Well, then, how come she over there, where nobody don't live?"

"I picked her up adrift."

"O, you did--did you?"

"I did. But come below; I want to get my breakfast," added Bobtail, as
he led the way down into the cabin.

Monkey stared, and exclaimed as he viewed the comfortable, and even
luxurious, furnishings of the yacht. He asked a thousand questions which
Bobtail could not answer, and a thousand more which he did answer.

"Have you been to breakfast, Monkey?" asked Bobtail, as he seated
himself before the stove in the cook-room, while the guest remained at
the door in the cabin.

"Yes, I had something," replied Monkey, glancing at the leg of bacon.

The host knew very well that Monkey did not live much better at home
than the pigs in the sty of the first-class farmer; that he was always a
hungry waif, who could make a meal at any time. He resolved to give his
visitor a treat on the present occasion; and he anticipated his own
breakfast with double pleasure when he thought of the satisfaction which
the meal would give his companion.

"Monkey, will you take Prince's boat over to her moorings for me?
Somebody may want her," said he, as he put the coffee-pot on the stove,
and took down the leg of bacon.

"To be sure I will, Bob. I'll do anything for you."

"I wish you would; and then come back and have some breakfast with me."

Monkey grinned, and even chattered, as he hastened to execute his
errand. By the time he returned, Bobtail had set the table in the cabin;
for, as he had company, he decided to take the meal in state. He had
fried all the rest of the kid of potatoes, and two large slices of ham.
He made the coffee, and mixed up a pitcher of condensed milk.

"Sit down, Monkey," said Little Bobtail, as he wiped the perspiration
from his brow, for the cook-room was a hot place, even with the scuttle
open.

"Yes," replied Monkey, showing all the teeth in his head, for when the
mouths were given out he had been supplied with a very liberal share.

The host helped him to a big piece of ham and a great heap of fried
potatoes. The guest was not very elegant in his manners; but what he
lacked in refinement he made up in zeal. Fingers seemed to come handier
to him than a fork, or, rather, a "slit spoon," as he called it. He did
not often make two parts of a slice of potato, and his mouthfuls of ham
were big enough to bait a large cod. Fortunately there was enough to
fill him up.

"Somebody's looking for you, Bob, up in the village," said Monkey, when
he began to be gorged, which, however, was not till both the slices of
ham were nearly consumed.

"For me?" asked Little Bobtail.

"Squire Gilfilian asked me if I'd seen you; and I told him I hadn't. He
was askin' everybody for you. Some on 'em said you wan't to home; and
the old man said he hadn't seen you sence yesterday mornin'."

"Who wants me?"

"I don't know; but the squire wanted to see you powerful bad," grinned
Monkey.

"All right. I'll go up and see him by and by," said Bobtail, as he left
the table.

With the assistance of his new ally he washed the dishes, cleaned up the
stove and cooking utensils, and swept out the cabin. Everything was put
into the neatest condition. When this was done, the decks were washed
down, the sails stowed more trimly than the skipper could do it in the
dark, all the running rigging hauled taut, and the ends coiled away, so
that the yacht was in man-of-war style. He found a padlock, with a key
in it, to fasten the cabin door; and having put the tiller below, so
that no one could sail the Skylark in his absence, he secured the door,
and went on shore with Monkey. He stopped at the cottage to see if his
mother had returned from Rockport, but neither she nor Ezekiel was
there.

Walking towards the village, he wondered what Squire Gilfilian could
want of him. He began to be a little troubled about the letter again,
for, in the excitement of his cruise over to Blank Island, he hardly
thought of the disagreeable circumstances connected with it. He found
the squire in his office, with a stranger, a flashy-looking and
ill-visaged fellow.

"I hear you want to see me," said Little Bobtail.

"I do," replied the lawyer, sternly and decidedly. "Come in here;" and
he led the way to his private office in the rear. "Now, boy, I want to
know what you did with that letter."

"I told you before what I did with it. I put it on your desk," answered
Bobtail, promptly; and it is not strange that his brown cheek flushed a
little, but it was with indignation, not guilt.

"So you told me before; but I don't believe it," added the squire, with
a terrible frown, and in a very loud tone, doubtless involuntarily
resorting to one of the tricks of his trade to intimidate the youth.

"Do you think I would lie about a letter?" demanded Bobtail, warmly.

"Do you know what was in that letter?"

"How should I know?"

"Because you opened it," sharply retorted the lawyer, as though he
intended to overwhelm a contumacious and guilty witness.

"I didn't open it," protested the boy, stoutly. "I put it on your desk;
and that's all I know about it."

"It is easier for you to say that than it is for me to believe it."

"I can't help it, if you don't believe me. I have told the truth. I had
a letter for you, and another for Captain Chinks. I gave him his here in
your office, and chucked yours on your desk. That's the whole truth, and
all I know about the letters. If Captain Chinks was here he would tell
you the same thing, for he said you was busy in here, and told me to put
the letter on the desk; and that's just what I did, and just all I did."

"Captain Chinks isn't here, and has been gone a week."

"He'll come back some time, I suppose."

"I don't know whether he will or not. He's mixed up with a smuggling
case, and he may not deem it prudent to come back."

"Whether he does or not, I never saw the letter after I put it on your
desk."

The lawyer bit his lips. There was nothing in the tones or the manner of
the youth to excite suspicion, and Little Bobtail's reputation for
honesty was first class. A year before, he had found the wallet of a
stranger, which he might have kept, but had taken great pains to find
the owner. In fact, everybody that knew him knew that he was honest.

"Now, Little Bobtail, you stand very well in the village," continued
Squire Gilfilian, with a smile, as he suddenly changed his tactics.

"I always mean to keep myself straight, sir," added Bobtail.

"Of course you do. But the best of us are sometimes tempted to do wrong.
If you have been led away, and--"

"I haven't been led away, sir."

"You may have made a mistake. If you opened that letter by accident or
otherwise--"

"I didn't open it by accident or otherwise. I didn't open it at all,"
interposed the boy, with energy.

"Hear what I have to say, Little Bobtail. The best of folks are
sometimes led away. Even ministers of the gospel once in a great while
do a wicked deed."

"I don't care if they do; I haven't opened your letter."

"But I'm only supposing a case."

"Well, sir, you needn't suppose I opened that letter, for I didn't."

"Suppose you had opened it--"

