"Ah!" said Norton. "But are they always good reasons?"

"That's their own look out," said the housekeeper. "What did you go to
church for this evening, for instance?"

"I've just been telling my sister," said Norton. "But what, in the name
of Rabbi Solomon, and all the Rabbis, ever took David Bartholomew
there?"

"Ain't he a Jew?" said the housekeeper.

"Of course he is. And he don't love Christians, I can tell you, except
one here and there."

"He does now," said Matilda in a low voice.

"What?" said Norton.

"He loves Christians now, Norton. And he loves Jesus. He is a Christian
himself."

"David Bartholomew a Christian!" exclaimed Norton.

Matilda nodded. Her eyes were full and her lips were trembling.

"I thought there was something to pay," said the good housekeeper,
whose eyes watered for company. But Norton was transfixed with
astonishment.

"Pink, what do you mean?"

"It's true, Norton," said Matilda nodding again.

"What's made him?"

"He has been studying the Bible and the New Testament this long while.
Now, he says, he knows."

"And he means it!" said the housekeeper. "I can tell by the look of
him."

"Means what?"

"He means what he says--whatever that is."

"But you said, you were thinking, something in particular, Miss
Redwood."

"Yes; just what he was thinking," said the housekeeper. "He'll never be
one o' those Christians that stand on one leg at a time; that's what I
mean. Whoever wants to walk alongside of him, 'll have to step up to
the mark."

Norton looked at her, in somewhat disdainful want of comprehension, and
then turned to Matilda again.

"Pink, I don't believe a word of it!"

"Why, Norton, I heard him myself, all that he said."

"Mind, he may have found out that his famous old uncles of rabbis don't
know anything; that's very likely; but I don't believe David
Bartholomew has given up being a Jew."

"Why he can't do that, Norton; he's born so; but he is a Christian too."

"A man can't be a Christian and a Jew too," said Norton.

"Miss Redwood, can't he?"

"I reckon it's difficult," said the good housekeeper; "and you may
depend he's found that out; but he's found it's possible too. Why what
'ud become of all the Jewish nation if it warn't possible?"

"What should become of them?" Norton asked scornfully.

"Well, there's wonderful things about the Jews in the Bible," said the
housekeeper rising; "if the minister was here he'd tell you. And there
was an old promise to Abraham, that if I was you I wouldn't run
against."

"Run against a promise to Abraham!" said Norton.

"Well, yes," said the housekeeper, setting her chair back at the wall
in its place. "I wouldn't like to run against none o' the Lord's words,
and this is one of 'em. 'I will bless them that bless thee, and curse
him that curseth thee.'"

The housekeeper went off and left Matilda and Norton looking at each
other. Norton wore a vexed face.

"This is all trumpery," he said. "It will blow away like smoke."

"No it won't, Norton," said Matilda. "I hope not."

"And how long have you and David been holding secret meetings together
to talk about this?"

"I don't know, Norton. But we had better go to bed, I suppose; for Miss
Redwood will call us very early to have breakfast before the omnibus
comes for us."

"Nonsense to have breakfast!" said Norton. "We shall be home time
enough."

"But then you and Davy will have to rush right off to school. Good
night."

"Good night"--said Norton, in an uncomfortable tone. And they went up
to their rooms, leaving David and Mr. Richmond still shut up in the
study.

It was early, dawn just breaking, when the summons came for them to get
up; the dawn of a fair spring morning. What a visit it had been!
Matilda thought to herself, as she dressed and put up her things in her
little hand bag. And as the first sunbeams were glinting on the top of
the old tower, she ran down to breakfast. Mr. Richmond gave her a very
warm greeting, in his quiet way. So did David. He looked bright and
well, Matilda saw at a glance. Norton had not by any means got over his
discomfiture. He seemed embarrassed as well as uneasy; watched David
with furtive glances, and eat his breakfast in silence. Mr. Richmond
and Matilda were the talkers.

"Have you had any more difficulties about boots?" he asked in the
course of the conversation. Matilda looked at him in bewilderment.

"You wrote me some time ago, on the subject of a deep question that had
to do with boots."

Matilda coloured and laughed, while Norton remarked that boots were a
queer subject for deep questions to have to do with.

"Deep questions can spring out of anything--out of your bread and
butter," said Mr. Richmond. "How is it, Tilly, about the matter of
boots?"

"I have hardly thought about it, Mr. Richmond, this long while."

"How is that?"

"I have had so much else to think of, I believe."

"Studies?"

"No, sir; my studies have been a good deal broken off by my being sick."

"What then? Can you tell me?"

Matilda gave briefly the history of her connexion with Sarah Staples.
She meant to give it briefly; but the story was too sweet in the
telling; it rather grew long. Yet she did by no means put herself or
her own doings in the foreground; that place was given as much as
possible to Mr. Wharncliffe and David and the poor family themselves.
The minister and the housekeeper were both very much interested.

"Yes," said the former, in conclusion, "I understand, and am satisfied.
I see that now boots are boots; and nothing more."

Matilda laughed, for the boys looked mystified.

"Will you tell me, sir," inquired Norton, "how deep questions could
spring out of my bread and butter?"

The minister could have smiled at the boy's air, which had much the
effect of seeming to put a "poser" to him; but he controlled himself
and answered quite gravely.

"Shall we consider them together? or apart?"

"Apart, if you please."

"Well--Bread, you know, daily bread, stands for the matters which
support life, in all variety. This question arises.--Who gives this
daily bread to you, and gives you power to eat it? And what use does He
wish to make of you, that he should give you both?"

Norton was silent.

"You are not prepared with an answer?" said the minister.

