for ten minutes! just long enough to bring my accusation, and hear
his defence!"

"I am thankful that this cannot be!" said Orrin, composedly. "I
understand him better than you do in some respects. To doubt is to
insult him. One sentence of 'accusation,' and your power over him is
gone forever. Be guided by me, Jessie! You are not in a fit
condition to decide for yourself upon your safest mode of action at
this critical juncture. It is an oft-repeated maxim of human law
that every man is innocent until proof brings his guilt home to
him. Two things are patent from our present standpoint. When Roy
asked you to marry him, he was free to do so,--the previous
engagement, assuming that such had ever existed, having been
dissolved some months earlier than the date of his proposal to you.
Again--and on this head I can speak confidently--he is thoroughly
satisfied that his choice is a judicious one. This is not the first
time I have wanted to say this to you. He may not be an ardent
suitor, because his is not a passionate nature, nor is he given to
demonstrations of emotion. But he is more than contented. He is
sincerely attached to you--"

"Which means that he will fulfil his part of the contract of
marriage unless my sister should die of consumption before the
wedding-day arrives!" Jessie checked his defence of his kinsman by
saying, with a rasping laugh.

Wyllys looked deeply pained.

"We will defer further conversation about this matter until you are
calmer," he said, with a manifest struggle. "You are not ready for
it just yet, or you would not sneer at my well-meant, if
ineffectual, attempt to set your mind at rest."

"With unfeeling arguments! with special pleadings that freeze the
blood at my heart!" she pursued, unappeased and desperate. "If this
is the ablest defence you can set up for your client, you do well to
defer the further consideration of it. I have prayed you for bread,
and you give me a stone! I have said--'Let me have the plain truth!'
and you tantalize me with fine-drawn theories and exhortations to
patience and faith. I am tempted to believe that you are in the
league to deceive me!"

"Jessie! Jessie! take care! You do not know what you are doing!"

It was entreaty--not reproach. He seemed to crave a personal
boon--deliverance from impending trial of his strength or feelings.
Jessie rushed on headlong, deaf to the significance of the petition.

"Your advocacy is worthy of the cause you have espoused! And while
you expatiate upon your cousin's cool head and colder heart, and
recommend me to make sure of this pattern partner--yes! that is the
way you put it--I am being torn by pride and wounded affection and
incertitude, as by raging wild horses! It is easy for you to talk
sensibly and even eloquently of what appeals only to your reason!"

"Child!" seizing her elbows, and bringing her to a stand-still in
the middle of the road, facing himself, "does it cost me nothing,
do you think, to plead this cause? There are no wild horses for me
then! No 'Might-have-been' dogging my steps and haunting my pillow!
No furies of betrayed confidence and remorse menacing me! I tell
you, your pettish jealousy, your slight heat of resentment that will
be gone before to-morrow morning, is, in comparison with what I
endure, a summer breeze to a tornado,--the flicker of a match to the
fires of Gehenna!"

He released her, and she walked on beside him, bewildered and giddy;
almost oblivious of her individual grievances in the thought of the
passion that had fired his eyes, found vent in his hurried
sentences. The sun was down. They were in a rough country-road;
stone fences on either hand; the naked hedge-rows seeming to shiver
in the still, freezing air. The hard orange dye of the west was
beginning to melt slowly into a gray as cold. It was a heartless,
dreesome afternoon.

Jessie never forgot it, or the interval of awful silence that
succeeded Wyllys' unprecedented outbreak. Not daring to glance at
his face, she had a second surprise, when he, at length, suggested,
in a tone tranquil to coldness, that they should retrace their
steps. Could she be dreaming now? Or were the strange, wild words
echoing confusingly in her brain, dictated by her distempered fancy?

"It will be late before we reach home, as it is," Orrin offered, in
support of his proposition. "And the air grows keener every moment."

Nothing more passed between them until they were again upon the
bridge, where he stayed her, for a moment, that he might rearrange
her furs.

"You are not used to this biting weather! Are you tolerably
comfortable?" he asked, in his usual brotherly way.

"Quite comfortable--if you are not angry with me!" she answered,
enboldened by the little attention and his tone.

"You silly child! I have never had a thought of you that bordered
upon unkindness. We have both been hasty and unreasonable in
judgment and in language, this afternoon. Your warmth was excusable.
Mine was culpable weakness. You will hate me, in time, if I forget
myself in this manner. It was selfish and wicked, besides being
unmanly. Don't contradict me! I know what I am saying now, at any
rate. To exchange an unpleasant for a painful subject--promise me
that you will not allude to Miss Sanford's narrative in your letter
to Roy."

"I shall write to him by to-morrow's mail, and tell him all!" said
Jessie, with a return of stubbornness.

"You will regret it all your life! If he is guilty, he will be
offended at your arraignment of him by letter, which must, of
necessity, be formal and incomplete as to testimony--you having but
one witness, and that by no means a reliable one. Should he be
innocent, you inflict severe and needless pain; put yourself in the
position of a touchy, suspicious, exacting fianc√©e, whose troth he
will ever thereafter hold by a slight tenure. 'Let sleeping dogs
lie,' is a sage motto, unless they can bark to some purpose. If you
will allow me, I shall make it my business to sift this story
carefully, and apprise you of the result--if I have to cultivate an
intimacy with Miss Sanford in order to get at the truth. Meanwhile,
we will depend upon what we are certain of--Roy's integrity and the
nicety of his honor. At the risk of being again taken to task for
special pleading, let me say that he is, in my estimation, as nearly
faultless as mortals ever grow to be. You cannot act more rationally
than to think as much as possible of him, and as little of his
vaurien cousin as is consistent with common benevolence."

It was silvery-gray twilight out-of-doors when they gained Mrs.
Baxter's door, and they found a rosy twilight of summer within her
firelighted parlors, balmy, moreover, with the spiciness flowing out
in the genial temperature, from the latest bouquet presented by Mr.
Wyllys.

The donor, playfully gallant, and bent, it would seem, upon effacing
the memory of his late excited speech, was chafing Jessie's numb
fingers before the fire, and she laughing in spite of herself at his
sallies, when Mrs. Baxter tripped in.

She always entered a room bouncingly, generally with the added
effect of being pushed in by some unseen hand from behind. She
recoiled, momentarily, at the tableau upon the rug, and Jessie
observed it with a sick, guilty qualm that made her snatch away her
hand from Orrin's hold.

He was not discomfited.

"Here is a frozen wayfarer I picked up on the bridge, my dear madam,
taking an unconstitutional," he said. "Mindful of your known
charity and condescension, I took the liberty of bringing her in to
be treated by you as her needs require. If I may advise you in a
matter in which you are so much wiser than myself, I recommend that
a cup of warm drink--gruel, panada, or posset--and a reasonable
amount of admonition, tempered to suit the exhausted state of the
patient, be administered without delay. As an additional precaution
against rheumatism, pleurisy, or bronchitis, a glass of hot
lemonade, with"--affecting to whisper--"a tablespoonful of Jamaica
rum or old Bourbon, at bedtime, would be eminently judicious. My
impertinence culminates in the petition that you vouchsafe to bestow
upon my unworthy but chilly self a cup of the nectar in common use
upon your table under the name of souchong."

Jessie slipped away to her chamber while her cousin was replying in
suitable terms to this nonsense, and did not reappear until the
tea-bell had rung twice.

She had been crying, Mrs. Baxter saw at once, and she was still very
pale. It had been a violent fit of weeping that had exhausted her
to languor of expression and movement. The doctor spoke cheerily to
her as she seated herself beside him.

"Well, my little girl, how are your spirits, this freezing night? Do
they follow the mercury, or rise as it descends?"

An unfortunate question, but it brought a faint glow to her face.

"I shall be more lively when I have had my supper," she said,
averting her eyes. "I am cold and tired now."

The doctor bent his head and raised his hand to ask a blessing, and
then bade his wife "pour out Jessie's tea, forthwith. She looks as
if she needed it," he subjoined, uneasily, watching her with eyes
that were very keen when he was awake to what was passing in the
