hit you square in the eye; it’ll be black as y’r boot by morning. I’ll
get some cold water.”

A basin of cold water was brought, and Pinky held a wet cloth to the
swollen spot for a long time, hoping thereby not only to reduce the
swelling, but to prevent discoloration.

“Y’r a fool to meddle with Sal,” said Norah as she set the basin of
water before Pinky.

“Why don’t you meddle with her? Why do you let her beat poor little Kit
the way she does?” demanded Pinky.

Norah shrugged her shoulders, and answered with no more feeling in her
voice than if she had been speaking of inanimate things:

“She’s got to keep Kit up to her work.”

“Up to her work!”

“Yes; that’s just it. Kit’s lazy and cheats--buys cakes and candies; and
Sal has to come down on her; it’s the way, you know. If Sal didn’t come
down sharp on her all the while, Kit wouldn’t bring her ten cents a day.
They all have to do it--so much a day or a lickin’; and a little lickin’
isn’t any use--got to ‘most kill some of ‘em. We’re used to it in here.
Hark!”

The screams of a child in pain rang out wildly, the sounds coming from
across the narrow street. Quick, hard strokes of a lash were heard at
the same time. Pinky turned a little pale.

“Only Mother Quig,” said Norah, with an indifferent air; “she has to do
it ‘most every night--no getting along any other way with Tom. It beats
all how much he can stand.”

“Oh, Norah, won’t she never stop?” cried Pinky, starting up. “I can’t
bear it a minute longer.”

“Shut y’r ears. You’ve got to,” answered the woman, with some impatience
in her voice. “Tom has to be kept to his work as well as the rest of
‘em. Half the fuss he’s making is put on, anyhow; he doesn’t mind a
beating any more than a horse. I know his hollers. There’s Flanagan’s
Nell getting it now,” added Norah as the cries and entreaties of another
child were heard. She drew herself up and listened, a slight shade of
concern drifting across her face.

A long, agonizing wail shivered through the air.

“Nell’s Sick, and can’t do her work.” The woman rose as she spoke. “I
saw her goin’ off to-day, and told Flanagan she’d better keep her at
home.”

Saying this, Norah went out quickly, Pinky following. With head erect
and mouth set firmly, the queen strode across the street and a little
way down the pavement, to the entrance of a cellar, from which the cries
and sounds of whipping came. Down the five or six rotten and broken
steps she plunged, Pinky close after her.

“Stop!” shouted Norah, in a tone of command.

Instantly the blows ceased, and the cries were hushed.

“You’ll be hanged for murder if you don’t take care,” said Norah.
“What’s Nell been doin’?”

“Doin’, the slut!” ejaculated the woman, a short, bloated, revolting
creature, with scarcely anything human in her face. “Doin’, did ye say?
It’s nothin’ she’s been doin’, the lazy, trapsing huzzy! Who’s that
intrudin’ herself in here?” she added fiercely, as she saw Pinky, making
at the same time a movement toward the girl. “Get out o’ here, or I’ll
spile y’r pictur’!”

“Keep quiet, will you?” said Norah, putting her hand on the woman and
pushing her back as easily as if she had been a child. “Now come here,
Nell, and let me look at you.”

Out of the far corner of the cellar into which Flanagan had thrown her
when she heard Norah’s voice, and into the small circle of light made
by a single tallow candle, there crept slowly the figure of a child
literally clothed in rags. Norah reached out her hand to her as she came
up--there was a scared look on her pinched face--and drew her close to
the light.

“Gracious! your hand’s like an ice-ball!” exclaimed Norah.

Pinky looked at the child, and grew faint at heart. She had large hazel
eyes, that gleamed with a singular lustre out of the suffering, grimed
and wasted little face, so pale and sad and pitiful that the sight of it
was enough to draw tears from any but the brutal and hardened.

“Are you sick?” asked Norah.

“No, she’s not sick; she’s only shamming,” growled Flanagan.

“You shut up!” retorted Norah. “I wasn’t speaking to you.” Then she
repeated her question:

“Are you sick, Nell?”

“Yes.”

“Where?”

“I don’t know.”

Norah laid her hand on the child’s head:

“Does it hurt here?”

“Oh yes! It hurts so I can’t see good,” answered Nell.

“It’s all a lie! I know her; she’s shamming.”

“Oh no, Norah!” cried the child, a sudden hope blending with the fear in
her voice. “I ain’t shamming at all. I fell down ever so many times in
the street, and ‘most got run over. Oh dear! oh dear!” and she clung to
the woman with a gesture of despair piteous to see.

“I don’t believe you are, Nell,” said Norah, kindly. Then, to the woman,
“Now mind, Flanagan, Nell’s sick; d’ye hear?”

The woman only uttered a defiant growl.

“She’s not to be licked again to-night.” Norah spoke as one having
authority.

“I wish ye’d be mindin’ y’r own business, and not come interfarin’ wid
me. She’s my gal, and I’ve a right to lick her if I plaze.”

“Maybe she is and maybe she isn’t,” retorted Norah.

“Who says she isn’t my gal?” screamed the woman, firing up at this and
reaching out for Nell, who shrunk closer to Norah.

“Maybe she is and maybe she isn’t,” said the queen, quietly repeating
her last sentence; “and I think maybe she isn’t. So take care and mind
what I say. Nell isn’t to be licked any more to-night.”

“Oh, Norah,” sobbed the child, in a husky, choking voice, “take me,
won’t you? She’ll pinch me, and she’ll hit my head on the wall, and
she’ll choke me and knock me. Oh, Norah, Norah!”

Pinky could stand this no longer. Catching up the bundle of rags in
her arms, she sprang out of the cellar and ran across the street to the
queen’s house, Norah and Flanagan coming quickly after her. At the
door, through which Pinky had passed, Norah paused, and turning to the
infuriated Irish woman, said, sternly,

“Go back! I won’t have you in here; and if you make a row, I’ll tell
John to lock you up.”

“I want my Nell,” said the woman, her manner changing. There was a shade
of alarm in her voice.

“You can’t have her to-night; so that’s settled. And if there’s any row,
you’ll be locked up.” Saying which, Norah went in and shut the door,
leaving Flanagan on the outside.

The bundle of dirty rags with the wasted body of a child inside, the
body scarcely heavier than the rags, was laid by Pinky in the corner
of a settee, and the unsightly mass shrunk together like something
inanimate.

“I thought you’d had enough with old Sal,” said Norah, in a tone of
reproof, as she came in.

“Couldn’t help it,” replied Pinky. “I’m bad enough, but I can’t stand to
see a child abused like that--no, not if I die for it.”

Norah crossed to the settee and spoke to Nell. But there was no answer,
nor did the bundle of rags stir.

“Nell! Nell!” She called to deaf ears. Then she put her hand on the
child and raised one of the arms. It dropped away limp as a withered
stalk, showing the ashen white face across which it had lain.

The two women manifested no excitement. The child had fainted or was
dead--which, they did not know. Norah straightened out the wasted little
form and turned up the face. The eyes were shut, the mouth closed, the
pinched features rigid, as if still giving expression to pain, but there
