“If it isn’t Pem, I give it up. He’s the best-bred fellow I know.”

“Oh, dear, no! Far superior to Mr. Pemberton and many years older,”
 said Rose, with so much respect that Charlie looked perplexed as well as
anxious.

“Some apostolic minister, I fancy. You pious creatures always like to
adore a parson. But all we know are married.”

“He isn’t.”

“Give a name, for pity’s sake I’m suffering tortures of suspense,”
 begged Charlie.

“Alexander Campbell.”

“Uncle? Well, upon my word, that’s a relief, but mighty absurd all the
same. So, when you find a young saint of that sort, you intend to marry
him, do you?” demanded Charlie much amused and rather disappointed.

“When I find any man half as honest, good, and noble as Uncle, I shall
be proud to marry him if he asks me,” answered Rose decidedly.

“What odd tastes women have!” And Charlie leaned his chin on his hand
to muse pensively for a moment over the blindness of one woman who could
admire an excellent old uncle more than a dashing young cousin.

Rose, meanwhile, tied up her parcels industriously, hoping she had not
been too severe, for it was very hard to lecture Charlie, though he
seemed to like it sometimes and came to confession voluntarily, knowing
that women love to forgive when the sinners are of his sort.

“It will be mail time before you are done,” she said presently, for
silence was less pleasant than his rattle.

Charlie took the hint and dashed off several notes in his best manner.
Coming to the business letter, he glanced at it and asked, with a
puzzled expression: “What is all this? Cost of repairs, etc., from a man
named Buffum?”

“Never mind that I’ll see to it by and by.”

“But I do mind, for I’m interested in all your affairs, and though you
think I’ve no head for business, you’ll find I have if you’ll try me.”

“This is only about my two old houses in the city, which are being
repaired and altered so that the rooms can be let singly.”

“Going to make tenement houses of them? Well, that’s not a bad idea such
places pay well, I’ve heard.”

“That is just what I’m not going to do. I wouldn’t have a tenement house
on my conscience for a million dollars not as they are now,” said Rose
decidedly.

“Why, what do you know about it, except that people live in them and the
owners turn a pretty penny on the rents?”

“I know a good deal about them, for I’ve seen many such, both here
and abroad. It was not all pleasure with us, I assure you. Uncle was
interested in hospitals and prisons, and I sometimes went with him, but
they made me sad so he suggested other charities that I could be of
help about when we came home. I visited infant schools, working women’s
homes, orphan asylums, and places of that sort. You don’t know how much
good it did me and how glad I am that I have the means of lightening a
little some of the misery in the world.”

“But, my dear girl, you needn’t make ducks and drakes of your fortune
trying to feed and cure and clothe all the poor wretches you see. Give,
of course everyone should do something in that line and no one likes it
better than I. But don’t, for mercy’s sake, go at it as some women do
and get so desperately earnest, practical, and charity-mad that there is
no living in peace with you,” protested Charlie, looking alarmed at the
prospect.

“You can do as you please. I intend to do all the good I can by asking
the advice and following the example of the most ‘earnest,’ ‘practical,’
and ‘charitable’ people I know so, if you don’t approve, you can drop
my acquaintance,” answered Rose, emphasizing the obnoxious words and
assuming the resolute air she always wore when defending her hobbies.

“You’ll be laughed at.”

“I’m used to that.”

“And criticized and shunned.”

“Not by people whose opinion I value.”

“Women shouldn’t go poking into such places.”

“I’ve been taught that they should.”

“Well, you’ll get some dreadful disease and lose your beauty, and then
where are you?” added Charlie, thinking that might daunt the young
philanthropist.

But it did not, for Rose answered, with a sudden kindling of the eyes as
she remembered her talk with Uncle Alec: “I shouldn’t like it. But there
would be one satisfaction in it, for when I’d lost my beauty and given
away my money, I should know who really cared for me.”

Charlie nibbled his pen in silence for a moment, then asked, meekly,
“Could I respectfully inquire what great reform is to be carried on in
the old houses which their amiable owner is repairing?”

“I am merely going to make them comfortable homes for poor but
respectable women to live in. There is a class who cannot afford to
pay much, yet suffer a great deal from being obliged to stay in noisy,
dirty, crowded places like tenement houses and cheap lodgings. I can
help a few of them and I’m going to try.”

“May I humbly ask if these decayed gentlewomen are to inhabit their
palatial retreat rent-free?”

“That was my first plan, but Uncle showed me that it was wiser not
make genteel paupers of them, but let them pay a small rent and feel
independent. I don’t want the money, of course, and shall use it in
keeping the houses tidy or helping other women in like case,” said Rose,
entirely ignoring her cousin’s covert ridicule.

“Don’t expect any gratitude, for you won’t get it; nor much comfort with
a lot of forlornities on your hands, and be sure that when it is too
late you will tire of it all and wish you had done as other people do.”

“Thanks for your cheerful prophecies, but I think I’ll venture.”

She looked so undaunted that Charlie was a little nettled and fired his
last shot rather recklessly: “Well, one thing I do know you’ll never get
a husband if you go on in this absurd way, and by Jove! you need one to
take care of you and keep the property together!”

Rose had a temper, but seldom let it get the better of her; now,
however, it flashed up for a moment. Those last words were peculiarly
unfortunate, because Aunt Clara had used them more than once when
warning her against impecunious suitors and generous projects. She was
disappointed in her cousin, annoyed at having her little plans laughed
at, and indignant with him for his final suggestion.

“I’ll never have one, if I must give up the liberty of doing what I know
is right, and I’d rather go into the poorhouse tomorrow than ‘keep the
property together’ in the selfish way you mean!”

That was all but Charlie saw that he had gone too far and hastened to
make his peace with the skill of a lover, for, turning to the little
cabinet piano behind him, he sang in his best style the sweet old song:

    “Oh were thou in the cauld blast,”

dwelling with great effect, not only upon the tender assurance that “My
plaid should shelter thee,”

but also that, even if a king,

    “The brightest jewel in my crown
    Wad be my queen, wad be my queen.”

It was very evident that Prince Charming had not gone troubadouring
in vain, for Orpheus himself could not have restored harmony more
successfully. The tuneful apology was accepted with a forgiving smile
and a frank “I’m sorry I was cross, but you haven’t forgotten how to
tease, and I’m rather out of sorts today. Late hours don’t agree with
me.”

“Then you won’t feel like going to Mrs. Hope’s tomorrow, I’m afraid,”
 and Charlie took up the last note with an expression of regret which was
very flattering.

“I must go, because it is made for me, but I can come away early and
make up lost sleep. I do hate to be so fractious,” and Rose rubbed the
forehead that ached with too much racketing.

“But the German does not begin till late I’m to lead and depend upon
you. Just stay this once to oblige me,” pleaded Charlie, for he had set
his heart on distinguishing himself.

“No I promised Uncle to be temperate in my pleasures and I must keep my
word. I’m so well now, it would be very foolish to get ill and make him
anxious not to mention losing my beauty, as you are good enough to call
it, for that depends on health, you know.”
