constantly prevailing, so that, for example, in this parish, in the
thirty years from 1650 to 1680, three pastors died one after another of
contagious epidemics; namely, Andreas Kruse'" (that was the fellow who
stood out so for his church vessels), "Paulus Boccatius, Johannes
Buchholz; and the fourth Justus Theodor Breyhan, who died in 1686, was
three times at death's door. Those were troubled times!

"'This Breyhan was a childlike good man, whom his parish held in great
love and honour, for both in spiritual and in material things there was
no better counsellor for them. Like a true father he stood by the
bedside of the sick and the dying, to show them how to die happy, and
like a good father he comforted the survivors, and by the live and
powerful words of his preaching, poured new strength and fresh courage
of faith into all hearts. With all that, this man was a singular lover
of the sound of the bell. In his opinion it was a remarkable thing,
that the heavenly King would allow his bells to be cast of the same
metal in which earthly princes cast their guns; and his highest wish
was, to get a great church bell again. The metal indeed was still on
hand; but who would have it cast? There was only a little bell still
hanging up in the tower, which was called the Bingel bell, and dated
back to the year 1495 (it is there still) and had been too insignificant
to tempt the Croats. With that on Sundays people must be rung to church,
and with that the tolling for the dead must be done at funerals. It did,
it is true, give out a fine, lovely, clear note; but the good dear
Breyhan often wept great tears when he heard the sound of it; it seemed
to him that it was too disrespectful to the great King in heaven, that
he should have no better bell than that. He could hardly sleep at last
for thinking of it. Especially at the high festival days and in Passion
week, and on occasion of funerals, he was in great uneasiness. Then it
was in the fast season of the year 1680, he was again sick unto death,
and in his fevered fancies he was continually praying to the dear Lord
that He would not let him die before he could have the bell properly
tolled at his burying. He recovered, and on Good Friday was again able
to preach. The congregation wept for joy at having their beloved pastor
among them again, and never perhaps have more ardent thanks gone up to
God from the parish than did that day. The time of the Easter festival
passed by, and they rejoiced with one another over the glorious
resurrection of the Lord Jesus. The third day of the Easter festival (at
that time there were still always three feast days), he told the
congregation that they must pray for him faithfully; for the next day he
was going on a journey after a bell which in his illness he had promised
to the Lord.

"'The next morning his honest old parish farmer Ebel was at the door
with a little farm waggon, and asked him where they were to go? and
whether it was to be a long or a short journey? You must know the man
was under obligation to take several long journeys for his pastor,
lasting some days, and several short expeditions of a day only each. "It
shall be a short one for to-day," the pastor answered. "I think with
God's help to ride to Zelle." So after Ebel had attended morning worship
in the parsonage, for he would not willingly have missed that, Breyhan
mounted into the waggon, set himself down upon a spread of straw, took
his hat off and said reverently--"In God's name!"--and then they went
forward, step by step, as the manner was then; for in those days people
were not in such a hurry as they are now. Before the city they stopped,
and with prayer and thanksgiving ate the breakfast they had brought
along with them. Then Breyhan took his vestments out of a clean linen
cloth and put them on, and one could see by his lips that he was
speaking to himself or praying. Good Ebel felt himself growing quite
devotional at the sight, and he drove into the city with twice the
spirit he had had before, because now everybody might see that he had a
pastor in his waggon.'"

Meredith paused a moment to glance up at the river and hills opposite,
and Maggie broke forth,

"The people in that country seem to be very unlike the people in this
country?"

"You mean, nobody here would care so much about carrying a minister in
his waggon," said Meredith laughing.

"Well--he wouldn't, would he?"

"I am afraid not. More's the pity."

"Why, Ditto?" said his sister. "What are ministers so much more than
other people?"

"They are the King's ambassadors," said Mr. Murray, taking the answer
upon himself. "And you know, Miss Flora, the ambassador of a king is
always treated as something more than other people."

Flora looked at him. "Mr. Murray," she said, "ministers do not seem like
that?"

"When they are the true thing, they do."

"But then besides," Maggie went on,--"how could anybody, how could that
good man care so much about a bell? What difference did it make
whether the bell was big or little?"

"Superstition"--said Flora.

"No, not exactly," responded Mr. Murray.

"That other man cared so much about his silver service, and this one
about his bell--they were both alike, but I don't understand it," said
Maggie.

"How would you like your father to have his table set with pewter
instead of silver?"

"O Uncle Eden! but that--"

"Or to drive a lame horse in his carriage?"

"But, Uncle Eden--"

"Or to wear a fustian coat?"

"But that's different, Uncle Eden."

"Yes, it is different. This concerns our own things; those matters of
the vessels and the bell concerned God's things."

"Then you approve of building very costly churches, sir?" asked
Meredith, whose head was running on churches lately.

"No, I do not."

"How then, Mr. Murray?" said Flora curiously.

"Because the temple of the Lord, the only one He cares much about, is
not built yet. I hold it false stewardship to turn aside the Lord's
money into brick and mortar and marble channels, while His poor have no
comfortable shelter, His waifs want bread, and a community anywhere in
the world are going without the light of life and the word of
salvation."

"What do you mean by the temple of the Lord, Uncle Eden?" said Maggie.
"I thought there was no temple of the Lord now?"

Mr. Murray pulled out his Bible from his pocket, opened and found a
place.

"'Now therefore ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but
fellow-citizens with the saints, and of the household of God; and are
built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ
himself being the chief corner-stone; in whom all the building, fitly
framed together, groweth unto an holy temple in the Lord; in whom ye
also are builded together, for an habitation of God through the
Spirit.'"

"How lovely!"--said Meredith.

"I didn't know that was in the Bible," said Flora.

"The literal Jewish temple was in part a type of this spiritual one. And
as in Solomon's building, 'the house was built of stone made ready
before it was brought thither; so that there was neither hammer, nor
axe, nor any tool of iron heard in the house while it was in building,'
but the walls rose silently,--so it is in this temple. The stones are
silently preparing, 'polished after the similitude of a palace;'
silently put in place; 'lively stones built up a spiritual house;' so
the Lord says, 'He that overcometh, will I make a pillar in the temple
of my God.'"

There was silence for a few moments, when Mr. Murray added, "That is
the temple, Meredith, that I think the Lord wants us to build and help
build. I think any diversion of the money or strength needed for this, a
sad, sad waste; and no honour to the Lord of the temple, though it may
be meant so. Come, go on with Pastor Breyhan; I like him. His was a
true-souled care for God's honour. I hope he got his bell."

Meredith went on.

"'To Ebel's question, "where he should drive to?" the answer was, "To
the Stechbahn;" that was a road which lay opposite the ducal castle.
Ebel's wonderment grew greater and greater, but Breyhan kept still,
slowly dismounted, gave orders to Ebel that he should drive to the inn,
but he himself went straight on to the ducal castle. As he had expected,
for it was just eleven o'clock, he found the duke sitting in front of
the entrance to the castle. For about this hour the duke was wont to sit
there and allow everybody, even the lowest of his vassals, to have free
access and speech of him. If there were no petitions, or complaints, or
the like on hand, he would converse in the kindest and most affable way
with everybody, and many a peasant could boast that in all
simple-heartedness he had shaken hands with his liege lord. Breyhan
found the duke (it was George William) surrounded by a number of people.
