½ box of gelatine; 1 quart of milk; yolks of 3 eggs; 1 small cup of
sugar; flavor with vanilla, or other essence.

Soak the gelatine one hour in the milk. Put into a farina-kettle, and
stir as it warms. When hot, pour over the beaten yolks and sugar; put
back into the kettle, and heat to scalding. Strain through tarlatan;
flavor and pour into a wet mould. Do this on Saturday, and set in a
cold place. Eat with cream, or without.



  Second Week.      Monday.
  ——
  Vermicelli Soup.
  Mutton Chops.      Baked Sweet Potatoes.
  Tomato Sauce.      Savory Rice Pudding.
  ——
  Oranges, Bananas, and Pears.
  ——


VERMICELLI SOUP.

Add the remains of yesterday’s soup to what remains in your stock-pot.
Dilute with a little boiling water, and heat all to a boil. Strain out
the ox-tails, etc., which have done such good service. Although it is
Monday, make time to put them into a pot, by and by, with the skeletons
of yesterday’s chickens. Cover them with the skimmed liquor in which
the corned beef was cooked on Saturday, and warm slowly to a boil,
then, put back into the stock-pot for to-morrow’s soup. As to to-day’s
soup, add seasoning to taste; boil up and skim, and, ten minutes before
serving, drop in a handful of vermicelli, broken small, and cooked ten
minutes in boiling water. Boil up once and serve.


MUTTON CHOPS.

Trim off fat and skin; leave a bare piece of bone at the top of each;
broil over or under a bright fire; salt, pepper, and butter each one,
and lay upon a hot dish, the large end of each overlapping the small
end of that beyond it.


BAKED SWEET POTATOES.

Wash, and lay in a moderate oven. When they are soft between the
fingers, they are done. Serve in the skins.


TOMATO SAUCE.

Pare, slice, and stew twenty minutes. Then season with pepper, salt,
and sugar; stir in a good lump of butter rolled in flour; simmer ten
minutes, and serve.


SAVORY RICE PUDDING.

1 cup of boiled rice; ½ cup of gravy from yesterday’s chickens; the
giblets, boiled and chopped; 2 eggs; 3 tablespoonfuls of milk; 1
teaspoonful of flour; pepper and salt.

Beat the eggs into the rice; add gravy, milk, seasonings, giblets;
lastly, the flour wet up in milk. Beat well; pour into a mould; set in
a dripping-pan of hot water, and cook one hour. Turn out, and eat hot.


ORANGES, BANANAS, AND PEARS.

Atone to the so-by-herself-considered queen of the lower realms for
such a “quare lot of mussing on a washin’ day,” by serving a pretty
fruit dessert, and seeing to it that it is pretty and good.



  Second Week.      Tuesday.
  ——
  Green Bean Soup.
  Beef à la Reine.      Purée of Turnips.
  Potato Cakes.      Lettuce Salad.
  ——
  Custard Bread Pudding.
  ——


GREEN BEAN SOUP.

Take the fat from your soup-stock; add a quart of boiling water, and
strain from the débris. Put over the fire; boil, and take off the
scum; then put in a scant quart of fresh kidney or Lima beans. Boil
slowly at the back of the range until the beans break to pieces. Rub
through a colander; season as required; put in a teaspoonful of essence
of celery, and pour upon dice of fried bread already in the tureen.


BEEF À LA REINE.

Have a small round of beef, or a piece weighing six or seven pounds
cut from the round, bound into a compact shape by a broad strip of
muslin, as wide as it is high. Make holes clear through it by passing a
keen knife perpendicularly through the round—about an inch apart. Fill
one-third of these with chopped fat bacon; one-third with a mixture of
crumbs, onion, and herbs; the other with minced oysters. Rub the top of
the round with allspice, nutmeg, salt, and pepper, working the mixture
well into the incisions, as well as into the flesh. Set the stuffed
round in a dripping-pan; pour over it a cup of your soup-stock (before
the beans are added), mixed with a glass of claret. Dredge the top with
flour when the gravy has soaked in, and cook, in a moderate oven, two
hours or more, basting very often. Undo the bandage; dish the beef;
strain the gravy; thicken with browned flour, and serve in a boat.


PURÉE OF TURNIPS.

Peel, slice, and boil in hot salted water. Rub through a colander;
return to the fire; mix in a great spoonful of butter rolled in a
little flour, two tablespoonfuls of cream, and season with pepper and
salt. Stir ten minutes, and pour out.


POTATO CAKES.

Stir into a cup of mashed potatoes a tablespoonful of butter (heaping),
a beaten egg, two tablespoonfuls of milk, salt, and a tablespoonful
of prepared flour. Roll out, half an inch thick; cut round or square;
prick with a fork, and bake to a nice brown. Eat hot.


LETTUCE SALAD.

Pull the best leaves to pieces; heap in a salad-bowl, and pour over it
a dressing made according to the receipt given on Thursday of First
Week in October, but leaving out the raw egg.


CUSTARD BREAD PUDDING.

2 cups fine dry crumbs; 1 quart of milk; 5 eggs, beaten light; 1
tablespoonful corn-starch; 1 teaspoonful of salt, and ½ teaspoonful of
soda, dissolved in the milk; flavor to taste.

Soak the crumbs in the milk, and heat in a custard-kettle to a boil.
Add the corn-starch wet with cold milk, cook one minute, turn out
and beat hard. When smooth and almost cold, whip in the yolks, the
flavoring, lastly, the whites. Boil in a buttered mould an hour and a
half. Eat hot with sweet sauce. It is excellent.



  Second Week.      Wednesday.
  ——
  A Cheap Soup.
  Cannelon of Beef.      Browned Sweet Potatoes.
  Hominy Croquettes.      Cauliflower.
  ——
  Claret Jelly and Mrs. M.’s Sponge-Cake.
  ——


A CHEAP SOUP.

1 lb. of lean beef, cut into strips; 2 onions; 2 turnips; ½ cup
of rice; 6 tomatoes; 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar; pepper, salt; 2
teaspoonfuls essence of celery; dripping for frying; 3 quarts of water;
bunch of herbs.

Put dripping and sugar into a soup-pot; when they heat, add the meat
and sliced onions. Stir until nicely browned. Add the water, the
turnips, and herbs. Cook one hour; take off the fat; put in tomatoes
and rice, and simmer two hours. Season to taste, cook ten minutes, and
pour out.


CANNELON OF BEEF.

Chop the remains of yesterday’s beef; mix with quarter of a pound of
minced ham; season with pepper, salt grated lemon-peel, and a little
onion. Moisten with yesterday’s gravy, with a little flour stirred in,
and bind with a beaten egg or two. Make some pie-paste, or such as you
would use for dumplings; roll into an oblong sheet; put the beef-mince
