disadvantage, too: somehow he fancied, if he had met Fred alone in a
stray walk, there would have been less formality.

They talked about college. Fred was doing well, for he was by nature a
student. Society's arts and airs would never entirely uproot that love.
He meant to distinguish himself, and have one of the prize essays. Jack
was rather grave and quiet, hard to get on with, Fred thought; and he
was relieved when the duty was ended, and he could go with a good grace.

Jack lingered on the porch, clinching his fingers, and listening to the
jaunty retreating footstep. There was something different in Fred's walk
even, a buoyancy as if he could override any little difficulties that
fate might have in store for him. Jack smiled grimly. Fortune had
showered every good gift upon him. He would go proudly, successfully,
through life. He would be praised and honored--and for what?

For a moment Jack felt like wrestling with him, shoulder to shoulder, to
distance him, to defeat him, to lower his complacent pride. His
half-patronizing manner had stung keenly. Then the real nobility of his
nature cropped out, and he laughed at his own sudden heat and passion.

"It would be folly," he said softly to himself. "I could not distinguish
myself in any line he will be likely to follow. He must work his way: I
must work mine. He knows what he means to do; and there he has gone
ahead of me, for I really do not know my own mind. No, there's no
further basis for a friendship: the boy-love has had its day, and died.
After all, isn't that the history of every thing?" and Jack looked up to
the stars, still with a little wordless pain at his heart.

He heard during the next week that Fred had gone West with one of his
friends, who was nephew to a great railway magnate. It would be only a
flying trip, to be sure, but here Jack was tempted to envy him. That
boundless West, the land of his own dreams!

Grandmother grew a trifle less energetic, still it could not be said
that her health began to fail. Mrs. Darcy remained about the same. Every
day Jack realized how much he was to the two women. To leave them would
be absolute cruelty.

At Christmas of this year Miss Gertrude Lawrence was married. The
wedding was rather quieter, from the fact that it was winter, and the
bride was to leave for Europe the next day. Irene was shooting up into a
tall girl, and being educated at a fashionable and expensive
boarding-school. Nothing happened to impair her friendship with Sylvie
Barry, though the two girls were as dissimilar in many respects as Jack
and Fred, but they both stood on the same social plane.

Meanwhile matters at Yerbury prospered mightily. The town was quite
bright at night with the glow from factory-windows, and people seemed
always hurrying to and fro. New shops and stores were started, new
streets were laid out, rows of houses built in town, and out on the edge
pretty and ugly suburban villas. Property began to increase everywhere.

Gertrude and her husband George Eastman came back to Yerbury in about
five months. He had begun his career as clerk in a bank, and joined his
brother afterward as an army-contractor. From thence they had branched
into general speculating, and were both considered rich men. Mr. Minor
owned a Fifth-avenue palace, and Mrs. Minor never came to Yerbury
without her maid. Mrs. Eastman could not have the palace in town, so she
decided to have a handsome summer residence at Yerbury, and spend her
winters at different hotels. Mr. Eastman thought he saw a grand opening
just in this pretty spot. Property was ridiculously low. Here were farms
and farms that might as well be cut up into building-lots, and turned
into cities. Here was the river-front, here were railroads: why not have
twice or thrice as many shops? why not call in the people from far and
wide, and make Yerbury a place of note? Time had been when our fathers
were content to dream and doze, but now it behooved everybody to be up
and stirring. In the new race the laggards would fall far behind.

Mr. Eastman set the example by purchasing one large tract, and laying
out streets. Then uprose houses as if by magic. Modern improvements,
water, gas, bath, butler's pantries, and dumb-waiters; and the houses
offered so cheaply that the solid, slow-going, honest business-men
wondered how it could be done. The places had a wonderfully seductive
look, and were sought after eagerly.

There was a peculiar interest in all this to Jack. When one day somebody
said,--

"Downer's property south of the bridge has gone for thirty thousand
dollars. Five years ago he'd been glad to have taken ten for it. Crater
and Harmon are going to build a big factory,"--Jack's heart went up with
a bound.

He still wanted to get away from Yerbury. He began to feel that he had
made a mistake with his life, and was anxious to rectify it if possible.
He did not see how he could do it here. He had gone into the groove, and
it was hard getting out. But if some one came along, and offered them a
fortune!

The chance drew near. A new street was prospected through Miss Barry's
grounds, through the Lanier place farther back, and the southern end
would touch the Darcy place, giving it some new fronts and available
lots, and placing the house on the corner. There would be sufficient
ground for the width of the street. A petition was forthwith circulated.

Alas that there could be people so blind to their own interests and the
general welfare of the community! Miss Barry stoutly resisted. She even
inspired some of her neighbors to that extent of opposition that they
would not sell at any price. Destroy the beauty of Larch Avenue, that
had been "Lovers' Walk" in the old days, and held so many tender
reminiscences!

"When I am gone I don't care what is done with the place," said Miss
Barry. "It will have but little sentiment for the next generation. A
change to me now would be like tearing up an old tree by the roots. I
could not endure it. They may have their elegant new houses; but give me
my large airy rooms and my old-time flowers, my nectarines and apricots.
Let me live my few years in peace and quiet."

"There is certainly enough to improve," returned Grandmother Darcy.
"There are miles and miles that people are glad to sell. Let them take
that. Let them build up the vacant lots. And where are all the people
coming from to fill them?"

"The factories and mills will bring in the people," said Jack sturdily.

"There is plenty of room elsewhere," returned Miss Barry with some
asperity. "There certainly is no need of turning people out of homes
they like, and have made comfortable."

"I suppose you cannot look at it in a business light," said Jack. "Women
rarely do"--

"There have been just such whirlwinds before, Mr. Darcy," said the
shrewd little old lady. "I have lived through two of them myself. And it
seems to me it is an epidemic of running in debt, rather than
prosperity. If everything were paid for; but you see here are
improvement-bonds, and our town runs in debt: here is everybody raising
money on mortgages. How is it to be paid? Do wages and salaries double?
History proves that it is a bad thing for a state when its rich men grow
richer, and its poor poorer."

"I am sure they need not," said Jack valiantly. "There is a higher scale
of wages paid than ever before."

"And no account made of thrift or economy. Enticements at every corner;
women flaunting silks and laces as everyday gear, with no sacredness;
old-fashioned neatness despised, industry ridiculed; men lounging in
beer-shops; girls flirting on the public streets, having no duties
beyond a day's work in a mill. What will the homes and the wives of the
next generation be like?"

"But that was all so irrelevant," said Jack after she had gone. "Women
mix up everything. Now, here: you are offered a big price for this
property. You two could live at ease all the rest of your life, and I"--

"You would go away," said his mother sorrowfully.

"Well, perhaps not," trying to make the tone indifferent.

"Jack," began his grandmother, sitting very erect, and glancing straight
before her into vacancy, "I am an old woman now; and, like Miss Barry, I
could not take a change comfortably. No other place will ever be home to
your mother or me. There is some money,--enough, I think, to take care
of us both. So, if you cannot be content, if you must have the restless
roving of youth out before your blood can cool, go and try the world. It
is pretty much alike all over,--some one going up while another goes
down; chances here, and chances there. As for the few years left me"--
And there was a slight tremble in her voice.

"Don't fret. I'm not going away," said Jack crossly, huskily, too much
hurt to study his tone. "If I can't always see things as you do"--

There were tears in his mother's eyes. Jack rose suddenly, thrust his
hands in his pockets, and walked out into the twilight. There was
nothing to be done with so obstinate a problem as his life. He would
learn the business thoroughly, getting on as fast as possible, and some
time make a strike out for himself, become a manufacturer in turn. The
thing was settled now. Maybe some one would want him for mayor or
congressman. There was a time when David Lawrence, Esq., had been a
comparatively poor man; and though Jack felt that he would hardly turn
his hand over to have a million of dollars put in it for the mere
money's worth, if he could not discover a silver-mine, or build a
railroad over the Rocky Mountains, he might become a rich man. Wealth
was a mighty lever, after all. He shut his lips grimly, and pushed his
hat down over his eyes. In the early summer dusk, fragrant with rose and
violet, he went over the old battle-ground. Did some enemy sow it
continually with dragon's teeth? To stay here eight or ten years,
mayhap, to make all the money he could. Not one year of her life did he
