some things, while it showed her the worth of such virtues as she could
honestly claim. Mamie Cox took her to drive in the fine carriage of her
mamma, and Jill was much impressed by the fact that Mamie was not a bit
proud about it, and did not put on any airs, though she had a maid to
take care of her. Gerty wore pretty costumes, and came down with pink
and blue ribbons in her hair that Jill envied very much; yet Gerty liked
her curls, and longed to have some, while her mother, “the lady from
Philadelphia,” as they called her, was so kind and gay that Jill quite
adored her, and always felt as if sunshine had come into the room when
she entered. Two little sisters were very interesting to her, and made
her long for one of her own when she saw them going about together and
heard them talk of their pleasant home, where the great silk factories
were. But they invited her to come and see the wonderful cocoons, and
taught her to knot pretty gray fringe on a cushion, which delighted her,
being so new and easy. There were several other nice little lasses, and
they all gathered about Jill with the sweet sympathy children are so
quick to show toward those in pain or misfortune. She thought they would
not care for a poor little girl like herself, yet here she was the queen
of the troupe, and this discovery touched and pleased her very much.

In the morning they camped round the boat on the stones with books, gay
work, and merry chatter, till bathing-time. Then the beach was full of
life and fun, for every one looked so droll in the flannel suits, it was
hard to believe that the neat ladies and respectable gentlemen who
went into the little houses could be the same persons as the queer,
short-skirted women with old hats tied down, and bareheaded, barefooted
men in old suits, who came skipping over the sand to disport themselves
in the sea in the most undignified ways. The boys raced about, looking
like circus-tumblers, and the babies were regular little cupids, running
away from the waves that tried to kiss their flying feet.

Some of the young ladies and girls were famous swimmers, and looked very
pretty in their bright red and blue costumes, with loose hair and gay
stockings, as they danced into the water and floated away as fearlessly
as real mermaidens. Jill had her quiet dip and good rubbing each fine
day, and then lay upon the warm sand watching the pranks of the others,
and longing to run and dive and shout and tumble with the rest. Now that
she was among the well and active, it seemed harder to be patient than
when shut up and unable to stir. She felt so much better, and had so
little pain to remind her of past troubles, it was almost impossible to
help forgetting the poor back and letting her recovered spirits run away
with her. If Mrs. Minot had not kept good watch, she would have been
off more than once, so eager was she to be “like other girls” again, so
difficult was it to keep the restless feet quietly folded among the red
cushions.

One day she did yield to temptation, and took a little voyage which
might have been her last, owing to the carelessness of those whom she
trusted. It was a good lesson, and made her as meek as a lamb during the
rest of her stay. Mrs. Minot drove to Gloucester one afternoon, leaving
Jill safely established after her nap in the boat, with Gerty and Mamie
making lace beside her.

“Don’t try to walk or run about, my dear. Sit on the piazza if you get
tired of this, and amuse yourself quietly till I come back. I’ll not
forget the worsted and the canvas,” said Mamma, peeping over the bank
for a last word as she waited for the omnibus to come along.

“Oh, don’t forget the Gibraltars!” cried Jill, popping her head out of
the green roof.

“Nor the bananas, please!” added Gerty, looking round one end.

“Nor the pink and blue ribbon to tie our shell-baskets,” called Mamie,
nearly tumbling into the aquarium at the other end.

Mrs. Minot laughed, and promised, and rumbled away, leaving Jill to an
experience which she never forgot.

For half an hour the little girls worked busily, then the boys came for
Gerty and Mamie to go to the Chasm with a party of friends who were
to leave next day. Off they went, and Jill felt very lonely as the gay
voices died away. Every one had gone somewhere, and only little Harry
Hammond and his maid were on the beach. Two or three sand-pipers ran
about among the pebbles, and Jill envied them their nimble legs so much,
that she could not resist getting up to take a few steps. She longed to
run straight away over the firm, smooth sand, and feel again the delight
of swift motion; but she dared not try it, and stood leaning on her tall
parasol with her book in her hand, when Frank, Jack, and the bicycle boy
came rowing lazily along and hailed her.

“Come for a sail, Jill? Take you anywhere you like,” called Jack,
touched by the lonely figure on the beach.

“I’d love to go, if you will row. Mamma made me promise not to go
sailing without a man to take care of me. Would it spoil your fun to
have me?” answered Jill, eagerly.

“Not a bit; come out on the big stones and we’ll take you aboard,” said
Frank, as they steered to the place where she could embark the easiest.

“All the rest are gone to the Chasm. I wanted to go, because I’ve never
seen it; but, of course, I had to give it up, as I do most of the fun;”
 and Jill sat down with an impatient sigh.

“We’ll row you round there. Can’t land, but you can see the place and
shout to the others, if that will be any comfort to you,” proposed
Frank, as they pulled away round the pier.

“Oh, yes, that would be lovely!” and Jill smiled at Jack, who was
steering, for she found it impossible to be dismal now with the fresh
wind blowing in her face, the blue waves slapping against the boat, and
three good-natured lads ready to gratify her wishes.

Away they went, laughing and talking gayly till they came to Goodwin’s
Rocks, where an unusual number of people were to be seen though the tide
was going out, and no white spray was dashing high into the air to make
a sight worth seeing.

“What do you suppose they are about? Never saw such a lot of folks at
this time. Shouldn’t wonder if something had happened. I say, put me
ashore, and I’ll cut up and see,” said the bicycle boy, who was of an
inquiring turn.

“I’ll go with you,” said Frank; “it won’t take but a minute, and I’d
like to discover what it is. May be something we ought to know about.”

So the boys pulled round into a quiet nook, and the two elder ones
scrambled up the rocks, to disappear in the crowd. Five, ten, fifteen
minutes passed, and they did not return. Jack grew impatient, so did
Jill, and bade him run up and bring them back. Glad to know what kept
them, Jack departed, to be swallowed up in his turn, for not a sign of
a boy did she see after that; and, having vainly strained her eyes to
discover the attraction which held them, she gave it up, lay down on
their jackets, and began to read.

Then the treacherous tide, as it ebbed lower and lower down the beach,
began to lure the boat away; for it was not fastened, and when lightened
of its load was an easy prize to the hungry sea, always ready to steal
all it can. Jill knew nothing of this, for her story was dull, the
gentle motion proved soothing, and before she knew it she was asleep.
Little by little the runaway boat slid farther from the shore, and
presently was floating out to sea with its drowsy freight, while the
careless boys, unconscious of the time they were wasting, lingered
to see group after group photographed by the enterprising man who had
trundled his camera to the rocks.

In the midst of a dream about home, Jill was roused by a loud shout,
and, starting up so suddenly that the sun-umbrella went overboard, she
found herself sailing off alone, while the distracted lads roared and
beckoned vainly from the cove. The oars lay at their feet, where they
left them; and the poor child was quite helpless, for she could not
manage the sail, and even the parasol, with which she might have paddled
a little, had gone down with all sail set. For a minute, Jill was so
frightened that she could only look about her with a scared face, and
wonder if drowning was a very disagreeable thing. Then the sight of the
bicycle boy struggling with Jack, who seemed inclined to swim after her,
and Frank shouting wildly, “Hold on! Come back!” made her laugh in spite
of her fear, it was so comical, and their distress so much greater than
hers, since it was their own carelessness which caused the trouble.

“I can’t come back! There’s nothing to hold on to! You didn’t fasten
me, and now I don’t know where I’m going!” cried Jill, looking from the
shore to the treacherous sea that was gently carrying her away.

“Keep cool! We’ll get a boat and come after you,” roared Frank, before
he followed Jack, who had collected his wits and was tearing up the
rocks like a chamois hunter.

The bicycle boy calmly sat down to keep his eye on the runaway,
calling out from time to time such cheering remarks as “All aboard for
Liverpool! Give my love to Victoria! Luff and bear away when you come
to Halifax! If you are hard up for provisions, you’ll find an apple and
some bait in my coat-pocket,” and other directions for a comfortable
voyage, till his voice was lost in the distance as a stronger current
bore her swiftly away and the big waves began to tumble and splash.

At first Jill had laughed at his efforts to keep up her spirits, but
when the boat floated round a point of rock that shut in the cove, she
felt all alone, and sat quite still, wondering what would become of her.
She turned her back to the sea and looked at the dear, safe land, which
never had seemed so green and beautiful before. Up on the hill rustled
the wood through which the happy party were wandering to the Chasm.
On the rocks she still saw the crowd all busy with their own affairs,
unconscious of her danger. Here and there artists were sketching
in picturesque spots, and in one place an old gentleman sat fishing
peacefully. Jill called and waved her handkerchief, but he never looked
up, and an ugly little dog barked at her in what seemed to her a most
cruel way.

