He laughed, and said, “No,” and then turned grave. “As long as he
lived”--

“Oh, is he dead?” she asked more gently than she had yet spoken.

“Yes, he died just before I went abroad. I went out on business for my
father,--he’s an importer and jobber,--and bought goods for him. Do you
despise business?”

“I don’t know anything about it.”

“I did it to please my father, and he said I was a very good buyer.
He thinks there’s nothing like buying--except selling. He used to sell
things himself, over the counter, and not so long ago, either.

“I fancied it made a difference for me when I was in college, and that
the yardstick came between me and society. I was an ass for thinking
anything about it. Though I did n’t really care, much. I never liked
society, and I did like boats and horses. I thought of a profession,
once. But it would n’t work. I’ve been round the world twice, and I’ve
done nothing but enjoy myself since I left college,--or try to. When I
first saw you I was hesitating about letting my father make me of use.
He wants me to become one of the most respectable members of society,
he wants me to be a cotton-spinner. You know there ‘s nothing so
irreproachable as cotton, for a business?”

“No. I don’t know about those things.”

“Well, there is n’t. When I was abroad, buying and selling, I made a
little discovery: I found that there were goods we could make and sell
in the European market cheaper than the English, and that gave my father
the notion of buying a mill to make them. I’m boring you!”

“No.”

“Well, he bought it; and he wants me to take charge of it.”

“And shall you?”

“Do you think I’m fit for it?”

“I? How should I know?”

“You don’t know cotton; but you know me a little. Do I strike you as fit
for anything?” She made no reply to this, and he laughed. “I assure you
I felt small enough when I heard what you had done, and thought--what
I had done. It gave me a start; and I wrote my father that night that I
would go in for it.”

“I once thought of going to a factory town,” she answered, without
wilful evasion, “to begin my practice there among the operatives’
children. I should have done it if it had not been for coming here with
Mrs. Maynard. It would have been better.”

“Come to my factory town, Miss Breen! There ought to be fevers there
in the autumn, with all the low lands that I’m allowed to flood Mrs.
Maynard told me about your plan.”

“Pray, what else did Mrs. Maynard tell you about me?”

“About your taking up a profession, in the way you did, when you
needn’t, and when you did n’t particularly like it.”

“Oh!” she said. Then she added, “And because I was n’t obliged to it,
and did n’t like it, you tolerated me?”

“Tolerated?” he echoed.

This vexed her. “Yes, tolerate! Everybody, interested or not, has to
make up his mind whether to tolerate me as soon as he hears what I am.
What excuse did you make for me?”

“I did n’t make any,” said Libby.

“But you had your misgiving, your surprise.”

“I thought if you could stand it, other people might. I thought it was
your affair.”

“Just as if I had been a young man?”

“No! That wasn’t possible.”

She was silent. Then, “The conversation has got back into the old
quarter,” she said. “You are talking about me again. Have you heard from
your friends since they went away?”

“What friends?”

“Those you were camping with.”

“No.”

“What did they say when they heard that you had found a young doctress
at Jocelyn’s? How did you break the fact to them? What jokes did they
make? You need n’t be afraid to tell me!” she cried. “Give me Mr.
Johnson’s comments.”

He looked at her in surprise that incensed her still more, and rendered
her incapable of regarding the pain with which he answered her. “I ‘m
afraid,” he said, “that I have done something to offend you.”

“Oh no! What could you have done?”

“Then you really mean to ask me whether I would let any one make a joke
of you in my presence?”

“Yes; why not?”

“Because it was impossible,” he answered.

“Why was it impossible?” she pursued.

“Because--I love you.”

She had been looking him defiantly in the eyes, and she could not
withdraw her gaze. For the endless moment that ensued, her breath was
taken away. Then she asked in a low, steady voice, “Did you mean to say
that?”

“No.”

“I believe you, and I forgive you. No, no!” she cried, at a
demonstration of protest from him, “don’t speak again!”

He obeyed, instantly, implicitly. With the tiller in his hand he looked
past her and guided the boat’s course. It became intolerable.

“Have I ever done anything that gave you the right to--to--say that?”
 she asked, without the self-command which she might have wished to show.

“No,” he said, “you were only the most beautiful”--

“I am not beautiful! And if I were”--

“It wasn’t to be helped! I saw from the first how good and noble you
were, and”--

“This is absurd!” she exclaimed. “I am neither good nor noble; and if I
were”--

“It wouldn’t make any difference. Whatever you are, you are the one
woman in the world to me; and you always will be.”

“Mr. Libby!”

“Oh, I must speak now! You were always thinking, because you had studied
a man’s profession, that no one would think of you as a woman, as if
that could make any difference to a man that had the soul of a man in
him!”

“No, no!” she protested. “I did n’t think that. I always expected to be
considered as a woman.”

“But not as a woman to fall in love with. I understood. And that somehow
made you all the dearer to me. If you had been a girl like other girls,
I should n’t have cared for you.”

“Oh!”

“I did n’t mean to speak to you to-day. But sometime I did mean to
speak; because, whatever I was, I loved you; and I thought you did n’t
dislike me.”

“I did like you,” she murmured, “very much. And I respected you. But you
can’t say that I ever gave you any hope in this--this--way.” She almost
asked him if she had.

“No,--not purposely. And if you did, it ‘s over now. You have rejected
me. I understand that. There’s no reason why you shouldn’t. And I can
hold my tongue.” He did not turn, but looked steadily past her at the
boat’s head.

An emotion stirred in her breast which took the form of a reproach. “Was
it fair, then, to say this when neither of us could escape afterwards?”

“I did n’t mean to speak,” he said, without looking up, “and I never
meant to place you where you could n’t escape.”

It was true that she had proposed to go with him in the boat, and that
