"Would you like to have it drift against you while moored to the
shore?" I asked.

"I should not; but that would be better than hitting it with full steam
on. But we must haul up in the right place. We needn't choose a place
where the current sets against the shore, as it does at a bend. I
should haul her up on the other side of the river, and then anything
floating on its own hook will be carried away from us," replied
Washburn.

"The logic is correct, and we will seek such a place as you describe."

The sight of the flatboat assured me that it was not safe to run in the
night, at least during high water, when the current was bearing off
houses, vessels, and other cumbrous things. Running over a floating log
might disable our propeller, and we should be helpless then. There were
but few great bends in this part of the river, much as the mighty
stream twists about above New Orleans. I kept a lookout for a suitable
place to moor the steamer to the shore.

The supper-bell had just rung when I saw such a place as I had been
looking for. On the right bank was a point of land where a considerable
bend sent the whole force of the powerful current over to the other
side of the river. I rang the bell to reduce the speed, as I pointed
out the spot to the mate. He ran the nose of the boat up to the bank,
and Buck jumped ashore with a line, with which a hawser was drawn to
the land. It was made fast to a pine-tree, and no other line seemed to
be needed.

I could see the Islander about two miles down the river. We all went
down to supper except a hand to notify us of danger from any source. I
was not at my meal more than fifteen minutes, for I had dined late.
When I came on deck, the Islander was almost abreast of the Sylvania.
Colonel Shepard was in the pilot-house with the captain, and they
seemed to be in earnest conversation.

Probably Captain Blastblow had not thought of hauling up for the night
any more than I had when Washburn spoke to me about the matter. I had
no doubt they were discussing the same subject which the mate and I had
disposed of.

"What are you doing here, Captain Alick?" shouted Captain Blastblow, as
he rang his speed-bell.

"Waiting for the Islander to come up with us," I replied, laughing, for
I could not be less good-natured than the captain of the Islander.

"Did you have to tie up to the bank to wait?" asked Captain Blastblow;
and by this time the steamer was working just steam enough to balance
her in the current, so that she was nearly stationary.

"We are going to lie here to-night," I replied.

"What for?"

"Did you meet a flatboat floating down the river about an hour ago?" I
asked, thinking that would furnish sufficient explanation of my action.

"I did; I ran into it, and smashed in one of its sides so that it
filled with water," answered Captain Blastblow.

"Then the next man that meets it in the dark cannot see it as well as
you did," I continued. "I don't think it is safe to run in the night
when the river is full of floating logs, flatboats, and other things."

The captain and the owner of the Islander discussed the subject, though
I could not hear what they said. In a few minutes the captain rang the
gong, and the steamer went ahead at full speed. I hoped no accident
would happen to the Islander, and the chances were in favor of her
reaching New Orleans in safety. But there was not much fun in paddling
through the muddy river in the dark, let alone the prudence of doing
so. My father and Owen came into the pilot-house after supper, and both
of them approved what I had done.

The Sylvania lay alongside the bank of the stream, held by the hawser,
with her stern a little way out from the shore. At seven o'clock it was
very dark, and I directed the watch I had set for the first part of the
night to rig lanterns at the fore-stay and the topping lift of the
main-boom. I had a quantity of Bengola lights put in the pilot-house,
that we might light up the scene around us, if it should be desirable
to do so.

[Illustration: "I saw the Islander with a house hanging to her bow."
Page 252.]

About nine o'clock I heard the noise of escaping steam, not more than
half a mile distant. Then shouts came from the same direction. I
lighted one of the fireworks, and in the glare I saw the Islander with
a house hanging to her bow.




CHAPTER XXII.

THE ISLANDER IN A BAD FIX.


The silver light from the Bengola enabled me to see clearly the strange
sight that presented itself to our gaze. Owen was smoking his cigar,
and Washburn and my father were talking about India. The whistle and
the shout from the steamer were the first intimations we had that
anything was wrong. I could see some lights in the gloom that hung over
the river, but nothing to enable me to ascertain the situation, until
the Bengola illuminated the scene.

It was a strange sight. I could not tell whether the building was a
house or a stable, though it appeared to have too many windows for the
latter. The Islander, it appeared, had run her bow into the structure
up to the pilot-house. The steamer was still working her screw. But the
odd complication floated slowly down the stream towards the bank of the
river opposite the position of the Sylvania.

"Call all hands!" I said, with energy. "Tell the engineer to stir up
the fires."

Washburn hastened to execute the orders, and the rest of us watched
with increasing wonder the floating mass, which was every moment
increasing its distance from us.

"I say, Captain Alick, can you tell me what all that means?" asked Owen
Garningham. "Was the Islander going into that house to spend the
night?"

"I really can't say whether she was or not; but it is not likely that
the steamer went on shore for a night's lodging in the building," I
replied.

"I dare say the Islander could not handle herself very well on the
land, if she found any land to get on," added Owen.

"It is more likely that the house, or whatever it is, was afloat when
the Islander knocked for admission," I continued.

"If the steamer knocked, the house appears to have opened to her."

"How is your steam, Moses?" I called through the tube to the engineer.

"Rather low for working in this current," came back to me through the
tube.

At that moment the Islander whistled again. I pulled our whistle line,
and found we had steam enough to give a smart reply; but I was not
willing to trust the Sylvania to the rapid river without a full head of
steam. I lighted another Bengola. In its glare I saw that the other
steamer was backing her screw, as probably she had been doing from the
beginning. I judged that the building was about fifty feet long, and,
as it was partly submerged, it presented a large broadside to the rapid
current.

"I don't see how she got into that scrape, unless she was looking for a
night's lodging," said Washburn. "That building is big enough to be
seen in the dark."

"Of course Captain Blastblow did not intend to run into it," I added.
"Probably he had not time to get out of the way when he first saw it."

"But it seems to me I should not go far with such a load before I shook
it off."

"But don't you see that he can't pull out of the house?" demanded Owen.
"He is stuck fast in her side."

"They have axes on board the Islander; and I don't think it would take
our crew long to cut her out of that hole," added Washburn. "Why does
she keep whistling? Her captain can imagine that we have not steam
enough to work the Sylvania in such a current."

"I say, Washy, have you ever been down the Danube?" asked Owen.

"I never have been. I was never in Europe," replied the mate.

"I should say this current is quite as swift as that of the Danube at
Vienna; and it makes seven miles an hour there."

"The ordinary current of the Mississippi is about five miles an hour,
and in such a freshet it must be as much as seven."

"What is a freshet, Mr. Mate?"

