
"Looking-glass to set the hot dishes on?" said Mrs. Marx, to whom this
story seemed new.

"No; not to set anything on. It took up the whole centre of the table.
Round the edge of this looking-glass, all round, was a border or little
fence of solid silver, about six or eight inches high; of beautiful
wrought open-work; and just within this silver fence, at intervals,
stood most exquisite little white marble statues, about a foot and a
half high. There must have been a dozen of them; and anything more
beautiful than the whole thing was, you cannot imagine."

"I should think they'd have been awfully in the way," remarked Charity.

"Not at all; there was room enough all round outside for the plates and
glasses."

"The looking-glass, I suppose, was for the pretty ladies to see
themselves in!"

"Quite mistaken, uncle Tim; one could not see the reflection of
oneself; only bits of one's opposite neighbours; little flashes of
colour here and there; and the reflection of the statuettes on the
further side; it was prettier than ever you can think."

"I reckon it must ha' been; but I don't see the use of it," said uncle
Tim.

"That wasn't all," Lois went on. "Everybody had his own salt-cellar."

"Table must ha' been full, I should say."

"No, it was not full at all; there was plenty of room for everything,
and that allowed every pretty thing to be seen. And those salt-cellars
were a study. They were delicious little silver figures--every one
different from the others--and each little figure presented the salt in
something. Mine was a little girl, with her apron all gathered up, as
if to hold nuts or apples, and the salt was in her apron. The one next
to her was a market-woman with a flat basket on her head, and the salt
was in the basket. Another was a man bowing, with his hat in his hand;
the salt was in the hat. I could not see them all, but each one seemed
prettier than the other. One was a man standing by a well, with a
bucket drawn up, but full of salt, not water. A very pretty one was a
milkman with a pail."

Uncle Tim was now reduced to silence, but Charity remarked that she
could not understand where the dishes were--the dinner.

"It was somewhere else. It was not on the table at all. The waiters
brought the things round. There were six waiters, handsomely dressed in
black, and with white silk gloves."

"White silk gloves!" echoed Charity. "Well, I do think the way some
people live is just a sin and a shame!"

"How did you know what there was for dinner?" inquired Mrs. Marx now.
"I shouldn't like to make my dinner of boiled beef, if there was
partridges comin'. And when there's plum-puddin' I always like to know
it beforehand."

"We knew everything beforehand, aunt Anne. There were beautifully
painted little pieces of white silk on everybody's plate, with all the
dishes named; only many, most of them, were French names, and I was
none the wiser for them."

"Can't they call good victuals by English names?" asked uncle Tim.
"What's the sense o' that? How was anybody to know what he was eatin'?"

"O they all knew," said Lois. "Except me."

"I'll bet you were the only sensible one o' the lot," said the old
gentleman.

"Then at every plate there was a beautiful cut glass bottle, something
like a decanter, with ice water, and over the mouth of it a tumbler to
match. Besides that, there were at each plate five or six other goblets
or glasses, of different colours."

"What colours?" demanded Charity.

"Yellow, and dark red, and green, and white."

"What were they all for?" asked uncle Tim.

"Wine; different sorts of wine."

"Different sorts o' wine! How many sorts did they have, at one dinner?"

"I cannot tell you. I do not know. A great many."

"Did you drink any, Lois?"

"No, aunt Anne."

"I suppose they thought you were a real country girl, because you
didn't?"

"Nobody thought anything about it. The servants brought the wine;
everybody did just as he pleased about taking it."

"What did you have to eat, Lois, with so much to drink?" asked her
elder sister.

"More than I can tell, Charity. There must have been a dozen large
dishes, at each end of the table, besides the soup and the fish; and no
end of smaller dishes."

"For a dozen people!" cried Charity.

"I suppose it's because I don't know anythin'," said Mr.
Hotchkiss,--"but I always du hate to see a whole lot o' things before
me more'n I can eat!"

"It's downright wicked waste, that's what I call it," said Mrs. Marx;
"but I s'pose that's because I don't know anythin'."

"And you like that sort o' way better 'n this 'n?" inquired uncle Tim
of Lois.

"I said no more than that it was prettier, uncle Tim."

"But du ye?"

Lois's eye met involuntarily Mrs. Barclay's for an instant, and she
smiled.

"Uncle Tim, I think there is something to be said on both sides."

"There ain't no sense on that side."

"There is some prettiness; and I like prettiness."

"Prettiness won't butter nobody's bread. Mother, you've let Lois go
once too often among those city folks. She's nigh about sp'iled for a
Shampuashuh man now."

"Perhaps a Shampuashuh man will not get her," said Mrs. Barclay
mischievously.

"Who else is to get her?" cried Mrs. Marx. "We're all o' one sort here;
and there's hardly a man but what's respectable, and very few that
ain't more or less well-to-do; but we all work and mean to work, and we
mostly all know our own mind. I do despise a man who don't do nothin',
and who asks other folks what he's to think!"

"That sort of person is not held in very high esteem in any society, I
believe," said Mrs. Barclay courteously; though she was much amused,
and was willing for her own reasons that the talk should go a little
further. Therefore she spoke.

"Well, idleness breeds 'em," said the other lady.

"But who respects them?"

"The world'll respect anybody, even a man that goes with his hands in
his pockets, if he only can fetch 'em out full o' money. There was such
a feller hangin' round Appledore last summer. My! didn't he try my
patience!"

"Appledore?" said Lois, pricking up her ears.

"Yes; there was a lot of 'em."

"People who did not know their own minds?" Mrs. Barclay asked,
purposely and curiously.

"Well, no, I won't say that of all of 'em. There was some of 'em knew
their own minds a'most too well; but he warn't one. He come to me
once to help him out; and I filled his pipe for him, and sent him to
smoke it."

"Aunt Anne!" said Lois, drawing up her pretty figure with a most
unwonted assumption of astonished dignity. Both the dignity and the
astonishment drew all eyes upon her. She was looking at Mrs. Marx with
eyes full of startled displeasure. Mrs. Marx was entrenched behind a
whole army of coffee and tea pots and pitchers, and answered coolly.

"Yes, I did. What is it to you? Did he come to you for help too?"

"I do not know whom you are talking of."
