"I will write it, then."

There was a momentary pause; he closed his eyes. The girl, noting, amid
her own suffering, the deathly look upon his face, came to his side.
"You must go back to the house," she said. "Will my arm be enough? Or
shall I call July?"

He looked at her; a light came back into his eyes. "Anne," he whispered,
"would not the whole world be well lost to us if we could have but love
and each other?"

She returned his gaze. "Yes," she said, "it would--if happiness were
all."

"Then you would be happy with me, darling?"

"Yes."

"Alone with me, and--in banishment?"

"In banishment, in disgrace, in poverty, pain, and death," she answered,
steadily.

"Then you will go with me, trusting to me only?" He was holding her
hands now, and she did not withdraw them.

"No," she answered; "never. If happiness were all, I said. But it is not
all. There is something nearer, higher than happiness." She paused. Then
rapidly and passionately these words broke from her: "Ward, Ward, you
are far more than my life to me. Do not kill me, kill my love for you,
my faith in you, by trying to tempt me more. You could not succeed; I
tell you plainly you could never succeed; but it is not on that account
I speak. It is because it would kill me to lose my belief in you, my
love, my only, only love!"

"But I am not so good as you think," murmured Heathcote, leaning his
head against her. His hands, still holding hers, were growing cold.

"But you are brave. And you shall be true. Go back to Helen, and try
to do what is right, as I also shall try."

"But you--that is different. You do not care."

"Not care!" she repeated, and her voice quivered and broke. "You know
that is false."

"It is. Forgive me."

"Promise me that you will go back; promise for my sake, Ward. Light
words are often spoken about a broken heart; but I think, if you fail me
now, my heart will break indeed."

"What must I do?"

"Go back to Helen--to your life, whatever it is."

"And shall I see you again?"

"No."

"It is too hard, too hard," he whispered, putting his arms round her.

But she unclasped them. "I have your promise?" she said.

"No."

"Then I take it." And lightly touching his forehead with her lips, she
turned and was gone.

When July and Diana came to bring back their foolhardy patient, they
found him lying on the earth so still and cold that it seemed as if he
were dead. That night the fever appeared again. But there was only Diana
to nurse him now; Anne was gone.

Farmer Redd acted as guide and escort back to Peterson's Mill; but the
pale young nurse would not stop, begging Dr. Flower to send her onward
immediately to Number Two. She was so worn and changed that the surgeon
feared that fever had already attacked her, and he sent a private note
to the surgeon of Number Two, recommending that Miss Douglas should at
once be returned to Number One, and, if possible, sent northward to her
home. But when Anne arrived at Number One, and saw again the sweet face
of Mrs. Barstow, when she felt herself safely surrounded by the old
work, she said that she would stay for a few days longer. While her
hands were busy, she could think; as she could not sleep, she would
watch. She felt that she had now to learn life entirely anew; not only
herself, but the very sky, sunshine, and air. The world was altered.

On the seventh morning a letter came; it was from Heathcote, and had
been forwarded from Peterson's Mill. She kept it until she had a
half-hour to herself, and then, going to the bank of the river, she sat
down under the trees and opened it. Slowly; for it might be for good, or
it might be for evil; but, in any case, it was her last. She would not
allow herself to receive or read another.

It was a long letter, written with pencil upon coarse blue-lined paper.
After saying that the fever had disappeared, and that before long he
should try to rejoin his regiment, the words went on as follows:

"I said that I would write and tell you all. When you ran away from me
last year, I was deeply hurt; I searched for you, but could find no
clew. Then I went back eastward, joined the camping party, and after a
day or two returned with them to Caryl's. No one suspected where I had
been. From Caryl's we all went down to the city together, and the winter
began.

"I was, in a certain way, engaged to Helen; yet I was not bound. Nor was
she. I liked her: she had known how to adapt herself to me always. But I
had never been in any haste; and I wondered sometimes why she held to
me, when there were other men, worth more in every way than Ward
Heathcote, who admired her as much as I did. But I did not then know
that she loved me. I know it now.

"After our return to the city, I never spoke of you; but now and then
she mentioned your name of her own accord, and I--listened. She was much
surprised that you did not write to her; she knew no more where you
were than I did, and hoped every day for a letter; so did I. But you
did not write.

"All this time--I do not like to say it, yet it is part of the
story--she made herself my slave. There was nothing I could say or do,
no matter how arbitrary, to which she did not yield, in which she did
not acquiesce. No word concerning marriage was spoken, even our former
vague lovers' talk had ceased; for, after you hurt me so deeply, Anne, I
had not the heart for it. My temper was anything but pleasant. The
winter moved on; I had no plan; I let things take their course. But I
always expected to find you in some way, to see you again, until--that
marriage notice appeared. I took it to Helen. 'It is Anne, I suppose?' I
said. She read it, and answered, 'Yes.' She was deceived, just as I
was."

Here Anne put down the letter, and looked off over the river. Helen knew
that Tita's name was Ang√©lique, and that the sister's was plain Anne. It
was a lie direct. But Heathcote did not know it. "He shall never know
through me," she thought, with stern sadness.

The letter went on: "I think she had not suspected me before, Anne--I
mean in connection with you: she was always thinking of Rachel. But she
did then, and I saw it. I was so cut up about it that I concealed
nothing. About a week after that she was thrown from her carriage. They
thought she was dying, and sent for me. Miss Teller was in the hall
waiting; she took me into the library, and said that the doctors thought
Helen might live if they could only rouse her, but that she seemed to be
sinking into a stupor. With tears rolling down her cheeks, she said,
'Ward, I know you love her, and she has long loved you. But you have
said nothing, and it has worn upon her. Go to her and save her life.
You can.'

"She took me into the room, and went out, closing the door. Helen was
lying on a couch; I thought she was already dead. But when I bent over
her and spoke her name, she opened her eyes, and knew me immediately. I
was shocked by her death-like face. It was all so sudden. I had left her
the night before, dressed for a ball. She whispered to me to lift her
in my arms, so that she might die there; but I was afraid to move her,
lest her suffering should increase. She begged with so much earnestness,
however, that at last, gently as I could, I lifted and held her. 'I am
going to die,' she whispered, 'so I need not care any more, or try. I
have always loved you, Ward. I loved you even when I married Richard.' I
thought her mind was wandering; and she must have seen that I did,
because she spoke again, and this time aloud. 'I am perfectly myself. I
tell you that I have always loved you; you shall know it before I
die.' Miss Teller said, 'And he loves you also, my darling child; he has
told me so. Now, for his sake you will try to recover and be his
wife.'

"We were married two days later. The doctors advised it, because when I
was not there Helen sank rapidly. I took care of the poor girl for
weeks; she ate only from my hand. As she grew stronger, I taught her to
walk again, and carried her in my arms up and down stairs. When at last
she began to improve, she gained strength rapidly; she is now well, save
that she will never be able to walk far or dance. I think she is happy.
It seems a feeble thing to say, and yet it is something--I am always
kind to Helen.

"As for you--it was all a wild, sudden temptation.

"I will go back to my regiment (as to my being in the army, after that
attack on Sumter it seemed to me the only thing to do). I will make no
attempt to follow you. In short, I will do--as well as I can. It may not
be very well.

