an "idler;" that is, his watch was not on duty in the fire-room. He
leaped from the gangway as the steamer came alongside of the structure,
and inspected it with the greatest gravity and dignity. In answer to the
question of the principal he declared that the caisson was all right in
every respect.

After the boys had examined the caisson, all hands were called and
assembled on the forward deck. The principal had a letter in his hand
which had been handed to him since the arrival of the Sylph. He informed
the students that he had intended to remain on board during the trip,
but some bank business of the greatest importance required him to
remain in the city till afternoon. He should return to Beech Hill on the
train, and expected to be there by the time the steamer reached the
river.

The principal was the captain of the steamer, and he had always been on
board during the Saturday trips. He sometimes sent Dory Dornwood away in
her, with Mr. Jepson in charge of the engine, a gardener doing duty as
fireman, and Bates as deck hand; but she had never come out of the river
with her regular ship's company on board in the absence of the captain.
The students jumped to the conclusion that Dory would be made captain on
the present occasion.

"The organization of the ship's company will remain just as it is," said
Captain Gildrock. "You have learned to obey your officers even if you
think you know more than they do; and this was a very valuable lesson to
learn."

"It's Captain Dory Dornwood now, I suppose," suggested Life Windham, as
all hands glanced at the first pilot.

"Not at all," replied the principal. "On sea steamers they don't have
pilots, for the captain navigates the vessel. The pilots on river and
lake steamers are a sort of independent officials. In our plan the
first pilot is the fourth in rank, and if the captain should be lost
overboard, he would not succeed to the command. The first officer is
next to the captain, and he takes charge of the steamer in the absence
of the captain."

"Thad Glovering!" exclaimed half a dozen students in the same breath.

"Glovering will be the captain in my absence, and you will respect and
obey him accordingly," added the principal. "Captain Glovering, you will
tow the caisson to the quarry, and I must leave at once."

"Three cheers for Captain Glovering!" called Ben Ludlow; and they were
given.

Captain Gildrock went on shore, and disappeared at once. Some of the
first-class students did not like it very well to have a second-class
fellow put in as captain over them; but they were too well disciplined
to find any fault.

"Of course Dory will have to show him how to do it," said Bob Swanton.

"The captain can ask the advice of anyone he likes, but he can do as he
pleases," added Corny Minkfield, rather smartly.

But Thad did not ask anybody's advice just then. In spite of some
gentle sarcasm uttered by the older boys, the new captain soon showed
that he knew what he was about. The large hawser by which the caisson
was to be towed lay on the top of the timbers with which it was loaded,
the upper ones serving as a deck. It had been made fast to a huge pin in
the centre of one end, indicating that the box was to be towed by a
single line.

There were also big cleats at the four corners of the structure, placed
there for the stays to the derrick. The new captain directed the second
officer to take two hawsers and make one fast to each of the corner
cleats. Will Orwell obeyed the order, and the other ends of the hawsers
were sent on board the Sylph. They were carefully secured to cleats in
the stern of the steamer.

"Go ahead, if you please, pilot," said Thad, when all was ready.

The propeller was put in motion, but it required a little time to start
the heavy tow. When it did start, it butted against the corner of the
wharf. The first-class students thought the time of the new captain's
defeat had come.

"Stop her!" shouted Thad, as soon as he discovered the nature of the
difficulty. "Cast off the port tow-line, Mr. Orwell!"

"Port line clear, sir," reported the second officer, now doing duty as
first.

"Go ahead, Mr. Pilot!"

Dory at the wheel rang the bell, and the propeller began to turn again.
As soon as he got steerage way, he headed the steamer away from the
shore. The starboard line was now doing all the work, and exercised all
its force on that side of the caisson. Of course it hauled the tow away
from the wharf. But the captain stopped her as soon as the box was clear
of the obstruction. The port line was made fast again, and care was
taken to see that both tow-ropes were of the same length.

The first class were willing to admit that the getting under way had
been well managed, and they were magnanimous enough to give the new
captain the credit he deserved. The Sylph tugged away at her heavy
burden, and the log showed, when the steamer was off Rock Dunder, that
she was making about three knots. There was nothing more to be done with
the tow, though the rate of speed was soon increased to four knots.

It was a monotonous trip, but everything was in the usual order on
board. Dinner was served at the proper time, and at three o' clock the
Sylph was approaching the mouth of the river. When she was within half
a mile of it the second pilot, who was on duty, reported that the barges
of the Chesterfields were coming out of the stream.

"I am sorry for that," said Dory Dornwood, as he went into the
pilot-house to take a look at the approach of the boats.

"So am I," replied Oscar Chester. "I wish you were in command instead of
Thad Glovering."

"Thad will do very well," answered Dory.

"Those fellows can't let us alone if they try. What's that? They have
passengers in the stern sheets."

Dory took a spy glass from the brackets and glanced at the barges.

"They have eight of the Topovers with them."

"You will see most of that crowd on board the caisson before long," said
Oscar. "They will cut the tow-lines or cast them off if they can."

At this moment Captain Glovering entered the pilot-house.




CHAPTER XXV.

THE FIRST OFFICER AND PARTY IN BATTLE ARRAY.


The feeling which had grown up between the Beech Hill and the
Chesterfield students was not hatred, enmity, or even ill will. When
they first met near Sandy Beach neither party could have had anything
against the other. No traditional hatred had been handed down, for both
institutions were new.

The Chesterfield Collegiate Institute was established only a year
before, and was intended to be a very high-toned establishment, judged
by the society standard. The boys were generally the sons of rich men or
merchants, with a standing in the world; and Colonel Buckmill catered
for this class. Everything about the school was genteel, and the boys
had been taught to "feel their oats."

In accordance with their education they naturally looked down upon
farmers, mechanics, and small shopkeepers. They were gentlemen, and the
sons of gentlemen, the principal said, and he treated them as such. Out
of this feeling on the part of the students had come the bad conduct of
the Chesterfields at their first meeting with the Beech Hillers. They
expected, and probably received from the country people in their
immediate vicinity, a certain degree of deference, for the institute was
a good customer to all who had anything to sell.

Doubtless the possession of the new boats had excited them to a degree
which made them somewhat reckless when they were away from the
influences that surrounded them at the school. But even in the offensive
epithets they had applied to the students from the other side of the
lake, they meant no evil. When they were treated with the contempt of
silence they felt like great men who had been neglected, and they wanted
to make themselves felt.

But they had been beaten with their own weapons, and the desire to
humiliate their school-neighbors was increased. They wanted to get the
Beech Hillers into some sort of a scrape, to annoy them all they could,
and though the Topovers were not at all after their style, they were
glad to make friends with them for the time, in order to accomplish
their purpose.

It looked as though the Chesterfields had come across the lake for the
purpose of doing mischief to their conquerors in the two former
contests. They could hardly have come to give the Topovers a pleasure
excursion in their elegant barges, and their presence in the boats made
it appear that they meant mischief.

