"You will have to give it yourself," replied Margaret. "I must go; Aunt
Katrina must be awake by this time."

"Isn't she well?" said Winthrop, looking after her as she left them.

"She had color enough before you came," said Garda, smiling, then
laughing at recollections he could not share. "Have you come back as
blind as you went away?"

"How blind is that?"

"Blind to all my faults," she responded, swinging her hat by its
ribbons.

"Don't spoil your hat. No, I'm not blind to them, but we're going to
cure them, you know."

"I'm so glad!"

He had taken a case from his pocket, and was now opening it; it held a
delicate gold bracelet, exquisitely fashioned, which he clasped round
her arm.

"How pretty!" said Garda. Her pleasure was genuine, she turned her hand
so that she could see the ornament in every position.

"You prefer diamonds, I know," said Winthrop, smiling. "But you're not
old enough to wear diamonds yet."

She continued to look at her bracelet until she had satisfied herself
fully. Then she let her hand drop. "Will you give me some very beautiful
diamonds by-and-by?" she asked, turning her eyes towards him.

"To be quite frank, I don't like them much."

"But if I like them?" She seemed to be curious as to what he would
reply.

"You may not like them yourself, then."

She regarded him a moment longer. Then her eyes left him; she looked off
down the long aisle. "I shall not change; no, not as you seem to think,"
she said, musingly. And she stood there for a moment very still. Then
her face changed, her light-heartedness came back; she took his arm,
and, as they strolled slowly towards the house, talked her gayest
nonsense. He listened indulgently.

"Why don't you ask me what I have been doing all these weeks while you
have been away?" she said at last, suddenly.

"I suppose I know, don't I? You have written."

"You haven't the least idea. I have been amused--really amused all the
time."

"Is that such a novelty? I've always thought you had a capital talent
for amusing yourself."

"That's just what I mean; this time I've been amused, I didn't have to
do it myself. Oh, promise me you won't stop anything now you've come.
We've had some lovely excursions, and I want ever so many more."

"When did I ever stop an excursion in Florida?" said Winthrop.

"Yes, you've been very good, very good always," answered Garda, with
conviction. "But this time you must be even better, you must let me do
exactly as I please."

"Oh, I don't pretend to keep you in order, you know; I leave that to
Margaret."

"Poor Margaret!" said Garda, laughing.

The next day Lucian and his wife came down to the Giron plantation;
Madam Giron had consented to take them in.

       *       *       *       *       *

Three nights afterwards, Margaret, awake between midnight and one
o'clock, thought she heard Garda's door open; then, light steps in the
hall. She left her bed, and opening the door between their two rooms,
went through into Garda's chamber. It was empty, the moonlight shone
across the floor. She returned to her own room, hastily threw on a white
dressing-gown, twisted up her long soft hair, and put on a pair of low
shoes; then she stole out quietly, went down the stone staircase and
through the lower hall, and found, as she expected, the outer door
unfastened; she opened it, closed it softly after her, and stood alone
in the night. She had to make a choice, and she had only the faintest
indication to guide her--a possible clew in a remembered conversation;
she followed this clew and turned towards the live-oak avenue. Her step
was hurried, she almost ran; as she drew the floating lace-trimmed robe
more closely about her, the moonlight shone, beneath its upheld folds,
on her little white feet. She had never before been out alone under the
open sky at that hour, she glanced over her shoulder, and shivered
slightly, though the night was as warm as July. Her own shadow, keeping
up with her, was like a living thing. The moonlight on the ground was so
white that by contrast all the trees looked black.

The live-oak avenue, when she entered it, seemed a shelter; at least it
was a roof over her head, shutting out the sky. The moonlight only came
at intervals through the thick foliage, making silver checker-work on
the path.

There were two or three bends, then a long straight stretch. As she came
into this straight stretch she saw at the far end, going towards the
lagoon, a figure--Garda; behind Garda, doubly grotesque in the changing
shade and light, stepped the crane.

Margaret's foot-falls made no sound on the soft sand of the path; she
hurried onward, and passing the crane, laid her hand on the girl's
shoulder. "Garda," she said.

Garda stopped, surprised. But though surprised, she was not startled,
she was as calm as though she had been found walking there at noonday.
She was fully dressed, and carried a light shawl.

"Margaret, is it you? How in the world did you know I was here?"

Margaret let her head rest for a moment on Garda's shoulder; her heart
was beating with suffocating rapidity. She recovered herself, stood
erect, and looked at her companion. "Where are you going?" she asked.

"I am going to try and find Lucian; but it may be only trying. He was to
start from the Giron landing at one, when the tide would serve, he said;
but you heard him, so you know as much as I do."

"No. For I don't know what you're going to do."

"Why, I've told you; I'm going to try to go with him, if I can. I'm
going to stand out at the edge of the platform, and then, when he comes
by, perhaps he will see me--it's so light--and take me in. I want to
sail through that thick soft fog he told us about (when it comes up
later), with the moonlight making it all queer and white, and the gulls
fast asleep and floating--don't you remember?"

"Then he doesn't expect you?"

"Oh no," said Garda; "it's my own idea. I knew he would be alone,
because Mrs. Rosalie can't go out in fogs, she's afraid of rheumatism."

"And you see nothing out of the way in all this?"

"No."

"--Stealing out secretly--"

"Only because you would have stopped it if you had known."

"--At night, and by yourself?"

"The night's as good as the day when there's moonlight like this. And I
shall not be by myself, I shall be with Lucian; I'd rather be with him
than anybody."

"And Evert?"

"Well," said Garda, "the truth is--the truth is I'm tired of Evert."

"You'd better tell him that," said Margaret, with a quick and curious
change in her voice.

"I will, if you think best."

"No, don't tell him; you're not in earnest," said Margaret, calming
himself.

"Yes, I am in earnest. But I shall miss Lucian if I stay here longer."

"Garda, give this up."

"I don't see how you happened to hear me come out," said the girl,
laughing and vexed.

"Have you been out in this way before?"

"No; how could I? Lucian has only just come down here. I should a great
deal rather tell you everything, Margaret, as fast as I think of it, and
I would--only you would be sure to stop it."

"I want to stop this. Give it up--if you care at all for me; I make it a
