her lips apart, and her eyes fixed on the beach about two yards in
advance of her, so that she could select as she ran the best places for
her feet, and avoid the loose stones. Her slender feet, too (undressed
they were models for a sculptor), aided her by their elasticity; she
wore a light boot, longer than her foot, and the silken web of her
stocking was longer, so that her step was never cramped. But she could
not run as rapidly as her canoe had skimmed the water under her strong
strokes when it had brought her here; and that voyage had lasted twenty
minutes; she remembered this with dread. For a while she ran
rapidly--too rapidly; then, feeling that her breath was labored, she
forced herself to slacken her pace and make it more regular; as much as
possible like a machine. Thus she ran on. Once she was obliged to stop.
Then she fell into a long swinging step, throwing her body forward a
little from right to left as her weight fell now upon one foot, now upon
the other, and this change was such a relief that she felt as if she
could run the remaining distance with comparative ease. But before she
reached the camp, she had come to the end of all her arrangements and
experiments; she was desperate, panting.

"If I can only keep on until they see me!"

The camp had an unusually quiet look; so far as her eyes, injected with
red by the effort she had made, could see, there were no moving figures
anywhere; no one sitting on the benches; no one on the beach. Where were
all the people?--what could have become of them? Hollis and the
judge?--even the cook and the Irishmen? Nothing stirred; it seemed to
her as if the very leaves on the trees and the waters of the lake had
been struck by an unnatural calm. She came to the first stakes, where
the nets were sometimes spread out. The nets were not there now. Then
she came to the cistern--a sunken cask to which water was brought from
an ice-cold spring; still no sound. Then the wood-pile; the Irishmen had
evidently been adding to it that day, for an axe remained in a severed
trunk; but no one was there. Though she had kept up her pace without
break as she ran past these familiar objects, there was now a singing in
her ears, and she could scarcely see, everything being rimmed by the
hot, red blur which seemed to exhale from her own eyes. She reached the
line of lodges at last; leaving the beach, and going through the wood,
she went straight to Cicely's door. It was closed. She opened it.
"Cicely!" she said, or rather her lips formed the name without a sound.

"What is the matter? Where is Jack?" cried Cicely, springing up as soon
as she saw Eve's face.

They met, grasping each other's hands.

"Where is he? What have you done with him?" Cicely repeated, holding Eve
with a grasp of iron.

Eve could not talk. But she felt the agony in the mother's cry. "Safe,"
she articulated.

Cicely relaxed her hold. Eve sank to her knees; thence to the floor.

Cicely seemed to understand; she brought a pillow with business-like
swiftness, and placed it under Eve's head; then she waited. Eve's eyes
were closed; her throat and chest labored so, as she lay with her head
thrown back, that Cicely bent down and quickly took out the little
arrow-pin, and unbuttoned the top buttons of her dress. This relieved
Eve; the convulsive panting grew quiet.

But with her first long breath she was on her feet again. "Come!" she
said. She opened the door and left the lodge, hurrying down to the
beach; thence she ran westward along the shore to the point where the
canoes were kept. Cicely ran by her side without speaking; they had no
need of words.

Reaching the boats, Eve began to push one of them towards the water.
"Call Mr. Hollis;--go up to the edge of the wood and call," she said to
Cicely, briefly.

"Gone fishing," Cicely responded, helping to push the boat on the other
side.

At this moment some one appeared--one of the Irishmen.

"Take him and follow in that other canoe," said Eve. "We want all the
help we can get."

As they pushed off rapidly--three minutes had not passed since they left
the lodge--Priscilla Mile came hurrying down to the shore; she had been
taking her daily exercise--a brisk walk of half an hour, timed by her
watch. "Mrs. Morrison, Mrs. Morrison, where are you going? Take me with
you."

Cicely did not even look at her. "Go on," she said to the man.

Eve was paddling rapidly; the second canoe followed hers.

When Mrs. Mile found that the two boats kept on their course, she went
back to the lodge, put on her bonnet and shawl, and set off down the
beach in the direction in which they were going, walking with steady
steps, the shawl compactly pinned with two strong shawl-pins
representing beetles.

As soon as they were fairly afloat, Cicely called: "Where is Jack? Tell
me about it."

"Presently," answered Eve, without turning her head.

"No. Now!" said the mother, peremptorily.

"He is out on the lake, in the canoe."

"Alone?"

"Yes."

"Oh! and it's getting towards night! Row faster; what is the matter with
you?" (This to the Irishman.) "Eve, wait; how far out is he?"

"It's very calm," Eve answered.

"But in the dark we can never find him," wailed the mother, in a broken
voice.

Eve made swift, tireless strokes. The Irishman could not keep up with
her.

It was growing towards night, as Cicely had said; the days were shorter
now; clouds were gathering too, though the air and water remained
strangely still; the night would be dark.

"Your arms are like willow twigs, you have no strength," said Cicely to
the Irishman. "Hurry!"

The man had plenty of strength, and was exerting every atom of it. Still
Eve kept ahead of him. "Oh, Jack!" she said to herself, "let me be in
time!" It was her brother to whom she was appealing.

She reached the spot where she had left Porley; but there was no Porley
there. Without stopping, she paddled on eastward; Cicely's canoe was now
some distance behind. Fifteen minutes more and she saw Porley, she rowed
in rapidly. "Where is he?"

"Dair!" answered Porley, pointing over the darkening water with a
gesture that was tragic in its despair.

At first Eve saw nothing; then she distinguished a black speck, she
pointed towards it with her paddle.

"Yass'm, dat's him. I 'ain't nebber take my yies off 'em," said the
girl, crying.

"Tell Mrs. Morrison. She's coming," said Eve. She turned her boat and
paddled out rapidly towards the speck.

"If I only had matches--why didn't I bring some? It will be dark soon.
But it's so calm that nothing can have happened to him; he will be
asleep." In spite of her pretended certainty, however, dread held her
heart as in a vise. "I won't think--only row." She tried to keep her
mind a blank, resorting to the device of counting her strokes with great
interest. On the light craft sped, with the peculiar skimming motion of
the Indian canoe, as if it were gliding on the surface of the water. The
twilight grew deeper.

There came a little gust, lightning showed itself for an instant in the
bank of clouds across the southern sky. "There is going to be a storm."
She stopped; the other boat, which had been following her swiftly, came
up.

"Have you ever been out in a canoe in a storm?" she called to the
Irishman, keeping her own boat well away from Cicely's.

"No, mum."

"Take Mrs. Morrison back to shore, then, as fast as you can."

"Go on!" commanded Cicely, with flashing eyes.

There came another gust. The man, perplexed by the contrary orders, made
wrong strokes; the boat careened, then righted itself.

"Take her back," called Eve, starting onward again.

"Follow that canoe!" said Cicely.

The man tried to obey Cicely; to intensify his obedience he stood up and
paddled with his back bent. There came another flurry of wind; his boat
careened again, and he lost his balance, he gave a yell. For a moment
Eve thought that he had gone overboard. But he had only crouched. "Go
