pretty neck," said Di, longing to know if she had given the trinket
away.

But Sophie was not to be caught, and said with a contented smile, "I do
not care for ornaments unless some one I love gives me them. I had red
roses for my bouquet de corsage; but the poor Madame Page was so
triste, I left them on her table to remember her of me.  It seemed so
heartless to go and dance while she had only pain; but she wished it."

"Dear little Sophie, how good you are!" and warm-hearted Fan kissed the
blooming face that needed no roses to make it sweet and gay.

Half an hour later, twenty girls and boys were dancing round the
brilliant tree.  Then its boughs were stripped.  Every one seemed
contented; even Sophie’s little gifts gave pleasure, because with each
went a merry or affectionate verse, which made great fun on being read
aloud.  She was quite loaded with pretty things, and had no words to
express her gratitude and pleasure.

"Ah, you are all so good to me! and I have nothing beautiful for you.  I
receive much and give little, but I cannot help it!  Wait a little and I
will redeem myself," she said to Fanny, with eyes full of tears, and a
lap heaped with gay and useful things.

"Never mind that now; but look at this, for here’s still another
offering of friendship, and a very charming one, to judge by the
outside," answered Fan, bringing the white box with the sea-weed
ornaments.

Sophie opened it, and cries of admiration followed, for lying on the
soft cotton was a lovely set of coral.  Rosy pink branches, highly
polished and fastened with gold clasps, formed necklace, bracelets, and
a spray for the bosom. No note or card appeared, and the girls crowded
round to admire and wonder who could have sent so valuable a gift.

"Can’t you guess, Sophie?" cried Dora, longing to own the pretty things.

"I should believe I knew, but it is too costly. How came the parcel,
Fan?  I think you must know all," and Sophie turned the box about,
searching vainly for a name.

"An expressman left it, and Jane took off the wet paper and put it on my
table with the other things.  Here’s the wrapper; do you know that
writing?" and Fan offered the brown paper which she had kept.

"No; and the label is all mud, so I cannot see the place.  Ah, well, I
shall discover some day, but I should like to thank this generous friend
at once.  See now, how fine I am!  I do myself the honor to wear them at
once."

Smiling with girlish delight at her pretty ornaments, Sophie clasped the
bracelets on her round arms, the necklace about her white throat, and
set the rosy spray in the lace on her bosom. Then she took a little
dance down the room and found herself before Di, who was looking at her
with an expression of naughty satisfaction on her face.

"Don’t you wish you knew who sent them?"

"Indeed, yes;" and Sophie paused abruptly.

"Well, I know, and I won’t tell till I like. It’s my turn to have a
secret; and I mean to keep it."

"But it is not right," began Sophie, with indignation.

"Tell me yours, and I ’ll tell mine," said Di, teasingly.

"I will not!  You have no right to touch my gifts, and I am sure you
have done it, else how know you who sends this fine cadeau?" cried
Sophie, with the flash Di liked to see.

Here Fanny interposed, "If you have any note or card belonging to
Sophie, give it up at once.  She shall not be tormented.  Out with it,
Di.  I see your hand in your pocket, and I ’m sure you have been in
mischief."

"Take your old letter, then.  I know what’s in it; and if I can’t keep
my secret for fun, Sophie shall not have hers.  That Tilly sent the
coral, and Sophie spent her hundred dollars in books and clothes for
that queer girl, who’d better stay among her lobsters than try to be a
lady," cried Di, bent on telling all she knew, while Sophie was reading
her letter eagerly.

"Is it true?" asked Dora, for the four girls were in a corner together,
and the rest of the company busy pulling crackers.

"Just like her!  I thought it was that; but she would n’t tell.  Tell us
now, Sophie, for I think it was truly sweet and beautiful to help that
poor girl, and let us say hard things of you," cried Fanny, as her
friend looked up with a face and a heart too full of happiness to help
overflowing into words.

"Yes; I will tell you now.  It was foolish, perhaps; but I did not want
to be praised, and I loved to help that good Tilly.  You know she worked
all summer and made a little sum.  So glad, so proud she was, and
planned to study that she might go to school this winter.  Well, in
October the uncle fell very ill, and Tilly gave all her money for the
doctors.  The uncle had been kind to her, she did not forget; she was
glad to help, and told no one but me.  Then I said, ’What better can I
do with my father’s gift than give it to the dear creature, and let her
lose no time?’  I do it; she will not at first, but I write and say, ’It
must be,’ and she submits. She is made neat with some little dresses,
and she goes at last, to be so happy and do so well that I am proud of
her.  Is not that better than fine toilets and rich gifts to those who
need nothing?  Truly, yes! yet I confess it cost me pain to give up my
plans for Christmas, and to seem selfish or ungrateful.  Forgive me
that."

"Yes, indeed, you dear generous thing!" cried Fan and Dora, touched by
the truth.

"But how came Tilly to send you such a splendid present?" asked Di.
"Should n’t think you ’d like her to spend your money in such things."

"She did not.  A sea-captain, a friend of the uncle, gave her these
lovely ornaments, and she sends them to me with a letter that is more
precious than all the coral in the sea.  I cannot read it; but of all my
gifts this is the dearest and the best!"

Sophie had spoken eagerly, and her face, her voice, her gestures, made
the little story eloquent; but with the last words she clasped the
letter to her bosom as if it well repaid her for all the sacrifices she
had made.  They might seem small to others, but she was sensitive and
proud, anxious to be loved in the strange country, and fond of giving,
so it cost her many tears to seem mean and thoughtless, to go poorly
dressed, and be thought hardly of by those she wished to please.  She
did not like to tell of her own generosity, because it seemed like
boasting; and she was not sure that it had been wise to give so much.
Therefore, she waited to see if Tilly was worthy of the trust reposed in
her; and she now found a balm for many wounds in the loving letter that
came with the beautiful and unexpected gift.

Di listened with hot cheeks, and when Sophie paused, she whispered
regretfully,--

"Forgive me, I was wrong!  I ’ll keep your gift all my life to remember
you by, for you are the best and dearest girl I know."

Then with a hasty kiss she ran away, carrying with great care the white
shell on which Sophie had painted a dainty little picture of the
mermaids waiting for the pretty boat that brought good fortune to poor
Tilly, and this lesson to those who were hereafter her faithful friends.








[Illustration: "Everything is quite clean; I am sure of that, for I
washed the sheets and coverlet myself not long ago."--PAGE 207.]



                                 VIII.

                           DOLLY’S BEDSTEAD.


"Aunt Pen, where is Ariadne to sleep, please?  I wanted to bring her
cradle, but mamma said it would take up so much room I could not."

And Alice looked about her for a resting-place for her dolly as
anxiously as if Ariadne had been a live baby.

"Can’t she lie on the sofa?" asked Aunt Pen, with that sad want of
interest in such important matters which grown-up people so often show.

"No, indeed!  Some one would sit down on her, of course; and I won’t
have my darling smashed.  You would n’t like it yourself, aunty, and I
’m surprised at your proposing such a thing!" cried Alice, clasping her
babe with a face full of maternal indignation.

"I beg your pardon!  I really forgot that danger.  I ’m not so used to
infants as you are, and that accounts for it.  Now I think of it,
there’s a little bedstead up garret, and you can have that.  You will
find it done up in a paper in the great blue chest where all our old
toys are kept."

