on the walls. He lay upon his pillows, an emaciated old man with a waxen
face and head, sunken eyes that seemed to have no sight in them. Short
locks of yellowish grey hair strayed about his forehead and temples,
like dry grasses scattered over a skull. There was no beard upon his
face, and the hard old lips were tightly drawn in a set expression, a
little apart, so that the black shadow of the open mouth was visible
between them. The long, nervous hands lay upon the counterpane together,
the fingers of the one upon the wrist of the other feeling the sinking
pulse, searching with their numbed extremities for a little flutter of
motion in the dry veins. Thomas Craik lay motionless in his bed, not one
outward sign betraying the tremendous conflict that was taking place in
his still active brain. He was himself to the last, such as he had
always been in the great moments of his life, apparently cool and
collected, in reality filled with the struggle of strong, opposing
passions.

He was not alone. Two great physicians were standing in silence, side by
side, before the magnificent chimney-piece, beneath which a soft fire of
dry wood was burning steadily with a low and unvarying musical roar. An
attendant sat upright upon a carved chair at the foot of the bed, not
taking his eyes from the sick man’s face.

The room was large and magnificent in its furniture and appointments.
The high wainscot had been carved in rare woods after the designs of a
great French artist. The walls above were covered with matchless Cordova
leather from an Italian palace. The ceiling was composed of rich panels
that surrounded a broad canvas from the hand of a famous Spanish master,
dead long ago. The chimney-piece was enriched with old brass work from
Cairo, and with exquisite tiles from Turkish mosques. Priceless eastern
carpets of which not one was younger than the century, covered the
inlaid wooden floor. Diana of Poitiers had slept beneath the canopy of
the princely bedstead; it was said that Louis the Fourteenth had eaten
off the table that was placed beside it, and Benvenuto Cellini had
carved the silver bell which stood within reach of the patient’s hand.
There was incongruity in the assemblage of different objects, but the
great value of each and all saved the effect from vulgarity, and lent to
the whole something of the odd harmony peculiar to certain collections.

It was the opinion of the two doctors that Tom Craik was dying. They had
done what they could for him and were waiting for the end. As to his
malady it was sufficiently clear to both of them that his vitality was
exhausted and that even if he survived this crisis he could not have
long to live. They agreed that the action of the heart had been much
impaired by a life of constant excitement and that the nerves had lost
their elasticity. They had taken pains to explain to his sister, Mrs.
Sherrington Trimm, that there was very little to be done and that the
patient should be advised to make his last dispositions, since a little
fatigue more or less could make no material difference in his state,
whereas he would probably die more easily if his mind were free from
anxiety. Totty had spent the day in the house and intended to return in
the evening. She bore up very well under the trial, and the physicians
felt obliged to restrain her constant activity in tending her brother
while she was in the room, as it seemed to make him nervous and
irritable. She had their fullest sympathy, of course, as persons who are
supposed to be sole legatees of the dying very generally have, but so
far as their professional capacity was concerned, the two felt that it
went better with the patient when his faithful sister was out of the
house.

From time to time inquiries were made on the part of acquaintances,
generally through their servants, but they were not many. Though the
other persons in the room scarcely heard the distant ringing of the
muffled bell, and the careful opening and shutting of the street door,
the feeble old man never failed to catch the sound of both and either
with his eyes or half-uttered words asked who had called. On receiving
the answer he generally moved his head a little wearily and his lids
drooped again.

“Is there anybody you expect? Anybody you wish to see?” one of the
physicians once asked, bending low and speaking softly. He suspected
that something was disquieting the dying man’s mind.

But there was no answer, and the lids drooped again. It was now dusk and
it would soon be night. Many hours might pass before the end came, and
the doctors consulted in low tones as to which of them should remain.
Just then the faint and distant rattle of the bell was heard.
Immediately Tom Craik stirred, and seemed to be listening attentively.
The two men ceased speaking and they could hear the front door softly
open in the street below, and close again a few seconds later. One of
the physicians glanced at the patient, saw the usual look of inquiry in
his face and quickly left the room. When he returned he held a card in
his hand, which he took to the bedside after looking at it by the
fireside. Bending down, he spoke in a low tone.

“Mr. George Winton Wood has called,” he said.

Tom Craik’s sunken eyes opened suddenly and fixed themselves on the
speaker’s face.

“Any message?” he asked very feebly.

“He said he had only just heard of your illness, and was very
sorry—would call again.”

A strange look of satisfaction came into the old man’s colourless face,
and a low sigh escaped his lips as he closed his eyes again.

“Would you like to see him?” inquired the doctor.

The patient shook his head without raising his lids, and the room was
still once more. Presently the other physician departed and the one who
was left installed himself in a comfortable chair from which he could
see the bed and the door. During half an hour no sound was heard save
the muffled roar of the wood fire. At last the sick man stirred again.

“Doctor—come here,” he said in a harsh whisper.

“What is it, Mr. Craik?”

“Send for Trimm at once.”

“Mrs. Trimm, did you say?”

“No—Sherry Trimm himself—make my will—see? Quick.”

The physician stared at his patient for a moment in very considerable
surprise, for he thought he had reason to suppose that Thomas Craik’s
will had been made already, and now he half suspected that the old man’s
mind was wandering. He hesitated.

“You think I’m not able, do you?” asked Craik, his rough whisper rising
to a growl. “Well, I am. I’m not dead yet, so get him quickly.”

The doctor left the room without further delay, to give the necessary
orders. When he returned, Mr. Craik was lying with his eyes wide open,
staring at the fire.

“Give me something, can’t you?” he said with more energy than he had
shown that day.

The doctor began to think that it was not yet all up with his patient,
as he mixed something in a glass and gave it to him. Craik drank eagerly
and moved his stiffened lips afterwards as though he had enjoyed the
taste of the drink.

“I may not jockey the undertaker,” he grumbled, “but I shall last till
morning, anyhow.”

Nearly half an hour elapsed before Sherrington Trimm reached the house,
but during all that time Thomas Craik did not close his eyes again. His
face looked less waxen, too, and his sight seemed to have recovered some
of the light that had been fading out of it by degrees all day. The
doctor watched him with interest, wondering, as doctors must often
wonder, what was passing in his brain, what last, unspent remnant of
life’s passions had caused so sudden a revival of his energy, and
whether this manifestation of strength were the last flare of the dying
lamp, or whether Tom Craik, to use his own words, would jockey the
undertaker, as he had jockeyed many another adversary in his stirring
existence.

The door opened, and Sherrington Trimm entered the room. He was a short,
active man, slightly inclined to be stout, bald and very full about the
chin and neck, with sharp, movable blue eyes, and a closely-cut,
grizzled moustache. His hands were plump, white and pointed, his feet
were diminutive and his dress was irreproachable. He had a habit of
turning his head quickly to the right and left when he spoke, as though
challenging contradiction. He came briskly to the bedside and took one
of Craik’s wasted hands in his, with a look of honest sympathy.

“How are you, Tom?” he inquired, suppressing his cheerful voice to a
sort of subdued chirp.

“According to him,” growled Craik, glancing at the doctor, “I believe I
died this afternoon. However, I want to make my will, so get out your
tools, Sherry, and set to. Please leave us alone,” he added, looking up
at the physician.

The latter went out, taking the attendant with him.

“Your will!” exclaimed Sherry Trimm, when the door had closed behind the
two. “I thought——”

“Bad habit, thinking things. Don’t. Put that drink where I can reach
it—so. There’s paper on the table. Sit down.”

Trimm saw that he had better not argue the matter, and he did as he was
bidden. He was indeed very much surprised at the sudden turn of affairs,
for he was perfectly well aware that Tom Craik had made a will some
years previously in which he left his whole fortune to his only sister,
Trimm’s wife. The lawyer wondered what his brother-in-law intended to do
