present position, Christy?"

"I don't say that I absolutely dislike it, for I mean to be happy in
whatever place my duty may call me. The responsibility weighs heavy on
me, and I should prefer to be in a subordinate position," replied
Christy very seriously. "I can't sleep as I used to."

"I am confident there will be a vacancy in the Bellevite, for Mr.
Ballard will not come back: Dr. Linscott said as much as that to me,"
added the engineer. "You can have his place if you want it."

"But there is a third lieutenant who may deserve promotion," suggested
Christy.

"Captain Breaker is dissatisfied with him, and he will get him out of
the ship, at any rate, as soon as the opportunity presents itself. I
advise you to write to your father, and tell him plainly just how you
feel," said Paul.

"I am not sure that Captain Breaker would be willing to receive me as
his second lieutenant," Christy objected.

"I am sure he would," protested Paul.

"I don't want him to take me simply because my father desires him to do
so," answered the young commander, shaking his head.

"Then let your father give him the choice of two or three officers. That
will settle the matter."

"I don't know, Paul; I will think of the matter, and write to you as
soon as I have time. There comes the boat. Mr. Flint, have the prisoner
brought on deck to be transferred to the Bellevite."

In a few minutes the two stout sailors who had removed him from the
captain's cabin appeared on deck, dragging Captain Flanger after them,
for he would not walk, and did all he could with his hands made fast
behind him to embarrass his conductors.

"Captain Passford, I protest agailst this treatment of a prisoler of
war," howled the privateersman.

"All right, Captain Flanger."

"I say I am abused, and dragged from below like a dog."

"If you stand up and walk like a man, the dog will not be dragged."

"Boat alongside, sir," reported a quartermaster.

"Put him into the boat," added Christy.

The prisoner was certainly a hideous-looking object, his face daubed
with blood, and his nose a mass of tangled flesh; but he was put into
the boat in spite of his struggles. Paul Vapoor bade his friend an
affectionate adieu, and went over the side. The Bronx started her screw
at once.




CHAPTER XXVII

THE PLANNING OF AN EXPEDITION


The Bronx continued on her course indicated in the verbal order of the
flag-officer. Christy felt that he had had a narrow escape from death,
or at least a severe wound, at the hands of the desperado who had
invaded his cabin. Flanger had escaped, after he had been put on board
of the flag-ship, with the assistance of Galvinne; and he appeared not
to have taken the trouble to render the same service to his confederate.
The ships' companies of the two steamers were inclined to converse,
giving and receiving the news; and doubtless the prisoner had taken
advantage of the confusion to slip on board of the Bronx and secrete
himself.

His scheme, which must have been devised after he obtained admission to
the cabin, was born of nothing less than madness, and could hardly have
succeeded under any circumstances, though it might have ended in killing
or disabling the commander. Christy felt that a kind Providence had
saved him, and he rendered devout thanks for the merciful interposition,
as it seemed to him.

While he was still considering the subject, he heard the call for "All
the port watch!" on deck, and Mr. Camden came below to wake the third
lieutenant, for the routine was hardly in working order on board of the
steamer. The commander went into his stateroom, and soon returned with
the sealed envelope in his hand. He was deeply interested in its
contents, for he hoped his vessel was ordered to take part in the
Mississippi expedition, which was to attack Forts Jackson and St.
Philip, and capture the city of New Orleans. Eight bells had been
struck, indicating midnight, which was the hour at which he was directed
to break the seal. The first lieutenant was quite as much interested in
ascertaining the destination of the Bronx as the commander. Christy had
invited him to his cabin.

"Midnight is rather an odd time for the opening of the envelope
containing the orders," said Mr. Flint, as he seated himself at the
table. "But I suppose it was chosen for a purpose."

"Undoubtedly; headed to the south-west the ship would be off the passes
of the Mississippi at eight bells in the forenoon. If we are sent to
Lake Pontchartrain or Ship Island, we should be a long way off our
course at that time," added Christy, as he broke the seal of the
envelope. "Neither Lake Pontchartrain nor the Mississippi. We are
ordered to Barataria Bay, where a steamer is loading with cotton."

"I did not believe a little vessel like the Bronx would be sent up
the river," said Mr. Flint, when the commander had read the paper.
"Barataria Bay--that locality is noted for something in history, isn't
it, captain?"

"Perhaps you have never read 'Lafitte, the Pirate of the Gulf;' but this
bay was his famous resort," said Christy, smiling. "It was formerly
quite as noted as a resort for smugglers, and Lafitte was more a
smuggler than a pirate in this region. He was six feet two inches in
height, a well educated and handsome man, so that he was a first-class
hero for a novel of the dime class," added Christy.

"I believe your late passenger in the cabin knows something about
Barataria Bay and its surroundings, for I think I heard the Russian say
that he had done some smuggling in this quarter," said Mr. Flint. "As
you are doubtless aware, by a series of lakes, bayous, and a canal which
comes out near Carrollton, just above New Orleans, water communication
is open to the Mississippi River for small vessels."

"Do you say that Captain Flanger has been a smuggler in these waters?"

"I think the Russian said so."

"In that case, probably Mike was with him, and he may be a useful man to
us as a pilot," replied Christy. "The commodore says the Western Gulf
squadron had no steamer that was suitable for this service, for there is
only nine feet of water on the bar of Barataria at low water. For this
reason he had been requested to send the Bronx, not only on account of
her light draft, but of her speed."

The commander read his orders through. It was believed that vessels were
loading with cotton there, towed down in flatboats by small steamers,
and that a steamer of four hundred tons was fitting out in the bay as a
privateer. It might not be practicable for the Bronx to go into the bay;
but she was to do what she could to capture the cotton vessels and the
steamer when they came out.

Mr. Flint went to his stateroom, and turned in; but Christy spread his
chart of the Gulf of Mexico, and using his parallel ruler, he found that
the present course of the Bronx would take her to the Pass Ã  Loutre, the
most northerly entrance of the Mississippi River. He went to the bridge
at once, and directed the officer of the deck to make the course
south-west by south. Everything was going well on deck, and Mr. Pennant
had proved that he was a competent officer.

By this time the commander began to feel that sleep was a necessity for
him, for he had hardly rested at all the night before, and he turned in
at two bells. He dropped asleep almost instantly, and did not wake
till he heard eight bells in the morning. It was quite light in his
stateroom, and he realized that it was eight o'clock, instead of four,
as he at first supposed.

Dressing himself hastily, Christy hastened on deck, and to the bridge,
where he found Mr. Flint, who informed him that the Bronx was off the
South Pass of the Mississippi. The fleet of the flag-officer of the
Western Gulf squadron had gone up the river, with the exception of a
single vessel, which had not been able to get over the bar. There were a
few sail in sight.

"We are all right on the course, Mr. Flint; now make it west," said
Christy to the executive officer; and then went to his cabin for his
breakfast, directing the officer of the deck to report to him when the
steamer was off the South West Pass.

When he had finished his morning meal, he proceeded to study his
chart again. He had never been to the westward of the mouths of the
Mississippi; but he had a chart of the entrance to Barataria Bay. He
examined it with the greatest care, and made himself familiar with the
bearings and distances. In about an hour after he left the deck, a
messenger came to the door of the cabin to inform him that the South
West Pass was in sight, bearing due north.

