listened to the distant chewing of the camels.

'Give me some water,' he said at last. 'I am very thirsty.'

She brought him drink from the skin, and soon afterwards he lay down to
rest. But they said nothing more to each other that night of the story
which Almasta had told.

On the following day they journeyed fully eleven hours, to a place where
there was much water, and in the evening, when the camels were chewing,
and all the Bedouins had eaten and were resting in their tents, Abdullah
sat again in his accustomed place.

'Almasta, light of my darkness,' he said, 'I would gladly hear again
something of the tale you told me last night, for I have not remembered
it well, being overburdened with the cares of my people and the
direction of the march. Surely you said that when the woman and her
husband had killed Isma誰l they took the keys of the treasure chambers
from under his pillow. Is it not so?'

'They did so, Abdullah,'

'And they immediately went and took the gold and gave it to the guards?
But I have forgotten, for it is a matter of little importance, being but
a tale.'

'That is what they did,' answered Almasta.

'But surely this is a fable. How could the woman know the way to the
treasure chambers and find it in the dark? For you said also that these
secret places were underground and therefore a great way from the
harem.'

'I did not say that, Abdullah, for the secret places underground are
those in Riad, which I described to you before I began the other story.'

'This may be true, for I am very forgetful. But I daresay that the
treasures in the city you described were also hidden in similar places.'

'Since you speak of this, I remember that it was so. The glorious light
of your intelligence penetrates the darkness of my memory and makes it
clear. The places were exactly similar.'

'How then could the woman, who only knew the harem, find her way in the
dark, and lead her husband, to a part of the palace which she had never
visited? This is a hard thing.'

'It was not hard for her. She had seen Isma誰l open with his key a door
in his sleeping chamber, and he had gone in and after some time had
returned bearing sacks of gold pieces. Was this a hard thing? Or does a
wise man make two doors to his treasure-house, the one for himself and
the other for thieves? The one leading to his own chamber, for his own
use, and the other opening upon the highway for the convenience of
robbers? It is possible, but I think not. Isma誰l had but one door. He
was not an Egyptian jackass.'

'This is reasonable,' said Abdullah. 'And I am now satisfied. But my
imagination was not at rest, for the story is a good one and deserves to
be well told.'

After this Abdullah wandered for a long time with the Bedouins who
accompanied him, often changing his direction, so that they wondered
whither he was leading them, and began to question him. But he answered
that he had heard secretly of a great spoil to be taken, and that they
should all have a share of it, and whenever they came upon Arabs of
another tribe Abdullah invited the sheikh and the most notable men to
his tent and entertained them sumptuously with camel's meat, afterwards
talking long with them in private. Before many weeks had passed, the
skilful men of the tribe, who knew the signs, were aware that many other
Bedouins were travelling in the same direction as themselves, though
they could not be seen.

But neither Abdullah's men, nor Almasta herself, could know that in
three months the sheikhs of all the tribes from Hasa to Harb, and from
Ajman to El Kora, had heard that Khaled the Sultan was a Persian robber,
and a Shiyah at heart, venerating Ali and execrating the true Sonna, a
man who in all probability drank wine in secret, and who was certainly
plotting to deliver up all Nejed to the power of the Ajjem. Some of them
believed the tale readily enough, for all had asked whence Khaled was
and none had got an answer. Could a man be of the desert, they asked,
and yet not be known by name in any of the tribes, nor his father before
him? Surely, there was a secret, they said, and he who will not tell the
name of his father has a reason for changing his own. And as for his
being brave and having fought well in the war with the Shammar, how
could a man have been a robber if he were not brave, and why should he
not fight manfully, since he had everything to gain and nothing to lose?
As for the spoils, too, he had made a pretence of dividing them justly,
but it was now well known that he had laden camels by stealth at Ha誰l
and had sent them secretly to Riad, slaughtering with his own hand all
those who had helped him.

Little by little, too, the story came to Riad and was told in a low
voice by merchants in the bazar, and repeated by their wives among their
acquaintance, and by the slaves in the market and among the beggars who
begged by the doors of the great mosque but were fed daily from the
palace. And though many persons of the better sort thought that the
story might be true, and wagged their heads when Khaled's name was
spoken, yet the beggars with one accord declared that it was a lie. For
Khaled was generous in almsgiving, and they said, 'If Khaled is
overthrown and another Sultan set up in his place, how do we know
whether there will be boiled camel's meat from time to time as well as
blanket-bread and a small measure of barley meal? And will the next
Sultan scatter gold in the streets as Khaled did on the first day when
he rode to the mosque? Truly these chatterers of Bedouins talk much of
the treasure in the palace which will be divided, but they who talk most
of gold, are they who most desire it, and we shall get none. Therefore
we say it is a lie, and Khaled is a true man, and a Sonna like
ourselves, not a swiller of wine nor a devourer of pigs. Allah show him
mercy now and at the day of resurrection! The cock-sparrow is pluming
his breast while the hunter is pulling the string of the snare.'

Thus the beggars talked among themselves all day, reasoning after the
manner of their kind. But they suffered other people to talk as they
pleased, for one who desires alms must not exhibit a contradictory
disposition, lest the rich man be offended and eat the melon together
with the melon peels, and exclaim that the dirt-scraper has become a
preacher. For the rich man's anger is at the edge of his nostrils and
always ready.

As the winter passed away and the spring began, the tribes of the desert
drew nearer and nearer to the city, as is their wont at that season. For
many of the sheikhs had houses in the city, in which they spent the hot
months of the year, while their people were encamped in the low hill
country not far off, where the heat is less fierce than in the plains
and the deserts. And now also the season of the Haj was approaching, for
Ramadhan was not far off, and the beggars congregated at the gates
waiting for the first pilgrims, and expecting plentiful alms, which in
due time they received, for in that year Abdullah did not molest the
Persian pilgrimage, his mind being occupied with other matters.




CHAPTER IX


The story which was thus repeated from mouth to mouth in Riad reached
the palace at the last, and the guards told it to each other as they sat
together under the shadow of the great wall, the cooks related it among
themselves in the kitchen, and the black slaves gossiped about it in the
corners of the courtyard, and the women slaves stood and listened while
they talked and carried the tale into the harem. But the people of the
palace were more slow to believe than the people of the city, for they
shared in a measure in Khaled's right of possession, and desired no
change of master, so that for a long time neither Zehowah nor Khaled
heard anything of what was commonly reported. Yet at last the old woman
who had been Zehowah's nurse told her the substance of the story, with
many protestations of unbelief, and of anger against those who had
invented the lie.

'It is right that my lady and mistress should know these things,' she
said, 'and when our lord the Sultan has been informed of them, he will
doubtless cause his soldiers to go forth with sticks and purify the
hides of the chief evil-speakers in the bazar. There is one especially,
a merchant whose shop is opposite the door of the little mosque, who is
continually bold in falsehood, being the same who sold me this garment
for linen; but it afterwards turned out to be cotton and the gold
threads are brass and have turned black. I pray Allah to be just as well
as merciful.'

At first Zehowah laughed, but soon afterwards her face became grave, and
she bent her brows, for though the story was but a lie she saw how
easily it would find credence. She therefore sent the old woman away
with a gift and she herself went to Khaled, and sat down beside him and
took his hand.

'You have secret enemies,' she said, 'who are plotting against your
life, and who have already begun to attack you by filling the air of the
city with falsehoods which fly from house to house like flies in summer
entering at the window and going out by the door. You must sift this
matter, for it is worthy of attention.'

'And what are these lies of which you speak?'

'It is said openly in the city that you are a Shiyah and a Persian,
having been a robber before you came here, and that you are plotting to
deliver over Nejed to the Persians. Look to this, Khaled, for they say
that you are no Bedouin since no one knows your descent nor the name of
your father.'

