trouble. If you could find that out, it would be simpler."

"Yes, indeed," assented Adele, with a forced smile. "If all that is
necessary were to have a good conscience and walk an hour or two every
day, I should soon get well."

"I have no doubt you will in any case. Are you going to Gerano, or to
your own place?"

"To Gerano. It is warmer. Castel Savello is too high for the spring. I
should freeze there. It would be a charity if you would drive out and
spend a day or two with us, when you are stronger. I wish you would come
out and see us, Laura," she said, turning to her step-sister, to whom
Francesco was talking in a low voice. "You used to like Gerano when we
were girls. Do you remember dear old Don Tebaldo, who used to shed tears
because you were a Protestant?"

"Indeed I do. I hear he is alive still. It is two years since I was
there the last time. Francesco has been telling me all about your
illness. I am so sorry. I should think you would do better to consult
some good specialist. But, of course, the country can do you no harm."

"I hope not," said Adele, with sudden despondency. "I have borne enough
already. I could not bear much more."

"Nobody can understand what is the matter with her," observed Francesco,
and his tone showed that he did not care.

"You have let her dance too much this winter," said Laura, addressing
him. "You ought to keep her from over-tiring herself."

"It is not easy to prevent Adele from doing anything she wishes to do,"
answered Savelli. "This winter she has insisted on going everywhere. I
have warned her a hundred times, but she would not listen to me, and of
course this is the result."

"When did it begin?" asked Ghisleri, who seemed interested in Adele's
mysterious illness. "When did you first lose your sleep?"

"You remember," she answered. "We were just talking of our meeting in
the street, and the sulphonal. It was about that time--a little before
that, of course, for I had been suffering several days when I met you."

"Ah, yes--I remember when that was," said Ghisleri, in a tone of
reflection.

He joined in the conversation during a few minutes longer, and then took
leave of the three. Formerly he would have gone to spend an hour or two
with Maddalena, but he had no inclination to do so now. He would gladly
have stayed with Laura if the Savelli couple had not come. He wished to
be alone, now, and to think over what he had done. It was the first time
that he had ever told the story of his love for Bianca Corleone to any
one, and calm as he had seemed while telling it, he had felt a very
strong emotion. He was glad to be at home again, alone with his own
thoughts, and with the picture that reminded him of the dead woman. He
knew that she would have forgiven him for speaking of her to-day as he
had spoken, and to such a woman as Laura Arden. For in his heart he
compared the two. There had been grand lines in Bianca Corleone's
character, as there were in that of her passionate brother, as Ghisleri
believed there must be in Laura Arden's also, and great generosities,
the readiness to go to any length for the sake of real passion, the
power to hate honestly, to love faithfully, and to forgive wholly--all
things which Pietro missed in himself. And Laura had to-day waked the
memory of that great love which had once filled his existence, and which
had not ended with the life that had gone out before its day, in all its
beauty and freshness. He was grateful to her for that, and he sat long
in his chair after his lonely meal, thinking of her and of the other,
and of poor Maddalena dell' Armi, whose very name, sounding in his
imagination, sent a throb of remorse through his heart.

A pencil lay near him and he took a sheet of paper and began to write,
as he often did when he was alone, scribbling verses without rhyme, and
often with little meaning except in their connection with his thoughts.
He was no poet.

   "A sweet, dark woman, with sad, holy eyes,
    Laid her cool hand upon my heart to-day,
    And touched the dear dead thing that's buried there.
    Her saintly magic cannot make it live,
    Nor sting once more with passionate deep thrill
    The bright torn flesh where my lost love breathed last.

   "She has no miracles for me--nor God
    Forgiveness, nor earth healing--nor death fear.
    I think I fear life more--and yet, to live
    Were easy work, could I but learn to die;
    As, if I learned to live, I should hate death.
    But I cannot hate death--not even death--
    Since that is dead which made death hateful once;
    Nor hate I anything; let all live on,
    Just and unjust, bad, good, indifferent,
    Sinner and saint, man, devil, angel, martyr--
    What are they all to me? Good night, sweet rest--
    I wish you most what I can find the least.
    We meet again soon. Have you heard the talk
    About the latest scandal of our town?
    No? Nor have I. I care less than I did
    About the men and women I have known.
    Good night--and thanks for being kind to me."




CHAPTER XVI.


Donna Adele Savelli was ill. There was no denying the fact, though her
husband had ignored it as long as possible, and was very much annoyed to
find that he could not continue to do so until the usual time for moving
to the country arrived. As has been said already, the world attributed
her ill-health to some unexpected awakening of the family skeleton, and
when the Savelli couple suddenly retired to Gerano, it was sure that
Francesco had lost money and that they had gone for economy. But there
was no lack of funds in Casa Savelli. That ancient and excellent house
had, as a family, a keen appreciation of values great and small, and
continued to put away more of its income in safe investments than any
one knew of. Nor was there any other trouble to account for Adele's
illness, so far as any member of the household could judge. Every one
else was well, including the children. Everybody was prosperous. It was
not conceivable that Adele should have taken Herbert Arden's death to
heart in a way to endanger her own health. She might, perhaps, feel some
remorse for having spoken of him as she had--for Savelli had discovered
that something, at least, of the gossip could be traced to her--but she
could not be supposed to care so much as to fall ill. What she suffered
from was evidently some one of those mysterious nervous diseases which,
in Francesco's opinion, modern medical science had invented expressly in
order that it might deal with them. Unfortunately, the particular man of
learning who could cure Adele was not forthcoming. The doctors who were
consulted said that something was preying on her mind, and when she
assured them that this was not the case, they shrugged their shoulders
and prescribed soothing medicines, country air, and exercise. She
particularly dreaded the night, and could not bear to be left alone for
a moment after dark. She said she saw things; when asked what things she
saw, she seemed to draw upon her imagination. Francesco began to fear
that she might go mad, though there was no insanity in the Braccio
family. The prospect was not pleasing, and he would have greatly
preferred that she should die and leave him at liberty to marry Laura
Arden. He never dreamed that the latter would refuse to wed the heir of
all the Savelli, if he were free to ask her hand, and in his cautious,
unenterprising fashion he loved her still, while remaining religiously
faithful to his wife--and not, on the whole, treating her unkindly. The
consequence of all this was that he made her try the simple cure
suggested by the doctors, and accompanied her to Gerano in the early
spring.

The hereditary stronghold from which the head of the Braccio family took
his principal title was a vast and gloomy fortress in the lower range of
the Sabine mountains, situated in a beautiful country, and overlooking
the broad Campagna that lay between it and the distant sea. The great
dark walls were flanked by round towers, and were in some places ten and
twelve feet thick, so that the deep embrasures of the windows were in
themselves like little rooms opening off the great halls behind. The
furniture was almost all old, and was well in keeping with the vaulted
ceilings, the frescoed friezes, and the dark marble door-posts. Donna
Adele's sleeping-chamber was as large as most of the drawing-rooms in
the Palazzo Braccio, and her dressing-room was almost of the same size.
To reach the hall in which she and her husband dined, it was necessary
to traverse five other rooms and a vaulted passage fifty or sixty yards
long, in which the steps of any one who passed echoed and rang on the
stone pavement, and echoed again during some seconds afterwards in a
rather uncanny fashion. The sitting-room was next to the dining-hall,
and consequently also at a great distance from the bedrooms. There was
more of comfort in it than elsewhere, for the walls were hung with
tapestries, and there was a carpet on the floor, whereas in the other
apartments there were only rugs thrown down here and there, where they
were most needed; here, too, the doors had heavy curtains. But, on the
whole, a more ghostly and gloomy place than the castle of Gerano could
hardly be imagined, especially at dusk when the blackness deepened in
the remote corners and recesses of the huge chambers, and the sculptured
corbels of grey stone, high up at the spring of each arch, grew shadowy
and alive with hideous grimaces in the gathering dimness.

Adele had never been subject to any fear of the supernatural, and the
old place was so familiar to her from childhood, that she had looked
forward with pleasure to seeing it again. She was attached to almost
everything connected with it, to the walls themselves, to her own rooms,
to the ugly corbels, to the lame old warder, Giacomo, and to his wife
who helped him to take care of the rooms. She was a woman quite capable
of that sort of feeling, and capable, indeed, of much more, had it
fallen in her path. She could not have hated as she did, if she had not
