
"No; he wouldn't," said Louise, promptly; so mournfully, though, that
her mother's heart relented.

"I've seen that you've become interested in him, Louise; that your fancy
is excited; he stimulates your curiosity. I don't wonder at it! He is
very interesting. He makes you feel his power more than any other young
man I've met. He charms your imagination even when he shocks your
taste."

"Yes; all that," said Louise, desolately.

"But he does shock your taste?"

"Sometimes--not always."

"Often enough, though, to make the difference that I'm afraid you'll
lose the sense of. Louise, I should be very sorry if I thought you were
at all--in love with that young man!"

It seemed a question; Louise let her head droop, and answered with
another. "How should I know? He hasn't asked me."

This vexed her mother. "Don't be trivial, don't be childish, my dear.
You don't need to be asked, though I'm exceedingly glad he hasn't
asked you, for now you can get away with a good conscience."

"I'm not sure yet that I want to get away," said the girl, dreamily.

"Yes, you are, my dear!" her mother retorted. "You know it wouldn't do
at all. It isn't a question of his poverty; your father has money
enough: it's a question of his social quality, and of all those little
nothings that make up the whole of happiness in marriage. He would be
different enough, being merely a man; but being a man born and reared in
as different a world from yours as if it were another planet--I want you
to think over all the girls you know--all the people you know--and see
how many of them have married out of their own set, their own circle--we
might almost say, their own family. There isn't one!"

"I've not said I wished to marry him, mamma."

"No. But I wish you to realize just what it would be."

"It would be something rather distinguished, if his dreams came true,"
Louise suggested.

"Well, of course," Mrs. Hilary admitted. She wished to be very, very
reasonable; very, very just; it was the only thing with a girl like
Louise; perhaps with any girl. "It would be distinguished, in a way. But
it wouldn't be distinguished in the society way; the only way you've
professed to care for. I know that we've always been an intellectual
community, and New-Yorkers, and that kind of people, think, or profess
to think, that we make a great deal of literary men. We do invite them
somewhat, but I pass whole seasons without meeting them; and I don't
know that you could say that they are of society, even when they are
in it. If such a man has society connections, he's in society; but
he's there on account of his connections, not on account of his
achievements. This young man may become very distinguished, but he'll
always be rather queer; and he would put a society girl at odds with
society. His distinction would be public; it wouldn't be social."

"Matt doesn't think society is worth minding," Louise said, casually.

"But you do," returned her mother. "And Matt says that a man of this
young man's traditions might mortify you before society people."

"Did Matt say that?" Louise demanded, angrily. "I will speak to Matt
about that! I should like to know what he means by it. I should like to
hear what he would say."

"Very likely he would say that the society people were not worth
minding. You know his nonsense. If you agree with Matt, I've nothing
more to say, Louise; not a word. You can marry a mechanic or a
day-laborer, in that case, without loss of self-respect. I've only been
talking to you on the plane where I've always understood you wished to
be taken. But if you don't, then I can't help it. You must understand,
though, and understand distinctly, that you can't live on two levels;
the world won't let you. Either you must be in the world and of it
entirely; or you must discard its criterions, and form your own, and
hover about in a sort of Bohemian limbo on its outskirts; or you must
give it up altogether." Mrs. Hilary rose from the lounge where she had
been sitting, and said, "Now I'm going to bed. And I want you to think
this all carefully over, Louise. I don't blame you for it: and I wish
nothing but your good and happiness--yours and Matt's, both. But I must
say you've been pretty difficult children to provide for. Do you know
what Matt has been doing?" Mrs. Hilary had not meant to speak of it, but
she felt an invincible necessity of doing so, at last.

"Something new about the Northwicks?"

"Very decidedly--or about one of them. He's offered himself to Suzette."

"How grand! How perfectly magnificent! Then she can give up her property
at once, and Matt can take care of her and Adeline both."

"Or, your father can, for him. Matt has not the crime of being a
capitalist on his conscience. His idea seems to be to get Suzette to
live here on the farm with him."

"I don't believe she'd be satisfied with that," said Louise. "But could
she bear to face the world? Wouldn't she always be thinking what people
thought?"

"I felt that I ought to suggest that to Matt; though, really, when it
comes to the practical side of the matter, people wouldn't care much
what her father had been--that is, society people wouldn't, as society
people. She would have the education and the traditions of a lady, and
she would have Matt's name. It's nonsense to suppose there wouldn't be
talk; but I don't believe there would be anything that couldn't be lived
down. The fact is," said Mrs. Hilary, giving her daughter the advantage
of a species of soliloquy, "I think we ought to be glad Matt has let us
off so easily. I've been afraid that he would end by marrying some
farmer's daughter, and bringing somebody into the family who would say
'Want to know,' and 'How?' and 'What-say?' through her nose. Suzette is
indefinitely better than that, no matter what her father is. But I must
confess that it was a shock when Matt told me they were engaged."

"Why, were you surprised, mamma?" said Louise. "I thought all along
that it would come to that. I knew in the first place, Matt's sympathy
would be roused, and you know that's the strongest thing in him. And
then, Suzette is a beautiful girl. She's perfectly regal; and she's
just Matt's opposite, every way; and, of course he would be taken with
her. I'm not a bit surprised. Why it's the most natural thing in the
world."

"It might be very much worse," sighed Mrs. Hilary. "As soon as he has
seen your father, we must announce it, and face it out with people.
Fortunately, it's summer; and a great many have gone abroad this year."

Louise began to laugh. "Even Mr. Northwick is abroad."

"Yes, and I hope he'll stay there," said Mrs. Hilary, wincing.

"It would be quite like Matt, wouldn't it, to have him brought home in
chains, long enough to give away the bride?"

"Louise!" said her mother.

Louise began to cry. "Oh, you think it's nothing," she said stormily,
"for Matt to marry a girl whose father ran away with other people's
money; but a man who has fought his way honestly is disgraceful, no
matter how gifted he is, because he hasn't the traditions of a society
man--"

"I won't condescend to answer your unjust nonsense, my dear," said Mrs.
Hilary. "I will merely ask you if you wish to marry Mr. Maxwell--"

"I will take care of myself!" cried the girl, in open, if not definite
rebellion. She flung from the room, and ran upstairs to her chamber,
which looked across at the chamber where Maxwell's light was burning.
She dropped on her knees beside the window, and bowed herself to the
light, that swam on her tears, a golden mist, and pitied and entreated
it, and remained there, till the lamp was suddenly quenched, and the
moon possessed itself of the night in unbroken splendor.

After breakfast, which she made late the next morning, she found Maxwell
waiting for her on the piazza.

"Are you going over to the camp?" she asked.

"I was, after I had said good-by," he answered.

"Oh, we're not going for several hours yet. We shall take the noon
train, mamma's decided." She possessed herself of the cushion, stuffed
with spruce sprays, that lay on the piazza-steps, and added, "I will go
over with you." They had hitherto made some pretence, one to the other,
for being together at the camp; but this morning neither feigned any
reason for it. Louise stopped, when she found he was not keeping up with
her, and turned to him, and waited for him to reach her. "I wanted to
speak with you, Mr. Maxwell, and I expect you to be very patient and
tractable." She said this very authoritatively; she ended by asking,
"Will you?"

"It depends upon what it is. I am always docile if I like a thing."

"Well, you ought to like this."

"Oh, that's different. That's often infuriating."

They went on, and then paused at the low stone wall between the pasture
