glance.

"Poor man! he is awfully in love!" she said to herself. "I'll give him
two months to raise the money, and if he fails, I think I can captivate
Mr. Cross, though he's horrid."

Mr. Cross was a middle-aged grocer, a widower, without children, and
reputed moderately wealthy.

When Mr. Talbot had entered the house, Dan was not far off. Later, he
saw him at the window with Virginia.

"I suppose that's his young lady," thought Dan. "All right! I guess he's
safe for this evening."




CHAPTER XVIII.

TWO KNIGHTS OF THE HIGHWAY.


Stocks took an upward turn, so that Talbot's brokers were willing to
carry them for him longer without an increase of margin. The market
looked so uncertain, however, that he decided to sell, though he only
made himself whole. To escape loss hardly satisfied him, when it was so
essential to make money.

He was deeply in love with Virginia Conway, but there was no hope of
obtaining her consent to a marriage unless he could raise money enough
to gratify her desires.

How should he do it?

He was returning to his boarding-house at a late hour one night, when,
in an unfrequented street, two figures advanced upon him from the
darkness, and, while one seized him by the throat, the other rifled his
pockets.

Talbot was not a coward, and having only a few dollars in his
pocket-book, while his watch, luckily, was under repair at Tiffany's, he
submitted quietly to the examination.

The pocket-book was opened and its contents eagerly scanned.

An exclamation of disgust mingled with profanity followed.

"Only five dollars, Mike!" muttered one of the ruffians.

"Why don't you carry money, like a gentleman?" demanded the man called
Mike. "Ain't you ashamed to carry such a lean wallet as that there?"

"Really, gentlemen, if I had expected to meet you, I would have provided
myself better," said Talbot, not without a gleam of humor.

"He's chaffing us Bill," said Mike.

"You'd better not, if you know what's best for yourself," growled Bill.
"Where's your ticker?"

"My watch is at Tiffany's."

"That's too thin."

"It's the truth. You ought to have waited till next week, when I'd have
had it for you."

"You're a cool customer."

"Why not?"

"We might hurt you."

"You have already. Don't squeeze my throat so next time."

"Have you any jewelry about you?"

"Only a pair of sleeve buttons."

"Gold?"

"Yes; but they are small, and not worth much."

"You've took us in reg'lar! A gent like you ought to have diamond studs,
or a pin, or something of value."

"I know it, and I'm sorry I haven't, for your sakes."

"No chaffing!" said Bill, with an ominous growl.

"Don't be afraid. I look upon you as gentlemen, and treat you
accordingly. In fact, I'm glad I've met with you."

"Why?" asked Mike, suspiciously.

"I may be able to put something in your way."

"Are you on the square?" asked Bill, rather surprised.

"Yes."

"What is it?"

"I can't tell you in the street. Is there any quiet place, where we
shall not be disturbed or overheard?"

The men looked at each other in doubt.

"This may be a plant," said Mike, suspiciously.

"On my honor, it isn't."

"If it is," growled Bill, "you'd better make your will."

"I know the risk, and am not afraid. In short, I have a job for you."

The men consulted, and finally were led to put confidence in Talbot.

"Is there money in it?" asked Mike.

"Two hundred dollars apiece."

"We'll hear what you have to say. Bill, let's go to your room."

"Is it far away?" asked Talbot.

"No."

"Lead on, then."

The three made their way to a dilapidated building on Houston street,
and ascended to the fourth floor.

Bill kicked open the door of a room with his foot and strode in.

A thin, wretched-looking woman sat in a wooden chair, holding a young
child.

"Is it you, Bill?" she asked.

"Yes, it's me!" growled her husband. "Just clear out into the other
room. Me and these gentlemen have business together."

She meekly obeyed the command of her lord, glancing curiously at Talbot
as she went out. Mike she knew only too well, as one of her husband's
evil companions.

The door was closed, but the wife bent her ear to the keyhole and
listened attentively.

Suspecting nothing, the conspirators spoke in louder tones than they
were aware of, so that she obtained a pretty clear idea of what was
being planned.

"Now go ahead," said Bill, throwing himself on the chair his wife had
vacated. "What's your game?"

"Can you open a safe?" asked Talbot.

"We might, 'specially if we knowed the combination."

"Perhaps I can manage that."

"Where is it?"

Talbot gave the name of his employer and the number of his store.

"What have you got to do with it?"

"I'm the book-keeper."

"You are? What are you going to make out of it?"

"Leave that to me. I'll guarantee that you'll find four hundred dollars
there to pay you for your trouble."

"That isn't enough. The risk is too great."

"It is only one night's work."
