quite true.”

The threefold assent seemed to satisfy Ralston.

“All right,” he said. “Now I want you to listen to me, because this is
rather an extraordinary tale. I’ll tell it all, as nearly as I can, but
there are one or two gaps, and there’s a matter connected with it about
which I don’t want to talk to you.”

“Go ahead,” answered Miner. “I’ve got some perfectly new faith out--and
I’m just waiting for you. Produce the mountain, and I’ll take its
measure and remove it at a valuation.”

Ralston laughed a little and then began to tell his story. It was, of
course, easy for him to omit all mention of Katharine, and he spoke of
his interview with Robert Lauderdale as having taken place in connection
with an idea he had of trying to get something to do in the West, which
was quite true. He omitted also to mention the old gentleman’s amazing
manifestation of eccentricity--or folly--in writing the cheque which
John had destroyed. For the rest, he gave Miner every detail as well as
he could remember it. Miner listened thoughtfully and never interrupted
him once.

“This isn’t a joke, is it, Jack?” he asked, when John had finished with
a description of Doctor Routh’s midnight visit.

“No,” answered Ralston, emphatically. “It’s the truth. I should be glad
if you would tell any one who cares to know.”

“They wouldn’t believe me,” answered Miner, quietly.

“I say, Frank--” John’s quick temper was stirred already, but he checked
himself.

“It’s all right, Jack,” answered Miner. “I believe every word you’ve
told me, because I know you don’t invent--except about leaving cards on
stray acquaintances at the Imperial, when you happen to be thirsty.”

He laughed good-naturedly.

“That’s another of your mistakes,” said Ralston. “I know--you mean last
Monday. I did leave cards at the hotel. I also had a cocktail. I didn’t
say I wasn’t going to, and I wasn’t obliged to say so, was I? It wasn’t
your business, my dear boy, nor Ham Bright’s, either.”

“Well--I’m glad you did, then. I’m glad the cards were real, though it
struck me as thin at the time. I apologize, and eat humble pie. You know
you’re one of my illusions, Jack. There are two or three to which I
cling. You’re a truthful beggar, somehow. You ought to have a little
hatchet, like George Washington--but I daresay you’d rather have a
little cocktail. It illustrates your nature just as well. Bury the
hatchet and pour the cocktail over it as a libation--where was I?
Oh--this is what I meant, Jack. Other people won’t believe the story, if
I tell it, you know.”

“Well--but there’s old Routh, after all. People will believe him.”

“Yes--if he takes the trouble to write a letter to the papers, over his
name, degrees and qualifications. Of course they’ll believe him. And the
editors will do something handsome. They won’t apologize, but they’ll
say that a zebra got loose in the office and upset the type while they
were in Albany attending to the affairs of the Empire State--and that’s
just the same as an apology, you know, which is all you care for. You
can’t storm Park Row with the gallant Four Hundred at your back. In the
first place, Park Row’s insured, and secondly, the Four Hundred would
see you--further--before they’d lift one of their four thousand fingers
to help you out of a scrape which doesn’t concern them. You’d have to be
a parson or a pianist, before they’d do anything for you. It’s ‘meat,
drink and pantaloons’ to be one of them, anyhow--and you needn’t expect
anything more.”

“Where do you get your similes from, Frank!” laughed Ralston.

“I don’t know. But they’re good ones, anyway. Why don’t you get Routh to
write a letter, before the thing cools down? It could be in the evening
edition, you know. There have been horrid things this
morning--allusions--that sort of thing.”

“Allusions to what?” asked Ralston, quickly and sharply.

“To you, of course--what did you suppose?”

“Oh--to me! As though I cared! All the same, if old Routh would write,
it would be a good thing. I wish he were going to be at the Van De
Waters’ dinner to-night.”

“Why? Are you going there? So am I.”

“It seems to be a sort of family tea-party,” said Ralston. “Bright’s
going, and cousin Katharine, and you and I. It only needs the Crowdies
and a few others to make it complete.”

“Well--you see, they’re cousins of mine, and so are you, and that sort
of makes us all cousins,” observed Miner, absently. “I say, Jack--tell
the story at table, just as you’ve told it to me. Will you? I’ll set you
on by asking you questions. Stunning effect--especially if we can get
Routh to write the letter. I’ll cut it out of a paper and bring it with
me.”

“You know him, don’t you?” asked Ralston.

“Know him? I should think so. Ever since I was a baby. Why?”

“I wish you’d go to him this morning, Frank, and get him to write the
letter. Then you could take it to one of the evening papers and get them
to put it in. You know all those men in Park Row, don’t you?”

“Much better than some of them want to know me,” sighed the little man.
“However,” he added, his bright smile coming back at once, “I ought not
to complain. I’m getting on, now. Let me see. You want me to go to Routh
and get him to write a formal letter over his name, denying all the
statements made about you this morning. Isn’t that taking too much
notice of the thing, after all, Jack?”

“It’s going to make a good deal of difference to me in the end,”
answered Ralston. “It’s worth taking some trouble for.”

“I’m quite willing,” said Miner. “But--I say! What an extraordinary
story it is!”

“Oh, no. It’s only real life. I told you--I only had one accident, which
was quite an accident--when I tumbled down in that dark street.
Everything else happened just as naturally as unnatural things always
do. As for upsetting Ham Bright at the club, I was awfully sorry about
that. It seemed such a low thing to do. But then--just remember that I’d
been making a point of drinking nothing for several days, just by way of
an experiment, and it was irritating, to say the least of it, to be
grabbed by the arm and told that I was screwed. Wasn’t it, Frank? And
just at that moment, uncle Robert had telephoned for me to come up, and
I was in a tremendous hurry. Just look at in that way, and you’ll
understand why I did it. It doesn’t excuse it--I shall tell Ham that
I’m sorry--but it explains it. Doesn’t it?”

“Rather!” exclaimed Miner, heartily.

“By the bye,” said Ralston, “I wanted to ask you something. Did that
fellow Crowdie hold his tongue? I suppose he was at the Assembly last
night.”

“Well--since you ask me--” Miner hesitated. “No--he didn’t. Bright gave
it to him, though, for telling cousin Emma.”

“Brute! How I hate that man! So he told cousin Emma, did he? And the
rest of the family, too, I suppose.”

“I suppose so,” answered Miner, knowing that Ralston meant Katharine.
“Everybody knew about the row at the club, before the evening was half
over. Teddy Van De Water said he supposed you’d back out of the dinner
to-night and keep quiet till this blew over. I told Teddy that perhaps
he’d better come round and suggest that to you himself this morning, if
he wanted to understand things quickly. He grinned--you know how he
grins--like an organ pipe in a white tie. But he said he’d heard Bright
leathering into Crowdie--that’s one of Teddy’s expressions--so he
supposed that things weren’t as bad as people said--and that Crowdie was
only a ‘painter chap,’ anyhow. I didn’t know what that meant, but feebly
pointed out that Crowdie was a great man, and that his wife was a sort
of cousin of mine, and that she, at least, had a good chance of having
some of cousin Robert’s money one of these days. Not that I wanted to
defend Crowdie, or that I don’t like Teddy much better--but then, you
know what I mean! He’ll be calling me ‘one of those literary chaps,’
next, with just the same air. One’s bound to stand up for art and
literature when one’s a professional, you know, Jack. Wasn’t I right?”

“Oh, perfectly!” answered Ralston, with a smile. “But will you do that
for me, Frank?”

“Of course I will. You’re one of my illusions, as I told you. I’m
willing to do lots of things for my illusions. I’ll go now, and then
I’ll come back and tell you what the old chap says. If by any chance he
gets into a rage, I’ll tell him that I didn’t come so much to talk about
you as to consult him about certain symptoms of nervous prostration I’m
beginning to feel. He’s death on nervous prostration--he’s a perfect
terror at it--he’ll hypnotise me, and put me into a jar of spirits, and
paint my nose with nervine and pickled electricity and things, and sort
of wake me up generally.”

“All right--if you can stand it, I can,” said Ralston. “I’d go
myself--only only--”

“You’re pretty badly used up,” interrupted Miner, completing the
