
He landed in the middle of the floor at a bound, without finishing the
sentence, and ran and turned up his light and seized his "records." He
took a single swift glance at them and cried out--

"It's so! Heavens, what a revelation! And for twenty-three years no man
has ever suspected it!"




CHAPTER XXI.

Doom.

He is useless on top of the ground; he ought to be under it, inspiring
the cabbages.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.

April 1. This is the day upon which we are reminded of what we are on
the other three hundred and sixty-four.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.

Wilson put on enough clothes for business purposes and went to work
under a high pressure of steam. He was awake all over. All sense of
weariness had been swept away by the invigorating refreshment of the
great and hopeful discovery which he had made. He made fine and accurate
reproductions of a number of his "records," and then enlarged them on a
scale of ten to one with his pantograph. He did these pantograph
enlargements on sheets of white cardboard, and made each individual line
of the bewildering maze of whorls or curves or loops which constituted
the "pattern," of a "record" stand out bold and black by reinforcing it
with ink. To the untrained eye the collection of delicate originals made
by the human finger on the glass plates looked about alike; but when
enlarged ten times they resembled the markings of a block of wood that
has been sawed across the grain, and the dullest eye could detect at a
glance, and at a distance of many feet, that no two of the patterns were
alike. When Wilson had at last finished his tedious and difficult work,
he arranged its results according to a plan in which a progressive order
and sequence was a principal feature; then he added to the batch several
pantograph enlargements which he had made from time to time in bygone
years.

The night was spent and the day well advanced, now. By the time he had
snatched a trifle of breakfast it was nine o'clock, and the court was
ready to begin its sitting. He was in his place twelve minutes later
with his "records."

Tom Driscoll caught a slight glimpse of the records, and nudged his
nearest friend and said, with a wink, "Pudd'nhead's got a rare eye to
business--thinks that as long as he can't win his case it's at least a
noble good chance to advertise his palace-window decorations without any
expense." Wilson was informed that his witnesses had been delayed, but
would arrive presently; but he rose and said he should probably not have
occasion to make use of their testimony. [An amused murmur ran through
the room--"It's a clean backdown! he gives up without hitting a lick!"]
Wilson continued--"I have other testimony--and better. [This compelled
interest, and evoked murmurs of surprise that had a detectable
ingredient of disappointment in them.] If I seem to be springing this
evidence upon the court, I offer as my justification for this, that I
did not discover its existence until late last night, and have been
engaged in examining and classifying it ever since, until half an hour
ago. I shall offer it presently; but first I wish to say a few
preliminary words.

"May it please the Court, the claim given the front place, the claim
most persistently urged, the claim most strenuously and I may even say
aggressively and defiantly insisted upon by the prosecution, is
this--that the person whose hand left the blood-stained finger-prints
upon the handle of the Indian knife is the person who committed the
murder." Wilson paused, during several moments, to give impressiveness
to what he was about to say, and then added tranquilly, "We grant that
claim."

It was an electrical surprise. No one was prepared for such an
admission. A buzz of astonishment rose on all sides, and people were
heard to intimate that the overworked lawyer had lost his mind. Even the
veteran judge, accustomed as he was to legal ambushes and masked
batteries in criminal procedure, was not sure that his ears were not
deceiving him, and asked counsel what it was he had said. Howard's
impassive face betrayed no sign, but his attitude and bearing lost
something of their careless confidence for a moment. Wilson resumed:

"We not only grant that claim, but we welcome it and strongly endorse
it. Leaving that matter for the present, we will now proceed to consider
other points in the case which we propose to establish by evidence, and
shall include that one in the chain in its proper place."

He had made up his mind to try a few hardy guesses, in mapping out his
theory of the origin and motive of the murder--guesses designed to fill
up gaps in it--guesses which could help if they hit, and would probably
do no harm if they didn't.

"To my mind, certain circumstances of the case before the court seem to
suggest a motive for the homicide quite different from the one insisted
on by the State. It is my conviction that the motive was not revenge,
but robbery. It has been urged that the presence of the accused brothers
in that fatal room, just after notification that one of them must take
the life of Judge Driscoll or lose his own the moment the parties should
meet, clearly signifies that the natural instinct of self-preservation
moved my clients to go there secretly and save Count Luigi by destroying
his adversary.

"Then why did they stay there, after the deed was done? Mrs. Pratt had
time, although she did not hear the cry for help, but woke up some
moments later, to run to that room--and there she found these men
standing and making no effort to escape. If they were guilty, they ought
to have been running out of the house at the same time that she was
running to that room. If they had had such a strong instinct toward
self-preservation as to move them to kill that unarmed man, what had
become of it now, when it should have been more alert than ever? Would
any of us have remained there? Let us not slander our intelligence to
that degree.

"Much stress has been laid upon the fact that the accused offered a very
large reward for the knife with which this murder was done; that no
thief came forward to claim that extraordinary reward; that the latter
fact was good circumstantial evidence that the claim that the knife had
been stolen was a vanity and a fraud; that these details taken in
connection with the memorable and apparently prophetic speech of the
deceased concerning that knife, and the final discovery of that very
knife in the fatal room where no living person was found present with
the slaughtered man but the owner of the knife and his brother, form an
indestructible chain of evidence which fixes the crime upon those
unfortunate strangers.

"But I shall presently ask to be sworn, and shall testify that there was
a large reward offered for the thief, also; and it was offered secretly
and not advertised; that this fact was indiscreetly mentioned--or at
least tacitly admitted--in what was supposed to be safe circumstances,
but may not have been. The thief may have been present himself. [Tom
Driscoll had been looking at the speaker, but dropped his eyes at this
point.] In that case he would retain the knife in his possession, not
daring to offer it for sale, or for pledge in a pawn-shop. [There was a
nodding of heads among the audience by way of admission that this was
not a bad stroke.] I shall prove to the satisfaction of the jury that
there was a person in Judge Driscoll's room several minutes before the
accused entered it. [This produced a strong sensation; the last
drowsy-head in the court-room roused up, now, and made preparation to
listen.] If it shall seem necessary, I will prove by the Misses Clarkson
that they met a veiled person--ostensibly a woman--coming out of the
back gate a few minutes after the cry for help was heard. This person
was not a woman, but a man dressed in woman's clothes." Another
sensation. Wilson had his eye on Tom when he hazarded this guess, to see
what effect it would produce. He was satisfied with the result, and said
to himself, "It was a success--he's hit!"

"The object of that person in that house was robbery, not murder. It is
true that the safe was not open, but there was an ordinary tin cash-box
on the table, with three thousand dollars in it. It is easily supposable
that the thief was concealed in the house; that he knew of this box, and
of its owner's habit of counting its contents and arranging his accounts
at night--if he had that habit, which I do not assert, of course;--that
he tried to take the box while its owner slept, but made a noise and was
seized, and had to use the knife to save himself from capture; and that
he fled without his booty because he heard help coming.

"I have now done with my theory, and will proceed to the evidences by
which I propose to try to prove its soundness." Wilson took up several
of his strips of glass. When the audience recognized these familiar
mementoes of Pudd'nhead's old-time childish "puttering" and folly, the
tense and funereal interest vanished out of their faces, and the house
burst into volleys of relieving and refreshing laughter, and Tom chirked
up and joined in the fun himself; but Wilson was apparently not
disturbed. He arranged his records on the table before him, and said--

"I beg the indulgence of the court while I make a few remarks in
explanation of some evidence which I am about to introduce, and which I
shall presently ask to be allowed to verify under oath on the witness
stand. Every human being carries with him from his cradle to his grave
certain physical marks which do not change their character, and by which
he can always be identified--and that without shade of doubt or
question. These marks are his signature, his physiological autograph, so
to speak, and this autograph can not be counterfeited, nor can he
disguise it or hide it away, nor can it become illegible by the wear and
mutations of time. This signature is not his face--age can change that
beyond recognition; it is not his hair, for that can fall out; it is not
his height, for duplicates of that exist; it is not his form, for
duplicates of that exist also, whereas this signature is each man's very
own--there is no duplicate of it among the swarming populations of the
globe! [The audience were interested once more.]

