Yet presently he bit his lip and bent down, holding the candle in one
hand, to lift the shroud back from the head of the corpse with the
other. Slowly he lifted it. Then it clove to the half-dried skin of the
face, and his hand shook as if some one had struck him on the elbow, but
half in fear and half in anger at himself, he pulled it, so that it came
away with a little ripping sound. He caught his breath as he held it,
not yet throwing it back, and not yet looking. The horror was working in
him, and he felt that old Vernon Ockram was standing up in his iron
coffin, headless, yet watching him with the stump of his severed neck.

While he held his breath he felt the dead smile twisting his lips. In
sudden wrath at his own misery, he tossed the death-stained linen
backward, and looked at last. He ground his teeth lest he should shriek
aloud.

There it was, the thing that haunted him, that haunted Evelyn Warburton,
that was like a blight on all that came near him.

The dead face was blotched with dark stains, and the thin, grey hair was
matted about the discoloured forehead. The sunken lids were half open,
and the candle light gleamed on something foul where the toad eyes had
lived.

But yet the dead thing smiled, as it had smiled in life; the ghastly
lips were parted and drawn wide and tight upon the wolfish teeth,
cursing still, and still defying hell to do its worst--defying, cursing,
and always and for ever smiling alone in the dark.

Sir Gabriel opened the winding-sheet where the hands were, and the
blackened, withered fingers were closed upon something stained and
mottled. Shivering from head to foot, but fighting like a man in agony
for his life, he tried to take the package from the dead man's hold. But
as he pulled at it the claw-like fingers seemed to close more tightly,
and when he pulled harder the shrunken hands and arms rose from the
corpse with a horrible look of life following his motion--then as he
wrenched the sealed packet loose at last, the hands fell back into their
place still folded.

He set down the candle on the edge of the bier to break the seals from
the stout paper. And, kneeling on one knee, to get a better light, he
read what was within, written long ago in Sir Hugh's queer hand.

He was no longer afraid.

He read how Sir Hugh had written it all down that it might perchance be
a witness of evil and of his hatred; how he had loved Evelyn Warburton,
his wife's sister; and how his wife had died of a broken heart with his
curse upon her, and how Warburton and he had fought side by side in
Afghanistan, and Warburton had fallen; but Ockram had brought his
comrade's wife back a full year later, and little Evelyn, her child, had
been born in Ockram Hall. And next, how he had wearied of the mother,
and she had died like her sister with his curse on her. And then, how
Evelyn had been brought up as his niece, and how he had trusted that his
son Gabriel and his daughter, innocent and unknowing, might love and
marry, and the souls of the women he had betrayed might suffer another
anguish before eternity was out. And, last of all, he hoped that some
day, when nothing could be undone, the two might find his writing and
live on, not daring to tell the truth for their children's sake and the
world's word, man and wife.

This he read, kneeling beside the corpse in the north vault, by the
light of the altar candle; and when he had read it all, he thanked God
aloud that he had found the secret in time. But when he rose to his feet
and looked down at the dead face it was changed, and the smile was gone
from it for ever, and the jaw had fallen a little, and the tired, dead
lips were relaxed. And then there was a breath behind him and close to
him, not cold like that which had blown the flame of the candle as he
came, but warm and human. He turned suddenly.

There she stood, all in white, with her shadowy golden hair--for she had
risen from her bed and had followed him noiselessly, and had found him
reading, and had herself read over his shoulder. He started violently
when he saw her, for his nerves were unstrung--and then he cried out her
name in the still place of death:

"Evelyn!"

"My brother!" she answered softly and tenderly, putting out both hands
to meet his.




THE SCREAMING SKULL


I have often heard it scream. No, I am not nervous, I am not
imaginative, and I never believed in ghosts, unless that thing is one.
Whatever it is, it hates me almost as much as it hated Luke Pratt, and
it screams at me.

If I were you, I would never tell ugly stories about ingenious ways of
killing people, for you never can tell but that some one at the table
may be tired of his or her nearest and dearest. I have always blamed
myself for Mrs. Pratt's death, and I suppose I was responsible for it in
a way, though heaven knows I never wished her anything but long life and
happiness. If I had not told that story she might be alive yet. That is
why the thing screams at me, I fancy.

She was a good little woman, with a sweet temper, all things considered,
and a nice gentle voice; but I remember hearing her shriek once when she
thought her little boy was killed by a pistol that went off, though
every one was sure that it was not loaded. It was the same scream;
exactly the same, with a sort of rising quaver at the end; do you know
what I mean? Unmistakable.

The truth is, I had not realised that the doctor and his wife were not
on good terms. They used to bicker a bit now and then when I was here,
and I often noticed that little Mrs. Pratt got very red and bit her lip
hard to keep her temper, while Luke grew pale and said the most
offensive things. He was that sort when he was in the nursery, I
remember, and afterward at school. He was my cousin, you know; that is
how I came by this house; after he died, and his boy Charley was killed
in South Africa, there were no relations left. Yes, it's a pretty little
property, just the sort of thing for an old sailor like me who has taken
to gardening.

One always remembers one's mistakes much more vividly than one's
cleverest things, doesn't one? I've often noticed it. I was dining with
the Pratts one night, when I told them the story that afterwards made so
much difference. It was a wet night in November, and the sea was
moaning. Hush!--if you don't speak you will hear it now....

Do you hear the tide? Gloomy sound, isn't it? Sometimes, about this time
of year--hallo!--there it is! Don't be frightened, man--it won't eat
you--it's only a noise, after all! But I'm glad you've heard it,
because there are always people who think it's the wind, or my
imagination, or something. You won't hear it again to-night, I fancy,
for it doesn't often come more than once. Yes--that's right. Put another
stick on the fire, and a little more stuff into that weak mixture you're
so fond of. Do you remember old Blauklot the carpenter, on that German
ship that picked us up when the Clontarf went to the bottom? We were
hove to in a howling gale one night, as snug as you please, with no land
within five hundred miles, and the ship coming up and falling off as
regularly as clockwork--"Biddy te boor beebles ashore tis night, poys!"
old Blauklot sang out, as he went off to his quarters with the
sail-maker. I often think of that, now that I'm ashore for good and all.

Yes, it was on a night like this, when I was at home for a spell,
waiting to take the Olympia out on her first trip--it was on the next
voyage that she broke the record, you remember--but that dates it.
Ninety-two was the year, early in November.

The weather was dirty, Pratt was out of temper, and the dinner was bad,
very bad indeed, which didn't improve matters, and cold, which made it
worse. The poor little lady was very unhappy about it, and insisted on
making a Welsh rarebit on the table to counteract the raw turnips and
the half-boiled mutton. Pratt must have had a hard day. Perhaps he had
lost a patient. At all events, he was in a nasty temper.

"My wife is trying to poison me, you see!" he said. "She'll succeed some
day." I saw that she was hurt, and I made believe to laugh, and said
that Mrs. Pratt was much too clever to get rid of her husband in such a
simple way; and then I began to tell them about Japanese tricks with
spun glass and chopped horsehair and the like.

Pratt was a doctor, and knew a lot more than I did about such things,
but that only put me on my mettle, and I told a story about a woman in
Ireland who did for three husbands before any one suspected foul play.

Did you never hear that tale? The fourth husband managed to keep awake
and caught her, and she was hanged. How did she do it? She drugged them,
and poured melted lead into their ears through a little horn funnel when
they were asleep.... No--that's the wind whistling. It's backing up to
the southward again. I can tell by the sound. Besides, the other thing
doesn't often come more than once in an evening even at this time of
year--when it happened. Yes, it was in November. Poor Mrs. Pratt died
suddenly in her bed not long after I dined here. I can fix the date,
because I got the news in New York by the steamer that followed the
Olympia when I took her out on her first trip. You had the Leofric
the same year? Yes, I remember. What a pair of old buffers we are coming
to be, you and I. Nearly fifty years since we were apprentices together
on the Clontarf. Shall you ever forget old Blauklot? "Biddy te boor
beebles ashore, poys!" Ha, ha! Take a little more, with all that water.
It's the old Hulstkamp I found in the cellar when this house came to me,
the same I brought Luke from Amsterdam five-and-twenty years ago. He had
never touched a drop of it. Perhaps he's sorry now, poor fellow.

Where did I leave off? I told you that Mrs. Pratt died suddenly--yes.
Luke must have been lonely here after she was dead, I should think; I
