this ruffian, attended by Ulbach, the detective, had followed the party
to Egypt. The capture of Louis Belgrave, or the young lady, or both of
them, was the object of the ruffian, who was to receive two hundred
thousand francs if he succeeded, or half that sum if he failed. Louis
had had a narrow escape from these ruffians in Cairo; but he had worked
his way out of the difficulty, assisted by a chance incident.

The Fatimé had been discovered in the harbor of Alexandria before the
Guardian-Mother and her tender sailed. The peril which menaced the young
lady had been kept a profound secret from all except three of the "Big
Four;" for the commander believed himself abundantly able to protect his
passengers, and the knowledge of the danger would have made the ladies
so nervous and terrified that Mrs. Belgrave and the Woolridges would
have insisted upon returning to New York, and abandoning the voyage from
which so much of pleasure and instruction was expected.

Captain Ringgold and Louis had considered the situation, and fully
realized the intention of Captain Mazagan to follow the steamer and her
little consort. They had agreed upon a plan, after Captain Scott and
Felix, who was the detective of the ship, by which they hoped to "fool"
the enemy, as the young commander expressed it. The Fatimé had sailed
early in the morning, but she was soon discovered off the Bay of Abukir.
The reader is now in condition to inquire into what Captain Scott
regarded as the one great mistake that had been made in the arrangements
for outwitting the Moorish steam-yacht.

The young captain was in the pilot-house of the Maud when the steamer
was discovered. He was the commander; but the smallness of the ship's
company made it necessary for him to keep his own watch, which is
usually done by the second mate for him. Morris Woolridge, who had had
considerable experience in his father's yacht, was the first officer,
and there was no other. The young millionaire, in spite of his influence
as owner, had insisted on serving as a common sailor, or deck-hand, with
Felix. There were two engineers and a cook, who will be presented when
they are needed.

"What is the one great mistake, Captain Scott?" asked Louis, who stood
at the open window in front of the pilot-house.

"The single mistake of any consequence is in the fact that you are on
board of the Maud when you ought to be stowed away in the cabin of the
Guardian-Mother," replied the captain very decidedly, with something
bordering on disgust in his tones and manner. "Instead of keeping you
out of danger, you are running just as straight into the lion's den as
you can go, Louis."

"Where is the lion's den, please to inform me," replied the young
millionaire, scouting, in his tones and manner, any idea of peril to
himself which was not shared by his companions.

"On board of that four-hundred-ton steamer which you see off by the
coast."

"Do you think I ought to be any more afraid of her than the rest of the
fellows?" demanded Louis. "Do you wish me to stand back and stay behind
a fence while you face the enemy?"

"Of course I don't believe you are afraid, Louis, my dear fellow,"
added Captain Scott, perhaps fearing he had said too much, or had been
misunderstood.

But just at that moment Morris Woolridge came forward, and neither of
them was willing to continue the conversation in his presence; for he
might fall into the possession of the secret which was so carefully
guarded.




CHAPTER II

HARMONY DISTURBED, BUT HAPPILY RESTORED


Morris Woolridge was the first officer of the Maud, and as such he had
charge of the port watch. The captain had been two hours at the wheel,
and it was Morris's turn to take his trick; and the change was made. At
the same time Felix McGavonty relieved Louis. Although the helmsman was
always in position to see out ahead of the steamer, the other member of
the watch was required to serve as lookout on the forecastle.

Except in heavy weather, when all hands were required to be on duty, the
watch not employed had nothing to do, and the members of it could use
the time as they pleased. Sometimes they had lost sleep to make up; but
most of the leisure hours during the day were given to study, for the
commander had stimulated the ambition of the boys so that they were
anxious to be prepared to speak on all subjects that were considered at
the conferences, or lectures, on board the Guardian-Mother.

Regular subjects for special study were given out, always with reference
to the topics of the country that was next to be visited, or was to be
seen from the deck of the vessels. After the business of outwitting the
enemy on board of the Fatimé, which was an episode in the voyage forced
upon the commander and his confidants, the steamers would pass through
the Suez Canal, and proceed by the Red Sea to the Indian Ocean.

A written list of about a dozen subjects had been given out to the
students on the wing, as Dr. Hawkes called the class of five who
profited systematically by the instructions of Professor Giroud, though
all on both steamers were more or less engaged in study. The first of
these were the Land of Goshen and Mount Sinai. As the little squadron
was to pass near the territory of the ancient kingdoms of Assyria,
Babylon, and Syria, and the more modern realm of Mohammed and the
Caliphate of Bagdad, these subjects were to follow later. At any rate,
the peripatetic students had enough to prevent their active minds from
becoming rusty.

It was not for two hours that Captain Scott and Louis Belgrave found
another opportunity to consider the alleged mistake, as the former
regarded it; for the latter belonged to the port watch, and served with
Morris. But when the Maud had made twenty miles more, they were together
again, with Felix on the lookout; for he was one of the triumvirate on
board in charge of the secret.

Louis took a seat in the pilot-house on one side of the wheel, while
Scott was on the other. The Guardian-Mother was not a mile ahead of the
Maud. The young captain had already studied up the chart, and the
details of the manoeuvre contemplated had been already arranged, so
far as it was possible to do so.

"The ship does not seem to be letting herself out yet according to the
programme," said Captain Scott, when Louis took his place near him, and
Felix was using his glass, which had become his constant companion in
observing the movements of the Moorish steamer.

"Captain Ringgold knows what he is about," suggested the other.

"Of course he does; but I supposed he would give his cue by this time,
and begin the business of overhauling the pirate," added Scott. "Felix,
is the ship stirring up her screw?"

"I think she is, Captain," replied the lookoutman; "but she does not
give the signal yet."

"Keep your ears wide open tight, Flix, for it will come soon. Where is
the pirate now?"

"She is directly in range with the Guardian-Mother."

If the Fatimé had not herself been engaged in piratical proceedings, her
owner was responsible for the employment of her present commander on
board the felucca Samothraki, in the Archipelago, in an attempt to take
Louis and Miss Blanche, or both of them, out of the Maud; and he might
have succeeded if Captain Ringgold had not decided to make use of the
two twelve-pounders on the top-gallant forecastle of the Guardian-Mother
at the critical moment.

The commander regarded Captain Mazagan as really a pirate; and he would
have proceeded against him as such, if it had not been that doing so
would have broken up his own voyage. With this excellent authority Scott
never called the Moorish steam-yacht anything but a pirate, unless it
was to save too frequent repetition of the ugly word. If Captain
Ringgold had been less politic and prudent, his action would have suited
his junior commander better.

"You don't think I am afraid, though one great mistake has been made in
permitting me to be on board of the Maud at the present time?" said
Louis, while they were waiting for the signal from the ship.

"With no reflection or disparagement upon you of any kind, Louis, I said
just what I thought, and spoke just what I felt," replied the captain.

"But I don't understand your position at all, Captain Scott. I do not
see that I am in any greater peril than the rest of the ship's company,"
added Louis with a very cheerful smile upon his good-looking face.

"I don't forget that you are the sole owner of the Guardian-Mother, and
half-owner of the Maud, with a million and a half of dollars in your
trousers pocket. Though we are all earning our living in your service,
as well as improving our education, I for one do not lose sight of the
fact that we are all dependent upon your bounty for the means of
carrying on this voyage."

"What has all this to do with what we were talking about, Captain
Scott?" asked Louis, very much inclined to laugh out loud at the
rehearsal of the situation.

"It has this to do with it: I am very much afraid of saying something,
or doing something, that will offend you," answered the captain, with
more than usual deference in his tone and manner. "We came very near
