
"Not one of them," added Charles promptly.

"Tony shall be one," said Frank.

"Tony is a good boy," replied Captain Sedley.

"Fred and Sam Harper," suggested Charles.

"They are very well; but I shall leave the selection of the club to
you, boys," continued Captain Sedley. "I am going to have a boat-house
built by the side of the other for your boat, and in one end of it will
be a room for your meetings."

"That will be nice!" ejaculated Charles. "Won't we have the fun!"

"You must make a kind of constitution; that is, some regulations for
the government of the club."

"You will make those for us, won't you, father?" said Frank.

"No; I prefer that you should make them yourselves."

"We don't know how."

"I can tell you something about it. In the first place, you will want a
clerk and a coxswain."

"A what?" asked both boys together.

"A coxswain. When you sail he steers the boat, and has the command. He
is, in fact, the captain. When you hold a meeting, he will be the
chairman."

"Who will be coxswain?" asked Charles, with a look of inquiry at Frank.

"You will choose him by vote, as well as the clerk," answered Captain
Sedley.

"But the regulations, father?"

"You must have no profanity, no lying, no vulgar language; and no boy
must be permitted to neglect his school, or his duties at home, on
account of the boat."

"We can fix all that," said Charles.

"I intend that this club shall be a society for the promotion of your
moral welfare, as well as a means of amusement. In your club-room I am
going to place a library for your use; and next winter, when the lake
is frozen over, you can meet there for amusement and instruction."

"That will be first-rate," added Charles.

"What time shall we meet this afternoon, father?"

"Two o'clock, say. Now go to your breakfasts, and get ready for school.
Be careful and not let the pleasure you anticipate in the boat
interfere with your studies," said Captain Sedley, as the boys bounded
away to their respective homes.

Frank and Charles, on their way to school, decided upon the boys whom
they should invite to join the club; and in the course of the forenoon
they were asked to assemble on the beach, without being told the
precise object of the meeting.

The boys' heads were so full of the club boat that it required a great
deal of courage to enable them to study in school that day; but so
closely had Captain Sedley connected the idea of improvement with the
club, that they struggled hard, and succeeded in getting "perfect
lessons."




CHAPTER VI

THE EMBARKATION


At half-past one the members of the embryo boat club were on the beach.
Those who were not informed before their arrival of the nature of the
"time" in store for them were in ecstasies when they beheld the
beautiful boat reposing so lightly and gracefully on the tranquil bosom
of the clear lake. None of them had ever seen such a fairy bark before,
and it more than realized their idea of the airy and graceful craft of
which they had read and thought.

Uncle Ben had not arrived yet; but he had evidently been there during
the forenoon, for the boat had been taken from her moorings, and was
now secured by a line attached to a stake driven in the sand.

The boys, as a matter of course, were very impatient to take their
first lesson in rowing, and to skim over the glassy lake in the
splendid barge before them.

"Where is Uncle Ben?" asked Charles, hardly able to control his
impatience.

"He will be here soon; it is not two o'clock yet," answered Frank.

"Don't be in a hurry, Charley," added Tony, who had seated himself upon
the sand, and considering the exciting circumstances of the day,
demeaned himself like a philosopher.

"I am so anxious to get a peep at the inside of her," replied Charles,
as he took hold of the line that held the boat, and pulled her towards
the shore. "Don't you think he will be here before two o'clock?"

"I don't know. I wouldn't touch her, Charley," said Frank.

"See how she shoots ahead! I scarcely pulled at all on the line."

The light bark, under the impulse of Charles's gentle pull, darted to
the shore, throwing her sharp bow entirely out of the water.

"Don't, Charley; you will scrape the paint from her keel on the sand,"
interposed Frank. "She is built very lightly, and my father says she
cost him four hundred dollars."

"I won't hurt her. Just twig the cushioned seats in the stern, and see
all the brass work round the sides! My eyes, how it shines!" exclaimed
Charles, holding up both hands with delight.

"Just see the oars!" added Fred Harper.

"And there are the flags rolled up in the stern," said another boy.

"Won't we have a glorious time!" continued Charles, as he placed one
foot on the bow of the boat.

"Don't get in, Charley; that isn't fair," interposed Tony Weston.

"It won't do any harm;" and Charles stepped into the boat.

Half a dozen other boys, carried away by the excitement of the moment,
followed his example, and jumped in after him. Charles led the way to
the stern of the boat, walking over the seats, or, to speak
technically, the "thwarts."

The light boat, which had been drawn far out of the water, and which
now rested her keel upon the bottom, having no support upon the sides,
rolling over on her gunnel, and tumbled the boys into the lake.

"There! Now see what you have done!" cried Tony, springing up, and
pushing the boat away from the shore.

"Avast, there! What are you about?" exclaimed Uncle Ben, hobbling down
to the beach as fast as his legs would carry him.

"You are too bad, Charley!" said Frank. "You will spoil all our fun by
your impatience."

"I didn't think she would upset so easily," replied Charles.

"You ought not to have meddled with her."

"That you hadn't, youngster," said Uncle Ben. "Don't you know a boat
can't stand alone when the keel is on the sand?"

The old sailor spoke pretty sternly, and Charles was abashed by his
reproof.

"Forgive me, Uncle Ben; I didn't mean any harm."

"I know you didn't, Charley; but you must be careful always. Live and
larn," replied Uncle Ben, mollified by the penitence of the boy.

"She won't tip over again, will she?" asked Frank.

"Not if you handle her right; run over to that rock in the grove, where
the water is deep, and I will bring her over."

Uncle Ben unfastened the line, and wading out a little way into the
lake, jumped in, and rowed over to the rock.

"Now, my lads, you must do everything in order. We don't want any
hurrying and tumbling about. When you get into the boat, step easy, and
keep quiet in your places," said Uncle Ben, as he brought the boat
alongside the rock. "Fend off, there! Don't let her rub!"
