everything patched up at the other place, I could live here with you.
Don't you see what I mean?"

Fleda saw perfectly, and, with a face in which she flattered herself
that nothing of this vision appeared, gave him her hand and said:
"Good-bye, good-bye."

Owen held her hand very firmly and kept it even after an effort made by
her to recover it--an effort not repeated, as she felt it best not to
show she was flurried. That solution--of her living with him at
Ricks--disposed of him beautifully, and disposed not less so of herself;
it disposed admirably too of Mrs. Gereth. Fleda could only vainly wonder
how it provided for poor Mona. While he looked at her, grasping her
hand, she felt that now indeed she was paying for his mother's
extravagance at Poynton--the vividness of that lady's public plea that
little Fleda Vetch was the person to insure the general peace. It was to
that vividness poor Owen had come back, and if Mrs. Gereth had had more
discretion little Fleda Vetch wouldn't have been in a predicament. She
saw that Owen had at this moment his sharpest necessity of speech, and
so long as he didn't release her hand she could only submit to him. Her
defense would be perhaps to look blank and hard; so she looked as blank
and as hard as she could, with the reward of an immediate sense that
this was not a bit what he wanted. It even made him hang fire, as if he
were suddenly ashamed of himself, were recalled to some idea of duty and
of honor. Yet he none the less brought it out. "There's one thing I dare
say I ought to tell you, if you're going so kindly to act for me; though
of course you'll see for yourself it's a thing it won't do to tell
her." What was it? He made her wait for it again, and while she
waited, under firm coercion, she had the extraordinary impression that
Owen's simplicity was in eclipse. His natural honesty was like the scent
of a flower, and she felt at this moment as if her nose had been brushed
by the bloom without the odor. The allusion was undoubtedly to his
mother; and was not what he meant about the matter in question the
opposite of what he said--that it just would do to tell her? It would
have been the first time he had said the opposite of what he meant, and
there was certainly a fascination in the phenomenon, as well as a
challenge to suspense in the ambiguity. "It's just that I understand
from Mona, you know," he stammered; "it's just that she has made no
bones about bringing home to me--" He tried to laugh, and in the effort
he faltered again.

"About bringing home to you?"--Fleda encouraged him.

He was sensible of it, he achieved his performance. "Why, that if I
don't get the things back--every blessed one of them except a few
she'll pick out--she won't have anything more to say to me."

Fleda, after an instant, encouraged him again. "To say to you?"

"Why, she simply won't marry me, don't you see?"

Owen's legs, not to mention his voice, had wavered while he spoke, and
she felt his possession of her hand loosen so that she was free again.
Her stare of perception broke into a lively laugh. "Oh, you're all
right, for you will get them. You will; you're quite safe; don't
worry!" She fell back into the house with her hand on the door.
"Good-bye, good-bye." She repeated it several times, laughing bravely,
quite waving him away and, as he didn't move and save that he was on the
other side of it, closing the door in his face quite as he had closed
that of the drawing-room in hers. Never had a face, never at least had
such a handsome one, been so presented to that offense. She even held
the door a minute, lest he should try to come in again. At last, as she
heard nothing, she made a dash for the stairs and ran up.




IX


In knowing a while before all she needed, Fleda had been far from
knowing as much as that; so that once upstairs, where, in her room, with
her sense of danger and trouble, the age of Louis Seize suddenly struck
her as wanting in taste and point, she felt that she now for the first
time knew her temptation. Owen had put it before her with an art beyond
his own dream. Mona would cast him off if he didn't proceed to
extremities; if his negotiation with his mother should fail he would be
completely free. That negotiation depended on a young lady to whom he
had pressingly suggested the condition of his freedom; and as if to
aggravate the young lady's predicament designing fate had sent Mrs.
Gereth, as the parlor-maid said, "up the back road." This would give the
young lady more time to make up her mind that nothing should come of the
negotiation. There would be different ways of putting the question to
Mrs. Gereth, and Fleda might profitably devote the moments before her
return to a selection of the way that would most surely be tantamount to
failure. This selection indeed required no great adroitness; it was so
conspicuous that failure would be the reward of an effective
introduction of Mona. If that abhorred name should be properly invoked
Mrs. Gereth would resist to the death, and before envenomed resistance
Owen would certainly retire. His retirement would be into single life,
and Fleda reflected that he had now gone away conscious of having
practically told her so. She could only say, as she waited for the back
road to disgorge, that she hoped it was a consciousness he enjoyed.
There was something she enjoyed; but that was a very different matter.
To know that she had become to him an object of desire gave her wings
that she felt herself flutter in the air: it was like the rush of a
flood into her own accumulations. These stored depths had been
fathomless and still, but now, for half an hour, in the empty house,
they spread till they overflowed. He seemed to have made it right for
her to confess to herself her secret. Strange then there should be for
him in return nothing that such a confession could make right! How could
it make right that he should give up Mona for another woman? His
attitude was a sorry appeal to Fleda to legitimate that. But he didn't
believe it himself, and he had none of the courage of his suggestion.
She could easily see how wrong everything must be when a man so made to
be manly was wanting in courage. She had upset him, as people called it,
and he had spoken out from the force of the jar of finding her there. He
had upset her too, heaven knew, but she was one of those who could pick
themselves up. She had the real advantage, she considered, of having
kept him from seeing that she had been overthrown.

She had moreover at present completely recovered her feet, though there
was in the intensity of the effort required to do so a vibration which
throbbed away into an immense allowance for the young man. How could she
after all know what, in the disturbance wrought by his mother, Mona's
relations with him might have become? If he had been able to keep his
wits, such as they were, more about him he would probably have felt--as
sharply as she felt on his behalf--that so long as those relations were
not ended he had no right to say even the little he had said. He had no
right to appear to wish to draw in another girl to help him to an
escape. If he was in a plight he must get out of the plight himself, he
must get out of it first, and anything he should have to say to any one
else must be deferred and detached. She herself, at any rate--it was her
own case that was in question--couldn't dream of assisting him save in
the sense of their common honor. She could never be the girl to be drawn
in, she could never lift her finger against Mona. There was something in
her that would make it a shame to her forever to have owed her happiness
to an interference. It would seem intolerably vulgar to her to have
"ousted" the daughter of the Brigstocks; and merely to have abstained
even wouldn't assure her that she had been straight. Nothing was really
straight but to justify her little pensioned presence by her use; and
now, won over as she was to heroism, she could see her use only as some
high and delicate deed. She couldn't do anything at all, in short,
unless she could do it with a kind of pride, and there would be nothing
to be proud of in having arranged for poor Owen to get off easily.
Nobody had a right to get off easily from pledges so deep, so sacred.
How could Fleda doubt they had been tremendous when she knew so well
what any pledge of her own would be? If Mona was so formed that she
could hold such vows light, that was Mona's peculiar business. To have
loved Owen apparently, and yet to have loved him only so much, only to
the extent of a few tables and chairs, was not a thing she could so much
as try to grasp. Of a different way of loving him she was herself ready
to give an instance, an instance of which the beauty indeed would not be
generally known. It would not perhaps if revealed be generally
understood, inasmuch as the effect of the particular pressure she
proposed to exercise would be, should success attend it, to keep him
tied to an affection that had died a sudden and violent death. Even in
the ardor of her meditation Fleda remained in sight of the truth that it
would be an odd result of her magnanimity to prevent her friend's
shaking off a woman he disliked. If he didn't dislike Mona, what was the
matter with him? And if he did, Fleda asked, what was the matter with
her own silly self?

Our young lady met this branch of the temptation it pleased her frankly
to recognize by declaring that to encourage any such cruelty would be
tortuous and base. She had nothing to do with his dislikes; she had only
to do with his good-nature and his good name. She had joy of him just as
he was, but it was of these things she had the greatest. The worst
aversion and the liveliest reaction moreover wouldn't alter the
fact--since one was facing facts--that but the other day his strong arms
must have clasped a remarkably handsome girl as close as she had
permitted. Fleda's emotion at this time was a wondrous mixture, in which
Mona's permissions and Mona's beauty figured powerfully as aids to
reflection. She herself had no beauty, and her permissions were the
stony stares she had just practiced in the drawing-room--a consciousness
of a kind appreciably to add to the particular sense of triumph that
made her generous. I may not perhaps too much diminish the merit of that
generosity if I mention that it could take the flight we are considering
just because really, with the telescope of her long thought, Fleda saw
what might bring her out of the wood. Mona herself would bring her out;
at the least Mona possibly might. Deep down plunged the idea that even
should she achieve what she had promised Owen, there was still the
contingency of Mona's independent action. She might by that time, under
stress of temper or of whatever it was that was now moving her, have
said or done the things there is no patching up. If the rupture should
come from Waterbath they might all be happy yet. This was a calculation
that Fleda wouldn't have committed to paper, but it affected the total
of her sentiments. She was meanwhile so remarkably constituted that
while she refused to profit by Owen's mistake, even while she judged it
and hastened to cover it up, she could drink a sweetness from it that
