in a moment and announced that Madame would see Mrs. Peele at once.
Patience followed the woman through the boudoir and bedroom to the
bath-room, a classic apartment of pink tiles. The tub was merely one
corner of the room walled off with tiles; and in it, covered from throat
to foot with a sheet, her head on a silken strap, lay Rosita. By her
side sat a girl in a fashionable ulster and large hat, a note-book and
pencil on her lap. Rosita looked like a dark-haired Aphrodite, and was
as fresh as a rose. A maid had just dried one pink and white hand, and
she held it out to Patience.

“Patita! Patita! Patita!” she said with her sweet drawl and accent, and
without a trace of resentment in her soft heavy eyes. “Where, where have
you been all these years? Miss Merrien, this is my oldest and dearest
friend, Mrs. Beverly Peele [she pronounced the name with visible pride].
Patita, this is Miss Merrien of the ‘Day.’ She is interviewing me.”

Patience flushed as she bent her head to the young woman, who regarded
her with conspicuous amazement, and whose nostrils quivered a little, as
if she scented a “story.” She was a pretty girl with a dark rather worn
face, a frank eye, and a nervous manner.

“Patita, sit down there just for a moment while I look at you. Then we
will go into the other room. I could not wait to see you. Dios de mi
alma, but you have changed, Patita mia. Who would ever have thought
that you would be such a beauty and such a swell. Gray cloth and
chinchilla! Just think, Miss Merrien, we used to wear sunbonnets and
copper-toed boots, and drove an old blind horse that would not go off a
walk.”

“May I put that down?” asked the girl, eagerly.

“Oh, please don’t,” exclaimed Patience. Miss Merrien’s face fell. Then
she smiled, and said good-naturedly, “All right, I won’t.”

“And now Patita is a swell,” pursued Rosita, as if no interruption had
occurred, “and I am a famous prima donna. Such is life. Patita, do you
know that I have two hundred thousand dollars invested?”

“Really?”

“Si, señorita! Oh, my price has gone up, Patita mia,” and she
laughed her low delicious laugh.

Miss Merrien smiled. “A man shot himself for that laugh the other day—I
suppose you read about it,” she said.

“No, I did not. I have read the newspapers irregularly of late—the
‘stories,’ at least.”

“It is true,” said Rosita, complacently. “Oh, Patita, life is so lovely.
To think that we both had such great destinies! Pobre Manuela, and
Panchita, and all the rest! Bueno, go into the bedroom, both of you,
and I will be there in ten minutes.”

Patience and Miss Merrien seated themselves in the white bower of velvet
and lace.

“Please do not put me into your story,” said Patience, hastily. “It
would not do—you see my husband would not like it—but we are old
friends, and I wanted to see her.”

Miss Merrien nodded intelligently. With the suspicion of her craft she
leaped to the conclusion that the fashionable young woman came to her
disreputable friend for an occasional lark.

“Oh, I promise you. If you hadn’t asked me I should though. It would
make a fine story.”

“Tell me,” said Patience abruptly, “do you like being a newspaper woman?
Is it very hard work?”

“Yes, it’s hard work,” Miss Merrien answered in some surprise; “but then
it is the most fascinating, I do believe, in the whole world. I have a
family and a home out West, and I could go back and be comfortable if I
wanted to; but I wouldn’t give up this life, with all its grind and
uncertainty, for that dead and alive existence. I only go out there once
a year to rest. I came on here for an experiment, to see a little of the
world. I had a dreadful time catching on; once I thought I’d starve, for
I was bound I wouldn’t write home for money; but I hung on and got
there. And I’m here to stay.”

“Oh, is it really so pleasant? Sometimes I wish I were a newspaper
woman.”

“You? You? I never saw anybody that looked less like one.”

“I am very strong. I am naturally pale, that is all.”

“Oh, your skin is lovely: it’s that warm dead white. I wasn’t thinking
of that. But you look like the princess that felt the pea under sixteen
mattresses.”

“One adapts one’s self easily to luxury. I have only had it two years. I
do like it certainly. Nevertheless, I’d like to be a newspaper woman.
You look tired; are you?”

“Yes, I am, Mrs. Peele. It’s hard work, if it is fascinating; for
instance, I’ve chased about this entire week for stories that haven’t
panned out for a cent. I haven’t made ten dollars. I came up here as a
last resource. La Rosita is always good-natured, and I hoped she’d have
a story for me. But all I’ve got is a crank that’s following her about
threatening to kill her if she doesn’t marry him, and that’s such a
chestnut. If I could only fake something I know she’d let it go, but my
imagination’s worn to a thread—”

The portière was pushed aside, and Rosita entered. She wore a glistening
night-robe of silk and lace and ribbon under a yellow plush bath gown.
Her dense black hair fell to her knees. She slid into bed and ordered
her maid to admit the manicure. An old woman, looking like a witch and
clad in shabby black, came in and took a chair beside the bed. The maid
brought a crystal bowl and warm water, and a golden manicure set, and
Rosita held forth her incomparable arm with its little Spanish hand. She
lay with indolent grace among the large pillows.

“You certainly are a beauty,” exclaimed Miss Merrien, enthusiastically.

Rosita smiled with much pleasure. “I love to hear a woman say that, and
I shall make good copy for many years yet. I shall not fade like most
Spanish women. Oh, I have learned many secrets.”

“I wish you hadn’t told them to me, and then I should still have them to
write about. They made a great story.”

“Dios! Dios!” said Rosita, plaintively, “I wish we could think of
something. I hate to send you away with nothing at all. I love to be
written about. Patita, can’t you think of something?”

“Now, Mrs. Peele,” said Miss Merrien, “let us see if you are a good
fakir. That is one of the first essentials of being a successful
newspaper woman.”

“Oh, dear! Is it? If I could fake I’d make books. I’d like that even
better. Rosita, did you ever tell the newspapers about that time I
coached you for your first appearance on any stage, and the great hit
you made?”

“What is that?” asked Miss Merrien, sharply.

“I never thought of it. Patita, you tell the story.”

This Patience did, while Miss Merrien wrote rapidly in shorthand,
pausing occasionally to exclaim with rapture.

“Oh, my good angel sent me here this morning,” she said when Patience
had finished. “I won’t mention your name, of course, but you won’t mind
my saying that you are one of the Four Hundred.”

“I don’t suppose there is any objection. I am such an obscure member of
it that no one will suspect me. Only don’t give any details.”

“Oh, I won’t, indeed I won’t.” She slipped her book into her muff and
rose to go. “You don’t know how much obliged I am. I’ll do as much for
you some day. If ever you want to be written up, let me know.”

“I never should want to be in the newspapers.”

“Oh, there’s no telling. You haven’t had a taste of it yet. Well,
good-morning,” and she went out.

Patience leaned back in her luxurious chair, and watched the old woman
polish the pretty nails. Rosita babbled, and Patience watched her face
closely. Its colouring was as fresh, its contours as perfect as ever,
but there was a faint touch of hardness somewhere, and the eyes held
more secrets than they had two years ago. They were the eyes of the
wanton. For a moment Patience forgot her surroundings. Her mind flew
back to the old days, to the rickety buggy with the two contented
innocent little girls, then, by a natural deflection, to her tower and
her dreams. She longed passionately for the old Mission, and wondered if
Solomon were still alive. Then she thought of Bourke, and came back to
the present with a shudder. The woman had gone.

“What is the matter?” asked Rosita. “Is it true—what the men say—that
you are not happy with your husband?”

“I hate him,” said Patience.

“Why don’t you get a divorce?”

“I have no grounds.”

