in a whispered aside. But there was still some talking to do. Jaqueline
made her adieus and went to put on her habit. Standing in the hall
above, she waited until patience was a lost virtue.

Then Roger Carrington called to her.

"I thought they would never go, they prosed and prosed so!"

"We shall be old ourselves some day," he returned with a smile, "and
perhaps prose while young people are waiting."

Then he turned her around with gentlemanly grace, admiration in his
eyes.

"Is it the jackdaw that appears in borrowed plumes--some bird I
have heard tell of. Why birds should borrow plumes--I am shamefully
ignorant, am I not?" raising her eyes with a spice of mischief.

"Let us go and ask Ralph," he said with assumed gravity. "It will not
take him long to run through two or three tomes."

"And ride by moonlight?"

"There is no moon."

"Does she not look well, Roger? A tailor could not have fitted the
habit better. Do not go very far, for the air might grow chilly again."

"We will go up the creek a short distance."

Then he mounted her upon the pretty mare, his brother's favorite, for
Ralph had not cared to ride. Patricia looked on a little disappointed,
yet she did not really wish to go, for Madam Carrington had been
telling her a curious love story about a little maid who had been sent
over with a number of redemptioners, as those who were bound for a
number of years were called. She had attracted the pity of a kindly
man, who had purchased her years of service for his wife. Then the son
had fallen in love with her, which had roused the mother's anger, when
she sent her son to England to be educated and perhaps fall in love
with a cousin. The little maid was rather hardly treated, when someone
came to the colony in search of her, and it turned out that she was
well born and heiress to a grand estate, held by a relative who had
formed a villainous plot against her and reported her dead. Now that he
was dying without heirs, he was desirous of making tardy reparation.

There were few story books to fall into girls' hands in those days.
Swift and Sterne and Smollett were kept out of reach. Miss Burney was
hardly considered proper, and Miss Austen had not been heard of in the
Colonies.

Patricia was fond of old legends and ghost stories, with which the
plantation was rife, and which had grown up about old houses. Unhappy
lovers had a weird, fascinating interest for young girls, even if
the lives of the day were the reverse of sentimental. All through the
dinner she had been wondering if the little maid met her lover again;
but that she came back to America, she knew, for her portrait hung in
the hall among the Carrington ladies.

Ajax and Daphne rubbed noses, flung up their heads, and started off.
Tame enough now is the winding creek, which was rough and rapid then,
and which traveled from the upper edge of Maryland, gathering in many a
little stream, rushing along in some places over great stones, winding
about placidly in others, and then joining the Potomac.




CHAPTER VI.

A TOUCH OF NATURE.


There had been a breath of spring in the air for a day or two, and all
nature welcomed the softness, with the numerous sounds of awakening
life. Wild bees were out foraging. The catkins of the alders had
swelled to bursting, the maples were showing red, tufts of grass
were assuming the peculiar hazy, suggestive green through the furzy
deadness of winter, while here and there a field of grain displayed the
brilliance of a velvet carpet. The trees had that dreamy purplish tint
of springtime, and waved their leafless branches with wooing softness.

The road ran alongside of the brook and was in fair order for the time
of the year. Now and then some bird flung out a note of rejoicing.
They went by degrees down a valley until they struck a wild gorge with
overhanging rocks, where a multitude of crows were holding council, and
suddenly wheeled off, making a dark shadow over the path.

"A month later it will be beautiful," Roger Carrington said. "But I
suppose you have a surfeit over the Potomac?" nodding his head to the
southward. "Or perhaps you would have liked it better about Georgetown.
I fancied my mother had shown you everything worth seeing. Few people
know how fine the road is up this way."

He looked a little doubtfully at his companion. Perhaps she was too
young to appreciate it.

"I have never been this way before. We were out on the Potomac last
summer when we were visiting my sister, the first time we came to
Washington. Regulation philosophy considers home the best place for
children," and she smiled archly.

"I like large families. You can't think how your father interested us
in the description of you all. How many are there?"

"Five of us and the sister of adoption."

"Mrs. Mason quite charmed us. She has had a rather eventful life. There
is a brother----"

"We begin and end with boys. Charles would delight your brother Ralph.
Louis is in college. He has some aspirations for the law or political
life, but his present desire runs the way of pleasure and fun. The
college boys are quite adepts at mischief."

"You were down there?"

"My aunt married and went to Williamsburg, you know. And Uncle Conway
is connected with the college. Yes, I had a good, gay time. And I
like--fun."

She looked it, with the sparkle in her eye and the changing color on
her cheek. She was very pretty, but an eager child.

"And if we had some girls to make merry! Real girls, I mean, like
Patty, who is charming to have about. Suppose we keep her for the next
year or two?"

"You will have to settle that with Patty and father. And Patty has a
way of breaking out of bounds that might startle you. She is on her
best behavior now."

"And we cannot always keep up to the mark--is that what you mean me to
infer?"

"I couldn't, I am sure, if the mark was set high," and she laughed. "It
is, up to grandmamma's. And Dolly, who really is my aunt, you know,
is not much older than I am. We have royal times when she comes to
the plantation. But grandpapa is very strict and of the old--there's
a French word I ought to use," and she blushed. "My French will not
always come to the front; and so, you see, I cannot put on grand airs."

Carrington laughed. Her frankness was so piquant.

"RÃ©gime--that I think is the word you want."

"Yes. A man who believes we have had no manners since the days of
Washington and Mr. John Adams. Oh, do you truly think the country will
go to ruin and split up into fragments?"

"No, I really do not. Young countries, like young people, make
mistakes. Well, older countries do likewise. There have been many
changes in the policies of all governments, many rulers. I've quite
decided this will last my time out."

"I don't understand about the Non-Intercourse Act and all that. Father
thinks it would be good for the women not to get so much finery from
abroad. But, then, if we sell tobacco and other things to England and
France--why, it seems to me it is a good thing, a sort of give and
take. And grandpapa thinks Mr. Madison will finish what Mr. Jefferson
began, and that England will get hold of us again. Are you to go to the
levee?"

"Oh, yes."

"I am so glad! I am to make a real bow to Mrs. Madison. Oh, no; I
suppose it is a courtesy. I like to see people dressed up in pretty
clothes, and I have not been to the White House yet. And to see all the
grand men nearby, not simply in a jostling crowd. Don't you sometimes
feel a little afraid of them?"

There was a charming half-curiosity in her eyes, and a pretty smile
quivered about her red lips. What a child she was! If he was to ask her
to marry him both mother and grandmother would be quite content. As for
him--well, he had no drawing toward matrimony, but that innate chivalry
and admiration for all women so common in the men of that day, who were
trained to pay the highest respect to their mothers.

"I find myself wishing I was as wise and as experienced, and had the
clear insight that some of our best men have had, nay, have to-day. But
that comes with age and profound knowledge."
