Kingsbury.

The sun glowed on her splendid red hair; she switched the slender rod
about rather awkwardly, and every time the cast of flies became
entangled in a nodding willow she set her red lips tight and with an
impatient "Mais, c'est trop bête! Mais, c'est vraiment trop----"

It was evident that she had not seen him where he lay on the wall; the
chances were she would pass on--indeed her back was already toward
him--when the unexpected happened: a trout leaped for a gnat and fell
back into the pool with a resounding splash, sending ring on ring of
sunny wavelets toward the shore.

"Ah! Te voilà!" she said aloud, swinging her line free for a cast.

Smith saw what was coming and tried to dodge, but the silk line whistled
on the back-cast, and the next moment his cap was snatched from his head
and deposited some twenty feet out in the centre of the pool.

The amazement of the fair angler was equal to his own as she looked
hastily back over her shoulder and discovered him on the wall.

There is usually something undignified about a man whose hat has been
knocked off; to laugh is as fatal as to show irritation; and Smith did
neither, but quietly dropped over to her side of the wall, saying, "I'm
awfully sorry I spoiled your cast. Don't mind the cap; that trout was a
big one, and he may rise again."

He had spoken in English, and she answered in very pretty English: "I am
so sorry--could I help you to recover your hat?"

"Thank you; if you would let me take your rod a moment."

"Willingly, monsieur."

She handed him the rod; he loosened the line, measured the distance with
practiced eye, turned to look behind him, and, seeing there was scant
room for a long back-cast, began sending loop after loop of silken line
forward across the water, using the Spey method, of which none except an
expert is master.

The first cast struck half-way, but in line; the next, still in line,
slipped over the cap, but failed to hook. Then, as he recovered, there
was a boiling rush in the water, a flash of pink and silver, and the rod
staggered.

"I--I beg your pardon!" he exclaimed aghast; "I have hooked your trout!"

"Play him," she said quickly. The elfin shriek of the reel answered; he
gave the fish every ounce the quivering rod could spare, the great trout
surged deeply, swerved, circled and bored slowly upstream.

"This fish is magnificent," said Smith, guiltily. "You really must take
the rod----"

"I shall not, indeed."

"But this is not fair!"

"It is perfectly fair, monsieur--and a wonderful lesson in angling to
me. Oh, I beg you to be careful! There is a sunken tree limb beyond!"

Her cheeks were the colour of wild roses, her blue eyes burned like
stars.

"He's down; I can't stir him," said Smith. "He's down like a salmon!"

She linked her hands behind her back. "What is to be done?" she asked
calmly.

"If you would gather a handful of those pebbles and throw one at a time
into the pool where he is lying----"

Before he finished speaking she had knelt, filled her palms with golden
gravel, and stood ready at the water's edge.

"Now?" she nodded, inquiringly.

"Yes, one at a time; try to hit him."

The first pebble produced no effect; neither did the second, nor yet the
third.

"Throw a handful at him," he suggested, and braced himself for the
result. A spray of gravel fell; the great fish sulked motionless.

"There's a way--" began Smith, feeling in his pockets for his key-ring.
It was not there.

"Could I be of any use?" she asked, looking up at Smith very
guilelessly.

"Why, if I had something--a key-ring or anything that I could hang over
the taut line--something that would slide down and jog him gently----"

"A hairpin?" she asked.

"I'm afraid it's too light."

She reflected a moment; her bent forefinger brushed her velvet lips.
Then she began to unfasten a long gold pin at her throat.

"Oh, not that!" exclaimed Smith, anxiously. "It might slip off."

"It can't; there's a safety clasp. Anyway, we must have that trout!"

"But I could not permit----"

"It is I who permit myself, monsieur."

"No, no, it is too generous of you----"

"Please!" She held the pin toward him; he shook his head; she hesitated,
then with a quick movement she snapped the clasp over the taut line and
sent it spinning toward the invisible fish.

He saw the gold glimmer become a spark under water, die out in dusky
depths; then came a rushing upheaval of spray, a flash, the rod quivered
to the reel-plate, and the fight began in fury. The rod was so slim, so
light--scarce three ounces--that he could but stand on the defensive at
first. Little by little the struggle became give and take, then
imperceptibly he forced the issue, steadily, delicately, for the tackle
was gossamer, and he fought for the safety of the golden clasp as well
as for his honour as an angler.

"Do you know how to net a trout?" he asked presently. She came and stood
at his shoulder, net poised, blue eyes intent upon the circling fish.

"I place it behind him, do I not?" she asked coolly.

"Yes--when I give the word----"

One more swerve, a half circle sheering homeward, nearer, nearer----

A moment later the huge trout lay on the moss; iridescent tints played
over its broad surface, shimmering hues deepened, waxing, warning; the
spots glowed like rubies set in bronze.

Kneeling there, left hand resting on the rod, Smith looked up at her
over his shoulder; but all she said was: "Ah, the poor, brave thing! The
gallant fish! This is wrong--all wrong. I wish we had not taken a life
we cannot give again."

"Shall I put the trout back madame?"

She looked at him surprised.

"Would you?" she asked incredulously.

"If you desire it."

"But it is your fish."

"It is yours, madame."

"Will it live? Oh, try to make it live!"

He lifted the beautiful fish in both hands, and, walking to the water's
edge, laid it in the stream. For a while it floated there, gold and
silver belly turned to the sky, gills slowly inflating and collapsing.
Presently a fin stirred; the spasmodic movement of the gill-covers
ceased, and the breathing grew quiet and steady. Smith touched the
pectoral fins; the fish strove to turn over; he steadied the dorsal fin,
then the caudal, righting the fish. Slowly, very slowly, the great trout
moved off, farther, farther, sinking into cool, refreshing depths; there
was a dull glitter under the water, a shadow gliding, then nothing
except the green obscurity of the pool criss-crossed with surface
sunshine.

When Smith turned around the girl was pensively regarding the water. His
cap had stranded on a shoal almost at his feet; he recovered it, wrung
the drops from it, and stood twirling it thoughtfully in the sunlight.

"I've ruined it, haven't I?" she asked.

"Oh, no; it's a shooting-cap. Like Tartarin, I shall probably ventilate
it later in true Midi fashion."

She laughed; then, with the flushed composure of uneasiness: "Thank you
for a lesson in angling. I have learned a great deal--enough at least
