
"In my time," said the Countess, with emphasis, "when young girls did
not take the veil, they married."

As an argument, this was weak and lacked logic, and Cecilia felt rather
pitiless just then.

"There are only two possible ways of living," she said; "either by
religion, if you have any, and that is the easier, or by rule."

"And pray what sort of rule can there be to take the place of religion?"

"Act so that the reason for your actions may be considered a universal
law."

"That is nonsense!" cried the Countess.

"No," replied Cecilia, unmoved, "it is Kant's Categorical Imperative."

"It makes no difference," retorted her mother. "It is nonsense."

Cecilia said nothing, and her expression did not change, for she knew
that her mother could not understand her, and she was not at all sure
that she understood herself, as she had almost confessed. Seeing that
she did not answer, the excellent Countess took the opportunity of
telling her that her head had been turned by too much reading, though it
was all her poor, dear stepfather's fault, since he had filled her head
with ideas. What she meant by "ideas" was not clear, except that they
were of course dangerous in themselves and utterly subversive of social
order, and that the main purpose of all education should be to
discourage them in the young.

"They should be left to old people," she concluded; "they have nothing
else to think of."

Cecilia had heard very little, being absorbed in her own reflections,
but as her mother often spoke in the same way, the general drift of what
she had said was unmistakable. The two were very unlike, but they were
not unloving. In her heart the Countess took the most unbounded pride in
her only child's beauty and cleverness, except when the latter opposed
itself to her social inclinations and ambitions; and the young girl
really loved her mother when not irritated by some speech or action that
offended her taste. That her mother should not always understand her
seemed quite natural.

They had almost reached their door, the great pillared porch of the
mysterious Palazzo Massimo, in which they had an apartment, for they did
not live in the villa where the garden party was to be given. Cecilia's
gloved hand went out quietly to the Countess's and gently pressed it.

"Let me think my own thoughts, mother," she said; "they shall never hurt
you."

"Yes, dear, of course," answered the elder woman meekly, her little
burst of temper having already subsided.

Cecilia left her early that evening and went to her own room to be
alone. It was not that she was tired, nor painfully affected by a
strange sensation she had felt during the afternoon; but she realised
that she had reached the end of the first stage in life, and that
another was going to begin, and it was part of her nature to seek for a
complete understanding of everything in her existence. It seemed to her
unworthy of a thinking being to act or to feel, without clearly defining
the cause of every feeling and action. Youth dreams of an impossible
completeness in carrying out its self-set rules of perfection, and is
swayed and stunned, and often paralysed, when they are broken to pieces
by rebellious human nature.

The room was very large and dim, for Cecilia had put out the electric
light, and had lit two big wax candles, of the sort that are burned in
churches. The blinds and shutters of the windows were open, and the
moonlight fell in two broad floods upon the pale carpet, half across the
floor. The white bed with its high canopy of lace looked ghostly against
the furthest wall, like a marble sepulchre under a mist. The light blue
damask on the walls was dark in the gloom, and there was not much
furniture to break the long surfaces. The dusky air was cool and pure,
for Cecilia detested perfumes of all sorts.

She sat motionless in a high carved seat, just in the moonlight, one
hand upon an arm of the chair, the other on her breast. She had gathered
her hair into a knot, low at the back of her head, and the folds of a
soft white robe just followed the outlines of her figure. The table on
which the candles stood was a little behind her, and away from the
window, and the still yellow light only touched her hair in one or two
places, sending back dull golden reflections.

The strange young face was very quiet, and even the lids rarely moved as
she steadily stared into the shadow. There was no look of thought, nor
any visible effort of concentration in her features; there was rather an
air of patient waiting, of perfect readiness to receive whatever should
come to her out of the depths. So, a beautiful marble face on a tomb
gazes into the shadows of a dim church, and gazes on, and waits, neither
growing nor changing, neither satisfied nor disappointed, but calm and
enduring, as if expecting the resurrection of the dead and the life of
the world to come. But for the rare drooping of the lids, that rested
her sight, the girl would have seemed to be in a trance; she was in a
state of almost perfect contemplation that approached to perfect
happiness, since she was hardly conscious that her strongest wishes were
still unsatisfied.

She had been in the same state before now--last week, last month, last
year, and again and again, as it seemed to her, very long ago; so long,
that the time seemed like ages, and the intervals like centuries, until
it all disappeared altogether in the immeasurable, and the past, the
present, and the future were around her at once, unbroken, always
ending, yet always beginning again. In the midst floated the soul, the
self, the undying individuality, a light that shot out long rays, like a
star, towards the ever present moments in an ever recurring life of
which she had been, and was, and was to be, most keenly conscious.

So far, the truth, perhaps; the truth, guessed by the mystics of all
ages, sometimes hidden in secret writings, sometimes proclaimed to the
light in symbols too plain to be understood, now veiled in the reasoned
propositions of philosophers, now sung in sublime verse by inspired
seers; present, as truth always is, to the few, misunderstood, as all
truths are, by the many.

But beside the truth, and outshining it, came the illusion, clear and
bright, and appealing to the heart with the music of all the changes
that are illusion's life. Sitting very still in the moonlight, Cecilia
saw pictures in the shadow, and herself walking in the mazes of many
dreams; and she watched them, till even her eyelids no longer drooped
from time to time, and her breathing ceased to stir the folds of white
upon her bosom.

Even then, she knew that she herself was not dreaming, but was calling
up dreams which she saw, which could be nothing but visions after all,
and would end in a darkness beyond which she could see nothing, and in
which she would feel real physical pain, that would be almost
unbearable, though she knew that she would gladly bear it again and
again, for the sake of again seeing the phantasms of herself drawn in
mystic light upon the shadow.

They came and followed one upon another, like days of life. There was
the beautiful marble court with its deep portico, its pillars, and its
overhanging upper story, all gleaming in the low morning sun; she could
hear the water softly laughing its way through the square marble-edged
basins, level with the ground, she could smell the spring violets that
grew in the neatly trimmed borders, she knew the faces of the statues
that stood between the columns, and smiled at her. She knew herself,
young, golden-haired, all in white, a little pale from the night's vigil
before the eternal fire, just entering the court as she came back from
the temple, and then standing quite still for a moment, facing the
morning sun and drinking in long draughts of the sweet spring air. From
far above, the matin song of birds came down out of the gardens of
CÃ¦sar's palace, and high over the court the sounds of the Forum began to
ring and echo, as they did all day and half the night.

It was herself, her very self, that was there, resting one hand upon a
fluted column and looking upwards, her eyes, her face, her figure, real
and unchanged after ages, as they were hers now; and in her look there
was the infinite longing, the readiness to receive, which she felt still
and must feel always, to the end of time.

Now, the dream would move on, slowly and full of details. The lithe
dream figure would rest in the small white room at the upper end of the
court, and resting, would dream dreams within that dream; and, looking
on, she herself would know what they were. They would be full of a deep
desire to be free for ever from earth and body and life, joined for all
eternity with something pure and high that could not be seen, but of
which her soul was a part, mingled with the changing things for a time,
but to be withdrawn from them again, maiden and spotless as it had come
amongst them, a true and perfect Vestal.

The precious treasures in the secret places of the little temple would
pass away, the rudely carved wooden image of Pallas would crumble to
dust, the shields that had come down from heaven would fall to pieces in
green corrosion, the sacred vessels would be broken or come to a base
use, the fire would go out and Vesta's hearth would be cold for ever.

At the mere thought, the sleeping face in the vision would tremble and
grow pale for a moment, but soon would smile again, for the fire had
been faithfully tended all the night long.

But it would all pass away, even the place, even Rome herself, and in
the sphere of divine joy the sleeper would forget even to dream, and
would be quite at rest, until the mid-hour of day, when a companion
would come softly to the door and wake her with gentle words and kindly
touch, to join the other Vestals at the thrice-purified table in the
cool hall.
