I know not what madness seized you to-night.  I am not here to offer
you sympathy; sympathy is cheap consolation.  I am here to say that no
man shall in my presence speak lightly of your misfortune.  Let me be
frank with you.  I have often envied your success in Paris; and there
were times when this envy was not unmixed with hate.  But a catastrophe
like that to-night wipes out such petty things as envy and hate."

"Take care, Monsieur," said Victor haughtily.  He believed that he
caught an undercurrent of raillery.

"Why, Monsieur, what have I said?" looking from one to the other.

"Proceed, Vicomte," said the Chevalier, motioning Victor to be quiet.
He was curious to learn what the vicomte had to say.

"To continue, then: you are a man of extraordinary courage, and I have
always admired you even while I envied you.  To-night I lost to you
some fifty pistoles.  Give me the happiness of crossing out this
trifling debt," and the vicomte counted out fifty golden pistoles which
he laid on the table.  There was no particle of offense in his actions.

"To prove to you my entire good will, I will place my life into your
keeping, Monsieur le Chevalier.  Doubtless Saumaise has told you that
at present Paris is uninhabitable both to himself and to me.  The
shadows of the Bastille and the block cast their gloom upon us.  We
have conspired against the head of the state, which is Mazarin.  There
is a certain paper, which, if seen by the cardinal, will cause the
signing of our death warrants.  Monsieur de Saumaise, have you any idea
who stole your cloak?"

"It was not my cloak, Monsieur," said Victor, with a frown; "it was
loaned to me by Monsieur le Chevalier."

"Yours?" cried the vicomte, turning to the Chevalier.

"Yes."  The Chevalier thoughtfully fingered the golden coin.  One
slipped through his fingers and went jangling along the stone of the
floor.

"I was wondering where I had seen it before.  Hang me, but this is all
pretty well muddled up.  There was a traitor somewhere, or a coward.
What think you, Saumaise; does not this look like Gaston of Orléans?"

Victor started.  "I never thought of him!"

"Ah!  If Gaston has that paper, France is small, Monsieur," said the
vicomte, addressing the Chevalier, "I learn that you are bound for
Quebec.  Come, Saumaise; here is our opportunity.  Let the three of us
point westward."

Victor remained silent.  As oil rises to the surface of water, so rose
his distrust.  He could not shut out the vision of that half-smile of
the hour gone.

"Monsieur," said the Chevalier, looking up, "this is like you.  You
have something of the Bayard in your veins.  It takes a man of courage
to address me, after what has happened.  I am become a pariah; he who
touches my hand loses caste."

"Bah!  Honestly, now, Chevalier, is it not the man rather than the
escutcheon?  A trooper is my friend if he has courage; I would not let
a coward black my boots, not if he were a king."

"If ever I have offended you, pray forgive me."

"Offended me?  Well, yes," easily.  "There was Madame de Flavigny of
Normandy; but that was three years ago.  Such affairs begin and end
quickly.  My self-love was somewhat knocked about; that was all.  If
the weather permits, the Saint Laurent will sail at one o'clock.  Till
then, Messieurs," and bowing gravely the vicomte retired.

Both Victor and the Chevalier stared, at the door through which the
vicomte vanished.  Victor frowned; the Chevalier smiled.

"Curse his insolence!" cried the poet, slapping his sword.

"Lad, what an evil mind you have!" said the Chevalier in surprise.

"There is something below all this.  Did he pay you those pistoles he
lost to you in December?"

"To the last coin."

"Have you played with him since?"

"Yes, and won.  Last night he won back the amount he lost to me; and
with these fifty pistoles our accounts are square.  What have you
against the vicomte?  I have always found him a man.  And of all those
who called themselves my friends, has not he alone stood forth?"

"There is some motive," still persisted the poet.

"Time will discover it."

"Oh, the devil, Paul! he loves Madame de Brissac; and my gorge rises at
the sight of him."

"What! is all Paris in love with Madame de Brissac?  You have explained
your antipathy.  Every man has a right to love."

"I know it."

"I wonder how it happens that I have never seen this daughter of the
Montbazons?"

"You have your own affair."

"Past tense, my lad, past tense.  Now, I wish to be alone.  I have some
thinking to do which requires complete isolation.  Go to bed and sleep,
and do not worry about me.  Come at seven; I shall be awake."  The
Chevalier stood and held forth his arms.  They embraced.  Once alone
the outcast blew out the candle, folded his arms on the table, and hid
his face in them.  After that it was very still in the private
assembly, save for the occasional moaning in the chimney.




CHAPTER X

THE DILIGENCE FROM ROUEN AND THE MASQUERADING LADIES

The diligence from Rouen rolled and careened along the road to
Rochelle.  Eddies of snow, wind-formed, whirled hither and thither, or
danced around the vehicle like spirits possessed of infinite mischief.
Here and there a sickly tree stretched forth its barren arms blackly
against the almost endless reaches of white.  Sometimes the horses
struggled through drifts which nearly reached their bellies; again,
they staggered through hidden marsh pools.  The postilion, wrapped in a
blanket, cursed deeply and with ardor.  He swung his whip not so much
to urge the horses as to keep the blood moving in his body.  Devil take
women who forced him to follow the king's highway in such weather!  Ten
miles back they had passed a most promising inn.  Stop?  Not they!
Rochelle, Rochelle, and nothing but Rochelle!

"How lonely!"  A woman had pushed aside the curtain and was peering
into the night.  There was no light save that which came from the
pallor of the storm, dim and misty.  "It has stopped snowing.  But how
strange the air smells!"

"It is the sea . . .  We are nearing the city.  It is abominably cold."

"The sea, the sea!"  The voice was rich and young, but heavy with
weariness.  "And we are nearing Rochelle?  Good!  My confidence begins
to return.  You must hide me well, Anne."

"Mazarin shall never find you.  You will remain in the city till I take
leave of earthly affairs."

"A convent, Anne?  Oh, if you will.  But why Canada?  You are mad to
think of it.  You are but eighteen.  You have not even known what love
is yet."

"Have you?"

There was a laugh.  It was light-hearted.  It was a sign that the
sadness and weariness which weighed upon the voice were ephemeral.

"That is no answer."

"Anne, have I had occasion to fall in love with any man when I know man
so well?  You make me laugh!  Not one of them is worthy a sigh.  To
make fools of them; what a pastime!"

"Take care that one does not make a fool of you, Gabrielle."

"Ah, he would be worth loving!"

"But what are you going to do with the property?"

"Mazarin has already posted the seals upon it."

"Confiscated?"

"About to be.  That is why I fled to Rouen.  My mother warned me that
the cardinal had found certain documents which proved that a conspiracy
was forming at the hôtel.  Monsieur's name was the only one he could
find.  His Eminence thought that by making a prisoner of me he might
force me to disclose the names of those most intimate with monsieur.
He is searching France for me, Anne; and you know how well he searches
