
"Well--are you struck speechless?" a gay light dancing in her eyes.

"You are very good, just lovely, but I do not know as I can accept, I am
to go home----"

"Only two weeks out of nine! Surely you can spare that!"

Helen considered. "I will consult Mrs. Aldred before I decide," with
gentle gravity.

"I really do not see what she has to do with it. Your aunt and uncle
would be the ones to decide. Don't you want to do it--to see what sort
of a home I have? It would be just a splendid time. Mamma is half in
love with you. I am almost jealous again."

"Oh, I can't think of anything more delightful," Helen cried eagerly,
and Daisy did not need to doubt the pleasure illumining her face. "But
Mrs. Van Dorn has planned----"

"Oh, write to her and tell her how much you want to come," beseechingly.

"There would hardly be time."

"It would be nicer to take you home with me, but you could come
afterward."

"Why yes. However, I will see what Mrs. Aldred thinks."

"Oh, go at once. I want to write back," exclaimed Daisy impatiently.

Mrs. Aldred looked up from the pile of reports on her table, and said in
a pleasantly inquiring tone, "Well?" then listened, but there was a tint
of perplexity in her face.

"I had a note from Mrs. Van Dorn by the last steamer also. She seems
very well satisfied with your progress, only she is rather exigent
about the French, and I wish you would do all you can at it during
vacation. But she is very explicit about the summer. I think she prefers
that you should spend it in Hope."

She had been rather more than explicit, and said she did not approve of
such young girls visiting about. Mr. Castles would send a trusty person
for Helen and see her safely on the train for Hope.

"Do you not think I might write to her about it for a visit later on?"

"Yes, you could. But Mrs. Van Dorn is certain of her own wishes in any
matter, and generally has good reasons. I do not imagine a visit like
this would do you any harm, but you are young, and I do suppose you
owe your own people some respect. I think I should accept the fiat."

Helen felt bitterly disappointed. She did not dream her girlish
enthusiasm about Daisy Bell had been one of the factors in this command,
as it really was, that Mrs. Van Dorn did not want any girl to gain a
strong influence over Helen, but she need not have felt suspicious, as
the influence was all the other way.

It had come like a sudden vision, and now it was quenched in bitter
regret, with the unappeased want back of it.

"I do object to indiscriminate visiting for such young girls. If Mrs.
Van Dorn were here and could see just the kind of girl Miss Daisy is, it
would be different, but I suppose, if she thought at all, it was about
the generality of girls, who sometimes are quite lawless in their own
homes. Since you have accepted her direction for the next two years, it
is best to do it cheerfully," advised Mrs. Aldred.

"Yes, I do owe her that much," returned Helen in a convinced tone, if
the disappointment had not all gone out of it.

Then Daisy and she had an unpleasant disagreement about it, and Helen
felt sorrier than ever.

Juliet Craven's happening was a comforting one for her. Mrs. Davis had
gone abroad with a clear conscience. Her friend, Mrs. Howard, was to
look after the ward who was neither woman or child.

Then came the rush of examinations, the excitement to know who had
passed, and what the marks were, and the graduation exercises which
began at three in the afternoon and were to end with a lawn party in the
moonlight.

Some of the pupils were secretly mortified at not attaining a higher
rate, a few really did not care, and they were not sufficiently above
the ordinary to make a mark anywhere. Some others were a credit to the
training and culture of Aldred House, and went their way with a grateful
remembrance of their teacher friend and her admirable daughter.

Helen had a part in the singing, there was some excellent playing,
recitations, and essays. The house was crowded, it was one of the summer
events at Westchester. There were congratulations and good wishes, and
an evening of unbounded delight, as many of the young people were
invited, and for this evening the youthful masculines, among them a
number of law students, were welcomed.

Was it only a year ago Helen Grant had recited Herv√© Riel in the old
schoolhouse at Hope Center? Oh, how many things had happened since then.
Why, it was like a fairy story. She could hardly believe it herself.

She recited it again out on a corner of the lawn, and before she was
half through her audience had doubled, and listened with flattering
attention. The young son of Mr. Danforth, just home from college, was
standing near.

"That's enough to inspire one," he said. "I shall take one line back
with me and recall the very ring of your voice:

  "Sirs, believe me, there's a way.'"

Helen flushed with pleasure. She had not given up her old hero, though
there had been new candidates for her favor.

Then followed the partings the next morning. Some would be for life
perhaps. Every graduate counted on coming back to Aldred House some day,
but there were many chances and changes and more than one was never to
see it again, only hold its happy times in remembrance.

"I am glad we are to keep together next year," exclaimed Daisy Bell.
"And I do think I shall be a better student. The year following we
shall graduate together. And all the rest of our lives I hope we shall
be friends, even if we do have tiffs now and then."

Juliet Craven asked rather timidly if she might write to Helen.

"Oh, I should be disappointed if you did not. I count on it as one of my
pleasures," Helen returned warmly. There were other promises, several
of them not kept. And by twos and threes the group dwindled until at
dinner all the remainder were invited to the table of state as guests.

The next morning a thin, rather somber-looking man came with a note from
Mr. Castles. Helen's eyes were swimming in tears as she said good-by to
Mrs. Aldred and Miss Grace.

It was an uneventful journey until they reached New York. They stopped
at Mr. Castles' office, and he questioned Helen about her past year,
took her out to lunch, and then put her aboard her own train with
several papers and a magazine, and wished her a pleasant journey.

And pleasant it was, though she had a seat to herself. She could not
read, hardly look at the tempting array of pictures, there were so many
thoughts crowding in and through her mind. She had been very happy.
Schooldays were delightful. She wanted years and years of them.

Some ten miles before they reached Hope the passengers had to leave the
main line. She made her change without any difficulty, and saw that her
trunk was safely bestowed. Then on and on past farms and a few
straggling villages, when the train began to slow up and the conductor
called out--"North Hope."

Half bewildered, as if it were a strange place, she felt the conductor
take her arm. Then someone else grasped it, a rather tall figure with a
familiar face, and a delighted voice at his side exclaimed:

"Why, Helen Grant! You have grown almost out of recollection!"

"Oh, Mrs. Dayton! Oh, Mr. Warfield!"

That was all she could say at first. Mr. Warfield looked after her
trunk; Mrs. Dayton surveyed her from head to foot.

"You'll have to go in long dresses," she began in an amused tone.

"Oh, I don't want to grow up, Mrs. Dayton. I don't want to be a young
lady. Girls have such a good time, and in my heart and all over me I am
just a girl," she exclaimed vehemently.

"I am glad of that, too. Joanna wondered if you had forgotten how to dry
glass and china, and would be clear spoiled at boarding school. You
haven't changed a bit in looks, and your face isn't a day older, but you
are almost as tall as I. Just now I haven't but two or three boarders,
and I want all of you that I can have for the pure pleasure of the
thing."

Mr. Warfield soon joined them. Here was the library in which she had
taken such pleasure, the street with the stores, the window in which she
had seen her Madonna, and now she knew so much about the old ones and
their painters. A turn in this quiet street and here they were. She
would not have been startled to see Mrs. Van Dorn on the porch. There
were an old lady and an old gentleman, both silver-haired and placid,
