N. Butler?"

There was an interval of silence.

"Wuz de ossifer a-sparkin' de young misses at Gin'ral Schuyler's?"

"Yes, Joshua."

"A-co'tin' Miss Betty, suh?"

"Yes, yes. Colonel Hamilton married her. That is the man, Joshua. Tell
me, did you ever hear of Mr. Butler's marriage in Butlersbury?"

A longer silence, then: "No, suh. Hit wuz de talk ob de town dat Suh
John Johnsing done tuk Miss Polly Watts foh his lady-wife, an' all de
time po'l'l Miss Claire wuz a-settin' in Foht Johnsing, dess a-cryin'
her eyes out. But Mars' Butler he done tuk an' run off 'long o' dat
half-caste lady de ossifers call Carolyn Montour----"

"What!"

"Yaas, suh. Dat de way Mars' Butler done carry on, suh. He done
skedaddle 'long o' M'ss Carolyn. Hit wuz a Mohawk weddin', Mars'
Carus."

"He never married her?"

"Mars' Butler he ain' gwine ma'hy nobody ef he ain' 'bleeged, suh. He
dess lak all de young gentry, suh--'scusin' you'se'f, Mars' Carus."

I nodded in grim silence. After a moment I asked him to open the door
for me, but he shook his aged head, saying: "Ef a ossifer done tell you
what de Kunnel done tell me, what you gwine do, Mars' Carus, suh?"

"Obey," I said briefly. "You're a good servant, Joshua. When Colonel
Van Schaick returns, say to him that Captain Renault of the Rangers
marches to Butlersbury at sunup, and that if Colonel Van Schaick can
spare six bat-horses and an army transport-wagon, to be at the
Half-Moon at dawn, Captain Renault will be vastly obliged to him, and
will certainly render a strict accounting to the proper authorities."

Then I turned, descended the brick stoop, and walked slowly back to my
quarters, a prey to apprehension and bitter melancholy. For if it were
true that Walter Butler had done this thing, the law of the land was on
his side; and if the war ended with him still alive, the courts must
sustain him in this monstrous claim on Elsin Grey. Thought halted. Was
it possible that Walter Butler had dared invade the tiger-brood of
Catrine Montour to satisfy his unslaked lust?

Was it possible that he dared affront the she-demon of Catherinestown
by ignoring an alliance with her fiercely beautiful child?--an alliance
that Catrine Montour must have considered legal and binding, however
irregular it might appear to jurists.

I was astounded. Where passion led this libertine, nothing barred his
way--neither fear nor pity. And he had even dared to reckon with this
frightful hag, Catrine Montour--this devil's spawn of Frontenac--and
her tawny offspring.

I had seen the girl, Carolyn, at Guy Park--a splendid young animal, of
sixteen then, darkly beautiful, wild as a forest-cat. No wonder the
beast in him had bristled at view of her; no wonder the fierce passion
in her had leaped responsive to his forest courtship. By heaven, a
proper mating in the shaggy hills of Danascara! Yes, but when the male
beast emerges, yellow eyes fixed on the dead line that should bar him
from the haunts of men, then, then it is time that a man shall arise
and stand against him--stand for honor and right and light, and drive
him back to the darkness of his lair again, or slay him at the sunlit
gates of that civilization he dared to challenge.




CHAPTER X

SERMONS IN STONES


By sunup we had left the city on the three hills, Elsin, Colonel Van
Schaick, and I, riding our horses at the head of the little column,
followed by an escort of Rangers. Behind the Rangers plodded the laden
bat-horses, behind them creaked an army transport-wagon, loaded with
provisions and ammunition, drawn by two more horses, and the rear was
covered by another squad of buckskinned riflemen, treading lightly in
double file.

Nobody had failed me. My reckless, ale-swilling Rangers had kept the
tryst with swollen eyes but steady legs; a string of bat-horses stood
at the door of the Half-Moon when Elsin and I descended; and a moment
later the army wagon came jolting and bumping down the hilly street,
followed by Colonel Van Schaick and a dozen dragoons.

When he saw me he did not recognize me, so broad and tall had I become
in these four years. Besides, I wore my forest-dress of heavily fringed
doeskin, and carried the rifle given me by Colonel Hamilton.

"Hallo, Peter!" I called out, laughing.

"You! Can that be you, Carus!" he cried, spurring up to me where I sat
my horse, and seizing me by both caped shoulders. "Lord! Look at the
lad! Six feet, or I'm a Mohawk!--six feet in his moccasins, and his hair
sheered close and his cap o' one side, like any forest-swaggering
free-rifle! Carus! Carus! Damme, if I'll call you Captain! Didn't you
greet me but now with your impudent 'Hallo, Peter!'? Didn't you, you
undisciplined rogue? By gad, you've kept your promise for a
heart-breaker, you curly-headed, brown-eyed forest dandy!"

He gave me a hug and a hearty shake, so that the thrums tossed, and my
little round cap of doeskin flew from my head. I clutched it ere it
fell, and keeping it in my hand, presented him to Elsin.

"We are affianced, Peter," I said quietly. "Colonel Willett must play
guardian until this fright in Albany subsides."

"Oh, the luck o' that man Willett!" he exclaimed, beaming on Elsin, and
saluting the hand she stretched out. "Why do you not choose a man like
me, madam? Heaven knows, such a reward is all I ask of my country's
gratitude! And you are going to marry this fellow Carus? Is this what
sinners such as he may look for? Gad, madam, I'm done with decency, and
shall rig me in fringed shirt and go whipping through the woods, if
such maidens as you find that attractive!"

"I find you exceedingly attractive, Colonel Van Schaick," she said,
laughing--"so attractive that I ask your protection against this man
who desires to be rid of me at any cost."

Van Schaick swore that I was a villain, and offered to run off with her
at the drop of her 'kerchief, but when I spoke seriously of the danger
at Albany, he sobered quickly enough, and we rode to the head of the
little column, now ready to move.

"March," I said briefly; and we started.

"I'll ride a little way with you," said the Colonel--"far enough to say
that when Joshua gave me your message on my return last night I sent my
orderly to find the wagon and animals and provision for three days'
march. You can make it in two if you like, or even in twenty-four
hours."

I thanked him and asked about the rumors which had so alarmed the
people in Albany; but he shook his head, saying he knew nothing except
that there were scalping parties out, and that he for one believed them
to be the advance of an invading force from Canada.

"You ask me where this sweet lady will be safest," he continued, "and I
answer that only God knows. Were I you, Carus, I should rather have her
near me; so if your duty takes you to Johnstown it may be best that she
remain with you until these rumors become definite. Then, it might be
well that she return to Albany and stay with friends like the
Schuylers, or the Van Rensselaers, or Colonel Hamilton's lady, if these
worthy folk deem it safe to remain."

"Have they gone?" I asked.

"They're preparing to go," he said gloomily. "Oh, Carus, when we had
Walter Butler safe in Albany jail in '78, why did we not hang him? He
was taken as a spy, tried, and properly condemned. I remember well how
he pretended illness, and how that tender-hearted young Marquis
Lafayette was touched by his plight, and begged that he be sent to
hospital in the comfortable house of some citizen. Ah, had we known
what that human tiger was meditating! Think of it, Carus! You knew him,
did you not, when he came a-courting Margaret Schuyler? Lord! who could
believe that Walter Butler would so soon be smeared with the blood of
women and children? Who could believe that this young man would so soon
be damned with the guilt of Cherry Valley?"

We rode on in silence. I dared not glance at Elsin; I found no pretext
to stop Van Schaick; and, still in perfect silence, we wheeled
northwest into the Schenectady road, where Peter took leave of us in
his own simple, hearty fashion, and wheeled about, galloping back up
the slope, followed by his jingling dragoons.

I turned to take my last look at the three hills and the quaint Dutch
city. Far away on the ramparts of the fort I saw our beloved flag
fluttering, a gay spot in the sunshine, with its azure, rose, and
silvery tints blending into the fresh colors of early morning. I saw,
too, the ruined fort across the river, where that British surgeon, Dr.
Stackpole, composed the immortal tune of "Yankee Doodle" to deride
us--that same tune to which my Lord Cornwallis was now dancing, while
we whistled it from West Point to Virginia.
