at last to marry well. Her daughter might have such a fortune. David
Westbury had been lucky in a good many things and he seldom made a
mistake.

She dreamed this over and over again. She had never cared for babies
or little children, and she had felt glad there had been no children
to tie her to the old New Hampshire town, where she must then have
spent her life. She had had so much more enjoyment, larger liberty,
and oh, worlds more money. Travelling, hotels, meeting delightful
people. But now her day was about over. If there was a young blossom
growing up beside her to shed a charm around, to attract, to fill a
house with gayety, so she could go through with it all again. Then
lovers and marriage. She should want a pretty girl, one with a winsome
manner. A little training would do wonders with this one, who was just
the right age to be moulded into success.

Of course, her uncle would never give her up, and one could not coax
her away. A man's journeying about would have no society advantages.
Miss Holmes was very nice and sensible, but there were some
old-maidish traits. She was rather narrow. She really pitied the
girl's life between them. It would lose the exquisite flavor of
enjoyment that by right belonged to youth.

Of course, all this was folly. But she did like the child so much. And
she wanted a new adoration, which she believed she could win easily.




CHAPTER XVI

IN THE BALANCE


Agnes Westbury had listened all the early part of the evening to her
husband's enthusiastic plans. Good fortune expanded him in every
direction. It was true that quicksilver had been discovered at
Alameda, also that the new process of separating gold was a great
saving. Working mines had been most extravagant and wasteful. Some of
the old ones had been deserted that no doubt would pay again. He had
taken options for the London Company, he had two or three for himself.
Luck had surely come his way. Now they must leave as soon as possible.

Had she enjoyed herself? Had the landlady been satisfactory? Had she
gone about and seen much, made any pleasant friends? San Francisco was
a strange and wonderful place. It had risen up in a night, as it were.
It was in the line of the Eastern trade, it would be the great mart of
the world. What was Congress thinking about not to establish a through
route, but depend on this miserable overland accommodation for the
crowds who would come! Its very wildness and sublimity outdid Europe.
Some day it would be a worldwide attraction for tourists. Such
mountains, such a range of climate, such a profusion of everything,
such a seacoast line.

David Westbury was pacing up and down the apartment with a light,
springy step. He had been in his youth a tall and rather lanky
down-easter. Now he had filled out, was fine and robust, with a good
clear skin. In those days his nose had been too large, his mouth wide,
with rather loose lips. Now the rest of his face had rounded out, his
lips had grown firm-set, decisive, and his mustache was trimmed in the
latest style. Just at the corners of his mouth his beard had begun to
whiten a little, his lightish hair had turned darker. Prosperity had
made a man of him. He had grown sharp, far-sighted, but he had an
amiability that was more than pleasing--attractive. He had learned to
use his own phrase, "not to buck against the world." Where he had been
rather credulous and lax in early life, he had become wary and shrewd,
and did not hesitate if he could turn the best of the deal his way.

"Yes, she had enjoyed herself very much. Mrs. Folsom and her son had
been most attentive, there had been some star players at the theatres
and a noted singer or two. She had met some nice people, there was a
good deal of crudeness and display, but on the whole it was very fair
for a new place. And some odd, quaint individuals, some really refined
women from Boston, and such a charming young girl that she coveted;
she wished she had her for a daughter."

"That's a queer wish; too, I thought you were not fond of children."

"Well, I am not generally. I'd like them full-grown, and attractive,"
laughing.

"I wouldn't mind a fine, upright, sober, honorable son that one could
trust in all things, but they are scarce."

"David, what will you do with your money?"

"Well,"--he laughed a little. "Let me see--endow a hospital perhaps,
or build a college. But we must have all the pleasure we desire."

She gave a little sigh.

"About this girl, now?" he queried.

"She's the dearest, sweetest, simplest body, not foolish, not
sentimental, but like water in a ground glass globe, if you can
understand. She's one of the old settlers, and that's laughable, came
in '51, round the Horn, from Maine, I believe, with an uncle and some
friends. He is a Mr. Chadsey, and keeps a big warehouse, shipping
stores and what not, and is, I believe, making a fortune--to take her
journeying round the world."

"Chadsey," he said thoughtfully. "Chadsey. What is the girl's name?"

"Oh, Chadsey, too."

"Ah!" nodding, yet he drew his brows a little.

"I suppose he was her mother's brother. Her mother died just before
they came out here."

He made a brief calculation. "Yes, it was in '51 that she died. And
Jason Chadsey was there, he took the little girl away. At Boston all
trace was lost, though he had not searched very exhaustively for
her. He had a feeling that she would be well cared for."

David Westbury glanced at his wife. Her elbow was on the window sill
and her cheek rested on her hand. There was a touch of sadness in her
face, a longing in her eyes. He loved her more now than when he had
married her. She was a little exacting then. She had been very fond of
pleasure, theatres, balls, fine dinners at hotels, journeys, dress,
jewels. He enjoyed them, too, with the zest that generally comes to
one who has been deprived of them in early life, and whose training
has been to consider them reprehensible.

They had taken their fill. Now his mind was all on business; he liked
to surmount difficulties, to bring success out of chaos. He had to
leave her alone a good deal. She used to find entertainment in
conquering the admiration of young men, but these last few years she
had found herself less attractive, except as she listened to their
love troubles and begged her for advice. He did not understand this at
all, only he felt he had an engrossing business and she had nothing
but looking on.

"You like this girl very much?"

"Yes, I can't tell just why, except that she is so honestly sweet, so
ready to give of her best without expecting any return. Do you
remember Lady Westmere and her two daughters? They were fine girls and
devoted to her. I had not considered it much before, but I understood
then what an interest and solace a young girl of the right sort would
be. You know I had Gladys Wynne to stay a month with me when you were
over to Paris. I had half a mind to engage her as a sort of companion,
and she would have been glad enough to come. But I found she had some
mean, underhand tricks, and was looking out for her own advantage
while she was trying to persuade you that it was yours. And she told
little fibs. So I gave up the idea. A maid, you know, is no company,
though one must have her abroad. But we couldn't coax or kidnap this
girl," and she sighed in the midst of a sad smile.

He still paced up and down. How long since he had thought of that old
life. He had always said to himself that he had been a fool to marry
Laverne Dallas, but he had taken a good deal of satisfaction then in
"cutting out" Jason Chadsey. What fools young fellows were!

"Agnes," he began, "before I married you I did not tell you my whole
story. I said I had lost my wife and child, that ill luck had dragged
me through those early years. She had another lover, Jason Chadsey, a
seafaring man, of whom she had not heard in a long time, when she
married me. Some years later I was at a low ebb and away, trying to
make money for them as well as myself. When I had a little success I
went back. She was dead and buried. Chadsey had come back, it seems,
and taken the child, since there were no near relatives to say him
nay. At Boston I lost trace of them."

"Oh, David!" She sprang up and flung both arms about him. "You don't
think--this Laverne--why, what if she should be yours!"

"She came here late in '51. Her mother died early in the spring
before. She must have been about eight. Why, it's quite a romance for
this prosaic world."

"If you are her father, you have the best right. Oh, David, I should
love her and be so good to her. She should have everything, and I
would be so happy. Oh, you must see to-morrow."

There was a hysterical catch in her voice, and a great throb at her
heart.

"There, don't get into a fit. Why, I didn't suppose you could care so
much. Yes, I know you will be good to her. Chadsey may kick about
