would certainly read before sending it upstairs, she sat in her
little hired phaeton and unconsciously looked in under the great
archway, past the porter, who was waiting at her elbow. Just at
that moment she saw a man coming towards her from within, a fair
man with a fresh complexion, dressed in grey. He glanced at her
and lifted his hat a little, and the porter moved to let him pass,
because the carriage was very near the pillars that stood on each
side of the entrance. Teresa was not above asking questions of a
servant when she was curious.

‘Who was that?’ she inquired, looking down and beginning to write
on her card while she spoke. ‘I know his face, but I cannot
remember his name.’

‘He is the steward of Montalto, Excellency, Signor Schmidt.’

‘Of course!’ exclaimed Teresa as if she now remembered perfectly.

She finished writing, gave the porter the card, and drove away,
meditating on the fact that the steward of Montalto frequented a
gambling den in Via Belsiana and spoke to ladies in the street. It
also annoyed her to think that Monsieur de Maurienne had doubtless
often played at the same table with such people, and had possibly
won money from Signor Schmidt. Teresa was more sensitive on some
points than on others.

Maria did not answer her written message. On the second day Teresa
received a note in a large, stiff handwriting, unfamiliar to her.

Montalto had written himself, in very cold and formal terms, to
request her not to put herself to the inconvenience of asking for
the Countess again.

Nothing could have been plainer, and Teresa flushed angrily.

‘That is what one gets for defending one’s friends!’ she cried, in
a rage.

But she remembered quite well that in her anxiety to defend Maria
she had said a number of extremely disagreeable things about
Montalto’s mother, which were also quite untrue. Some careful
relation had doubtless repeated her observations to him, and now he
refused to let her enter his house. She wondered rather flippantly
what would happen if everything she had said in her life were
repeated to the wrong people, and the idea was so amusing that
she laughed at it. But she bore Montalto a lasting grudge from
that day, and it pleased her to reflect that his steward spent
spare hours in a gambling den and would probably rob him in the
end. She would take great care to keep the secret, lest some one
should warn him in time, but she would also do her best to meet
Maria in some friend’s house, and would tell her what she thought
of her behaviour. She felt the humiliation of having had her name
sent down to the porter’s lodge as that of a person for whom the
Countess was never at home. Such a thing had never happened to her
before.

She was Maria’s enemy now, as she had once been her defender, when
it had suited her to take the side of frailty, which may bend
without being quite broken, against that columnar social virtue
which may possibly break but never bends at all. Teresa’s enmity
was not likely to be very dangerous, however, for she was, on the
whole, a good-natured gossip, and might at any time be in need of a
good word for herself in the dangerous game she was playing.

She reflected with rather unnecessary bitterness on her position as
a defenceless widow, and felt quite sure that if she were Madame
de Maurienne, Montalto would not have the courage to insult her
husband by refusing to receive her.




CHAPTER XV


Castiglione had a sort of rule for avoiding Maria which worked
very well for a long time. There is a great sameness in the lives
of Roman ladies even now, and in a society which is numerically
small it is rarely hard to guess where the more important members
of it are. So long as Maria had lived in Via San Martino, not by
any means cut off from the world, but quite independent of it,
she had been in the habit of coming and going as she pleased. She
could slip out to the little oratory in Via Somma Campagna at seven
o’clock in the morning, she could put on her hat unknown to her
maid and go over to the station to post a letter, she could call a
cab and drive to Saint Peter’s, or she could take Leone with her
at a moment’s notice, on a fine day, for a walk in the outlying
quarters of the city, towards Santa Maria Maggiore. All these
things look very simple, unimportant, and easy, and it might be
supposed that she could have enjoyed the same small liberty after
she had moved back to the Palazzo Montalto.

But she could not. Whenever she went out, there was a footman on
duty in the hall, where the wide swinging door to the landing of
the grand staircase was never fastened except at night. If she was
allowed to go downstairs alone, the footman touched a bell that
rang in the porter’s lodge, and the porter was waiting for her
under the arched entrance, respectful but imposing, and by no means
allowing her to take a cab for herself at the stand, fifty paces
from the door. The cab must be called for her, and two of those on
the stand were privileged by turns, because the cabmen paid the
porter a percentage of what he allowed them to earn. Then, too, the
address to which she wished to be taken had to be given to him, and
he transmitted it to the cabman in a stern manner, as if he thought
the man certainly meant to take her somewhere else and must be
dealt with severely.

As for going out in her own carriage, that was quite an affair of
state, too, though old Telemaco still sat on the box. She could
not go to the telephone whenever she pleased and order him to come
when she wanted him. There was red tape in such matters. Maria had
to tell a footman, who had to tell another, who went downstairs
when he was ready and who was in no hurry to find the coachman; and
difficulties arose about horses which had never been heard of when
she had hired a pair by the month.

Moreover, Leone now had a tutor at home, and was taken to the
clerical Istituto Massimo every morning, because Montalto objected
to the public schools, and Maria was not able to argue the question.

‘Either you believe in our religion, or you do not, my dear,’ the
Count had said.

‘I hope I do,’ Maria had answered meekly.

‘In that case I cannot see how you can even think of sending Leone
to a school where no religion is taught.’

She could not answer this, though she had a suspicion that the boy
might be ‘taught religion’ in some other and better way than at
the day-school. Yet it was better to have him go to the Istituto
Massimo and come home for luncheon, than to lose him altogether
for three-quarters of the year, as she must if he were sent to the
Jesuit school of Mondragone in the country; and that seemed to be
the alternative in Montalto’s mind. He himself had been several
years at the latter place, but Leone had become necessary to him
and he wanted the boy at home. Maria submitted a little more
readily to his decision when she thought of Castiglione, who had
been through a public school and the military academy, and who,
according to her ideas, had no religion at all.

Leone’s schooling, the Count’s methodical habits, and the tiresome
formalities and traditions of existence in the great house combined
to make Maria’s days almost as monotonously regular in Rome as they
had been in Montalto; and as they closely resembled those of other
Roman ladies of the same age who had children to educate, it was
not hard for Castiglione to keep out of her way.

So far as society went it was made still easier, because even after
Christmas, when their mourning was slightly relaxed, Montalto was
evidently inclined to confine his acquaintance to the old-fashioned
and clerical houses, so far as any still existed, rather than to
extend it into the modern circles where Castiglione was more often
seen. Montalto made an exception for Giuliana Parenzo and her
husband.

Similar conditions being granted for any particular case, two
people can live a long time without meeting face to face, even in
Rome; and in a city like London they may not meet in a dozen years
if they wish to avoid each other.

Castiglione faced his life quietly and courageously, but there were
moments in which his intention weakened. At times it seemed to him
impossible that such a situation should last till his regiment left
Rome. Maria was a saint, he admitted, and he had no doubt at all
but that he was a man of honour and meant to respect his promise,
however quixotic it looked. But he did not ‘rise higher,’ as Maria
used to write him that he must, and still prayed that he might. On
the contrary, though he kept his word, he sometimes wished that he
had not given it; the roughly masculine side of his nature rebelled
against the higher life, till he asked himself why, after all, he
was living like a man under vows and avoiding the woman he loved,
for the sake of a dream that was quite past and could never visit
him again.

But these moods never lasted long. It was true that he had not
Maria’s faith in things unseen to help him, nor her beatific vision
of an eternal reward for earthly virtues; but, on the other hand,
he had a strong perception of what was right and wrong, in the
sense that conceives actions as morally noble or ignoble, and brave
