'There, Margaret,' said Mrs. Rushmore triumphantly, 'what did I tell
you? Mr. Van Torp says the Countess often walks for miles and miles.'

'Why, certainly,' said Mr. Van Torp, 'though I'm bound to say she's
just as fond of horseback. Her friends generally call her Lady Maud,
Mrs. Rushmore. Perhaps you won't mind my telling you, as she prefers
it a good deal herself. You see, I've had the pleasure of knowing her
several years, so I daresay you'll forgive me for mentioning it.'

'I think it is quite kind of you, on the contrary,' answered Mrs.
Rushmore. 'Margaret, why did you never tell me of this? Had you any
reason for not telling me?'

'I don't think I noticed what you called her,' Margaret answered
patiently.

'Because if you had any reason,' said Mrs. Rushmore, following her own
thoughts, 'I insist upon knowing what it was.'

'Well, now, I'll tell you,' rejoined Mr. Van Torp, to save Margaret
the trouble of answering the futile little speech, 'her husband didn't
treat her very well. There's not a purer woman in the six continents,
Mrs. Rushmore, but he tried to divorce her, because he'd lost his
money, if he ever had any, and she has none, and he wanted to marry an
heiress. However, they automobilised him, or something, in St.
Petersburg last June.'

'Auto--what did you say?' inquired Mrs. Rushmore.

'Killed by an automobile,' explained Mr. Van Torp gravely. 'But now I
come to think, it wasn't that. He got blown up by a bomb meant for a
better man. It was quite instantaneous, I recollect. His head
disappeared suddenly, and the greater part of him was scattered
around, but they found his pocket-book with his cards and things, so
they knew who it was. It was driven through somebody else's hat on the
other side of the street, wasn't it, Miss Donne? Things must have been
quite lively just then, where it happened. I supposed you knew.'

Mrs. Rushmore explained that she had never heard any details.

'Besides,' said Mr. Van Torp, in answer, though not quite relevantly,
'everybody always calls her "Lady Maud" instead of "Countess Leven,"
which she has on her cards.'

'She would naturally use the higher title,' observed Mrs. Rushmore
reverently.

'Well, now, about that,' objected Mr. Van Torp, 'I'm bound to say I
think the daughter of an English earl as good as a Russian count,
anywhere west of Siberia. I don't know how they figure those things
out at courts when they have to balance 'em up for seats at a
dinner-party, of course. It's just my impression, that's all, as a
business man. He's dead anyway, and one needn't make personal remarks
about dead men. All the same, it was a happy release for Lady Maud,
and I doubt if she sits up all night mourning for him. Have you been
out this afternoon, Miss Donne?'

He changed the subject with extreme directness, and Mrs. Rushmore, who
was used to the dictatorial ways of lions, took the hint submissively
enough, though she would have been glad to discuss the relative and
intrinsic values of the designations 'Lady Maud' and 'Countess Leven.'
But it was much more important that the lion should be left alone with
Margaret as much as possible, and the excellent lady therefore
remembered that she had something to do and left them.

'I had a little talk with Kralinsky before he left,' said Van Torp,
when she was gone. 'He says he'll meet us in Venice any time in the
next few days. He's just going to run over to Vienna in his
sudden-death-cart for twenty-four hours; then he'll go south, he says.
He ran me up to the hotel and dropped me. I daresay you heard the
toots. I thought I saw Lady Maud looking out of the window of your
room as I got out.'

'Yes,' Margaret said. 'But how do you know that is my window?'

'In the first place, I've counted the windows. I felt a sort of
interest in knowing which was yours. And then, I often see your maid
opening the shutters in the morning.'

'Oh!' Margaret smiled. 'Did you notice anything unusual about Lady
Maud when you saw her?' she asked, for she knew that he had good eyes.

'Since you mention it, I thought she looked as if she didn't feel
quite up to the mark--pale, I thought she was.'

'Yes,' Margaret said. 'She felt ill for a moment, and I thought she
was going to faint. But it passed almost directly, and she insisted on
going for a walk.'

'Oh,' mused Mr. Van Torp, 'is that so? Well, I daresay it was the best
thing she could do. I was telling you about Kralinsky. He's not Levi
Longlegs after all, and I'm not sure he was ever in the West.'

'I thought it sounded unlikely,' Margaret said.

'I asked him, just like that, in a friendly way, and he thought a
moment and made an effort to recollect, and then he seemed quite
pleased to remember that I'd been "Fanny" and he'd been Levi Longlegs,
and that he used to whistle things out of Parsifal by the fire of an
evening.'

'Well--but in that case---' Margaret stopped with an inquiring look.

'Just so,' continued Van Torp, nodding. 'Did you ever attend a trial
and hear a witness being cross-examined by a lawyer who wants him to
remember something, and he wants to remember it himself, but can't,
because he never heard of it before in his life? It's quite funny. The
lawyer makes steps for him and puts his feet into them so that he gets
along nicely, unless the judge happens to wake up and kick, and then
the little game stops right there, and somebody laughs. Well, my talk
with Kralinsky was like that, only there was no judge, so he went
away happy; and we're old friends now, and punched cows on the same
ranch, and he's coming on my yacht. I only wonder why he was so
anxious to remember all that, and why he thought it would be kind of
friendly if I called him Levi Longlegs again, and he called me Fanny
Cook. I wonder! He says he's still very fond of Parsifal, and came
on purpose to hear it, but that he's completely forgotten how to
whistle. That's funny too. I just thought I'd tell you, because if you
come on my yacht and he comes too, you're liable to see quite a good
deal of one another.'

'Did you tell him that Mrs. Rushmore and I would come?' Margaret
asked. 'And Lady Maud?'

'Why, no. You've not promised yet, any more than you did last night
when he was there and we talked about it, so how could I? I forgot to
mention Lady Maud to him, or else I thought I wouldn't--I forget
which. It doesn't matter.'

'No.' Margaret smiled. 'Not a little bit!'

'You seem amused,' observed Mr. Van Torp.

'By your way of putting it, and your pretending to forget such a
thing.'

'It wasn't quite true that I forgot, but I wanted to, so I didn't say
anything about her. That's why I put it in that way. I don't choose to
leave you any doubt about what I say, or mean, even in the smallest
things. The moment you feel the least doubt about the perfect accuracy
of anything I tell you, even if it's not at all a downright lie or
anything resembling one, you won't trust me at all, in anything.
Because, if you trust me, you'll end by liking me, and if you don't
trust me you'll go back to thinking that I'm the Beast out of
Revelations, or something, as you used to. I've forgotten the Beast's
number.'

Margaret smiled again, though she was continually conscious of her own
sullenly smouldering anger against Logotheti. Van Torp was gaining
influence over her in his own uncouth way. Logotheti had been able to
play upon her moods, as on that day under the elm-tree at Versailles,
and she blushed when she remembered that single kiss he had won from
her. But the American had no idea of such tactics in love, for he had
never learned them. He was making war on the modern scientific system
of never losing a hair's-breadth of ground once gained, keeping his
communications constantly open with the base from which he had
started, bringing up fresh forces to the front without intermission,
and playing his heavy artillery with judgment and tenacity.

'The number doesn't matter,' Margaret said, 'for I've forgotten all
about the Beast.'

'Thank you,' answered Mr. Van Torp. 'To change the subject--I've got a
little scheme to propose. Maybe you'll think well of it. Anyhow, as
it's a mere matter of business connected with your career, you won't
mind my explaining it to you, will you?'

'No, indeed!' Margaret was interested at once. 'Do tell me!' she said,
leaning forward a little.

'Well,' he began, 'I've looked around this place a good deal since
I've been here, and I've come to the conclusion that it's not very
well done, anyhow, except Parsifal. That's what most of the people
really come for. I'm informed that they give all the other operas
better in Munich, with the advantage of being in what you may call a
Christian town, compared with this. Is that correct, do you think?'

'Yes, I believe so.'

'It is, you can depend upon it. Now, what I want to know is, why you
