Mexico for me."

"Mexico?"

"Mexico. I have large mining interests there which need the presence of
a man who can fight, both mentally and physically. I will pay you a good
salary, and if you win, some stock shall go with the victory. Now don't
think that I'm doing this out of sympathy for you. I am looking at you
from a purely commercial point of view. Will you accept?"

"With all my heart," with a burst of enthusiasm.

"That's the way to talk. We'll arrange about the salary after dinner.
Now, go down to the music-room. You will find Miss Boderick there. She
will manage to entertain you till dinner time; and while you are about
it, you may thank her instead of me. I shouldn't have thought of you but
for her. Don't worry over what the newspapers have said. In six months
this affair will have blown over, and you will have settled the mining
dispute one way or the other. You will excuse me now, as I have some
important letters to write. And, mind you, if you breathe a word that I
was at the fight last night ..."

So the Reverend Richard Allen stole quietly down to the music-room. It
was dark; and he entered softly and sat down in a corner at the farther
end of the room, so as not to disturb the musician. In all the years of
his life, the life which numbered thirty variegated years, he had never
known such happiness.

In the study above the general chuckled as he wrote, and murmured from
time to time the word: "Milksop!"




                         THE GIRL AND THE POET


                                   I


WILLIARD sat down to his evening meal. He was later than usual. The
dining-room of the boarding-house was deserted, save for the presence of
the maid servant, who was sweeping the crumbs from the tablecloth. His
entrance was acknowledged by a sour smile. Williard was a sort of pariah
to the narrow minds of that household, who could not associate greatness
of soul with failure and poverty.

"You won't get much," said the maid. "We are too busy with to-morrow's
Christmas dinner."

To-morrow's Christmas dinner! Williard drew the bread-dish toward him
rather mechanically. To-morrow's Christmas dinner! It was Christmas Eve
to-night, and he had forgotten! All that day he had wondered why every
face looked so eager and bright in the office, why the jostling crowds
in the streets were so merry and good-humored. To-morrow was Christmas,
and he had forgotten!

The maid grumblingly fetched what remained of the supper. The hanging
lamp sputtered for lack of oil to feed upon; and all the food tasted
vaguely of kerosene. But Williard made no complaint; he was hungry.
To-morrow's Christmas dinner!

He was tired. Great names had danced before his eyes that day: names
resounding the fickle world's applause and the jingle of her
inconsiderate largess. Not that he envied them, no; rather that they
taught him to despair. In the daytime he read proof in the attic of a
large publishing house; this was existence, it was bread and butter. But
at night, in his little hall bedroom, where the clamors of the city
streets sounded murmurous and indistinct, he still clung to the
fragments of early dreams. His verses and stories, lofty and proud,
lacked something, for they found no entrance to the garden of fame,
which is at best full of false flowers and spurious scents.

For ten years he had striven to attain; and he had failed. He had come
to New York, as thousands of others had come, with hope and her thousand
stars, to see them fade away one by one from the firmament of his
dreams. The world has no patience with failure, no treasures for the
obscure defeat. Ah, to see one's own people, dressed in clear, beautiful
type, move across the white pages, from margin to margin, thinking,
acting, speaking! To unravel the scheme of life, with its loves,
ambitions and revenges--was there any rapture, any pleasure, half so
fine?

The harsh voice of the maid brought him out of his idle dream: for to be
a poet is to dream and to suffer.

"There's a letter under your door," said the girl. "Didn't know you were
coming home to supper, so I didn't put it under your plate."

"Thank you."

"I guess you've struck an heiress; that letter smells of sachet powder,"
she added, sailing through the swinging door to the kitchen.

Williard folded his napkin and rose. Christmas Eve! Where were the old
days in the little white village, the straw rides, the candy pulls, the
great logs in the fireplace? Where had youth gone so suddenly? He
climbed the two flights of stairs to his room, struck a match, and knelt
before the door. Yes, there was a letter. He held it to his nose and
inhaled the delicate odor of violets. A thrill passed through him, a
thrill that was a mixture of joy, sorrow, love, bitterness and regret.

He unlocked the door, entered the room and lighted the gas. How well he
knew the stroke of each letter! How many times in the old days had that
feathery tracing brought cheer and comfort to him! And now she was gone;
out of his meager circle she had passed for ever. Riches! What a
fortress! What a parapet to scale! What a barrier! The mighty dollar now
bastioned and sentineled her as the drab granite and men-at-arms had
surrounded the unhappy princesses of feudal times.

From time to time he had read of her; this duke or that prince was
following her about, from resort to resort. She had written once, but he
had not had the courage to answer that letter. Paris, London, Berlin!
Her beauty and her wealth had conquered each city in its turn. Heigh-ho!
He held the letter as a lover holds a woman's hand: dreamily, dim-eyed,
motionless. Finally he broke the seal.

    DEAR JOHN:

    Home again! Near to Mother Earth again, to the old habits, old
    longings, old friends. I am never going away again. Now, John, I
    am giving a little Christmas Eve dinner to-night, informally, to
    five literary celebrities (four who are known and one who will
    be), and I want you more than any one else. Why? Well, you are a
    staff of oak to lean upon--sound and sturdy and impervious to
    the storms. I want visions of the old days, and somehow they
    will not come back vividly unless you help me to conjure them.
    Do you remember souviens-toi?... But never mind. I'll ask the
    question of you when we meet. No excuses, John, no previous
    engagements. If you have an excuse, destroy it; an engagement,
    break it. This is a command. If you do not come I shall never
    forgive you. What do you care if the celebrities have never
    heard of you? I am sure that not one of them is your peer at
    heart and mind. I am tired, John, tired of false praises and
    flattery, tired of worldly things; and somehow your voice is
    going to rest me. Come at half after eight.             NELL.

Home again! She was home! A dizziness fell upon him for a space, and all
things grew blurred and indistinct. When the vapor passed he returned
the letter to its envelope, opened a drawer in his bureau, and brought
forth an old handkerchief case. In it there were withered flowers,
scraps of ribbon, a broken fan, and packets of old letters. He took out
one of the packets, raised the ribbon (torn from some gown of hers), and
slid under this latest letter, which would probably be the last.

Yes, he would go. And if the celebrities loosed their covert and fatuous
smiles when his back was turned, so be it. His poverty was clean and
honorable. He dressed slowly, and once he gazed into the mirror. The
face he saw there was not inspiring, lined and hollowed as it was; but
its pallor lent a refinement to it, that tender, proud refinement which
describes a lofty soul, full of gentleness and nobility.

From time to time he approached the window. How the snow whirled,
eddied, sank, and whirled again! The arc lamps became luminous clouds.
He looked at his shoes. Could he afford a cab? And yet, could he afford
to appear before her, his shoes wet, his clothes damp with snow? He
decided in favor of the cab. It was Christmas Eve; a little luxury would
not be wrong.

By-and-by he stepped out of the boarding-house into the storm. Clouds of
moist feathery particles surged over him, and crept inside his rusty
velvet collar. Suddenly he discovered a handsome coupé standing in
front. The footman was walking up and down while the driver beat his
hands across his breast. Williard did not understand what this elegant
equipage was doing in such a street. Even as he cogitated, the footman
descried him and approached.

"Beg pardon, sir; Mr. Williard?" he inquired.

"Yes, I am Mr. Williard," was the wondering answer.

"Then we are just in time, sir!" The footman ran to the coupé and opened
the door respectfully.

"You have made a mistake, my man," said Williard. "I did not order--"

"We are from Miss Wycklift's," said the footman.

Her carriage! And she had sent it to his boarding-house for fear he
might slip past!
