
"By heavens!" he began indignantly, but she stilled his jerk of
resentment with a quick pressure.

"Lie still! For goodness' sake don't make the leaves rustle, silly! If
there's a flock of turkeys in any of those cypress tops, you may be sure
that every separate bird is now looking straight in our direction.... I
won't torment you any more; I dare not. Little Tiger turned around; did
you notice? He'd probably like to scalp us both."

But the Indian had resumed his motionless study of the darkness,
squatted on his haunches as immobile as a dead stump.

Hamil whispered: "Such a chance to make love to you! You dare not move.
And you deserve it for tormenting me."

"If you did such a thing--"

"Yes?"

"Such a thing as that--"

"Yes?"

"But you wouldn't."

"Why, Shiela, I'm doing it every minute of my life!"

"Now?"

"Of course. It goes on always. I couldn't prevent it any more than I
could stop my pulses. It just continues with every heart-beat, every
breath, every word, every silence--"

"Mr. Hamil!"

"Yes?"

"That does sound like it--a little; and you must stop!"

"Of course I'll stop saying things, but that doesn't stop with my
silence. It simply goes on and on increasing every--"

"Try silence," she said.

Motionless, shoulder to shoulder, the pulsing moments passed. Every
muscle tense, she sat there for a while, fearful that he could hear her
heart beating. Her palm, doubled in his, seemed to burn. Then little by
little a subtle relaxation stole over her; dreamy-eyed she sank back and
looked into the darkness. A sense of delicious well-being possessed her,
enmeshing thought in hazy lethargy, quieting pulse and mind.

Through it she heard his voice faintly; her own seemed unreal when she
answered.

He said: "Speaking of love; there is only one thing possible for me,
Shiela--to go on loving you. I can't kill hope, though there seems to be
none. But there's no use in saying so to myself for it is one of those
things no man believes. He may grow tired of hoping, and, saying there
is none, live on. But neither he nor Fate can destroy hope any more than
he can annihilate his soul. He may change in his heart. That he cannot
control. When love goes no man can stay its going."

"Do you think yours will go?"

"No. That is a lover's answer."

"What is a sane man's answer?"

"Ask some sane man, Shiela."

"I would rather believe you."

"Does it make you happy?"

"Yes."

"You wish me to love you?"

"Yes."

"You would love me--a little--if you could?"

She closed her eyes.

"Would you?" he asked again.

"Yes."

"But you cannot."

She said, dreamily: "I don't know. That is a dreadful answer to make.
But I don't know what is in me. I don't know what I am capable of
doing. I wish I knew; I wish I could tell you."

"Do you know what I think, Shiela?"

"What?"

"It's curious--but since I have known you--and about your birth--the
idea took shape and persisted--that--that--"

"What?" she asked.

"That, partly perhaps because of your physical beauty, and because of
your mind and its intelligence and generosity, you embodied something of
that type which this nation is developing."

"That is curious," she said softly.

"Yes; but you give me that impression, as though in you were the lovely
justification of these generations of welding together alien and native
to make a national type, spiritual, intelligent, wholesome,
beautiful.... And I've fallen into the habit of thinking of you in that
way--as thoroughly human, thoroughly feminine, heir to the best that is
human, and to its temptations too; yet, somehow, instinctively finding
the right way in life, the true way through doubt and stress.... Like
the Land itself--with perhaps the blood of many nations in your
veins.... I don't know exactly what I'm trying to say--"

"I know."

"Yes," he whispered, "you do know that all I have said is only a longer
way of saying that I love you."

"Through stress and doubt," she murmured, "you think I will find the
way?--with perhaps the blood of many nations in my veins, with all their
transmitted emotions, desires, passions for my inheritance?... It is my
only heritage. They did not even leave me a name; only a capacity for
every human error, with no knowledge of what particular inherited
failing I am to contend with when temptation comes. Do you wonder I am
sometimes lonely and afraid?"

"You darling!" he said under his breath.

"Hush; that is forbidden. You know perfectly well it is. Are you
laughing? That is very horrid of you when I'm trying so hard not to
listen when you use forbidden words to me. But I heard you once when I
should not have heard you. Does that seem centuries ago? Alas for us
both, Ulysses, when I heard your voice calling me under the Southern
stars! Would you ever have spoken if you knew what you know now?"

"I would have told you the truth sooner."

"Told me what truth?"

"That I love you, Calypso."

"You always answer like a boy! Ah, well I--if you knew how easily a girl
believes such answers!"

He bent his head, raising her bare fingers to his lips. A tiny shock
passed through them both; she released her hand and buried it in the
folds of her kilt.

There was a pale flare of moonlight behind the forest; trunks and
branches were becoming more distinct. A few moments later the Indian,
bending low, came creeping back without a sound, and straightened up in
the fathomless shadow of the oak, motioning Shiela and Hamil to rise.

"Choo-lee," he motioned with his lips; "Ko-la-pa-kin!"

Lips close to Hamil's ear she whispered: "He says that there are seven
in that pine. Can you see them?"

He strained his eyes in vain; she had already found them and now stood
close to his shoulder, whispering the direction.

"I can't make them out," he said. "Don't wait for me, but take your
chance at once."

"Do you think I would do that?"

"You must! You have never shot a turkey--"

"Hush, silly. What pleasure would there be in it without you? Try to see
them; look carefully. All those dark furry blotches against the sky are
pine leaves, but the round shadowy lumps are turkeys; one is quite
clearly silhouetted, now; even to his tail--"

