in Dan Waterman’s art gallery. “And Allan,” she exclaimed, “what do
you think, I met him!”

“You don’t mean it!” said he.

“He was there the whole afternoon!” declared Lucy. “And he never did
a thing but be nice to me!”

“Then you didn’t find him so terrible as you expected,” said
Montague.

“He was perfectly charming,” said Lucy. “He showed me his whole
collection and told me the history of the different paintings, and
stories about how he got them. I never had such an experience in my
life.”

“He can be an interesting man when he chooses,” Montague responded.

“He is marvellous!” said she. “You look at that lean figure, and the
wizened-up old hawk’s face, with the white hair all round it, and
you’d think that he was in his dotage. But when he talks--I don’t
wonder men obey him!”

“They obey him!” said Montague. “No mistake about that! There is not
a man in Wall Street who could live for twenty-four hours if old Dan
Waterman went after him in earnest.”

“How in the world does he do it?” asked Lucy. “Is he so enormously
rich?”

“It is not the money he owns,” said Montague; “it’s what he
controls. He is master of the banks; and no man can take a step in
Wall Street without his knowing it if he wants to. And he can break
a man’s credit; he can have all his loans called. He can swing the
market so as to break a man. And then, think of his power in
Washington! He uses the Treasury as if it were one of his branch
offices.”

“It seems frightful,” said Lucy. “And that old man--over eighty! I’m
glad that I met him, at any rate.”

She paused, seeing Stanley Ryder in the doorway. He was evidently
looking for her. He took her in to dinner; and every now and then,
when Montague stole a glance at her, he saw that Ryder was
monopolising her attention.

After dinner they adjourned to the music-room, and Ryder played a
couple of Chopin’s Nocturnes. He never took his eyes from Lucy’s
face while he was playing. “I declare,” remarked Betty Wyman in
Montague’s hearing, “the way Stanley Ryder makes love at the piano
is positively indecent.”

Montague dodged several invitations to play cards, and deliberately
placed himself at Lucy’s side for the evening. And when at last
Stanley Ryder had gone away in disgust to the smoking-room, he
turned to her and said, “Lucy, you must let me speak to you about
this.”

“I don’t mind your speaking to me, Allan,” she said; with a feeble
attempt at a smile.

“But you must pay attention to me,” he protested. “You really don’t
know the sort of man you are dealing with, or what people think
about him.”

She sat in silence, biting her lip nervously, while Montague told
her, as plainly as he could, what Ryder’s reputation was. All that
she could answer was, “He is such an interesting man!”

“There are many interesting men,” said he, “but you will never meet
them if you get people talking about you like this.”

Lucy clasped her hands together.

“Allan,” she exclaimed, “I did my best to persuade him not to come
out here. And you are right. I will do what you say--I will have
nothing to do with him, honestly. You shall see! It’s his own fault
that he came, and he can find somebody else to entertain him while
he’s here.”

“I wish that you would tell him plainly, Lucy,” said Montague.
“Never mind if he gets angry. Make him understand you--once for
all.”

“I will--I will!” she declared.

And Montague judged that she carried out her promise quickly, for
the rest of the evening Ryder gave to entertaining the company.
About midnight Montague chanced to look into the library, and he saw
the president of the Gotham Trust in the midst of a group which was
excitedly discussing divorce. “Marriage is a sin for which the
church refuses absolution!” he heard Stanley Ryder exclaiming.




CHAPTER III


A few days after these incidents, Montague was waiting for a friend
who was to come to dinner at his hotel. He was sitting in the lobby
reading a paper, and he noticed an elderly gentleman with a grey
goatee and rather florid complexion who passed down the corridor
before him. A minute or two later he happened to glance up, and he
caught this gentleman’s eye.

The latter started, and a look of amazement came over his face. He
came forward, saying, “I beg pardon, but is not this Allan
Montague?”

“It is,” said Montague, looking at him in perplexity.

“You don’t remember me, do you?” said the other.

“I must confess that I do not,” was the answer.

“I am Colonel Cole.”

But Montague only knitted his brows in greater perplexity. “Colonel
Cole?” he repeated.

“You were too young to remember me,” the other said. “I have been at
your house a dozen times. I was in your father’s brigade.”

“Indeed!” exclaimed Montague. “I beg your pardon.”

“Don’t mention it, don’t mention it,” said the other, taking a seat
beside him. “It was really extraordinary that I should recall you.
And how is your brother? Is he in New York?”

“He is,” said Montague.

“And your mother? She is still living, I trust?”

“Oh, yes,” said he. “She is in this hotel.”

“It is really an extraordinary pleasure!” exclaimed the other. “I
did not think I knew a soul in New York.”

“You are visiting here?” asked Montague.

“From the West,” said the Colonel.

“It is curious how things follow out,” he continued, after a pause.
“I was thinking about your father only this very day. I had a
proposal from someone who wanted to buy some stock that I have--in
the Northern Mississippi Railroad.”

Montague gave a start. “You don’t mean it!” he said.

“Yes,” said the other. “Your father persuaded me to take some of the
stock, away back in the old days. And I have had it ever since. I
had forgotten all about it.”

Montague smiled. “When you have disposed of yours,” he said, “you
might refer your party to me. I know of some more that is for sale.”

“I have no doubt,” said the Colonel. “But I fancy it won’t fetch
much now. I don’t remember receiving any dividends.”

There was a pause. “It is a curious coincidence,” said the other.
“I, too, have been thinking about the railroad. My friend, Mrs.
Taylor, has just come up from New Orleans. She used to be Lucy
Dupree.”

The Colonel strove to recall. “Dupree?” he said.

“Judge Dupree’s daughter,” said Montague. “His brother, John Dupree,
was the first president of the road.”

“Oh, yes,” said the Colonel. “Of course, of course! I remember the
Judge now. Your father told me he had taken quite a lot of the
stock.”

“Yes, he was the prime mover in the enterprise.”

“And who was that other gentleman?” said the Colonel, racking his
brains. “The one who used to be so much in his house, and was so
much interested in him--”

