She was not quite pleased, and as she leaned her head back against the
wall he saw her pouting lips in the moonlight.

'I like to be envied,' said Stradella.

As he made this singular answer he bent over a mandoline he had been
holding on his knee and made the point of the quill quiver against the
upper strings with incredible lightness, so that the tinkling note
seemed to come from very far away and could not interrupt the
conversation.

'I do not understand,' Ortensia said, after a moment, and she lifted her
arms and made her clasped hands a pillow between the back of her head
and the wall.

'The beauty of anything is its immortal part,' he said; 'its real value
is as much as people will give for it, neither more nor less. Do you not
understand me yet?'

'Not quite. Why do you talk in riddles? I am not very clever, you know!'

'You are beautiful, dear. I have often told you so, and other men will
if they get a chance. But as one of nature's works of art I doubt
whether you are more beautiful than almond-blossoms in spring, or the
dawn in the south on a summer's morning. Do you see?'

'No. Is it a parable? What will you compare me to next?'

Stradella was making sweet far-off music on the instrument. It came a
little nearer and then died away into the distance, when he was ready to
speak again.

'You may have almond-blossoms by hundreds in March for nothing,' he
said, 'and any one may see the dawn who is awake so early! They have
perfect beauty, but no value. No one can really envy a man who brings an
armful of flowers home with him, or who sees the dawn of a fine day, yet
both are quite as lovely as you are, in their own fashion, though they
are common. But you have their beauty, and besides, you are of immense
value, not to me only but to the whole race of men, because you are not
only beautiful, but also a very rare work of nature, far rarer than
pearls and rubies.'

'Then it was all a pretty compliment you were paying me!' Ortensia
smiled. 'Of course I could not understand what you meant!'

Stradella laughed low, and the mandoline was silent for a while.

'The way to make compliments is to find out what a woman most admires in
herself and then to make her believe it is ten times more wonderful than
she supposed it could be. No one has ever told that secret yet, but it
has opened more doors and balcony windows than any other.'

'That was not your way of opening mine, dear!' laughed Ortensia. 'I am
afraid you needed no secret at all to do that.'

Again he touched the mandoline, but it was not mere tinkling music now,
making believe that it came all the way down the long street from the
dismal Tor di Nona by the bridge. It was that love-song he had made for
her in Venice, and had sung to her when Pina left them together the
first time; a measure of the melody trembled through the upper strings,
and then his own voice took up the words in tones breathed out so easily
that the highest never seemed to be high, nor to cost him more effort
than ordinary speech. Of all instruments the violoncello can yield notes
most like such a voice, when the bow is in a master's hand.

In Rome, at night, he may sing who will, even now: if he goes bawling
out of tune through the silent streets, though it be not from drink but
out of sheer lightness of heart, the first policeman he meets will
silence him, it is true; but if he sings well and soberly he may go on
his way rejoicing, for no watchman will hinder him. It is an ancient
right of the Italian people to sing when and where they please, by day
or night, in the certainty that tuneful singing can never give offence
nor disturb even a dying man.

So the great master of song sat in the high balcony on that June night
and let his voice float out over moon-lit Rome; and presently Ortensia
slipped from her chair and knelt before him, her hands clasped on his
knees and looking up to his face, for his magic was more enthralling now
than when it had first drawn her to him.

When he reached the end he kissed her, the last long-drawn note still
vibrating on his lips, and she felt that they were cold and trembling
when they touched hers.

'Yes,' she whispered, drawing back just enough to see his eyes in the
moonlight, 'that was the key to my window. When I heard that song I knew
you loved me already, and that I must love you too, sooner or later,
and for all my life. It is not my poor beauty that is rarer than pearls
and rubies, love, but your genius and your voice. I know what you mean
now! I like to be envied by other women because you are mine, with all
you are, you, and your fame, and everything!'

'Do you see?' Stradella laughed softly. 'You should not be angry with
people who stare at you, any more than I am with people who listen when
I sing! And I am no more jealous because Don Alberto admires you than
you should be because Queen Christina likes my singing, as she says she
does.'

'Tell me, Alessandro, is that a black wig she wears, or is it her own
hair?' asked Ortensia, pretending to be serious.

'In confidence, my love, it is a wig,' Stradella answered with extreme
gravity.

'So much the better. I am glad she admires your singing; but if it were
not a wig, perhaps I should be less glad. Do you think Don Alberto's
fine black hair is his own, dear; and are his legs quite real?'

'Without doubt.'

'Then I think you ought to be just a little less glad that he stares at
me, than if his legs were padded and he wore a wig as the Queen does,
and were forty, as she is, with bad teeth and a muddy complexion like
hers! You know you should be just a very little less pleased, dear!'

In the moonlight he could see her smiling, for her face was close to
his, and she had laid her hands on his shoulders, while she still knelt
at his knees.

'But that would mean that I was jealous, dear heart,' objected
Stradella. 'Why am I to be jealous because he admires you, unless you
like him too much? Most women say that a man is a brute to be jealous at
all till they have run away with some one else! Your uncle, for
instance, is really justified in being jealous of me.'

'Really?'

Ortensia laughed and kissed again before saying anything more; and just
as their lips touched, the silver light began to fail, and the young
moon dropped behind the Vatican Hill, and when they separated it seemed
quite dark by comparison. Now any one can easily find out how long it
takes the moon to set after she has touched the shoulder of a hill; and
hence the exact number of seconds during which that particular kiss
lasted can easily be ascertained. But time, as Danish people say, was
made for shoemakers; and Ortensia and Stradella took no account of it,
but behaved in the most foolishly dilatory way, just as if they were not
a plain, humdrum, married couple that should have known better than to
spend the evening in a balcony, alternately sentimentalising, kissing,
and singing love-songs.

That was the last evening they spent at the Sign of the Bear, and though
they had talked idly enough in the loggia under the light of the young
moon about such very grave subjects as jealousy and envy, they
afterwards cherished ineffaceable memories of that sweet June night.

For there had been an interlude in the comedy of their troubles,
wherein love had dwelt with them alone and in peace, making his
treasures fully known to them, and guiding their footsteps while they
explored his kingdom and his palace; and they both felt instinctively
that the interlude was over now, and that real life must begin again
with their change of lodgings. Stradella was a musician and a singer,
without settled fortune, and he must return to the business of earning
bread for them both; moreover, he was famous, and therefore could not
possibly get his living obscurely. The Pope's adopted family would vie
with the ex-Queen of Sweden, the Spanish Ambassador and the rich nobles,
to flatter him and attract him to their respective palaces. Alberto
Altieri, who had lost his heart to Ortensia's beauty at first sight,
would organise every sort of fashionable entertainment for the young
bride's benefit, and would do his best to turn her head by magnificent
display. Hereafter, till the summer heat drove the Romans to the
country, no evening gathering in a noble house would deserve mention if
Stradella and his wife were not there, as no concert would be worth
hearing unless some of his music was performed. The young couple would
be continually in the very vortex of fashion's whirlpool, and though
they would not resent the distinction, and might even enjoy the gaiety
for a few weeks, they would have but little time left for each other
between morning and midnight.

It was apparent on the very first night they spent in the Palazzo
Altieri that Don Alberto was not the only young man in Rome who wished
to please Ortensia. Soon after the second hour of night, which we
should call about ten o'clock in June, Stradella and Ortensia heard
music in the narrow street below their new quarters; and as the sounds
did not move farther away, it was almost immediately apparent that the
singers were serenading Ortensia. It was no ordinary music, either;
there were half-a-dozen fine voices and four or five stringed
instruments, played with masterly skill--a violin, a 'viola d'amore,'
and at least two or three lutes.

Stradella put out the light in the room and opened the outer shutters a
