cheeks. He said, "Daffodil," and drew her closely in his arms, kissed
the lips that throbbed with bashful joy and tremulous sweetness.

"Dear, I love you. And you--you are mine."

There was a long delicious breath. The story of love is easily told
when both understand the divine language.

She came in glowing, with eyes like stars, and went straight to her
mother, who was sitting alone. Both of the men had gone to some
borough business. She kissed her joyous secret into the waiting heart.

"You love him. You know now what love is? That is the way I loved your
father."

"It is wonderful, isn't it? You grow into it, hardly knowing, and then
it is told without words, though the words come afterward. Oh, did you
think----"

"Foolish child, we all saw. He carried the story in his eyes. Your
father knew. He has been very honest and upright. Oh, my dear, I am so
glad for you. Marriage is the crown of womanhood."

Her mother drew her down in her lap. Daffodil's arms were around her
neck, and they were heart to heart, a happy mother and a happy child.

"You will not mind if I go to bed? I--I want to be alone."

"No, dear. Happy dreams, whether you wake or sleep."

She lay in a delicious tremor. There was a radiant light all about
her, though the room was dark. This was what it was to be loved and to
love, and she could not tell which was best.

Then at home he was her acknowledged lover. He came on Wednesday night
and Sunday to tea. But Norry soon found it out, and was glad for her.
Grandad teased her a little.

"And you needn't think I'm going to leave you any fortune," he said,
almost grumblingly. "The blamed whiskey tax is eating it up every
year, and the little left will go to Felix. You have all that land
over there that you don't need more than a dog needs two tails. Well,
I think there are times when a dog would be glad to wag both, if he
had 'em. That will be enough for you and your children. But I'll dance
at the wedding."

Barbe Carrick looked over the chest of treasures that she had been
adding to year after year. There was her wedding gown, and it had
been her mother's before her. The lace was exquisite, and no one could
do such needlework nowadays. What if it had grown creamy by age, that
only enhanced it.

Here were the other things she had accumulated, sometimes with a pang
lest they should not be needed. Laid away in rose leaves and lavender
blooms. Oh, how daintily sweet they were, but not sweeter than the
girl who was to have them. And here were some jewels that had been
great-grandmother Duvernay's. She would have no mean outfit to hand
down again to posterity.

Barbe was doubly glad that she would live here. She could not bear
the thought of her going away, and a soldier's wife was never quite
sure where he might be called, or into what danger. There would be a
nice home not very far away, there would be sweet, dainty
grandchildren. It was worth waiting for.

Jeffrey Andsdell was minded not to wait very long. Love was growing by
what it fed upon, but he wanted the feast daily. They could stay at
home until their new house was built.

"We ought to go over across the river," she said, "and be pioneers in
the wilderness. And, oh, there is one thing that perhaps you won't
like. Whoever married me was to take the name of Duvernay, go back to
the French line."

"Why, yes, I like that immensely." That would sever the last link. He
would be free of all the old life.

"It isn't as pretty as yours."

"Oh, do you think so? Now, I am of the other opinion;" laughing into
her lovely eyes.

She grew sweeter day by day, even her mother could see that. Yes, love
was the atmosphere in which a woman throve.

Barbe settled the wedding time. "When the Daffodils are in bloom," she
said, and the lover agreed.

Archie Langdale wrote her a brotherly letter, but said, "If you could
put it off until my vacation. I'm coming back to take another year,
there have been so many new discoveries, and I want to get to the very
top. Dilly--that was the child's name, I used to have a little dream
about you. You know I was a dull sort of fellow, always stuffing my
head with books, and you were sweet and never flouted me. I loved you
very much. I thought you would marry Ned, and then you would be my
sister, you could understand things that other girls didn't. I am
quite sure he loved you, too. But your happiness is the first thing to
be considered, and I hope you will be very happy."

The engagement was suspected before it was really admitted. There were
various comments, of course. Daffodil Carrick had been waiting for
something fine, and she could afford to marry a poor man with her
possible fortune, and her father's prosperity. And some day a girl
would be in luck to get young Sandy Carrick.

Lieutenant Langdale took it pretty hard. He had somehow hoped against
hope, for he believed the Carricks would refuse a man who had come a
stranger in the place. If he could call him out and shoot him down in
a duel! He shut himself up in his room, and drank madly for two days
before he came to his senses.

March came in like the lion and then dropped down with radiant suns
that set all nature aglow. There were freshets, but they did little
damage. Trees budded and birds came and built in the branches. Bees
flew out in the sunshine, squirrels chattered, and the whole world was
gay and glad.

One day the lovers went up the winding path to the old hill-top, where
Jeffrey insisted he had first lost his heart to her. They sat on the
same tree trunk, and he said verses to her, but instead of Clorinda it
was Daffodil. And they talked sweet nonsense, such as never goes out
of date between lovers. And when they came down they looked at the
daffodil bed. The buds had swollen, some were showing yellow.

"Why, it can be next week!" cried the lover joyously.

"Yes," said the mother, with limpid eyes, remembering when the child
was born.

There was not much to make ready. The cake had been laid away to
season, so that it would cut nicely. There was a pretty new church
now, and the marriage would be solemnized there, with a wedding feast
at home, and then a round of parties for several evenings at different
houses. The Trents had just finished their house, which was considered
quite a mansion, and the carpets had come from France. They would give
the first entertainment.

She had written to her guardian, who sent her a kindly letter, wishing
her all happiness. The winter had been a rather hard one for him, for
an old enemy that had been held in abeyance for several years,
rheumatism, had returned, and though it was routed now, it had left
him rather enfeebled, otherwise he would have taken the journey to see
his ward, the little girl grown up, whose visit he had enjoyed so
much, and whom he hoped to welcome in his home some time again.

And with it came a beautiful watch and chain. Presents were not much
in vogue in those days, and their rarity made them all the more
precious.

They dressed the house with daffodils, but the bride-to-be was all in
white, the veil the great-grandmother had worn in Paris, fastened with
a diamond circlet just as she had had it.

"Oh!" Daffodil exclaimed, "if great-grandfather could see me!"

Jeffrey Andsdell took her in his arms and kissed her. This was,
indeed, a true marriage, and could there ever be a sweeter bride?

She was smiling and happy, for every one was pleased, so why should
she not be! She even forgot the young man pacing about the Fort
wishing--ah, what could he wish except that he was in Andsdell's
place? For surely he was not mean enough to grudge her any
happiness.

She walked up the church aisle on her lover's arm and next came her
parents. Once Andsdell's lips compressed themselves, and a strange
pallor and shudder came over him.

Her father gave her away. The clergyman pronounced them man and wife.
Then friends thronged around. They were privileged to kiss the bride
in those days.

"My wife," was what Jeffrey Andsdell said in a breathless, quivering
tone.

They could not rush out in modern fashion. She cast her smiles on
every side, she was so happy and light-hearted.

They reached the porch just as a coach drove up at furious speed. A
woman sprang out, a tall, imperious-looking person, dressed in grand
