
"But why didn't this butterfly man tell the admiral all?"

"He had excellent reasons.  He's a secret agent, and has the idea that
Breitmann wants to go into France and make an emperor of himself."

"Do men dream of such things to-day, let alone try to enact them?"
incredulously.

"Breitmann's an example."

"Are you taking his part?"

"No, damn him!  May I ask you a pertinent question?"

"Yes."

"Did he know Miss von Mitter very well in Munich?"

"He did."

"Was he quite square?"

"I am beginning to believe that he was something between a cad and a
scoundrel."

"Did you know that among her forebears on her mother's side was the
Abbe Fanu, who left among other things the diagram of the chimney?"

"So that was it?"  Cathewe's jaws hardened.

Fitzgerald understood.  Poor old Cathewe!

"Most women are fools!" said Cathewe, as if reading his friend's
thought.  "Pick out all the brutes in history; they were always better
loved than decent men.  Why?  God knows!  Well, good night;" and
Cathewe blew out his candle.

So did Fitzgerald; but it was long before he fell asleep.  He was
straining his ears for the sound of a carriage coming down from Evisa.
But none came.




CHAPTER XXIV

THE PINES OF AITONE

Before sun-up they were on the way again.  They circled through
magnificent gorges now, of deep red and salmon tinted granite,
storm-worn, strangely hollowed out, as if some Titan's hand had been at
work; and always the sudden disappearance and reappearance of the blue
Mediterranean.

The two young women rode in the same carriage.  Occasionally the men
got down out of theirs and walked on either side of them.  Whenever an
abrupt turn showed forward, Fitzgerald put his hand in his pocket.
From whichever way it came, he, at least, was not going to be found
unprepared.  Sometimes, when he heard M. Ferraud's laughter drift back
from the admiral's carriage, he longed to throttle the aggravating
little man.  Yet, his admiration of him was genuine.  What a chap to
have wandered round with, in the old days!  He began to realize what
Frenchmen must have been a hundred years gone.  And the strongest point
in his armor was his humanity; he wished no one ill.  Gradually the
weight on Fitzgerald's shoulders lightened.  If M. Ferraud could laugh,
why not he?

"Isn't that view lovely!" exclaimed Laura, as the Capo di Rosso
glowed in the sun with all the beauty of a fabulous ruby.  "Are you
afraid at all, Hildegarde?"

"No, Laura; I am only sad.  I wish we were safely on the yacht.  Yes,
yes; I am afraid, of something I know not what."

"I never dreamed that he could be dishonest.  He was a gentleman,
somewhere in his past.  I do not quite understand it all.  The money
does not interest my father so much as the mere sport of finding it.
You know it was agreed to divide, his share among the officers and
seamen, and the balance to our guests.  It would have been such fun."

And the woman who knew everything must perforce remain silent.  With
what eloquence she could have defended him!

"Do you think we shall find it?" wistfully.

"No, Laura."

"How can he find his way back without passing us?"

"For a desperate man who has thrown his all on this one chance, he will
find a hundred ways of returning."

A carriage came round one of the pinnacled calenches.  It was empty.
M. Ferraud casually noted the number.  He was not surprised.  He had
been waiting for this same vehicle.  It was Breitmann's, but the man
driving it was not the man who had driven it out of Ajaccio.  He was an
Evisan.  A small butterfly fluttered alongside.  M. Ferraud jumped out
and swooped with his hat.  He decided not to impart his discovery to
the others.  He was assured that the man from Evisa knew absolutely
nothing, and that to question him would be a waste of time.  At this
very moment it was not unlikely that Breitmann and his confederate were
crossing the mountains; perhaps with three or four sturdy donkeys,
their panniers packed with precious metal.  And the dupe would go
straight to his fellow-conspirators and share his millions.  Curious
old world!

They saw Evisa at sunset, one of the seven glories of the earth.  The
little village rests on the side of a mountain, nearly three-thousand
feet above the sea, the sea itself lying miles away to the west,
V-shaped between two enormous shafts of burning granite.  Even the
admiral forgot his smoldering wrath.

The hotel was neat and cool, and all the cook had to do was to furnish
dishes and hot water for tea.  There was very little jesting, and what
there was of it fell to the lot of Coldfield and the Frenchman.  The
spirit in them all was tense.  Given his way, the admiral would have
gone out that very night with lanterns.

"Folly!  To find a given point in an unknown forest at night;
impossible!  Am I not right, Mr. Cathewe?  Of course.  Breitmann's man
knew AÃ¯tone from his youth.  Suppose," continued M. Ferraud, "that we
spend two days here?"

"What?  Give him all the leeway?"  The admiral was amazed that M.
Ferraud could suggest such a stupidity.  "No.  In the morning we make
the search.  If there's nothing there we'll return at once."

M. Ferraud spoke to the young woman who waited on the table.  "Please
find Carlo, the driver, and bring him here."

Ten minutes later Carlo came in, hat in hand, curious.

"Carlo," began the Frenchman, leaning on his elbows, his sharp eyes
boring into the mild brown ones of the Corsican, "we shall not return
to Carghese to-morrow but the day after."

"Not return to-morrow?" cried Carlo dismayed.

"Ah, but the signore does not understand.  We are engaged day after
to-morrow to carry a party to Bonifacio.  We have promised.  We must
return to-morrow."

Fitzgerald saw the drift and bent forward.  The admiral fumed because
his Italian was an indifferent article.

"But," pursued M. Ferraud, "we will pay you twenty francs the day, just
the same."

"We are promised." Carlo shrugged and spread his hands, but the glitter
in his questioner's eyes disquieted him.

"What's this about?" growled the admiral.

"The man says he must take us back to-morrow, or leave us, as he has
promised to return to Ajaccio to carry a party to Bonifacio," M.
Ferraud explained.

"Then, if we don't go to-morrow it means a week in this forsaken hole?"

"It is possible."  M. Ferraud turned to Carlo once more.  "We will make
it fifty francs per day."

"Impossible, signore!"

"Then you will return to-morrow without us."

Carlo's face hardened.  "But--"

"Come outside with me," said M. Ferraud in a tone which brooked no
further argument.

The two stepped out into the hall, and when the Frenchman came back his
face was animated.

"Mr. Ferraud," said the admiral icily, "my daughter has informed me
what passed between you.  I must say that you have taken a deal upon
yourself."

"Mr. Ferraud is right," put in Fitzgerald.
