day."

"Of course," he murmured politely, "it's a thing to do and get done--like
going abroad."

She looked up at him quickly.

"Years ago I knew a boy--with your easy humour and your trick of speech.
He resembled you otherwise; and he wore your name becomingly."

He tried to recall knowing her in his extreme youth, but made no definite
connection.

"You wouldn't remember," she said gravely; "but I think I know you now.
Who is your father?"

"My father?" he repeated, surprised and smiling. "My father is John Brown
3rd."

"And his father?"

"My grandfather?" he asked, very much amused. "Oh, he was John Brown 2nd.
And his father was Captain John Brown of Westchester; but I don't want
to talk D. A. R. talk to you about my great grandfather----"

"He fought at Pound Ridge," said the girl, slowly.

"Yes," said Brown, astonished.

"Tarleton's cavalry--the brutal hussars of the legion--killed him on the
Stamford Road," she said; "and he lay there in the field all day with one
dead arm over his face and his broken pistol in his hand, and the
terrible galloping fight drove past down the stony New Canaan road--and
the smoke from the meeting house afire rolled blacker and blacker and
redder and redder----"

With a quickly drawn breath she covered her face with both hands and
stood a moment silent; and Brown stared at her, astonished, doubting his
eyes and ears.

The next moment she dropped her hands and looked at him with a tremulous
smile.

"What in the world can you be thinking of me?" she said. "Alone in this
old house, here among the remoter hills of Westchester. I live so vividly
in the past that these almost forgotten tragedies seem very real to me
and touch me closely. To me the present is only a shadow; the past is
life itself. Can you understand?"

"I see," he said, intensely relieved concerning her mental stability;
"you are a Daughter of the American Revolution or a Society of Colonial
Wars or--er--something equally--er--interesting and desirable----"

"I am a Daughter of the American Revolution," she said proudly.

"Exactly," he smiled with an inward shudder. "A--a very
interesting--er--and--exceedingly--and--all that sort of thing," he
nodded amiably. "Don't take much interest in it myself--being a broker
and rather busy----"

"I am sorry."

He looked up quickly and met her strange eyes, one hazel-grey, one
hazel-brown.

"I--I'll be delighted to take an interest in anything you--in--er--this
Revolutionary business if you--if you don't mind telling me about it," he
stammered. "Evenings, now, if you have time to spare----"

She smiled, opened the door wider, and looked humorously down at him
where he stood fidgeting on the step.

"Will you come in?" she asked serenely.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




XX


HE went, first depositing his suit-case on the step outside by the cats,
and followed her into a large, comfortable sitting room.

"By jove," he said, "you know this is really mighty pretty! What a
corking collection of old furniture! Where in the world did you find--or
perhaps this is the original furniture of the place?"

She said, looking around the room as though slightly perplexed: "This
furniture was made to order for me in Boston."

"Then it isn't genuine," he said, disappointed. "But it's a very clever
imitation of antique colonial. It is really a wonderful copy."

"I don't think it is a copy."

"It certainly doesn't look like it; but it must be if it was made in
Boston for you. They're ingenious fellows, these modern makers of
colonial furniture. Every antique shop in New York is loaded up with
excellent copies of this sort--only not nearly as well done."

She assented, apparently with no very clear understanding of what he
meant.

"What a charming setting this old house makes for such things," he said.

She nodded, looking doubtfully at the rag carpet.

"The Manor House was much finer," she observed. "Come to the window and
I'll show you where it stood. They were fine folk, the Lockwoods, Hunts,
and Fanchers."

They rose and she laid one pretty hand on his sleeve and guided him into
a corner of the window, where he could see.

"Hello," he said uneasily, "there is a main travelled road! I thought
that here we were at the very ends of civilisation!"

"That is the Bedford road," she said. "Over there, beyond those
chestnuts, is the Stamford road. Can you see those tall old poplars?
Beyond the elms I mean--there--where the crows are flying?"

"Yes. Eight tall poplars."

"The Manor House stood there. Tarleton burnt it--set it afire with all
its beautiful furniture and silver and linen! His hussars ran through it,
setting it afire and shooting at the mirrors and slashing the silks and
pictures! And when the Major's young wife entered the smoking doorway to
try to save a pitiful little trinket or two, an officer--never mind who,
for his descendants may be living to-day in England--struck her with the
flat of his sword and cut her and struck her to her knees! That is the
truth!"

He said politely: "You are intensely interested in--er--colonial and
revolutionary history."

"Yes. What else have I to think of--here?"

"I suppose many interesting memories of those times cluster around this
old place," he said, violently stifling a yawn. He had risen early and
run far. Hunger and slumber contended for his mastery.

"Many," she said simply. "Just by the gate yonder they captured young
Alsop Hunt and sent him away to the Provost Prison in New York. In the
road below John Buckhout, one of our dragoons, was trying to get away
from one of Tarleton's dragoons of the 17th Regiment; and the British
trooper shouted, 'Surrender, you damned rebel, or I'll blow your brains
out!' and the next moment he fired a bullet through Buckhout's helmet.
'There,' said the dragoon, 'you damned rebel, a little more and I should
have blown your brains out!' 'Yes, damn you,' replied John, 'and a little
more and you wouldn't have touched me!'"

Brown looked at her amused and astonished to hear such free words slip so
eagerly from a mouth which, as he looked at it, seemed to him the sweet
mouth of a child.

"Where did you ever hear such details?" he asked.

"People told me. Besides, the house is full of New York newspapers. You
may read them if you wish. I often do. Many details of the fight are
there."

"Reading such things out of old newspapers published at the time
certainly must bring those events very vividly before you."

"Yes. . . . It is painful, too. The surprise and rout of Sheldon's 2nd
dragoons--the loss of their standard; the capture, wounding, and death of
more than two score--and--oh! that young death there in the wheat! the
boy lying in the sun with one arm across his face and the broken pistol
in his hand! and his wife--the wife of a month--dragging him back to this
house--with the sunset light on his dead face!"

"To this house?"

She dropped her hand lightly on his shoulder and pointed.

"Tarleton's troopers came stamping and cursing in by that very door after
