"No," he said.

"Then--do you mean young Quarren?"

"I think I do," he said smiling.

"I'm glad of it!" she said angrily. "If it was not to be you I'm glad
that it may be Rix. It--it would have killed me to see her fall into
Langly's hands.... I'm ill on account of him--his shocking treatment of
me last evening. It was a brutal scene--one of those terrible family
scenes!--and he threatened me--cursed me----"

She closed her eyes a moment, trembling all over her fat body; then they
snapped open again with the old fire undiminished:

"Before I've finished with Langly he'll realise who has hold of him....
But I'm not well. I'm going to Carlsbad. Shall I see you there?"

"I'm afraid not."

"You are going back into everything, I suppose."

"Yes."

"To forget her, I suppose."

He said pleasantly:

"I do not wish to forget her. One prefers to think often of such a woman
as Mrs. Leeds. There are not many like her. It is something of a
privilege to have cared for her, and the memory is not--painful."

Mrs. Sprowl glared at him; and, as she thought of Langly, of Strelsa, of
the collapse of her own schemes, the baffled rage began to smoulder in
her tiny green eyes till they dwindled and dwindled to a pair of
phosphorescent sparks imbedded in fat.

"I did my best," she said hoarsely. "I'm not defeated if you're not. Say
the word and I'll start something--" And suddenly she remembered
Langly's threat involving the memory of a dead man whose only son now
stood before her.

She knew that her words were vain, her boast empty; she knew there was
nothing more for her to do--nothing even that Sir Charles might do
toward winning Strelsa without also doing the only thing in the world
which could really terrify herself. Even at the mere thought of it she
trembled again, and fear forced her to speech born of fear:

"Perhaps it is best for you to go," she faltered. "Absence is a last
resort.... It may be well to try it----"

He bent over and took her hand:

"There is no longer even a last resort," he said kindly. "I am quite
reconciled. She is different from any other woman; ours was and is a
high type of friendship.... Sometimes, lately, I have wondered whether
it ever could have been any more than that to either of us."

Mrs. Sprowl looked up at him, her face so altered and softened that his
own grew graver.

"You are like your father," she said unsteadily. "It was my privilege to
share his friendship.... And his friendship was of that
kind--high-minded, generous, pure--asking no more than it gave--no more
than it gave----"

She laid her cheek against Sir Charles's hands, let it rest there an
instant, then averting her face motioned his dismissal.

He went with a pleasant and gentle word or two; she sat bolt upright
among her silken pillows, lips grimly compressed, but on her tightly
closed eyelids tears trembled.

Sir Charles drew a long deep breath in the outer sunshine, filling his
lungs with the fragrant morning air. Hedges still glistened with
spiders' tapestry; the birds which sulked all day in their early
moulting-fever still sang a little in the cool of the morning, and he
listened to them as he walked while his quiet, impartial eye ranged
over the lovely rolling country, dew-washed and exquisite under a
cloudless sky.

Far away he saw the chimneys of Langly Sprowl's sprawling country-seat,
smoke rising from two, but he saw nothing of the angry horseman of the
day before. Once, in the distance on the edge of a copse, he saw a man
creeping about on all-fours, evidently searching for some lost object in
the thicket. Looking back from a long way off he saw him still searching
on his hands and knees, and wondered at his patience, half inclined to
go back and aid him.

But about that time one of Sprowl's young bulls came walking over toward
him with such menacing observations and deportment that Sir Charles
promptly looked about him for an advance to the rear-front--a manœuvre
he had been obliged to learn in the late Transvaal unpleasantness.

And at the same moment he saw Chrysos Lacy.

There was no time for explanations; clearly she was too frightened to
stir; so he quietly picked her up on his advance to the rear-front,
carrying her in the first-aid style approved by the H. B. M. medical
staff, and scaled the five-bar fence as no barrier had ever been scaled
at Aldershot or Olympia by any warrior in khaki or scarlet tunic.

"Th-thank you," said Chrysos, unwinding her arms from the baronet's neck
as the bull came trotting up on the other side of the fence and bellowed
at them. Not the slightest atom of fright remained, only a wild-rose
tint in her cheeks. She considered the bull, absently, patted a tendril
of hair into symmetry; but the breeze loosened it again, and she let it
blow across her cheek.

"We should have been in South Africa together," said Sir Charles.
"We manœuvre beautifully as a unit."



The girl laughed, then spying more wild strawberries--the quest of which
had beguiled her into hostile territory--dropped on her knees and began
to explore.

The berries were big and ripe--huge drops of crimson honey hanging
heavily, five to a stalk. The meadow-grass was red with them, and Sir
Charles, without more ado, got down on all-fours and started to gather
them with all the serious and thorough determination characteristic of
that warrior.

"You're not to eat any, yet," said Chrysos.

"Of course not; they're for your breakfast I take it," he said.

"For yours."

He straightened up on his knees: "For mine?"

"Certainly."

"You didn't go wandering afield at this hour to pick wild strawberries
for my breakfast!" he said incredulously.

"Yes, I did," said the girl; and continued exploring, parting the high
grass-stems to feel for and detach some berry-loaded stem.

"Do you know," he said, returning to his labours, "that I am quite
overcome by your thought of me?"

"Why? We are friends.... And it is to be your last breakfast."

There was not the slightest tremor in her voice, but her pretty face was
carefully turned away so that if there was to be anything to notice in
the features he could not notice it.

"I'll miss you a lot," he said.

"And I you, Sir Charles."

"You'll be over, I suppose."

"I suppose so."

"That will be jolly," he said, sitting back on his heels to rest, and to
watch her--to find pleasure in her youth and beauty as she moved
gracefully amid the fragrant grasses, one little sun-tanned hand
clasping a great bouquet of the crimson fruit which nodded heavily amid
tufts of trefoil leaves.

In the barred shadow of the pasture-fence they rested from their
exertions, she rearranging their bouquets of berries and tying them fast
with grass-stems.

"It has been a pleasant comradeship," he said.

"Yes."

"You have found it so, too?"

"Yes."

She appeared to be so intent, so absorbed on her bouquet tying that he
involuntarily leaned nearer to watch her. A fragrance faintly fresh
seemed to grow in the air around him as the hill-breeze stirred her
hair. If it came from the waving grass-tops, or the honeyed fruit or
from her hair, or perhaps from those small, smooth hands, he did not
