it was difficult to manoeuvre successfully and at the same time keep
clear of Tarleton's overwhelming main body.

This body was now in full but orderly retreat, driving with it cattle,
horses, and some two dozen prisoners, mostly peaceable inhabitants who
had taken no part in the affair. Also, they had a wagon piled with the
helmets, weapons, and accoutrements of Sheldon's dead riders; and one
of their Hussars bore Sheldon's captured standard in his stirrup.

To charge this mass of men was not possible with the two score horsemen
left us; and they retreated faster than our militia and Continentals
could travel. So all we could do was to hang on their rear and let
drive at them from our saddles.

As far as we rode with them, we saw a dozen of their riders fall either
dead or wounded from their horses, and saw their comrades lift them
into one of the wagons. Also we saw our dragoons and militia take three
prisoners and three horses before we finally turned bridle after our
last long shot at their rear guard.

For our business here lay not in this affair, and Boyd had disobeyed
his orders in not avoiding all fighting. He knew well enough that the
bullets from our three rifles were of little consequence to our country
compared to the safe accomplishment of our mission hither, and our safe
return with the Siwanois. Fortune had connived at our disobedience, for
no one of us bore so much as a scratch, though all three of us might
very easily have been done to death in the mad flight from the Meeting
House, amid that plunging hell of horsemen.

Fortune, too, hung to our stirrup leathers as we trotted into
Poundridge, for, among a throng of village folk who stood gazing at the
smoking ashes of the Lockwood house, we saw our Siwanois standing,
tall, impassive, wrapped in his blanket.


And late that afternoon we rode out of the half-ruined village,
northward. Our saddle-bags were full; our animals rested; and, beside
us, strode the Sagamore, fully armed and accoutred, lock braided, body
oiled and painted for war--truly a terrific shape in the falling dusk.

On the naked breast of this Mohican warrior of the Siwanois clan, which
is called by the Delawares "The Clan of the Magic Wolf," outlined in
scarlet, I saw the emblem of his own international clan--as I
supposed--a bear.

And of a sudden, within me, vaguely, something stirred--some faint
memory, as though I had once before beheld that symbol on a dark and
naked breast, outlined in scarlet. Where had I seen it before? At Guy
Park? At Johnson Hall? Fort Johnson? Butlersbury? Somewhere I had seen
that symbol, and in that same paint. Yes, it might easily have been.
Every nation of the Confederacy possessed a clan that wore the bear.
And yet--and yet--this bear seemed somehow different--and yet
familiar--strangely familiar to me--but in a manner which awoke within
me an unrest as subtle as it was curious.

I drew bridle, and as the Sagamore came up, I said uneasily:

"Brother, and ensign of the great bear clan of many nations, why is the
symbol that you wear familiar to me--and yet so strangely unfamiliar?"

He shot a glance of lightning intelligence at me, then instantly his
features became smoothly composed and blank again.

"Has my brother never before seen the Spirit Bear?" he asked coldly.

"Is that a clan, Mayaro?"

"Among the Siwanois only." "That is strange," I muttered. "I have never
before seen a Siwanois. Where could I have seen a Siwanois? Where?"

But he only shook his head.

Boyd and Mount had pricked forward; I still lingered by the Mohican.
And presently I said:

"That was a brave little maid who bore our message to you."

He made no answer.

"I have been wondering," I continued carelessly, "whether she has no
friends--so poor she seems--so sad and friendless, Have you any
knowledge of her?"

The Indian glanced at me warily, "My brother Loskiel should ask these
questions of the maid herself."

"But I shall never see her again, Sagamore. How can I ask her, then?"

The Indian remained silent. And, perhaps because I vaguely entertained
some future hope of loosening his tongue in her regard, I now said
nothing more concerning her, deeming that best. But I was still
thinking of her as I rode northward through the deepening dusk.

A great weariness possessed me, no doubt fatigue from the day's
excitement and anxiety. Also, for some hours, that curious
battle-hunger had been gnawing at my belly so that I had liked to
starve there in my saddle ere Boyd gave the signal to off-saddle for
the night.



CHAPTER IV

A TRYST

Above the White Plains the territory was supposed to be our own. Below,
seventeen thousand red-coats held the city of New York; and their
partisans, irregulars, militia, refugee-corps, and Legion-horsemen,
harried the lines. Yet, except the enemy's cruisers which sometimes
strayed far up the Hudson, like impudent hawks circling within the very
home-yard, we saw nothing of red-rag or leather-cap north of our lines,
save only once, when Lieutenant-Colonel Simcoe nearly caught us.

His Excellency's army lay in position all around us, now, from West
Point down the river; and our light-horsemen patrolled as far south as
the unhappy country from which we had retired through the smoke of
Bedford's burning farms and the blaze of church and manor at
Poundridge. That hilly strip was then our southern frontier, bravely
defended by Thomas and Lockwood, shamefully neglected by Sheldon, as we
had seen. For which he was broke, poor devil, and a better man set
there to watch the red fox Tarleton, to harry Emmeriek, and to throw
the fear o' God into that headlong blockhead, Simcoe, a brave man, but
so possessed by hatred for "Mr." Washington that every move he made was
like a goaded bull--his halts merely the bewilderment of baffled fury,
his charges blind and bellowing.

I know how he conducted, not from hearsay alone, but because at sunrise
on our second day northward, before we struck the river-road, we had
like to have had a brush with him, his flankers running afoul of us not
far beyond a fortified post heavily held by our Continentals.

It was the glimpse of cannon and levelled bayonets that bewildered him;
and his bawling charge sheered wide o' the shabby Continental
battle-line, through which we galloped into safety, our Indian sticking
to my crupper like a tree-cat with every claw. And I remember still the
grim laughter that greeted us from those unshaven, powder-blackened
ranks, and how they laughed, too, as they fired by platoons at the far
glimmer of Simcoe's helmets through the chestnut trees.

And in the meantime, all the while, even from the very first evening
when we off-saddled in the rocky Westchester woods and made our first
flying-camp, I had become uneasy concerning the Siwanois--uncertain
concerning his loyalty to the very verge of suspicion.

I said nothing of this to Lieutenant Boyd, having nothing definite to
communicate. Nor did I even hint my suspicions, because distrust in the
mind of such a man as Boyd would be very difficult to eradicate, and
the slightest mishandling of our delicate situation might alienate the
Sagamore forever.

Yet, of one thing I had become almost convinced: the Siwanois, while we
slept, met and held communication with somebody outside our camp.

On the first night this had happened; for, awaking and missing the
Sagamore, who had been left on guard, I lay a-watching under my
blanket, and when he came in to the fire once more, it seemed to me
that far in the woods I heard the faint sound of another person
retiring stealthily through the tell-tale bushes that choke all second
growth hereabouts.

On the second day we crossed to the other side of the Hudson in flat
boats, with our horses. But on that night it was the same, I feigning
sleep when it came time for the Siwanois to relieve the man on guard.
And once again, after he had silently inspected us all, the Sagamore
stole away into leafy depths, but halted as before within earshot
still. And once again some nascent sense within me seemed to become
aware of another human being somewhere moving in the woods outside our
fire.

How I divined it I do not know, because this time I could hear no sound
in the starry obscurity of the Western Catskills, save only those
familiar forest sounds which never cease by night--unseen stirrings of
sleeping birds, the ruffle, of feathers, the sudden rustle of some
furry thing alarmed, the scratchings and pickings in rotting windfalls,
the whisper of some falling leaf severed by insects or relaxing its
brief clasp of the mother stem in the precocity of a maturity premature.

Yet, so strong now had become my suspicions that I was already
preparing to unroll my blanket, rise, and creep after the Siwanois,
when his light and rapid footfall sounded on the leaves close to my
