storage that year. Some of the things, by her command, were shifted to
and fro between the more modern rooms and the old ancestral room, and
Charlotte had to verify the removals. In deciding upon goods selected
for the country she had the help of Peter, and she helped him by
interposing some useful hesitations in the case of things he had put
aside from his mother's possessions to be sold for her by the
warehouse people.

One day he came late and told Charlotte that his mother had suddenly
taken her passage for England, and they were sailing the next morning.
He said, as if it logically followed, that he had been in love with
her from that earliest time when she would not give him the least of
her possessions, and now he asked her if she would not promise him the
greatest. She did not like what she felt "rehearsed" in his proposal;
it was not her idea of a proposal, which ought to be spontaneous and
unpremeditated in terms; at the same time, she resented his
precipitation, which she could not deny was inevitable.

She perceived that they were sitting side by side on two of those
white-and-gold thrones, and she summoned an indignation with the
absurdity in refusing him. She rose and said that she must go; that
she must be going; that it was quite time for her to go; and she would
not let him follow her to the elevator, as he made some offer of
doing, but left him standing among his palatial furniture like a
prince in exile.

By the time she reached home she had been able to decide that she must
tell her mother at once. Her mother received the fact of Peter's
proposal with such transport that she did not realize the fact of
Charlotte's refusal. When this was connoted to her she could scarcely
keep her temper within the bounds of maternal tenderness. She said
she would have nothing more to do with such a girl; that there was but
one such pearl as Peter in the universe, and for Charlotte to throw
him away like that! Was it because she could not decide? Well, it
appeared that she could decide wrong quickly enough when it came to
the point. Would she leave it now to her mother?

That Charlotte would not do, but what she did do was to write a letter
to Peter taking him back as much as rested with her; but delaying so
long in posting it, when it was written, that it reached him among the
letters sent on board and supplementarily delivered by his room
steward after all the others when the ship had sailed. The best Peter
could do in response was a jubilant Marconigram of unequaled cost and
comprehensiveness.

His mother had meant to return in the fall, after her custom, to find
out whether she wished to spend the winter in New York or not. Before
the date for her sailing she fell sick, and Peter came sadly home
alone in the spring. Mrs. Bream's death brought Mrs. Forsyth a vain
regret; she was sorry now that she had seen so little of Mrs. Bream;
Peter's affection for her was beautiful and spoke worlds for both of
them; and they, the Forsyths, must do what they could to comfort him.

Charlotte felt the pathos of his case peculiarly when she went to make
provision for goods selected for the summer from the old ancestral
room, and found him forlorn among his white-and-gold furniture next
door. He complained that he had no association with it except the
touching fact of his mother's helplessness with it, which he had now
inherited. The contents of the trunks were even less intimately of his
experience; he had performed a filial duty in listing their contents,
which long antedated him, and consisted mostly of palatial bric-Ã -brac
and the varied spoils of travel.

He cheered up, however, in proposing to her that they should buy a
Castle in Spain and put them into it. The fancy pleased her, but
visibly she shrank from a step which it involved, so that he was, as
it were, forced to say, half jokingly, half ruefully, "I can imagine
your not caring for this rubbish or what became of it, Charlotte, but
what about the owner?"

"The owner?" she asked, as it were somnambulantly.

"Yes. Marrying him, say, sometime soon."

"Oh, Peter, I couldn't."

"Couldn't? You know that's not playing the game exactly."

"Yes; but not--not right away?"

"Well, I don't know much about it in my own case, but isn't it usual
to fix some approximate date? When should you think?"

"Oh, Peter, I can't think."

"Will you let me fix it? I must go West and sell out and pull up, you
know, preparatory to never going again. We can fix the day now or we
can fix it when I come back."

"Oh, when you come back," she entreated so eagerly that Peter said:

"Charlotte, let me ask you one thing. Were you ever sorry you wrote me
that taking-back letter?"

"Why, Peter, you know how I am. When I have decided something I have
undecided it. That's all."

From gay he turned to grave. "I ought to have thought. I haven't been
fair; I haven't played the game. I ought to have given you another
chance; and I haven't, have I?"

"Why, I suppose a girl can always change," Charlotte said,
suggestively.

"Yes, but you won't always be a girl. I've never asked you if you
wanted to change. I ask you now. Do you?"

"How can I tell? Hadn't we better let it go as it is? Only not hurry
about--about--marrying?"

"Certainly not hurry about marrying. I've wondered that a girl could
make up her mind to marry any given man. Haven't you ever wished that
you had not made up your mind about me?"

"Hundreds of times. But I don't know that I meant anything by it."

He took her hand from where it lay in her lap as again she sat on one
of the white-and-gold thrones beside him and gently pressed it. "Well,
then, let's play we have never been engaged. I'm going West to-night
to settle things up for good, and I won't be back for three or four
months, and when I come back we'll start new. I'll ask you, and you
shall say yes or no just as if you had never said either before."

"Peter, when you talk like that!" She saw his brown, round face dimly
through her wet eyes, and she wanted to hug him for pity of him and
pride in him, but she could not decide to do it. They went out to
lunch at the Woman's Exchange, and the only regret Peter had was that
it was so long past the season of strawberry shortcake, and that
Charlotte seemed neither to talk nor to listen; she ought to have done
one or the other.

They had left the Vaneckens busy with their summer trunks at the far
end of the northward corridor, where their wireless station had been
re-established for Charlotte's advantage, though she had not thought
of it the whole short morning long. When she came back from lunch the
Vaneckens were just brushing away the crumbs of theirs, which the son
and brother seemed to have brought in for them in a paper box; at any
rate, he was now there, making believe to help them.

Mrs. Forsyth had promised to come, but she came so late in the
afternoon that she owned she had been grudgingly admitted at the
office, and she was rather indignant about it. By this time, without
having been West for three months, Peter had asked a question which
had apparently never been asked before, and Charlotte had as newly
answered it. "And now, mother," she said, while Mrs. Forsyth passed
from indignant to exultant, "I want to be married right away, before
Peter changes his mind about taking me West with him. Let us go home
at once. You always said I should have a home wedding."

"What a ridiculous idea!" Mrs. Forsyth said, more to gain time than
anything else. She added, "Everything is at sixes and sevens in the
flat. There wouldn't be standing-room." A sudden thought flashed upon
her, which, because it was sudden and in keeping with her character,
she put into tentative words. "You're more at home here than
anywhere else. You were almost born here. You've played about here
ever since you were a child. You first met Peter here. He proposed to
you here, and you rejected him here. He's proposed here again, and
you've accepted him, you say--"

"Mother!" Charlotte broke in terribly upon her. "Are you suggesting
that I should be married in a storage warehouse? Well, I haven't
fallen quite so low as that yet. If I can't have a home wedding, I
will have a church wedding, and I will wait till doomsday for it if
necessary."

"I don't know about doomsday," Mrs. Forsyth said, "but as far as
to-day is concerned, it's too late for a church wedding. Peter, isn't
there something about canonical hours? And isn't it past them?"

"That's in the Episcopal Church," Peter said, and then he asked, very
politely, "Will you excuse me for a moment?" and walked away as if he
had an idea. It was apparently to join the Vaneckens, who stood in a
group at the end of their corridor, watching the restoration of the
trunks which they had been working over the whole day. He came back
with Mr. Vanecken and Mr. Vanecken's mother. He was smiling radiantly,
and they amusedly.

"It's all right," he explained. "Mr. Vanecken is a Presbyterian
minister, and he will marry us now."

