lingering before she passed on her life’s journey through an old and
worn-out world.

"Philippa passes," he said, thinking aloud.

She looked up, smiled.

"Only where you lead her, shall Philippa pass," she murmured.

"It is to be the title of your portrait....  Would you care to look at
it now?  There is not so much more to do to it, I think...."

She came around and stood silently beside him.

"Is it you?" he asked.

"My other self....  I had not supposed you knew her—so deeply—so
intimately—more intimately than I myself seem to know her."

He laughed gently.

"Heart of a child," he said, half to himself.

"Heart of a man," she answered.  "What have I done to deserve you?  How
can you be so patient with me? ... You, a man already grown,
distinguished, ripe with wisdom....  I don’t know why you should annoy
yourself with me....  It is too wonderful—why you should be my friend—my
friend——"

"There is something far more wonderful, Philippa—that you should be my
friend.  Didn’t you know it?"

She laughed.

"I wonder if you know what I would do for you? There is nothing you
could ask of me that I would not do——"

She ceased, her voice threatening unsteadiness, but her eyes were clear
and she was smiling.

"Words are idle things," she added calmly, "and not necessary, I think,
between you and me....  Only, sometimes I feel—a need of telling you—of
my devotion....  There have been lonely years—friendless—and a heart
sickens under eternal silence—needing an opportunity for
self-expression——"

"I know, dear."

"I know you do....  You are very kind to me."

"Philippa, I care more for you than I do for any living person!"

The lovely surprise in her face flushed her to her hair.  She looked at
him out of confused, incredulous eyes, strove to smile, caught her
trembling lip between her teeth.

"Didn’t you know it?" he said in a low voice.

She tried to answer, turned sharply and faced the windows with blurred
eyes that saw only a glimmering sheet of light there.

He stood motionless, looking at her, intent upon the sudden confusion in
his own brain, realizing it, trying to explain it, analyze it coolly,
calmly account for it.

If it were any emotion resembling love which was so utterly possessing
him, he chose to know it, to inform himself as to the real significance
of this loss of logical equilibrium, this mental inadequacy which began
to resemble a sort of chaos.

Was he in love with this girl?  Was it love?  Was this what it all had
meant—all, from the very beginning, through all its coincidences,
accidents, successive steps and stages?

And suddenly a terrible timidity seized him. Suppose she knew what he
was thinking about!  What would she think?  What would she do?  Where
would her confidence go?  What would become of her trust in him?  What
would happen to her implicit faith in him?

Of one thing he was suddenly and absolutely certain; love had never
entered her mind, never lodged in her heart, never troubled that candid
gaze, never altered her fearless smile.  With all her devotion to him,
all her passionate attachment of a child, never had anything as
deep—never had any emotion as profound as love disturbed the mystery of
depths where dwelt in virginal immaturity the soul of her, "clean as a
flame—"

As for himself—where he now stood—whither he was being led by something
which was not reason, not intention, he did not seem able to understand.

The light in the room had become too uncertain to paint by; he released
his canvas and carried it away behind a tapestry, setting it slanting,
face to the stone wall.

The brushes, mediums, palette, he left on the palette table and pushed
it into a corner behind a sofa, where nobody was likely to fall over it
before he gave brushes and palette to Asticot to clean.

All the while Philippa stood looking out of the window over the tree
tops, her young heart and brain on fire with happiness and throbbing
with the wonder of her first innocent passion.

With it, for the first time, had come something she never before had
known with Warner—something indefinite, new, inexplicable—a vague sense
of shyness almost painful at instants—a consciousness of herself that
she had never known—a subtle, instinctive realization of her own
maturity which left a faintly delicious sensation in her breast.

Now, for the first time since she had known him, her instinct was not to
go to him, not to face him.  She did not understand why—did not question
herself. From the window she looked out over the forest; she heard him
moving quietly about behind her; listened with an odd content in his
proximity, but with no desire to turn and join him—no wish to move or
stir from the spell which held her there in the enchanted silence of a
happiness so wonderful that sky and earth seemed to understand and share
it with her.

"Philippa?"

She turned slowly as in a dream.

It was perhaps as well that he had a record on canvas of what she had
been—of the young girl he had been painting in all her lovely
immaturity.  Perhaps the girl who faced him now from the window was even
lovelier, but she was not the Philippa of "Philippa Passes."

Truly that Philippa had passed, vanished silently even as she had stood
there with her eyes on the window; faded, dissolved into thin shadow,
leaving, where she had stood, this slender, silent, deep-eyed girl
looking at him out of the new and subtle mystery which enveloped her.

He thought that it was he himself who saw her differently and with new
eyes; but she herself had changed.  And, for the first time, as they
passed slowly toward the terrace together, he was conscious of a
freshness that seemed to cling to her like a fragrance—and of the beauty
of her as she moved beside him, not touching him, keeping clear of
contact, her head a trifle bent.




                            *CHAPTER XXXIII*


Warner, dressing for dinner, stood looking down from his window at the
Saïs road.  Halkett, in his smart but sober field uniform, sat sideways
on the window sill, chatting with his friend and surveying the lively
panorama below, where, through the fading light, endless columns of
motor lorries rolled ponderously eastward.

In every direction bicycle and motor cycle messengers were speeding,
north and south on the Saïs road, west toward Dreslin by the mill,
eastward over cow-paths and sheepwalks, and across the pontoons, or by
the school highway and quarry bridge, southeast toward a road crowded
with motor lorries, and through that gap in the foothills which narrows
into the Pass of the Falcons.

Warner, leisurely buttoning his waistcoat, stood looking out of the
window at the scenes passing under the plateau, and listening with the
greatest interest to Halkett’s comments on these preliminaries for a
campaign about to open.

"Then, in your opinion, it is invasion?" he said.

Halkett nodded:

"I can make nothing else of this movement, Warner. Our General, Pau, is
at Nancy.  What you see down there is part of a perfectly complete and
coherent army, and it is certainly moving on the Vosges passes.

"Metz, Strassburg, Colmar, lie beyond; our alpinists are swarming around
the Donon.  Under it lie the lowlands of Alsace and Lorraine.

"Already we have seized the pass of Saales; Thann and Danemarie are
menaced; the valley of the Bruche lies before us, Saarburg and the
railroad to Metz invite us.

"Does it not all seem very logical, Warner?"

"It sounds so."
