
She had achieved her purpose. The girl's practical mind was puzzled by
the simple explanation of her mistress' presence in the kitchen, deeply
impressed by the contemptuous refusal to be blackmailed. Her shoulders
drooped and she slunk out of the room.

For a moment Mrs. Balfame clung, reeling, to the back of a chair. Then
she went downstairs and telephoned to Dwight Rush.




CHAPTER XVI


The young lawyer was to call at eight o'clock. Mrs. Balfame put on her
best black blouse in his honour; it was cut low about the throat and
softened with a rolling collar of hemstitched white lawn. This was as
far in the art of sex allurement as she was prepared to go; the bare
idea of a neglig√©e of white lace and silk, warmed by rose-colored
shades, would have filled her with cold disgust. She was not a religious
woman, but she had her standards.

At a quarter of eight she made a careful inspection of the lower rooms;
sleuths, professional and amateur, would not hesitate to sneak into her
house and listen at keyholes. She inferred that the house was under
surveillance, for she had looked from her window several times and seen
the same man sauntering up and down that end of the avenue. No doubt
some one watched the back doors also.

Convinced that her home was still sacrosanct, she placed two chairs at a
point in the parlour farthest from the doors leading into the hall, and
into a room beyond which Mr. Balfame had used as an office. The doors,
of course, would be open throughout the interview. No one should be able
to say that she had shut herself up with a young man; on the other hand,
it was the duty of the deceased husband's lawyer to call on the widow.
Even if those young devils discovered that she had telephoned for him,
what more regular than that she should wish to consult her lawyer after
such insinuations?

Rush arrived as the town clock struck eight. Frieda, who answered the
door in her own good time, surveyed him suspiciously through a narrow
aperture to which she applied one eye.

"What you want?" she growled. "Mrs. Balfame she have seen all the
reporters already yet."

"Let the gentleman in," called Mrs. Balfame from the parlour. "This is a
friend of my late husband."

Rush was permitted to enter. He was a full minute disposing of his hat
and overcoat in the hall, while Frieda dragged her heelless slippers
back to the kitchen and slammed the door. His own step was not brisk as
he left the hall for the parlour, and his face, always colourless,
looked thin and haggard. Mrs. Balfame, as she rose and gave him her
hand, asked solicitously:

"Are you under the weather? How seedy you look. I wondered why you had
not called--"

"A touch of the grippe. Felt all in for a day or two, but am all right
now. And although I have been very anxious to see you, I had made up my
mind not to call unless you sent for me."

"Well, I sent for you professionally," she retorted coolly. "You don't
suppose I took your love making seriously."

He flushed dully, after the manner of men with thick fair skins, and his
hard blue eyes lost their fire as he stared at her. It was
incomprehensible that she could misunderstand him.

"It was serious enough to me. I merely stayed away, because, having
spoken as I did, I--well, I cannot very well explain. You will remember
that I made you promise to send for me if you were in trouble--"

"I remembered!" She felt his rebuke obscurely. "It never occurred to me
to send for any one else."

"Thank you for that."

"Did you mean anything but politeness when you said that you had been
anxious to see me?"

He hesitated, but he had already made up his mind that the time had come
to put her on her guard. Besides, he inferred that she had begun herself
to appreciate her danger.

"You have read the newspapers. You saw the reporters this afternoon. Of
course you must have guessed that they hope for a sensational trial with
you as the heroine."

"How can men--men--be such heartless brutes?"

"Ask the public. Even that element that believes itself to be select and
would not touch a yellow paper devours a really interesting crime in
high life. Never mind that now. Let us get down to brass tacks. They
want to fix the crime on you. How are they going to manage it? That is
the question for us. Tell me exactly what they said, what they made you
say."

Mrs. Balfame gave him so circumstantial an account of the interview that
he looked at her in admiration, although his rigid American face, that
looked so strong, turned paler still.

"What a splendid witness you would make!" He stared at the carpet for a
moment, then flashed his eyes upward much as Broderick had done. "Tell
me," he said softly, "is there anything you withheld from them? You know
how safe you are with me. But I must be in a position to advise you what
to say and to leave unsaid--if the worst comes."

"You mean if I am arrested?" She had a moment of complete naturalness,
and stared at him wildly. He leaned forward and patted her hand.

"Anything is possible in a case like this. But you have nothing to fear.
Now, will you tell me--"

"Do you think I did it?"

"I know that you did not. But I think you know something about it."

"It would cast no light on the mystery. He was shot from that grove on a
pitch dark night, and that is all there is to it."

"Let me be the judge of that."

"Very well. I had put out my light--upstairs--and, as I was nervous, I
looked out of the window to see if Dave was coming. I so longed to have
him come--and go! Then I happened to glance in the direction of the
grove, and I saw some one sneaking about there--"

"Yes!" He half rose, his eyes expanding, his nostrils dilating. "Go on.
Go on."

"I told you I was nervous--wrought up from that dreadful scene at the
club. I just felt like an adventure! I slipped down stairs and out of
the house by the kitchen door--Frieda takes the key of the back hall
door on Saturday nights--thinking I would watch the burglar; of course
that was what I thought he must be; and I knew that Dave would be along
in a minute--"

"How long was this after he telephoned? It would take him some time to
walk from Cummack's; and he didn't leave at once--"

"Oh, quite a while after. I was sure then that he would be along in a
minute or two. Well--it may seem incredible to you, but I really felt
as if excitement of that dangerous sort would be a relief."

"I understand perfectly." Rush spoke with the fatuousness of man who
believes that love and complete comprehension of the object beloved are
natural corollaries. "But--but that is not the sort of story that goes
down with a jury of small farmers and trades-people. They don't know
much about your sort of nerves. But go on."

"Well, I managed to get into the grove without being either seen or
heard by that man. I am sure of that. He moved round a good deal, and I
thought he was feeling about for some point from which he could make a
dart for the house. Then I heard Dave in Dawbarn Street, singing. Then I
saw him under the lamp-post. After that it all happened so quickly I can
hardly recall it clearly enough to describe. The man near me crouched. I
can't tell you what I thought then--if I knew he was going to shoot--or
why I didn't cry out. Almost before I had time to think at all, he
fired, and Dave went down."

"But what about that other bullet? Are you sure there was no one else in
the grove?"

"There may have been a dozen. I heard some one running afterwards; there
may have been more than one."

"Did you have a pistol?" He spoke very softly. "Don't be afraid to tell
me. It might easily have gone off accidentally--or something deeper than
your consciousness may have telegraphed an imperious message to your
hand."

But Mrs. Balfame, like all artificial people, was intensely secretive,
and only delivered herself of the unvarnished truth when it served her
purpose best. She gave a little feminine shudder. "I never kept a pistol
in the house. If I had, it would have been empty--just something to
flourish at a burglar."

