Palla lifted her face in flushed surprise:

"Is there any compromising with truth?" she asked.

"I think love is the greatest truth. What difference does it make how
we love?"

"Does not our example count? You had the courage of your belief. Do
you counsel me to subscribe to what I do not believe by acquiescing in
it?"

Ilse closed her sea-blue eyes as though fatigued. She said dreamily:

"I think that to believe in love and mating and the bearing of
children is the only important belief in the world. But under what
local laws you go about doing these things seems to be of minor
importance,--a matter, I should say, of personal inclination."

Ilse wished to go home. That is, to her own apartment, where now were
enshrined all her memories of this dead man who had given to her
womanhood that ultimate crown which in her eyes seemed perfect.

She said serenely to Palla: "Mine is not the loneliness that craves
company with the living. I have a long time to wait; that is all. And
after a while I shall not wait alone.

"So you must not grieve for me, darling. You see I know that Jack
lives. It's just the long, long wait that calls for courage. But I
think it is a little easier to wait alone until--until there are two
to wait--for him----"

"Will you call me when you want me, Ilse?"

"Always, darling. Don't grieve. Few women know happiness. I have known
it. I know it now. It shall not even die with me."

She smiled faintly and turned to enter her doorway; and Palla
continued on alone toward that dwelling which she called home.

The mourning which she had worn for her aunt, and which she had worn
for John Estridge that morning, she now put off, although vaguely
inclined for it. But she shrank from the explanations in which it was
certain she must become involved when on duty at the Red Cross and the
canteen that afternoon.

Undressed, she sent her maid for a cup of tea, feeling too tired for
luncheon. Afterward she lay down on her bed, meaning merely to close
her eyes for a moment.

It was after four in the afternoon when she sat up with a start--too
late for the Red Cross; but she could do something at the canteen.

She went about dressing as though bruised. It seemed to take an
interminable time. Her maid called a taxi; but the short winter
daylight had nearly gone when she arrived at the canteen.

She remained there on kitchen duty until seven, then untied her white
tablier, washed, pinned on her hat, and went out into the light-shot
darkness of the streets and turned her steps once more toward home.

There is, among the weirder newspapers of the metropolis, a sheet
affectionately known as "pink-and-punk," the circulation of which
seems to depend upon its distribution of fake "extras."

As Palla turned into her street, shabby men with hoarse voices were
calling an extra and selling the newspaper in question.

She bought one, glanced at the headlines, then, folding it, unlocked
her door.

Dinner was announced almost immediately, but she could not touch it.

She sank down on the sofa, still wearing her furs and hat. After a
little while she opened her newspaper.

It seemed that a Bolsheviki plot had been discovered to murder the
premiers and rulers of the allied nations, and to begin simultaneously
in every capital and principal city of Europe and America a reign of
murder and destruction.

In fact, according to the account printed in startling type, the
Terrorists had already begun their destructive programme in
Philadelphia. Half a dozen buildings--private dwellings and one small
hotel--had been more or less damaged by bombs. A New York man named
Wilding, fairly well known as an impresario, had been killed outright;
and a Russian pianist, Vanya Tchernov, who had just arrived in
Philadelphia to complete arrangements for a concert to be given by him
under Mr. Wilding's management, had been fatally injured by the
collapse of the hotel office which, at that moment, he was leaving in
company with Mr. Wilding.

A numbness settled over Palla's brain. She did not seem to be able
to comprehend that this affair concerned Vanya--that this newspaper
was telling her that Vanya had been fatally hurt somewhere in
Philadelphia.

Hours later, while she was lying on the lounge with her face buried in
the cushions, and still wearing her hat and furs, somebody came into
the room. And when she turned over she saw it was Ilse.

Palla sat up stupidly, the marks of tears still glistening under her
eyes. Ilse picked up the newspaper from the couch, laid it aside, and
seated herself.

"So you know about Vanya?" she said calmly.

Palla nodded.

"You don't know all. Marya called me on the telephone a few minutes
ago to tell me."

"Vanya is dead," whispered Palla.

"Yes. They found an unmailed letter directed to Marya in his pockets.
That's why they notified her."

After an interval: "So Vanya is dead," repeated Palla under her
breath.

Ilse sat plaiting the black edges of her handkerchief.

"It's such a--a senseless interruption--death----" she murmured. "It
seems so wanton, so meaningless in the scheme of things ... to make
two people wait so long--so long!--to resume where they had been
interrupted----"

Palla asked coldly whether Marya had seemed greatly shocked.

"I don't know, Palla. She called me up and told me. I asked her if
there was anything I could do; and she answered rather strangely that
what remained for her to do she would do alone. I don't know what she
meant."

                  *       *       *       *       *

Whether Marya herself knew exactly what she meant seemed not to be
entirely clear to her. For, when Mr. Puma, dressed in a travelling
suit and carrying a satchel, arrived at her apartment in the Hotel
Rajah, and entered the reception room with his soundless, springy
step, she came out of her bedroom partly dressed, and still hooking
her waist.

"What are you doing here?" she demanded contemptuously, looking him
over from, head to foot. "Did you really suppose I meant to go to
Mexico with you?"

His heavy features crimsoned: "What pleasantry is this, my Marya?----"
he began; but the green blaze in her slanting eyes silenced him.

"The difference," she said, "between us is this. You run from those
who threaten you. I kill them."

"Of--of what nonsense are you speaking!" he stammered. "All is
arranged that we shall go at eleven----"

"No," she said wearily, "one sometimes plays with stray animals for a
few moments--and that is all. And that is all I ever saw in you,
Angelo--a stray beast to amuse and entertain me between two yawns and
a cup of tea." She shrugged, still twisted lithely in her struggle to
hook her waist. "You may go," she added, not even looking at him, "or,
if you are not too cowardly, you may come with me to the Red Flag
Club."

"In God's name what do you mean----"

"Mean? I mean to take my pistol to the Red Flag Club and kill some
Bolsheviki. That is what I mean, my Angelo--my ruddy Eurasian pig!"

She slipped in the last hook, turned and enveloped him again with an
insolent, slanting glance: "Allons! Do you come to the Red Flag?"

"Marya----"

"Yes or no! Allez!"

"My God, are--are you then demented?" he faltered.

"My God, I'm not," she mimicked him, "but I can't answer for what I
might do to you if you hang around this apartment any longer."

