"No," Jones pursued. "The story was invented and the invention had a
reason. If you like, you may ask what it is."

"You seem to be very good at invention yourself. I shall ask nothing of
the kind."

"But you would like to know and I will tell you. It was invented to
delay a possible announcement. It could have had no other object."

"I said nothing of any announcement," Verelst angrily protested. "What
announcement are you talking about?"

"The heading of the filly for the sweepstakes. The expression--very
graphic by the way--is your own."

"Graphic or not I wish you would drop it. Besides----"

"Besides what?"

"Why, confound it, admitting the engagement, which I ought not to admit
for it is not out yet, why should he play for delay?"

"Ha!" exclaimed Jones, whom the spectacle of Paliser and Cassy sailing
up the Riverside had supplied with an impression or two. "I thought I
would interest you. He played for delay because he feared that if it
were known, a pitcher of ice-water might come dashing over it."

"Why do you say that?" asked Verelst, eager and anxious enough for a
spoke--if spoke there could be--to shove in a certain lady's wheels.

"Given the man and the deduction is easy."

The spoke was receding. Verelst, swallowing his disappointment,
retorted: "Incoherence is easy too."

"Well, you are right there," Jones, lighting another cigarette, replied.
"But there is nothing incoherent in the fact that fear is magnetic. What
we dread, we attract. If our winning young friend fears the pitcher, the
pitcher will probably land on him. That is the reason why, to vary your
various metaphors, I declared that there would be no downing on the
racecourse. On the contrary and look here. I will wager you not one
pippin or two pippins, I will go so far as to lay a whole basket that
Miss Austen becomes Mrs. Lennox."

Verelst sniffed. "You don't know her mother."

"No. I have not that honour. But I enjoy a bowing acquaintance with
logic."

"Do you, now? I wonder if it bows back. I'll book your bet."

"Very good. Make it fancy pippins."

Verelst stood up. "Fancy is the only term that could be applied them."

"And of such is the Kingdom of Heaven," Jones told himself as the old
man moved away.

He looked about. The great room had filled. Stocks, money, war, the
odour of alcohol, the smell of cigars, the rustling of evening papers,
the sound of animated talk about nothing whatever, the usual atmosphere
had reassembled itself.

From it he turned to the window, to the westering sun, to the motors,
the smart gowns and the women who looked so delightful and of whom all
had their secrets--secrets trivial, momentous, perverse or merely
horrible.

Again he turned. Lennox, who had approached, was addressing him. "You
were at the law school. I have to make a will. Will you help me?"

Serviceably Jones sprang up. "Come to my shop. It is just around the
corner."




XXIV


Among the old brocades with which the room was fitted and which,
together with the silver bed and the enamelled fa√Øence, gave it an
earlier century air, Cassy stood before a cheval-glass.

She was properly dressed. Her costume, light cloth, faintly blue, was
exquisitely embroidered. Beneath it was lingerie of the kind which, it
is said, may be drawn through a ring. Behind and between was Cassy, on
whose docked hair sat a hat that was very unbecoming and therefore
equally smart.

A moment before she had thanked and dismissed Emma. Emma was the maid.
With a slant of the eye, that said and suppressed many things, Emma had
gone.

Through the open windows came the call of birds, the smell of fresh
turf. A patch of sky was visible. It was tenderly blue. There was a
patch too of grass that showed an asparagus green.

From the mirror Cassy went to a table and, from a jade platter, took a
ring. It was made of six little hoops each set with small stones. She
put it on. The platter held other rings. There was a sapphire,
inch-long, deep and dark. She put that on. There was also an Australian
opal and an Asian emerald, the latter greener than the grass. She put
these on. Together with the wedding-ring they made quite a show. Too
much of a show, she thought.

Like the costume, the hat, like other costumes, more hats and box after
box of lingerie, they had all surprisingly dumped themselves, there, at
her feet, the day after the wedding. The bundle, which she had brought
with her, she had found very useless and so awkward that she would have
given it to Emma, had it not seemed unsuited to a young person
manifestly so fine. Since then it had been tucked away in a cupboard,
safely out of sight.

That was just five days ago, a brief eternity, during which life seemed
to be driving her headlong to some unimagined goal. Until the evening
previous she had had barely a moment. But on that evening, Paliser, who
was dining at the Austens', had given her a few hours to herself.

Now, on this afternoon, he was again in town.

The air was very still. Afar, a train bellowed, rumbled, died away. From
the garage came the bark of a dog, caught up and repeated on the
hillside beyond. On the lawn, a man in an apron was at work. Otherwise
the air was still, fragrant, freighted with spring.

Cassy, turning from the table, went to the mirror again and tilted the
hat. However unbecoming, it was certainly smart, and Cassy wondered what
her father would think of Mrs. Monty Paliser.

In the spaciousness of the name, momentarily she lost herself. It is
appalling to be a snob. But there are attributes that pour balm all over
you. In the deference of the bored yet gracious young women who, with
robes et manteaux, had come all the way from Fifth Avenue, there had
been a flagon or two of that balm. In the invariable "Thank you, mem's"
of the Paliser personnel there had been more. It is appalling to be a
snob. There are perfumes that appeal.

Then also, particularly after Harlem, the great, grave, silent house had
a charm that was enveloping, almost enchanted. Apparently uncommanded,
it ran itself, noiselessly, in ordered grooves. Cassy fancied that
somewhere about there must be a majordomo who competently saw to
everything and kept out of the way. But she did not know. In her own
rooms she was now at home, as she was also at home in the state chambers
on the floor below. In regard to the latter, she had an idea--entirely
correct, by the way--that at Lisbon, the royal palace--when there was
one--could not have been more suave. But the rest of the house was as
yet unexplored, though in regard to the upper storey she had another
idea, that there was a room there close-barred, packed with coffins.

The idea delighted her. In this Palace of the White Cat it was the note
macabre, the proper note, the note that synchronised the circumambient
enchantments. In the historical nights of which Perrault told, the
princess had but a gesture to make, the offender sank dead. At once a
bier was produced, the corpse was hurried away, and the veils of charm
restored fell languorously.

Yet, in that historical epoch, there subsisted--perhaps as a reminder of
the vanities even of fairyland--the rose-leaf suggestively crumpled. The
crumple affected Cassy but far less than she had expected. Paliser had
been very gentlemanly. He had deferred to her in all things, agreed with
her about everything, and though none the less he always had his own
way, yet the pedestal was so obvious that if she had not known otherwise
she might have thought herself continuously upon it.

The crumple was not there, or at least only such crumple as she had
naturally awaited. The discomfort of the leaf consisted in the fact that
married she was not mated, that she did not love him, and probably never
could.

Now, as she tilted her hat, the spaciousness of the name recurred to
her. Its potentialities she had considered before she accepted it, but
only because of her father. The idea that it would lift him out of the
walk-up, out of Harlem and cold veal, was the one excuse for her voyage
to Cytherea. The voyage had been eminently respectable. Undertaken with
full ecclesiastical sanction, Aphrodite and her free airs had had
nothing to do with it. None the less it was to Cytherea that she had
gone--and to Lampsacus also, for all she and her geography knew to the
contrary.

