could read his thoughts; everybody would assume that he had been “on
location” with one of his stars; and anyhow, what the hell? Wasn’t
he Abey Tszchniczklefritszch?

“Wor-r-r-r-r! Wor-r-r-r-r-r!” snarled the horn of the car; and I
could understand the meaning of this also. It said: “I am the car of
Abey Tszchniczklefritszch, king of the movies, future king of the
world. Get the hell out o’ my way!” So we sped through the crowded
streets, and pedestrians scattered like autumn leaves before a
storm. “My Gawd, but I’m hungry!” said T-S. “I ain’t had nuttin’ to
eat since lunch-time. How goes it, Maw? Feelin’ better? Vell, you be
all right ven you git your grub.”

So we came to Prince’s, and drew up before the porte-cochere, and
found ourselves confronting an adventure. There was a crowd before
the place, a surging throng half-way down the block, with a whole
line of policemen to hold them back. Over the heads of the crowd
were transparencies, frame boxes with canvas on, and lights inside,
and words painted on them. “Hello!” cried T-S. “Vot’s dis?”

Suddenly I recalled what I had read in the morning’s paper. The
workers of the famous lobster palace had gone on strike, and trouble
was feared. I told T-S, and he exclaimed: “Oh, hell! Ain’t we got
troubles enough vit strikers in de studios, vitout dey come spoilin’
our dinner?”

The footman had jumped from his seat, and had the door open, and the
great man began to alight. At that moment the mob set up a howl.
“For shame! For shame! Unfair! Don’t go in there! They starve their
workers! They’re taking the bread out of our mouths! Scabs! Scabs!”

I got out second, and saw a spectacle of haggard faces, shouting
menaces and pleadings; I saw hands waved wildly, one or two fists
clenched; I saw the police, shoving against the mass, poking with
their sticks, none too gently. A poor devil in a waiter’s costume
stretched out his arms to me, yelling in a foreign dialect: “You
take de food from my babies!” The next moment the club of a
policeman came down on his head, crack. I heard Mary scream behind
me, and I turned, just in the nick of time. Carpenter was leaping
toward the policeman, crying, “Stop!”

There was no chance to parley in this emergency. I grabbed Carpenter
in a foot-ball tackle. I got one arm pinned to his side, and Mary,
good old scout, got the other as quickly. She is a bit of an
athlete--has to keep in training for those hoochie-coochies and
things she does, when she wins the love of emperors and sultans and
such-like world-conquerors. Also, when we got hold of Carpenter, we
discovered that he wasn’t much but skin and bones anyhow. We fairly
lifted him up and rushed him into the restaurant; and after the
first moment he stopped resisting, and let us lead him between the
aisles of diners, on the heels of the toddling T-S. There was a
table reserved, in an alcove, and we brought him to it, and then
waited to see what we had done.



XIV


Carpenter turned to me-and those sad but everchanging eyes were
flashing. “You have taken a great liberty!”

“There wasn’t any time to argue,” I said. “If you knew what I know
about the police of Western City and their manners, you wouldn’t
want to monkey with them.”

Mary backed me up earnestly. “They’d have mashed your face, Mr.
Carpenter.”

“My face?” he repeated. “Is not a man more than his face?”

You should have heard the shout of T-S! “Vot? Ain’t I shoost offered
you five hunded dollars a veek fer dat face, and you vant to go git
it smashed? And fer a lot o’ lousy bums dat vont vork for honest
vages, and vont let nobody else vork! Honest to Gawd, Mr. Carpenter,
I tell you some stories about strikes vot we had on our own lot--you
vouldn’t spoil your face for such lousy sons-o’-guns--”

“Ssh, Abey, don’t use such langwich, you should to be shamed of
yourself!” It was Maw, guardian of the proprieties, who had been
extracted from the car by the footman, and helped to the table.

“Vell, Mr. Carpenter, he dunno vot dem fellers is like--”

“Sit down, Abey!” commanded the old lady. “Ve ain’t ordered no stump
speeches fer our dinner.”

We seated ourselves. And Carpenter turned his dark eyes on me. “I
observe that you have many kinds of mobs in your city,” he remarked.
“And the police do interfere with some of them.”

“My Gawd!” cried T-S. “You gonna have a lot o’ bums jumpin’ on
people ven dey try to git to dinner?”

Said Carpenter: “Mr. Rosythe said that the police would not work
unless they were paid. May I ask, who pays them to work here? Is it
the proprietor of the restaurant?”

“Vell,” cried T-S, “ain’t he gotta take care of his place?”

“As a matter of fact,” said I, laughing, “from what I read in the
‘Times’ this morning, I gather that an old friend of Mr. Carpenter’s
has been paying in this case.”

Carpenter looked at me inquiringly.

“Mr. Algernon de Wiggs, president of the Chamber of Commerce, issued
a statement denouncing the way the police were letting mobs of
strikers interfere with business, and proposing that the Chamber
take steps to stop it. You remember de Wiggs, and how we left him?”

“Yes, I remember,” said Carpenter; and we exchanged a smile over
that trick we had played.

I could see T-S prick forward his ears. “Vot? You know de Viggs?”

“Mr. Carpenter possesses an acquaintance with our best society which
will astonish you when you realize it.”

“Vy didn’t you tell me dat?” demanded the other; and I could
complete the sentence for him: “Somebody has offered him more
money!”

Here the voice of Maw was heard: “Ain’t we gonna git nuttin’ to
eat?”

So for a time the problem of capital and labor was put to one side.
There were two waiters standing by, very nervous, because of the
strike. T-S grabbed the card from one, and read off a list of food,
which the waiter wrote down. Maw, who was learning the rudiments of
etiquette, handed her card to Mary, who gave her order, and then Maw
gave hers, and I gave mine, and there was only Carpenter left.

He was sitting, his dark eyes roaming here and there about the
dining-room. Prince’s, as you may know, is a gorgeous establishment:
too much so for my taste--it has almost as much gilded moulding as
if T-S had designed it for a picture palace. In front of Carpenter’s
eyes sat a dame with a bare white back, and a rope of big pearls
about it, and a tiara of diamonds on top; and beyond her were more
dames, and yet more, and men in dinner-coats, putting food into red
faces. You and I get used to such things, but I could understand
that to a stranger it must be shocking to see so many people feeding
so expensively.

“Vot you vant to order, Mr. Carpenter?” demanded T-S; and I waited,
full of curiosity. What would this man choose to eat in a “lobster
palace”?

Carpenter took the card from his host and studied it. Apparently he
had no difficulty in finding the most substantial part of the menu.
“I’ll have prime ribs of beef,” said he; “and boiled mutton with
caper sauce; and young spring turkey; and squab en casserole; and
milk fed guinea fowl--” The waiter, of course, was obediently
writing down each item. “And planked steak with mushrooms; and
braised spare ribs--”

“My Gawd!” broke in the host.

“And roast teal duck; and lamb kidneys--”

“Fer the love o’ Mike, Mr. Carpenter, you gonna eat all dat?”

“No; of course not.”

“Den vot you gonna do vit it?”

“I’m going to take it to the hungry men outside.”

Well, sir, you’d have thought the world had stopped turning round,
so still it was. The two waiters nearly dropped their order-pads and
their napkins; they did drop their jaws, and Mrs. T-S’s permanent
wave seemed about to go flat.

“Oh, hell!” cried T-S at last. “You can’t do it!”

“I can’t?”

“You can’t order only vot you gonna eat.”

“But then, I don’t want anything. I’m not hungry.”
