"You are only a boy," said Mr. Vanderpool, curiously. "Do you think you
can do any good?"

"Yes, sir; I think so," said Rufus, modestly. "The box was taken from
me, and I feel bound to get it back if I can. If I don't succeed, the
certificates of stock can be replaced."

"Well, well, it isn't so bad as it might be," said Mr. Vanderpool. "But
are you not afraid of hunting up the thief?" he asked, looking at Rufus,
attentively.

"No, sir," said Rufus. "I'd just like to get hold of him, that's all."

"You would? Well now, I would rather be excused. I don't think I have
much physical courage. How old are you?"

"Sixteen."

"Well, I hope you'll succeed. I would rather not lose fifteen hundred
dollars in that way, though it might be a great deal worse."

"I hope you don't blame me very much for having the box stolen from me."

"No, no, you couldn't help it. So the man knocked you down, did he?"

"Yes, sir."

"That must have been unpleasant. Did he hurt you much?"

"Yes, sir, just at first; but I don't feel it now."

"By the way, my young friend," said Mr. Vanderpool, reaching forward to
some loose sheets of manuscript upon the desk before him, "did you ever
consider the question whether the planets were inhabited?"

"No, sir," said Rufus, staring a little.

"I have given considerable time to the consideration of that question,"
said Mr. Vanderpool. "If you have time, I will read you a few pages from
a work I am writing on the subject."

"I should be happy to hear them, sir," said Rufus, mentally deciding
that Mr. Vanderpool was rather a curious person.

The old gentleman cleared his throat, and read a few pages, which it
will not be desirable to quote here. Though rather fanciful, they were
not wholly without interest, and Rufus listened attentively, though he
considered it a little singular that Mr. Vanderpool should have selected
him for an auditor. He had the politeness to thank the old gentleman at
the close of the reading.

"I am glad you were interested," said Mr. Vanderpool, gratified. "You
are a very intelligent boy. I shall be glad to have you call again."

"Thank you, sir; I will call and let you know what progress we make in
finding the tin box."

"Oh, yes. I had forgotten; I have no doubt you will do your best. When
you call again, I will read you a few more extracts. It seems to me a
very important and interesting subject."

"Thank you, sir; I shall be very happy to call."

"He don't seem to think much of his loss," said our hero, considerably
relieved. "I was afraid he would find fault with me. Now, Mr. Martin, I
must do my best to find you."




CHAPTER XVII.

DIVIDING THE SPOILS.


Martin did not fail to go to the house occupied by his employers, in the
evening. He was anxious to learn the amount of the booty which he had
taken. He decided that it must be ten thousand dollars at least. Half of
this would be five thousand, and this, according to the agreement
between them, was to come to him. It was quite a fortune, and the
thought of it dazzled Martin's imagination. He would be able to retire
from business, and resolved to do so, for he did not like the risk which
he incurred by following his present employment.

Martin had all his life wished to live like a gentleman,--that is, to
live comfortably without work; and now his wish seemed likely to be
gratified. In the eyes of some, five thousand dollars would seem rather
a small capital to warrant such a life; but it seemed a great deal to a
shiftless character like him. Besides, the box might contain more than
ten thousand dollars, and in that case, of course, his own share would
be greater.

So, on the whole, it was with very pleasant anticipations that Martin
ascended the front steps of the counterfeiter's den, and rang the bell.

Meanwhile Smith had opened the box, and his disappointment had been
great when he found the nature of its contents. Actually but four
hundred dollars were immediately available, and, as the banker no doubt
had recorded the number of the government bonds, there would be risk in
selling them. Besides, even if sold, they would produce, at the market
price, barely eleven hundred dollars. As to the bank and railway shares,
they could not be negotiated, and no doubt duplicates would be applied
for. So, after all, the harvest was likely to prove small, especially as
Smith had passed his word to divide with Martin.

After a while it occurred to him that, as Martin did not know the
contents of the box, he could easily be deceived into supposing them
less than they were. He must tell a falsehood; but then Smith's
conscience was tough, and he had told a great many in the course of his
life.

When Martin was ushered into the room, he found his confederate looking
rather sober.

"Have you opened the box?" inquired Martin, eagerly.

"Yes," said Smith, rather contemptuously. "A great haul you made, I must
say."

"Wasn't there anything in it?" asked Martin, in dismay.

"Yes, there were plenty of bank and railroad shares."

"Can't we sell them?" queried Martin, whose knowledge of business was
limited.

"You must be a fool! We can't sell them without the owner's indorsement.
Perhaps you'll call and ask him for it."

"Can't we do anything with them, then?" asked Martin, anxiously.

"Nothing at all."

"Wasn't there nothing else in the box?"

"Yes, there was a government bond for five hundred dollars."

Smith concluded to mention only one.

"That's something."

"Yes, it's something. You can sell it after a while, and bring me half
the money."

"Will there be any danger in selling it?"

"None to speak of," said Smith, who was afraid Martin might decline
selling it, unless he gave this assurance.

"Wasn't there any money?" asked Martin, disappointed.

"Yes, there was a trifle,--a hundred dollars," answered his unscrupulous
confederate, who was certainly cheating Martin in the most barefaced
manner.

"Half of that belongs to me," said Martin.

"Of course it does. Do you think I wouldn't treat you fair?"

"No," said his dupe. "I know, Mr. Smith, you're a man of honor."

"Of course I am. I'd like to see anybody say I wasn't. I've left
everything in the box just as it was, so you might see it was all
right."

He went to the cupboard, and, unlocking it, produced the box, of which
he lifted the lid. The certificates of stock were at the bottom. Above
them, folded up, was the five-twenty U. S. bond for five hundred
dollars, and upon it a small roll of green-backs.

"You see it's just as I say, Martin," said Smith, with an air of
frankness. "There's the shares that we can't do anything with, here's
the bond, and there's the money. Just take and count it, I may have been
mistaken in the amount."

Martin counted the roll of bills, and made out just one hundred dollars.
Of course he could not be expected to know that there had been three
hundred more, which, together with the other bond, were carefully
concealed in his confederate's breast-pocket.

"Yes, it's just a hundred dollars," he said, after finishing the count.

"Well, take fifty of them, and put in your pocket."

Martin did so.

"It aint what I expected," he said, rather ruefully. "If I'd knowed
there was so little in the box, I wouldn't have taken it."

"Well, it's better than nothing," said Smith, who could afford to be
philosophical, having appropriated to himself seven-eighths of the
money, and three-fourths of the bonds. "There's the bond, you know."

"Let me see it."

Smith extended it to Martin.

"When shall I sell it?" asked he.

"Not just yet. Wait till the affair blows over a little."

"Do you think there's any danger, then?" queried Martin, anxiously.

"Not much. Still it's best to be prudent."

"Hadn't you better sell it yourself?"

"Suppose I did," said Smith. "I might take the notion to walk off with
all the money."

"I don't think you would," said Martin, surveying his confederate
doubtfully, nevertheless.

"No, I don't think I would; but if you sell it yourself, you'll have the
affair in your own hands."

"But I might walk off with all the money, too," said Martin, who
thought it a poor rule that didn't work both ways.

"I don't think you would," said Smith, "and I'll tell you why. We
belong to a large band, that are bound together by a terrible oath to
punish any one guilty of treachery. Suppose you played me false, and did
as you say,--though of course I know you don't mean it,--I wouldn't give
that for your life;" and he snapped his fingers.

"Don't!" said Martin, with a shudder. "You make me shiver. Of course I
didn't mean anything. I'm on the square."

"Certainly, I only told you what would happen to you or me, or any one
that was false to the others."

"I think I'd rather have you sell the bond," said Martin, nervously.

"If I were in your case, I'd be perfectly willing; but the fact is, the
brokers know me too well. They suspect me, and they won't suspect you."

"I think I've had my share of the risk," grumbled Martin. "I don't see
but I do the work, and you share the profits."

"Wasn't it I that put you up to it?" demanded Smith. "Would you ever
have thought of it if it hadn't been for me?"

"Maybe I wouldn't. I wish I hadn't."

"You're a fool, then! Don't you see it's turned out all right? Haven't
you got fifty dollars in your pocket, and won't you have two hundred and
fifty more when the bond is sold?"

"I thought I'd get five thousand," said Martin, dissatisfied.

"It seems to me that three hundred dollars is pretty good pay for one
morning's work; but then there are some people that are never
satisfied."

"It wasn't the work, it was the danger. I aint at all sure but the boy
saw me, and knew who I was. If he did, I've got to keep out of the way."

"Do you think he did recognize you?" asked Smith, thoughtfully.

"I'm not sure. I'm afraid he did."

"I wish we'd got him in our clutches. But I dare say he was too
frightened to tell who it was."

"He aint easy frightened," said Martin, shaking his head. He understood
our hero better than his confederate.

"Well, all is, you must be more careful for a few days. Instead of
staying in the city, I'll send you to Jersey City, Newark, and other
places where you won't be likely to meet him."

"That might do," said Martin; "he's a smart boy, though he's an
undootiful son. He don't care no more for me than if I was no kith nor
kin to him, and he just as lieves see me sent to prison as not."

"There's one thing you haven't thought of," said Smith.

"What's that?"

"His employer will most likely think that the boy has stolen the box, or
had something to do with its being carried off. As he took him out of
the street, he won't have much confidence in his honesty. I shouldn't be
at all surprised if this undootiful boy of yours, as you call him, found
himself locked up in the Tombs, on account of this little affair."

"Do you think so?" said Martin, brightening up at the suggestion.

"I think it more likely than not. If that is the case, of course you
won't be in any danger from him."

"That's so," said Martin, cheerfully. "I hope you're right. It would be
worth something to have that young imp locked up. He wouldn't put on so
many airs after that."

"Well, it's very likely to happen."

The contemplation of this possibility so raised Martin's spirits, that,
in spite of the disappointment he had experienced in finding the booty
so far below what he had anticipated, he became quite cheerful,
especially after Smith produced a bottle of whiskey, and asked him to
help himself,--an invitation which he did not have occasion to repeat.




CHAPTER XVIII.

RUFUS ENTRAPPED.


"Now," said Rufus to himself on the morning succeeding the robbery,
"I've got a week to recover that box. How shall I go about it?"

This was a question easier asked than answered. Martin being the thief,
the first thing, of course, was to find him; and Rufus had considerable
hopes of encountering him in the street some day. Should this be the
case, he might point him out to a policeman, and have him arrested at
once; but this would not recover the box. Probably it was concealed at
Martin's boarding-house, and this it was that Rufus was anxious to find.
He decided, therefore, whenever he got on the track of his step-father,
to follow him cautiously until he ascertained where he lodged.

He walked the street with his eyes about him all day, but did not catch
a glimpse of Martin. The fact was, the latter was at Newark, having been
sent there by his employers with a supply of counterfeit money to
dispose of, so that our hero's search was of course fruitless, and so he
was obliged to report to Mr. Turner the next morning.

"Probably he is in hiding," said his employer. "I don't think you have
much chance of meeting him for a few days to come."

"I should like to try," said Rufus. "He won't be content to hide long."

"I have notified the banks and railroad companies of the robbery," said
Mr. Turner; "so that it will be impossible to sell the shares. After a
while, should we fail to recover them, they will grant us duplicate
certificates. I have advertised, also, the numbers of the bonds; and, if
an attempt is made to dispose of them, the thief will find himself in
trouble. So the loss is reduced to four hundred dollars."

"That is too much to lose," said Rufus.

"That is true; but we are lucky to get off so cheap."

"I hope to get back some of that," said our hero, stoutly.

"Did it ever strike you that there might be some risk encountering this
man? If he is driven to bay he may become dangerous."

"I don't think of the danger, Mr. Turner," said Rufus. "I lost that box,
and it is my duty to recover it if I can, danger or no danger."

Mr. Turner secretly admired the pluck of Rufus; but he was not a man
given to compliments, so he only said, quietly, "Well, Rufus, you shall
have the week I promised you. I have no doubt you will do your best. I
shall not be surprised, however, if you fail."

So Rufus entered upon his second day's search.

He went up Chatham Street, and explored most of the streets intersecting
it, visiting many places which he remembered as former haunts of his
step-father. But he was quite off the track here. Martin's employment
now was on the other side of the city, near the North River, and he had
no longer occasion to visit his old haunts. Besides, he had again been
sent over to New Jersey, and did not get back to the city at all till
late in the afternoon.

The next day Martin complained of headache, and was permitted to remain
at home. He did not think it prudent to be out during the day; but
easily solaced himself in his confinement with whiskey and cigars, of
which he had laid in a good supply. He was sitting in his shirt-sleeves
at the front window, looking through the blinds, which were always
closed, when his eyes lighted on Rufus passing on the opposite side of
the street.

"He's looking for me," exclaimed Martin to himself, observing that Rufus
was looking about him as he walked.

"Who's looking for you?" asked his confederate, Smith, who happened just
then to enter the room.

"My undootiful son. Look, there he is," said Martin, nervously. "I
wonder if he has heard about my living here."

Smith went to the window, and looked out.

"He looks resolute and determined," said Smith. "We must pull his
teeth."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean we must put it out of his power to do you harm."

"How are we going to do that?"

"Wait a minute and I'll tell you."

Smith left the room hastily, and after a brief interval returned.

"I think I'll fetch it," he said.

"What have you done?" asked Martin.

"I've sent Humpy to follow your son. He's to carry him a message from
you."

"What do you mean?" asked Martin, alarmed.

"Don't be afraid. It's all right."

"But I don't understand it. I didn't send any message. What was it?"

"I'll tell you. If I'm not mistaken Humpy will bring your son back with
him, so that I shall have the pleasure of reuniting parent and child."

"You don't mean to say you are going to bring Rufus here?" said Martin,
his lower jaw falling. "You aint going to betray me, are you?"

"Stuff and nonsense! What are you thinking of? All you need understand
is, that the boy is getting dangerous. He is following you round as if
he meant something, and that must be stopped. I mean to get him into the
house, but I don't mean to part company with him very soon."

Smith here briefly detailed the instructions which he had given to his
errand-boy. Martin listened with much satisfaction.

"What a head you've got!" he said admiringly.

"I'm generally ready for an emergency," remarked Smith, complacently.
"You've got to get up early in the morning to get ahead of me."

We must now follow Smith's messenger, and we shall ascertain that
gentleman's plan.

Humpy was a boy of sixteen, very short, in fact almost a dwarf, and, as
his name implies, disfigured by a hump. He was sharp, however, and
secretive, and, though he could not help understanding the character of
the men who employed him, was not likely to betray them. He had a pride
in deserving the confidence which he saw was reposed in him.

After receiving the instructions of his principal, he crossed the
street, and followed Rufus at a little distance, being particular to
keep him in sight. Our hero turned a corner, and so did he. He then
quickened his pace and came up with him.

"Was you a-lookin' for anybody in particular?" he said.

"What makes you ask?" said Rufus, facing round upon him.

"Maybe I could help you."

"Perhaps you know who I am after," said Rufus, looking at him steadily.

"You're looking for a man named Martin, aint you?"

"Do you know where I can find him?" asked Rufus, eagerly.

"Yes, I do. He sent me after you."

"He sent you!" repeated our hero, hardly believing his ears.

"Yes; he wants to see you."

"What does he want to see me for?" asked Rufus, inclined to be
suspicious.

"There's something he's got of yours that he wants to return," said
Humpy, in a low voice, looking around cautiously.

Rufus was more and more astonished. Was it possible that Martin's
conscience troubled him, and that he wanted to make restitution? He
could hardly believe this, knowing what he did of his step-father.
Martin was about the last man he would have suspected of being troubled
in any such way.

"Yes, he has got something of mine," he said aloud. "Does he want to
return it?"

"Yes, he's sorry he took it. He's afraid you'll set the copps on him."

"So he's frightened," thought Rufus. This seemed to throw light on the
new phase of affairs. He had never regarded his step-father as very
brave, and now concluded that he was alarmed about the consequences of
the theft.

"If he'll return what he took, all right," said Rufus, venturing to make
this promise on his own responsibility; "he shan't be touched. Where is
he?"

"Not far off," said Humpy.

"Tell him to bring it to me, and I'll give my word not to have him
arrested."

"He can't come."

"Why can't he?"

"He's sick."

