stranger to declare himself more definitely, eight bells sounded at
the wheel, and were repeated on the large bell forward by the lookout.
From each vessel of the fleet the bells struck at nearly the same
moment, and were followed by the pipe of the boatswain's whistle,
which was the signal for changing the watch. As the officers of the
ship were obliged to attend to their various duties, Ole Amundsen was
left alone with the captain. The waif still obstinately refused to
explain how he happened to be alone in a water-logged boat, asleep,
and out of sight of land, though he promptly answered all other
questions which were put to him.

Mr. Lowington, the principal of the Academy Squadron, was in the main
cabin, though he had been fully informed in regard to the events which
had transpired on deck. The young commander despaired of his own
ability to extort an explanation from the waif, and he concluded to
refer the matter to the principal.

"How long have you been in that boat?" asked Captain Cumberland, as he
led the way towards the companion ladder.

"Eighteen hours," answered Ole, after some hesitation, which, perhaps,
was only to enable him to count up the hours.

"Did you have anything to eat?"

"No, sir."

"Nothing?"

"Not a thing."

"Then you are hungry?"

"I had a little supper last night--not much," continued Ole,
apparently counting the seams in the deck, ashamed to acknowledge his
human weakness.

"You shall have something to eat at once."

"Thank you, sir."

Captain Cumberland therefore conducted the stranger to the steerage,
instead of the main cabin, and directed one of the stewards to give
him his supper. The man set half a cold boiled ham on one of the mess
tables, with an abundant supply of bread and butter. Cutting off a
large slice of the ham, he placed it on the plate before Ole, whose
eyes opened wide with astonishment, and gleamed with pleasure. Without
paying much attention to the forms of civilization, the boy began to
devour it, with the zeal of one who had not tasted food for
twenty-four hours. Captain Cumberland smiled, but with becoming
dignity, at the greediness of the guest, before whom the whole slice
of ham and half a brick loaf disappeared almost in a twinkling. The
steward appeared with a pot of coffee, in time to cut off another
slice of ham, which the waif attacked with the same voracity as
before. When it was consumed, and the young Norwegian glanced
wistfully at the leg before him, as though his capacity for cold ham
was not yet exhausted, the captain began to consider whether he ought
not to consult the surgeon of the ship before he permitted the waif to
eat any more. But the steward, like a generous host, seemed to regard
the quantity eaten as complimentary testimony to the quality of the
viands, and helped him to a third slice of the ham. He swallowed a
pint mug of coffee without stopping to breathe.

As the third slice of ham began to wax small before the voracious
Norwegian, Captain Cumberland became really alarmed, and determined
to report at once to the principal and the surgeon for instructions.
Knocking at the door of the main cabin, he was admitted. Dr. Winstock
assured him there was no danger to the guest; he had not been without
food long enough to render it dangerous for him fully to satisfy
himself. The quantity eaten might make him uncomfortable, and even
slightly sick, but it would do the gourmand no real injury. The
captain returned to the steerage, where Ole had broken down on his
fourth slice of ham; but he regarded it wistfully, and seemed to
regret his inability to eat any more.

"That's good," said he, with emphasis. "It's the best supper I ever
ate in my life. I like this ship; I like the grub; and I mean to go to
America in her."

"We will see about that some other time; but if you don't tell us how
you happened to be off here, I am afraid we can do nothing for you,"
replied the captain. "If you feel better now, we will go and see the
principal."

"Who's he?" asked Ole.

"Mr. Lowington. You must tell him how you happened to be in that leaky
boat."

"Perhaps I will. I don't know," added Ole, doubtfully, as he followed
the commander into the main cabin.

Captain Cumberland explained to the principal the circumstances under
which Ole had come on board, and that he declined to say anything in
regard to the strange situation in which he had been discovered.

"Is the captain here?" asked the midshipman of the watch, at the
steerage door.

"Yes," replied Captain Cumberland.

"Mr. Lincoln sent me down to report a light on the lee bow, sir."

"Very well. Where is Mr. Beckwith?"

"In the cabin, sir."

The captain left the main cabin, and entered the after cabin, where he
found Beckwith, the first master, attended by the second and third,
examining the large chart of the North Sea.

"Light on the lee bow, sir," said the first master.

"Do you make it out?"

"Yes; we are all right to the breadth of a hair," added the master,
delighted to find that his calculations had proved to be entirely
correct. "It is Egero Light, and we are about fifty miles from the
Naze of Norway. We are making about four knots, and if the breeze
holds, we ought to see Gunnarshoug Light by one o'clock."

Captain Cumberland went on deck to see the light reported. Though it
was half past eight, the sun had but just set, and the light, eighteen
miles distant, could be distinctly seen. It created a great deal of
excitement and enthusiasm among the young officers and seamen, who had
read enough about Norway to be desirous of seeing it. For weeks the
young gentlemen on board the ship had been talking of Norway, and
reading up all the books in the library relating to the country and
its people. They had read with interest the accounts of the various
travellers who had visited it, including Ross Brown, in Harper's
Monthly, and Bayard Taylor, and had studied Harper, Murray, Bradshaw,
and other Guides on the subject. The more inquiring students had read
the history of Norway, and were well prepared to appreciate a short
visit to this interesting region.

They had just come from the United States, having sailed in the latter
part of March. The squadron had had a fair passage, and the students
hoped to be in Christiansand by the first day of May; and now nothing
less than a dead calm for forty-eight hours could disappoint their
hopes. Five years before, the Young America and the Josephine, her
consort, had cruised in the waters of Europe, and returned to America
in the autumn. It had been the intention of the principal to make
another voyage the next year, go up the Baltic, and winter in the
Mediterranean; but the war of 1866 induced him to change his plans.
Various circumstances had postponed the cruise until 1870, when it was
actually commenced.

The Young America was the first, and for more than a year the only,
vessel belonging to the Academy. The Josephine, a topsail schooner,
had been added the second year; and now the Tritonia, a vessel of the
same size and rig, was on her first voyage. The three vessels of the
squadron were officered and manned by the students of the Academy. As
on the first cruise, the offices were the rewards of merit bestowed
upon the faithful and energetic pupils. The highest number of merits
gave the highest office, and so on through the several grades in
the cabin, and the petty offices in the steerage. The routine and
discipline of the squadron were substantially the same as described in
the first series of these volumes, though some changes had been made,
as further experience suggested. Instead of quarterly, as before, the
offices were given out every month. Captains were not retired after a
single term, as formerly, but were obliged to accept whatever rank and
position they earned, like other students.

There was no change from one vessel to another, except at the end of a
school year, or with the permission of the principal. The ship had six
instructors, three of whom, however, lectured to all the students in
the squadron, and each of the smaller vessels had two teachers.
Mr. Lowington was still the principal. He was the founder of the
institution; and his high moral and religious principles, his love of
justice, as well as his skill, firmness, and prudence, had made it a
success in spite of the many obstacles which continually confronted
it. As a considerable portion of the students in the squadron were
the spoiled sons of rich men, who had set at defiance the rules of
colleges and academies on shore, it required a remarkable combination
of attributes to fit a gentleman for the difficult and trying position
he occupied.

Mr. Fluxion was the first vice-principal in charge of the Josephine.
He was a thorough seaman, a good disciplinarian, and a capital
teacher; but he lacked some of the high attributes of character
which distinguished the principal. If any man was fit to succeed Mr.
Lowington in his responsible position, it was Mr. Fluxion; but it was
doubtful whether, under his sole administration, the institution could
be an entire success. His love of discipline, and his energetic manner
of dealing with delinquents, would probably have increased the number
of "rows," mutinies, and runaways.

The second vice-principal, in charge of the Tritonia, was Mr. Tompion,
who, like his two superiors in rank, had formerly been an officer of
the navy. Though he was a good sailor, and a good disciplinarian, he
lacked that which a teacher needs most--a hearty sympathy with young
people.

The principal and the two vice-principals were instructors in
mathematics and navigation in their respective vessels. Mr. Lowington
had undertaken this task himself, because he felt the necessity of
coming more in contact with the student than his position as mere
principal required. It tended to promote friendly relations between
the governor and the governed, by creating a greater sympathy between
them.

The Rev. Mr. Agneau still served as chaplain. In port, and at sea when
the weather would permit, two services were held in the steerage every
Sunday, which were attended, at anchor, by the crew of all the vessels.
Prayers were said morning and evening, in the ship by the chaplain, in
the schooners by the vice-principal or one of the instructors.

Dr. Winstock was the instructor in natural philosophy and chemistry,
as well as surgeon and sanitary director. He was a good and true man,
and generally popular among the students. Each vessel had an adult
boatswain and a carpenter, and the ship a sailmaker, to perform such
work as the students could not do, and to instruct them in the details
of practical seamanship.

After the lapse of five years, hardly a student remained of those who
had cruised in the ship or her consort during the first voyage. But in
addition to the three vessels which properly constituted the squadron,
there were two yachts, each of one hundred and twenty tons. They were
fore-and-aft schooners, of beautiful model, and entirely new. The one
on the weather wing of the fleet was the Grace, Captain Paul Kendall,
whose lady and two friends were in the cabin. Abreast of her sailed
the Feodora, Captain Robert Shuffles, whose wife was also with him.
Each of these yachts had a first and second officer, and a crew of
twenty men, with the necessary complement of cooks and stewards. They
were part of the fleet, but not of the Academy Squadron.




CHAPTER II.

OFF THE NAZE OF NORWAY.


Mr. Lowington examined Ole Amundsen very carefully, in order to
ascertain what disposition should be made of him. He told where he was
born, how he had learned English, and where he had passed the greater
portion of his life, just as he had related these particulars to
Captain Cumberland.

"But how came you out here in an open boat?" asked the principal.

Ole examined the carpet on the floor of the cabin, and made no reply.

"Won't you answer me?" added Mr. Lowington.

The waif was still silent.

"You have been to sea?"

"Yes, sir; I was six months in a steamer, and over two years in
sailing vessels," answered Ole, readily.

"What steamer were you in?"

"I was in the Drammen steamer a while; and I have been three trips
down to Copenhagen and Gottenburg, one to Lübeck, one to Stettin, and
one to Stockholm."

"Have you been in a steamer this season?"

"No, sir."

"Then you were in a sailing vessel."

Ole would not say that he had been in any vessel the present season.

"Where is your home now?" asked the principal, breaking the silence
again.

"Haven't any."

"Have you a father and mother?"

"Both dead, sir."

"Have you any friends?"

"Friends? I don't believe I have."

"Any one that takes care of you?"

"Takes care of me? No, sir; I'm quite certain I haven't any one that
takes care of me. I take care of myself, and it's heavy work I find
it, sometimes, I can tell you."

"Do you ever go fishing?"

"Yes, sir, sometimes."

"Have you been lately?"

Ole was silent again.

"I wish to be your friend, Ole."

"Thank you, sir," added Ole, bowing low.

"But in order to know what to do for you, I must know something about
your circumstances."

"I haven't any circumstances, sir. I lost 'em all," replied Ole,
gravely and sadly, as though he had met with a very serious loss.

Dr. Winstock could not help laughing, but it was impossible to decide
whether the boy was ignorant of the meaning of the word, or was trying
to perpetrate a joke.

"How did you happen to lose your circumstances, Ole?" asked Mr.
Lowington.

"When my mother died, Captain Olaf took 'em."

"Indeed; and who is Captain Olaf?"

Ole looked at the principal, and then returned his gaze to the cabin
floor, evidently not deeming it prudent to answer the question.

"Is he your brother?"

"No, sir."

"Your uncle?"

"No, sir."

Ole could not be induced to say anything more about Captain Olaf,
and doubtless regretted that he had even mentioned his name. The waif
plainly confounded "circumstances" and property. Mr. Lowington several
times returned to the main inquiry, but the young man would not even
hint at the explanation of the manner in which he had come to be a
waif on the North Sea, in an open boat, half full of water. He had
told the captain that he was not wrecked, and had not been blown off
from the coast. He would make no answer of any kind to any direct
question relating to the subject.

"Well, Ole, as you will not tell me how you came in the situation in
which we found you, I do not see that I can do anything for you,"
continued Mr. Lowington. "The ship is bound to Christiansand, and when
we arrive we must leave you there."

"Don't leave me in Christiansand, sir. I don't want to be left there."

"Why not?"

Ole was silent again. Both the principal and the surgeon pitied him,
for he appeared to be a friendless orphan; certainly he had no friends
to whom he wished to go, and was only anxious to remain in the ship,
and go to America in her.

"You may go into the steerage now, Ole," said the principal,
despairing of any further solution of the mystery.

"Thank you, sir," replied Ole, bowing low, and backing out of the
cabin as a courtier retires from the presence of a sovereign.

"What do you make of him, doctor?" added Mr. Lowington, as the door
closed upon the waif.

"I don't make anything of him," replied Dr. Winstock. "The young
rascal evidently don't intend that we should make anything of him.
He's a young Norwegian, about fifteen years old, with neither father
nor mother; for I think we may believe what he has said. If he had no
regard to the truth, it was just as easy for him to lie as it was to
keep silent, and it would have been more plausible."

"I am inclined to believe that he is a runaway, either from the shore
or from some vessel," said the principal. "He certainly cannot have
been well treated, for his filthy rags scarcely cover his body; and he
says that the supper he had to-night was the best he ever ate in his
life. It was only coffee, cold ham, and bread and butter; so he cannot
have been a high liver. He seems to be honest, and I pity him."

"But he is too filthy to remain on board a single hour. I will attend
to his sanitary condition at once," laughed the doctor. "He will breed
a leprosy among the boys, if he is not taken care of."

"Let the purser give you a suit of clothes for him, for we can't do
less than this for him."

The doctor left the cabin, and Ole was taken to the bath-room by one
of the stewards, and compelled to scrub himself with a brush and soap,
till he was made into a new creature. He was inclined to rebel at
first, for he had his national and inborn prejudice against soap
and water in combination; but the sight of the suit of new clothes
overcame his constitutional scruples. The steward was faithful to his
mission, and Ole left dirt enough in the bath-tub to plant half a
dozen hills of potatoes. He looked like a new being, even before he
had donned the new clothes. His light hair, cut square across his
forehead, was three shades lighter when it had been scrubbed, and
deprived of the black earth, grease, and tar, with which it had been
matted.

The steward was interested in his work, for it is a pleasure to any
decent person to transform such a leper of filth into a clean and
wholesome individual. Ole put on the heavy flannel shirt and the blue
frock which were handed to him, and smiled with pleasure as he
observed the effect. He was fitted to a pair of seaman's blue
trousers, and provided with socks and shoes. Then he actually danced
with delight, and evidently regarded himself as a finished dandy; for
never before had he been clothed in a suit half so good. It was the
regular uniform of the crew of the ship.

"Hold on a moment, my lad," said Muggs, the steward, as he produced a
pair of barber's shears. "Your barber did not do justice to your
figure-head, the last time he cut your hair."

"I cut it myself," replied Ole.

"I should think you did, and with a bush scythe."

"I only hacked off a little, to keep it out of my eyes. Captain Olaf
always used to cut it."

"Who's Captain Olaf?" asked Muggs.

Ole was silent, but permitted the steward to remove at will the long,
snarly white locks, which covered his head. The operator had been a
barber once, and received extra pay for his services on board the ship
in this capacity. He did his work in an artistic manner, parting
and combing the waif's hair as though he were dressing him for a
fashionable party. He put a sailor's knot in the black handkerchief
under the boy's collar, and then placed the blue cap on his head, a
little on one side, so that he looked as jaunty as a dandy
man-of-war's-man.

"Now put on this jacket, my lad, and you will be all right," continued
the steward, as he gazed with pride and pleasure upon the work of his
hands.

"More clothes!" exclaimed Ole. "I shall be baked. I sweat now with
what I have on."

"It's hot in here; you will be cool enough when you go on deck. Here's
a pea-jacket for you, besides the other."

"But that's for winter. I never had so much clothes on before in my
life."

"You needn't put the pea-jacket on, if you don't want it. Now you look
like a decent man, and you can go on deck and show yourself."

"Thank you, sir."

"But you must wash yourself clean every morning."

"Do it every day!" exclaimed Ole, opening his eyes with astonishment.

"Why, yes, you heathen," laughed Muggs. "A man isn't fit to live who
don't keep himself clean. Why, you could have planted potatoes
anywhere on your hide, before you went into that tub."

"I haven't been washed before since last summer," added Ole.

"You ought to be hung for it."

"You spend half your time washing yourselves--don't you?"

"We spend time enough at it to keep clean. No wonder you Norwegians
have the leprosy, and the flesh rots off the bones!"

"But I always go into the water every summer," pleaded Ole.

"And don't wash yourself at any other time?"

"I always wash myself once a year, and sometimes more, when I get a
good chance."

"Don't you wash your face and hands every morning."

"Every morning? No! I haven't done such a thing since last summer."

"Then you are not fit to live. If you stay in this ship, you must wash
every day, and more than that when you do dirty work."

"Can I stay in the ship if I do that?" asked Ole, earnestly.

"I don't know anything about it."

"I will wash all the time if they will only let me stay in the ship,"
pleaded the waif.

"You must talk with the principal on that subject. I have nothing to
do with it. Now, go on deck. Hold up your head, and walk like a man."

Ole left the bath-room, and made his way up the forward ladder. The
second part of the starboard watch were on duty, but nearly every
person belonging to the ship was on deck, watching the distant light,
which assured them they were on the coast of Norway. The waif stepped
upon deck as lightly as a mountain sylph. The influence of his new
clothes pervaded his mind, and he was inclined to be a little
"swellish" in his manner.

"How are you, Norway!" shouted Sanford, one of the crew.

"How are you, America," replied Ole, imitating the slang of the
speaker.

"What have you done with your dirt?" added Rodman.

