to right or left with all suitable indifference whenever her partner is
ready for another move in the cotillion.

Well, so be it. I fancy I can do this as well as another. I never
shall inquire into his motives. I'm sorry for him, too, for he looked
quite haggard and unhappy. Well; it's his own fault; for if he would
only be open with me he'd find it to his advantage--perhaps.

You are quite mistaken, dear, in what you have heard about his belonging
to that radical party of strange creatures who rant and rage about
progress in our times. Like all generous, magnanimous men, who are
conscious of strength, he sympathizes with the weak, and is a champion
of woman wherever she is wronged; and certainly in many respects, we
must all admit women are wronged by the laws and customs of society. But
no man could be nicer in his sense of feminine delicacy and more averse
to associating with bold and unfeminine women than he. I must defend him
there. I am sure that nothing could be more distasteful to him than the
language and conduct of many of these dreadful female reformers of our
day. If I am out of sorts with him I must at least do him this
justice.

You inquire about Alice and Jim Fellows; my dear, there can be nothing
there. They are perfectly well matched; a pair of flirts, and neither
trusts the other an inch farther than they can see. Alice has one of
those characters that lie in layers like the geologic strata that our
old professor used to show us. The top layer is all show, and display
and ambition; dig down below that and you find a warm volcanic soil
where noble plants might cast root. But at present she is all in the
upper stratum. She must have her run of flirting and fashion and
adventure, and just now a splendid marriage is her ideal, but she is
capable of a great deal in the depths of her nature. All I hope is she
will not marry till she has got down into it, but she is starting under
full sail now, coquetting to right and left, making great slaughter.

She looked magnificently at the wedding and quite outshone me. She has
that superb Spanish style of beauty which promises to wear well and
bloom out into more splendor as time goes on, and she has a good heart
with all her nonsense.

Well, dear, what a long letter! and must I add to it the account of the
wedding glories--lists of silver and gold tea sets, and sets of pearls
and diamonds? My dear, only fancy Tiffany's counters transferred bodily,
with cards from A., B., and C., presenting this and that; fancy also the
young men of your acquaintance silly-drunk, or stupid-drunk in the
latter part of the night in the supper-room; fancy, if you can, the
bridegroom carried up stairs, because he couldn't go up on his own
feet!--this is a wedding! Never mind! the bride had three or four sets
of diamond shoe-buckles, and rubies and emeralds in the profusion of the
Arabian Nights. Well, it will be long before I care for such a wedding!
I am sick of splendors, sated with nick-nacks, my doll is stuffed with
saw-dust, &c., &c., but I shall ever be your loving

      EVA.

P. S.--My Dear--A case of conscience!--Would it be a sin to flirt a
little with Sydney, just enough to aggravate somebody else? Sydney's,
you mind, is not a deep heart-case. He only wants me because I am hard
to catch, and have been the fashion. I'll warrant him against breaking
his heart for anybody. However, I don't believe I will flirt after all
I'll--try some other square of the chess-board.

The confidential conversation held with me by Mrs. Van Arsdel had all
the effect on my mental castle-building that a sudden blow had on
Alnaschar's basket of glass ware in the Arabian tales.

Nobody is conscious how far he has been in dreamland till he is
awakened. I was now fully aroused to the fact that I was in love with
Eva Van Arsdel, to all intents and purposes, so much in love as made the
nourishing and cherishing of an intimate friendship an impossibility,
and only a specious cloak for a sort of moral dishonesty. Now I might
have known this fact in the beginning, and I scolded and lectured
myself for my own folly in not confessing it to myself before. I had
been received by the family as a friend. I had been trusted with their
chief treasure, with the understanding that it was to belong not to me
but another, and there was a species of moral indelicacy to my mind in
having suffered myself to become fascinated by her as I now felt that I
was. But I did not feel adequate to congratulating her as the betrothed
bride of another man; nay, more, when I looked back on the kind of
intimate and confidential relations that had been growing up between us,
I could not but feel that it was not safe for me to continue them. Two
natures cannot exactly accord, cannot keep time and tune together,
without being conscious of the fact and without becoming necessary to
each other; and such relations in their very nature tend to grow
absorbing and exclusive. It was plain to me that if Eva were to marry
Wat Sydney I could not with honor and safety continue the kind of
intimacy we had been so thoughtlessly and so delightfully enjoying for
the past few weeks.

But how to break it off without an explanation, and how make that
explanation? There is a certain responsibility resting on a man of
conscience and honor, about accepting all that nearness of access, and
that closeness of intimacy which the ignorant innocence of young girls
often invites. From his very nature, from his education, from his
position in society, a young man knows more of what the full
significance and requirements of marriage are to be than a young woman
can, and he must know the danger of absorbing and exclusive intimacy
with other than a husband. The instincts of every man teach that
marriage must be engrossing and monopolizing, that it implies a
forsaking of all others, and a keeping unto one only; and how could that
be when every taste and feeling, every idiosyncracy and individual
peculiarity made the society of some other person more agreeable?

Without undue personal vanity, a man will surely know when there is a
special congeniality of nature between himself and a certain woman, and
he is bound in conscience and honor to look ahead in all his intimacies
and see what must be the inevitable result of them according to the laws
of the human mind. Because I had neglected this caution, because I had
yielded myself blindly to the delicious enchantment of a new enthusiasm,
I had now come to a place where I knew neither how to advance nor
recede.

I could not drop this intimacy, so dangerous to my peace and honor,
without risk of offending; to explain was, in fact, to solicit. I might
confess all, cast myself at her feet--but supposing she should incline
to mercy--and with a woman's uncalculating disinterestedness accept my
love in place of wealth and station, what should I then do?

Had I been possessed of a fortune even half equal to Mr. Sydney's; had
I, in fact, any settled and assumed position to offer, I would have
avowed my love boldly and suffered her to decide. But I had no advantage
to stand on. I was poor, and had nothing to give but myself; and what
man is vain enough to think that he is in himself enough to make up for
all that may be wanting in externals?

Besides this, Eva was the daughter of a rich family, and an offer of
marriage from me must have appeared to all the world the interested
proposal of a fortune-hunter. Of what avail would it be under such
circumstances to plead that I loved her for herself alone? I could fancy
the shout of incredulous laughter with which the suggestion would be
received in the gay world.

  "So very thoughtful of the fair!
  It showed a true fraternal care.
  Five thousand guineas in her purse--
  The fellow might have fancied worse."

Now, if there was anything that my pride revolted from as an
impossibility, it was coming as a poor suitor to a great rich family.
Were I even sure that Eva loved me, how could I do that? Would not all
the world say that to make use of my access in the family to draw her
down from a splendid position in life to poverty and obscurity was on
my part a dishonorable act? Could I trust myself enough to feel that it
was justice to her?

The struggle that a young man has to engage in to secure a
self-supporting position, is of a kind to make him keenly alive to
material values. Dr. Franklin said, "If you would learn the value of
money, try to borrow some." I would say rather, Try to earn some, and to
live only on what you earn. My own hard experience on this subject led
me to reflect very seriously on the responsibility which a man incurs in
inducing a woman of refinement and culture to look to him as her
provider.

In our advanced state of society there are a thousand absolute wants
directly created by culture and refinement; and whatever may be said
about the primary importance of personal affection and sympathy as the
foundation of a happy marriage, it is undoubtedly true that a certain
amount of pecuniary ease and security is necessary as a background on
which to develop agreeable qualities. A man and woman much driven,
care-worn, and overtaxed, often have little that is agreeable to show to
each other. I queried with myself then, whether, as Eva's true friend, I
should not wish that she might marry a respectable man, devoted to her,
who could keep her in all that elegance and luxury she was so fitted to
adorn and enjoy; and whether if I could do it, I ought to try to put
myself in his place in her mind.

A man who detects himself in an unfortunate passion has always the
refuge of his life-object. To the true man, the thing that he hopes to
do always offers some compensation for the thing he ceases to enjoy.

It was fortunate therefore for me, that just in this crisis of my life,
my friendship with Bolton opened before me the prospect of a permanent
establishment in connection with the literary press of the times.




CHAPTER XXIX.

A NEW OPENING.


"Henderson," said Bolton to me, one day, "how long are you engaged on
the Democracy?"

"Only for this year," said I.

"Because," said he, "I have something to propose to you which I hope may
prove a better thing. Hestermann & Co. sent for me yesterday in secret
session. The head manager of their whole set of magazines and papers has
resigned, and is going to travel in Europe, and they want me to take the
place."

"Good! I am heartily glad of it," said I. "I always felt that you were
not in the position that you ought to have. You will accept, of course."

"Whether I accept or not depends on you," he replied.

"I cannot understand," said I.

"In short, then," said he, "the responsibility is a heavy one, and I
cannot undertake it without a partner whom I can trust as myself--I
mean," he added, "whom I can trust more than myself."

"You are a thousand times too good," said I. "I should like nothing
better than such a partnership, but I feel oppressed by your good
opinion. Are you sure that I am the one for you?"

"I think I am," said he, "and it is a case where I am the best judge;
and it offers to you just what you want--a stable position, independence
to express yourself, and a good income. Hestermann & Co. are rich, and
wise enough to know that liberality is the best policy."

"But," said I, "their offers are made to you, and not to me."

"Well, of course, their acquaintance with me is of old standing; but I
have spoken to them of you, and I am to bring you round to talk with
them to-morrow; but, after all, the whole power of arranging is left
with me. They put a certain sum at my disposal, and I do what I please
with it. In short," he said, smiling, "I hold the living, and you are my
curate. Well," he added, "of course you need time to think matters over;
here is paper on which I have made a little memorandum of an arrangement
between us; take it and dream on it, and let me know to-morrow what you
think of it."

I went to my room and unfolded the agreement, and found the terms
liberal beyond all my expectations. In fact, the income of the principal
was awarded to me, and that of the subordinate to Bolton.

I took the paper the next evening to Bolton's room. "Look here, Bolton,"
said I, "these terms are simply absurd."

"How so?" he said, lifting his eyes tranquilly from his book. "What's
the matter with them?"

"Why, you give me all the income."

"Wait till you see how I'll work you," he said, smiling. "I'll get it
out of you; you see if I don't."

"But you leave yourself nothing."

"I have as much as I would have, and that's enough. I'm a literary monk,
you know, with no family but Puss and Stumpy, poor fellow, and I need
the less."

Stumpy upon this pricked up his ragged ears with an expression of lively
satisfaction, sat back on his haunches, and rapped the floor with his
forlorn bit of a tail.

"Poor Stumpy," said Bolton, "you don't know that you are the homeliest
dog in New York, do you? Well, as far as you go, you are perfect
goodness, Stumpy, though you are no beauty."

Upon this high praise, Stumpy seemed so elated that he stood on his hind
paws and rested his rough fore-feet on Bolton's knee, and looked up with
eyes of admiration.

"Man is the dog's God," said Bolton. "I can't conceive how any man can
be rude to his dog. A dog," he added, fondling his ragged cur, "why,
he's nothing but organized love--love on four feet, encased in fur, and
looking piteously out at the eyes--love that would die for you, yet
cannot speak--that's the touching part. Stumpy longs to speak; his
poor dog's breast heaves with something he longs to tell me and can't.
Don't it, Stumpy?"

As if he understood his master, Stumpy wheezed a doleful whine, and
actual tears stood in his eyes.

"Well," said Bolton, "Stumpy has beautiful eyes; nobody shall deny
that--there, there! poor fellow, maybe on the other shore your rough
bark will develop into speech; let's hope so. I confess I'm of the poor
Indian's mind, and hope to meet my dog in the hereafter. Why should so
much love go out in nothing? Yes, Stumpy, we'll meet in the
resurrection, won't we?" Stumpy barked aloud with the greatest
animation.

"Bolton, you ought to be a family man," said I. "Why do you take it for
granted that you are to be a literary monk, and spend your love on dogs
and cats?"

"You may get married, Hal, and I'll adopt your children," said Bolton;
"that's one reason why I want to establish you. You see, one's dogs
will die, and it breaks one's heart. If you had a boy, now, I'd
invest in him."

"And why can't you invest in a boy of your own?"

"Oh, I'm a predestined old bachelor."

"No such thing," I persisted, hardily, "Why do you immure yourself in a
den? Why won't you go out into society? Here, ever since I've known you,
you have been in this one cave--a New York hermit; yet if you would once
begin to go into society, you'd like it."

"You think I haven't tried it; you forget that I am some years older
than you are," said Bolton.

"You are a good-looking young fellow yet," said I, "and ought to make
the most of yourself. Why should you turn all the advantages into my
hands, and keep so little for yourself?"

"It suits me," said Bolton; "I am lazy--I mean to get the work out of
you."

"That's all hum," said I; "you know well enough that you are not lazy;
you take delight in work for work's sake."

"One reason I am glad of this position," he said, "is that it gives me a
chance to manage matters a little, as I want them. For instance, there's
Jim Fellows--I want to make something more than a mad Bohemian of that
boy. Jim is one of the wild growths of our New York life; he is a
creature of the impulses and the senses, and will be for good or evil
according as others use him."

"He's capital company," said I, "but he doesn't seem to me to have a
serious thought on any subject."

"And yet," said Bolton, "such is our day and time, that Jim is more
likely than you or I to get along in the world. His cap and bells win
favor everywhere, and the laugh he raises gives him the privilege of
saying anything he pleases. For my part, I couldn't live without Jim. I
have a weakness for him. Nothing is so precious to me as a laugh, and,
wet or dry, I can always get that out of Jim. He'll work in admirably
with us."

"One thing must be said for Jim," said I, "with all his keenness he's
kind-hearted. He never is witty at the expense of real trouble. As he
says, he goes for the under dog in the fight always, and his cheery,
frisky, hit-or-miss morality does many a kind turn for the unfortunate,
while he is always ready to help the poor."

"Jim is not of the sort that is going to do the world's thinking for
them," said Bolton; "neither will he ever be one of the noble army of
martyrs for principle. He is like a lively, sympathetic horse that will
keep the step of the team he is harnessed in, and in the department of
lively nonsense he'd do us yeoman service. Nowadays people must have
truth whipped up to a white froth or they won't touch it. Jim is a
capital egg-beater."

"Yes," said I; "he's like the horse that had the GO in him; he'll run
any team that he's harnessed in, and if you hold the reins he won't run
off the course."

"Then again," said Bolton, "there's your cousin; there is the editorship
of our weekly journal will be just the place for her. You can write and
offer it to her."

"Pardon me," said I, maliciously, "since you are acquainted with the
lady, why not write and offer it yourself? It would be a good chance to
renew your acquaintance."

Bolton's countenance changed, and he remained a moment silent.

"Henderson," he said, "there are very painful circumstances connected
with my acquaintance with your cousin. I never wish to meet her, or
renew my acquaintance with her. Sometime I will tell you why," he added.

The next evening I found on my table the following letter from Bolton:

Dear Henderson:--You need feel no hesitancy about accepting in full
every advantage in the position I propose to you, since you may find it
weighted with disadvantages and incumbrances you do not dream of. In
short, I shall ask of you services for which no money can pay, and till
I knew you there was no man in the world of whom I had dared to ask
them. I want a friend, courageous, calm, and true, capable of thinking
broadly and justly, one superior to ordinary prejudices, who may be to
me another, and in some hours a stronger, self.

I can fancy your surprise at this language, and yet I have not read you
aright if you are not one of a thousand on whom I may rest this hope.

You often rally me on my lack of enterprise and ambition, on my hermit
habits. The truth is, Henderson, I am a strained and unseaworthy craft,
for whom the harbor and shore are the safest quarters. I have lost trust
in myself, and dare not put out to sea without feeling the strong hand
of a friend with me.

I suppose no young fellow ever entered the course of life with more
self-confidence. I had splendid health, high spirits, great power of
application, and great social powers. I lived freely and carelessly on
the abundance of my physical resources. I could ride, and row, and
wrestle with the best. I could lead in all social gaieties, yet keep the
head of my class, as I did the first two years of my college life. It
seems hardly fair to us human beings that we should be so buoyed up with
ignorant hope and confidence in the beginning of our life, and that we
should be left in our ignorance to make mistakes which no after years
can retrieve. I thought I was perfectly sure of myself; I thought my
health and strength were inexhaustible, and that I could carry weights
that no man else could. The drain of my wide-awake exhausting life upon
my nervous system I made up by the insidious use of stimulants. I was
like a man habitually overdrawing his capital, and ignorant to what
extent. In my third college year this began to tell perceptibly on my
nerves. I was losing self-control, losing my way in life; I was
excitable, irritable, impatient of guidance or reproof, and at times
horribly depressed. I sought refuge from this depression in social
exhilaration, and having lost control of myself became a marked man
among the college authorities; in short, I was overtaken in a convivial
row, brought under college discipline, and suspended.

It was at this time that I went into your neighborhood to study and
teach. I found no difficulty in getting the highest recommendations as
to scholarship from some of the college officers who were for giving me
a chance to recover myself; and for the rest I was thoroughly sobered
and determined on a new course. Here commenced my acquaintance with your
cousin, and there followed a few months remembered ever since as the
purest happiness of my life. I loved her with all there was in
me,--heart, soul, mind and strength,--with a love which can never die.
She also loved me, more perhaps than she dared to say, for she was
young, hardly come to full consciousness of herself. She was then
scarcely sixteen, ignorant of her own nature, ignorant of life, and
almost frightened at the intensity of the feeling which she excited in
me, yet she loved me. But before we could arrive at anything like a calm
understanding, her father came between us. He was a trustee of the
Academy, and a dispute arose between him and me in which he treated me
with an overbearing haughtiness which aroused the spirit of opposition
in me. I was in the right and knew I was, and I defended my course
before the other trustees in a manner which won them over to my way of
thinking--a victory which he never forgave.

Previously to this encounter I had been in the habit of visiting in his
family quite intimately. Caroline and I enjoyed that kind of unwatched
freedom which the customs of New England allow to young people. I always
attended her home from the singing-school and the weekly lectures, and
the evening after my encounter with the trustees I did the same. At the
door of his house he met us, and as Caroline passed in he stopped me,
and briefly saying that my visits there would no longer be permitted,
closed the door in my face. I tried to obtain an interview soon after,
when he sternly upbraided me as one that had stolen into the village and
won their confidence on false pretences, adding that if he and the
trustees had known the full history of my college life I should never
have been permitted to teach in their village or have access to their
families. It was in vain to attempt a defense to a man determined to
take the very worst view of facts which I did not pretend to deny. I
knew that I had been irreproachable as to my record in the school, that
I had been faithful in my duties, that the majority of parents and
pupils were on my side; but I could not deny the harsh facts which he
had been enabled to obtain from some secret enemy, and which he thought
justified him in saying that he would rather see his daughter in her
grave than to see her my wife. The next day Caroline did not appear in
school. Her father, with prompt energy, took her immediately to an
academy fifty miles away.

I did not attempt to follow her or write to her; a profound sense of
discouragement came over me, and I looked on my acquaintance with her
with a sort of remorse. The truth bitterly told by an enemy with a vivid
power of statement is a tonic oftentimes too strong for one's power of
endurance. I never reflected so seriously on the responsibility which a
man assumes, in awakening the slumbering feelings of a woman, and fixing
them on himself. Under the reproaches of Caroline's father I could but
regard this as a wrong I had done, and which could be expiated only by
leaving her to peace in forgetfulness.

I resolved that I would never let her hear from me again, till I had
fully proved myself to be possessed of such powers of self-control as
would warrant me in offering to be the guardian of her happiness.

But when I set myself to the work, I found what many another does, that
I had reckoned without my host. The man who has begun to live and work
by artificial stimulant, never knows where he stands, and can never
count upon himself with any certainty. He lets into his castle a servant
who becomes the most tyrannical of masters. He may resolve to turn him
out, but will find himself reduced to the condition in which he can
neither do with nor without him.

In short, the use of stimulant to the brain-power brings on a disease,
in whose paroxysms a man is no more his own master than in the ravings
of fever, a disease that few have the knowledge to understand, and for
whose manifestations the world has no pity.

I cannot tell you the dire despair that came upon me, when after
repeated falls, bringing remorse and self-upbraiding to me, and drawing
upon me the severest reproaches of my friends, the idea at last flashed
upon me that I had indeed become the victim of a sort of periodical
insanity in which the power of the will was overwhelmed by a wild
unreasoning impulse. I remember when a boy reading an account of a
bridal party sailing gaily on the coast of Norway who were insidiously
drawn into the resistless outer whirl of the great Maelström. The horror
of the situation was the moment when the shipmaster learned that the
ship no longer obeyed the rudder; the cruelty of it was the gradual
manner in which the resistless doom came upon them. The sun still shone,
the sky was still blue. The shore, with its green trees and free birds
and blooming flowers, was near and visible as they went round and round
in dizzy whirls, past the church with its peaceful spire, past the home
cottages, past the dwelling of friends and neighbors, past parents,
brothers, and sisters who stood on the shore warning and shrieking and
entreating; helpless, hopeless, with bitterness in their souls, with all
that made life lovely so near in sight, and yet cut off from it by the
swirl of that tremendous fate!

There have been just such hours to me, in which I have seen the hopes of
manhood, the love of woman, the possession of a home, the opportunities
for acquisition of name, and position, and property, all within sight,
within grasp, yet all made impossible by my knowledge and consciousness
of the deadly drift and suction of that invisible whirlpool.

The more of manliness there yet is left in man in these circumstances,
the more torture. The more sense of honor, love of reputation, love of
friends, conscience in duty, the more anguish. I read once a frightful
story of a woman whose right hand was changed to a serpent, which at
