    There the dear form of Jesus lay,
      And scattered all the gloom.

    "Thence He arose, ascending high,
      And showed our feet the way;
    Up to the Lord we, too, shall fly
      At the great rising day.

    "Then let the last loud trumpet sound,
      And bid our kindred rise;
    Awake! ye nations under ground;
      Ye saints! ascend the skies!"

The old tune of "China," with its weird arrangement of parts,
its mournful yet majestic movement, was well fitted to express
that mysterious defiance of earth's bitterest sorrow, that solemn
assurance of victory over life's deepest anguish, which breathes
in those words. It is the major key invested with all the mournful
pathos of the minor, yet breathing a grand sustained undertone of
triumph--fit voice of that only religion which bids the human heart
rejoice in sorrow and glory in tribulation.

Then came the prayer, in which the feelings of the good man,
enkindled by sympathy and faith, seemed to bear up sorrowing souls,
as on mighty wings, into the regions of eternal peace.

In a general way nothing can be more impressive, more pathetic and
beautiful, than the Episcopal Church funeral service, but it had been
one of the last requests of the departed that her old pastor should
minister at her funeral; and there are occasions when an affectionate
and devout man, penetrated with human sympathy, can utter prayers
such as no liturgy can equal. There are prayers springing heavenward
from devout hearts that are as much superior to all written ones
as living, growing flowers out-bloom the dried treasures of the
herbarium. Not always, not by every one, come these inspirations; too
often what is called extemporary prayer is but a form, differing from
the liturgy of the church only in being poorer and colder.

But the prayer of Dr. Cushing melted and consoled; it was an uplift
from the darkness of earthly sorrow into the grand certainties of the
unseen; it had the undertone that can be given only by a faith to
which the invisible is even more real than the things that are seen.

After the prayer one and another of the company passed through the
room to take the last look at the dead. Death had touched her gently.
As often happens in the case of aged people, there had come back to
her face something of the look of youth, something which told of a
delicate, lily-like beauty which had long been faded. There was too
that mysterious smile, that expression of rapturous repose, which
is the seal of heaven set on the earthly clay. It seemed as if the
softly-closed eyes must be gazing on some ineffable vision of bliss,
as if, indeed, the beauty of the Lord her God was upon her.

Among the mourners at the head of the coffin sat Zeph Higgins, like
some rugged gray rock--stony, calm and still. He shed no tear, while
his children wept and sobbed aloud; only when the coffin-lid was
put on a convulsive movement passed across his face. But it was
momentary, and he took his place in the procession to walk to the
grave in grim calmness.

The graveyard was in a lovely spot on the Poganuc River. No care
in those days had been bestowed to ornament or brighten these last
resting-places, but Nature had taken this in hand kindly. The blue
glitter of the river sparkled here and there through a belt of pines
and hemlocks on one side, and the silent mounds were sheeted with
daisies, brightened now and then with golden buttercups, which bowed
their fair heads meekly as the funeral train passed over them.

Arrived at the grave, there followed the usual sounds, so terrible to
the ear of mourners--the setting down of the coffin, the bustle of
preparation, the harsh grating of ropes as the precious burden was
lowered to its last resting-place. And then, standing around the open
grave, they sang:

    "My flesh shall slumber in the ground
    Till the last trumpet's joyful sound.
    Then burst the chains, with sweet surprise,
    And in my Saviour's image rise."

Then rose the last words of prayer, in which the whole finished
service and all the survivors were commended to God.

It was customary in those days for the head of a family to return
thanks at the grave to the friends and neighbors who had joined in
the last tribute of respect to the departed. There was a moment's
pause, and every eye turned on Zeph Higgins. He made a movement and
stretched out his hands as if to speak; but his voice failed him, and
he stopped. His stern features were convulsed with the vain effort to
master his feeling.

Dr. Cushing saw his emotion and said, "In behalf of our brother I
return thanks to all the friends who have given us their support and
sympathy on this occasion. Let us all pray that the peace of God may
rest upon this afflicted family." The gathered friends now turned
from the grave and dispersed homeward.

With the instinct of a true soul-physician, who divines mental states
at a glance, Dr. Cushing forbore to address even a word to Zeph
Higgins; he left him to the inward ministration of a higher Power.

But such tact and reticence belong only to more instructed natures.
There are never wanting well-meaning souls who, with the very best
intentions, take hold on the sensitive nerves of sorrow with a coarse
hand.

Deacon Peaslee was inwardly shocked to see that no special attempt
had been made to "improve the dispensation" to Zeph's spiritual
state, and therefore felt called on to essay his skill.

"Well, my friend," he said, coming up to him, "I trust this
affliction may be sanctified to you."

Zeph glared on him with an impatient movement and turned to walk
away; the Deacon, however, followed assiduously by his side, going on
with his exhortation.

"You know it's no use contendin' with the Lord."

"Well, who's ben a contendin' with the Lord?" exclaimed Zeph, "I
haint."

The tone and manner were not hopeful, but the Deacon persevered.

"We must jest let the Lord do what he will with us and ours."

"I hev let him--how was I goin' to help it?"

"We mustn't murmur," continued the Deacon in a feebler voice, as he
saw that his exhortation was not hopefully received.

"Who's ben a murmurin? I haint!"

"Then you feel resigned, don't you?"

"I can't help myself. I've got to make the best on't," said Zeph,
trying to out-walk him.

"But you know----"

"LET ME ALONE, can't ye?" cried Zeph in a voice of thunder; and the
Deacon, scared and subdued, dropped behind, murmuring, "Drefful state
o' mind! poor critter, so unreconciled!--really awful!"




CHAPTER XXVIII.

DOLLY AT THE WICKET GATE.


The next Sunday rose calm and quiet over the hills of Poganuc.

There was something almost preternatural in the sense of stillness
and utter repose which the Sabbath day used to bring with it in those
early times. The absolute rest from every earthly employment, the
withholding even of conversation from temporal things, marked it off
from all other days. To the truly devout the effect was something the
same as if the time had been spent in heaven.

On this particular dewy, fresh summer morning it seemed as if Nature
herself were hushing her breath to hear the music of a higher
sphere. Dolly stood at her open window looking out on the wooded
hills opposite, feathered with their varied green, on the waving
meadows with their buttercups and daisies, on the old apple tree in
the corner of the lot where the bobolink was tilting up and down,
chattering and singing with all his might. She was thinking of what
she had heard her father saying to her mother at breakfast: how the
sickness and death of one good woman had been blessed to all that
neighborhood, and how a revival of religion was undoubtedly begun
there.

All this made Dolly very serious. She thought a great deal about
heaven, and perfectly longed to be quite sure she ever should get
there. She often had wished that there were such a thing in reality
as a Wicket Gate, and an old Interpreter's house, and a Palace
Beautiful, for then she would set right off on her pilgrimage at
once, and in time get to the Celestial City. But how to get this
spiritual, intangible preparation she knew not. To-day she knew was
a sacramental Sunday, and she should see all the good people taking
that sacrificial bread and wine, but she should be left out.

And how to get in! There were no Sunday-schools in those days,
no hymns or teachings specially adapted to the child; and Dolly
remembered to have heard serious elderly people tell of how they were
brought "under conviction" and suffered for days and weeks before
the strange secret of mercy was revealed to them, and she wondered
how she ever should get this conviction of sin. Poor Dolly had often
tried to feel very solemn and sad and gloomy, and to think herself a
dreadful sinner, but had never succeeded. She was so young and so
healthy--the blood raced and tingled so in her young veins; and if
she was pensive and sad a little while, yet, the first she knew, she
would find herself racing after Spring, or calling to her brothers,
or jumping up and down with her skipping rope, and feeling full as
airy and gay as the bobolink across in the meadow. This morning she
was trying her best to feel her sins and count them up; but the birds
and the daisies and the flowers were a sad interruption, and she went
to meeting quite dissatisfied.

When she saw the white simple table and the shining cups and snowy
bread of the Communion she inly thought that the service could have
nothing for her--it would be all for those grown-up, initiated
Christians. Nevertheless, when her father began to speak she was
drawn to listen to him by a sort of pathetic earnestness in his voice.

The Doctor was feeling very earnestly and deeply, and he had chosen
a theme to awaken responsive feeling in his church. His text was the
declaration of Jesus: "I call you not servants, but friends;" and his
subject was Jesus as the soul-friend offered to every human being.
Forgetting his doctrinal subtleties, he spoke with all the simplicity
and tenderness of a rich nature concerning the faithful, generous,
tender love of Christ, how he cared for the soul's wants, how he
was patient with its errors, how he gently led it along the way of
right, how he was always with it, teaching its ignorance, guiding its
wanderings, comforting its sorrows, with a love unwearied by faults,
unchilled by ingratitude, till he brought it through the darkness of
earth to the perfection of heaven.

Real, deep, earnest feeling inclines to simplicity of language, and
the Doctor spoke in words that even a child could understand. Dolly
sat absorbed, her large blue eyes gathering tears as she listened;
and when the Doctor said, "Come, then, and trust your soul to this
faithful Friend," Dolly's little heart throbbed "I will." And she
did. For a moment she was discouraged by the thought that she had not
had any conviction of sin; but like a flash came the thought that
Jesus could give her that as well as anything else, and that she
could trust him for the whole. And so her little earnest child-soul
went out to the wonderful Friend. She sat through the sacramental
service that followed, with swelling heart and tearful eyes, and
walked home filled with a new joy. She went up to her father's study
and fell into his arms, saying, "Father, I have given myself to
Jesus, and he has taken me."

The Doctor held her silently to his heart a moment, and his tears
dropped on her head.

"Is it so?" he said. "Then has a new flower blossomed in the Kingdom
this day."




CHAPTER XXIX.

THE CONFLICT.


There is one class of luckless mortals in this world of ours whose
sorrows, though often more real than those of other people, never
bring them any sympathy. It is those in whom suffering excites an
irritating conflict, which makes them intolerable to themselves and
others. The more they suffer the more severe, biting and bitter
become their words and actions. The very sympathy they long for, by a
strange contrariness of nature they throw back on their friends as an
injury. Nobody knows where to have them, or how to handle them, and
when everybody steers away from them they are inwardly desolate at
their loneliness.

After the funeral train had borne away from the old brown farm-house
the silent form of her who was its peace, its light, its comfort,
Zeph Higgins wandered like an unquiet spirit from room to room,
feeling every silent memorial of her who was no longer there as a
stab in the yet throbbing wound. Unlovely people are often cursed
with an intense desire to be loved, and the more unlovely they grow
the more intense becomes this desire. His love for his wife had been
unusually strong in the sense of what is often called loving--that
is, he needed her, depended on her, and could not do without her. He
was always sure that she loved him; he was always sure of her patient
ear to whatever he wished to say, of her wish to do to her utmost
whatever he wanted her to do. Then he was not without a certain
sense of the beauty and purity of her character, and had a sort of
almost superstitious confidence in her prayers and goodness, like
what the Italian peasant has in his patron saint. He felt a sort
of helplessness and terror at the idea of facing life without her.
Besides this, he was tormented by a secret unacknowledged sense of
his own unloveliness: he was angry with himself--cursed himself,
called himself hard names; and he who quarrels with himself has this
disadvantage, that his adversary is inseparably his companion--lies
down and rises, eats, drinks and sleeps with him.

What intensified this conflict was the remembrance of his wife's
dying words, enjoining on him the relinquishment of the bitter
quarrel which had alienated him from his church and his neighbors,
and placed her in so false a position.

He knew that he was in the wrong; he knew that she was in the right,
and that those words spoken on her death-bed were God's voice to him.
But every nerve and fiber in him seemed to rebel and resist; he would
not humble himself; he would not confess; he would not take a step
toward reconciliation.

The storm that was raging within expressed itself outwardly in an
impatience and irritability which tried his children to the utmost.
Poor Nabby did her best to assume in the family all her mother's
cares, but was met at every turn by vexatious fault-finding.

"There now!" he said, coming out one morning, "where's my stockings?
Everything's being neglected--not a pair to put on!"

"Oh yes, Father, I sat up and mended your stockings last night before
I went to bed. I didn't go into your room, because I was afraid of
waking you; but here they are on my basket."

"Give 'em here, then!" said Zeph harshly. "I want my things where I
know where they are. Your mother always had everything ready so I
didn't have to ask for it."

"Well, I never shall be as good as Mother if I try till I'm gray,"
said Nabby, impatiently.

"Don't you be snapping back at me," said Zeph. "But it's jest so
everywhere. Nobody won't care for me now. I don't expect it."

"Well, Father, I'm sure I try the best I can, and you keep scolding
me all the time. It's discouraging."

"Oh, yes, I'm a devil, I suppose. Everybody 's right but me. Well, I
shall be out of the way one of these days, and nobody'll care. There
ain't a critter in the world cares whether I'm alive or dead--not
even my own children."

The sparks flashed through the tears in Nabby's eyes. She was cut to
the soul by the cruel injustice of these words, and a hot and hasty
answer rose to her lips, but was smothered in her throat.

Nabby had become one of the converts of the recently-commenced
revival of religion, and had begun to lay the discipline of the
Christian life on her temper and her tongue, and found it hard work.
As yet she had only attained so far as repression and indignant
silence, while the battle raged tempestuously within.

"I'd like just to go off and leave things to take care of
themselves," she said to herself, "and then he'd see whether I don't
do anything. Try, and try, and try, and not a word said--nothing
but scold, scold, scold. It's too bad! Flesh and blood can't stand
everything! Mother did, but I ain't Mother. I must try to be like
her, though; but it's dreadful hard with Father. How did Mother ever
keep so quiet and always be so pleasant? She used--to pray a great
deal. Well, I must pray."

Yet if Nabby could have looked in at that moment and seen the misery
in her father's soul her indignation would have been lost in pity;
for Zeph in his heart knew that Nabby was a good, warm-hearted girl,
honestly trying her very best to make her mother's place good. He
knew it, and when he was alone and quiet he felt it so that tears
came to his eyes; and yet this miserable, irritable demon that
possessed him had led him to say these cruel words to her--words that
he cursed himself for saying, the hour after. But on this day the
internal conflict was raging stronger than ever. The revival in the
neighborhood was making itself felt and talked about, and the Friday
evening prayer-meeting in the school-house was at hand.

Zeph was debating with himself whether he would take the first step
towards reconciliation with his church by going to it. His wife's
dying words haunted him, and he thought he might at least go as far
as this in the right direction; but the mere suggestion of the first
step roused a perfect whirlwind of opposition within him.

Certain moral conditions are alike in all minds, and this stern,
gnarled, grizzled old New England farmer had times when he felt
exactly as Milton has described a lost archangel as feeling:

    "Oh, then, at last relent! Is there no place
    Left for repentance? none for pardon left?
    None left but by submission, and that word
    Disdain forbids me and my dread of shame."

It is curious that men are not generally ashamed of any form of
anger, wrath or malice; but of the first step towards a nobler
nature--the confession of a wrong--they are ashamed.

Never had Zeph been more intolerable and unreasonable to his sons in
the field-work than on this day.

He was too thoroughly knit up in the habits of a Puritan education
to use any form of profane language, but no man knew so well how to
produce the startling effect of an oath without swearing; and this
day he drove about the field in such a stormy manner that his sons,
accustomed as they were to his manners, were alarmed.

"Tell you what," said one of the boys to Abner, "the old man's awful
cranky to-day. Reely seems as if he was a little bit sprung. I don't
know but he's going crazy!"




CHAPTER XXX.

THE CRISIS.


It was a warm, soft June evening. The rosy tints of sunset were just
merging into brown shadows over the landscape, the frogs peeped and
gurgled in the marshes, and the whippoorwills were beginning to
answer each other from the thick recesses of the trees, when the old
ministerial chaise of Dr. Cushing might have been seen wending its
way up the stony road to the North Poganuc school-house.

The Doctor and his wife were talking confidentially, and Dolly,
seated between them, entered with eager sympathy into all they were
saying.

They were very happy, with a simple, honest, earnest happiness, for
they hoped that the great object of his life and labors was now
about to be accomplished, that the power of a Divine Influence was
descending to elevate and purify and lift the souls of his people to
God.

"My dear, I no longer doubt," he said. "The presence of the Lord is
evidently with us. If only the church will fully awaken to their
duty we may hope for a harvest now."

"What a pity," answered Mrs. Cushing, "that that old standing quarrel
of Zeph Higgins and the church cannot be made up; his children are
all deeply interested in religion, but he stands right in their way."

"Why don't you talk to him, Papa?" asked Dolly.

"Nobody can speak to him but God, my child; there's a man that nobody
knows how to approach."

Dolly reflected silently on this for some minutes, and then said,

"Papa, do you suppose Christ loves him? Did he die for him?"

"Yes, my child. Christ loved and died for all."

"Do you think he believes that?" asked Dolly, earnestly.

"I'm afraid he doesn't think much about it," answered her father.

Here they came in sight of the little school-house. It seemed already
crowded. Wagons were tied along the road, and people were standing
around the doors and windows.

The Doctor and Mrs. Cushing made their way through the crowd to
the seat behind the little pine table. He saw in the throng not
merely the ordinary attendance at prayer-meetings, but many of the
careless and idle class who seldom were seen inside a church. There
were the unusual faces of Abe Bowles and Liph Kingsley and Mark
Merrill, who had left the seductions of Glazier's bar-room to come
over and see whether there was really any revival at North Poganuc,
and not perhaps without a secret internal suggestion that to be
converted would be the very best thing for them temporally as well
as spiritually. Liph's wife, a poor, discouraged, forsaken-looking
woman, had persuaded him to come over with her, and sat there
praying, as wives of drunken men often pray, for some help from above
to save him, and her, and her children.

Nothing could be rougher and more rustic than the old
school-house,--its walls hung with cobwebs; its rude slab benches and
desks hacked by many a schoolboy's knife; the plain, ink-stained pine
table before the minister, with its two tallow candles, whose dim
rays scarcely gave light enough to read the hymns. There was nothing
outward to express the real greatness of what was there in reality.

There are surroundings that make us realize objectively the grandeur
of the human soul, and the sublimity of the possibilities which
Christianity opens to it. The dim cathedral, whose arches seem to
ascend to the skies, from whose distant recesses pictured forms of
saints and angels look down, whose far-reaching aisles thrill with
chants solemn and triumphant, while clouds of incense arise at the
holy altar, and white-robed priests and kneeling throngs prostrate
themselves before the Invisible Majesty--all this "pomp of dreadful
sacrifice" enkindles the ideas of the infinite and the eternal, and
makes us feel how great, how glorious, how mysterious and awful is
the destiny of man.

But the New England Puritan had put the ocean between him and all
such scenic presentations of the religious life. He had renounced
every sensuous aid, and tasked himself to bring their souls to
face the solemn questions of existence and destiny in their simple
nakedness, without drapery or accessories; there were times in the
life of an earnest minister when these truths were made so intensely
vivid and effective as to overbear all outward disadvantages of
surrounding; and to-night the old school-house, though rude and
coarse as the manger of Bethlehem, like that seemed hallowed by the
presence of a God.

From the moment the Doctor entered he was conscious of a present
Power. There was a hush, a stillness, and the words of his prayer
seemed to go out into an atmosphere thrilling with emotion; and when
he rose to speak he saw the countenances of his parishioners with
that change upon them which comes from the waking up of the soul to
higher things. Hard, weather-beaten faces were enkindled and eager;
every eye was fixed upon him; every word he spoke seemed to excite a
responsive emotion.

The Doctor read from the Old Testament the story of Achan. He told
how the host of the Lord had been turned back because there was one
in the camp who had secreted in his tent an accursed thing. He asked,
"Can it be now, and here, among us who profess to be Christians, that
we are secreting in our hearts some accursed thing that prevents
the good Spirit of the Lord from working among us? Is it our pride?
Is it our covetousness? Is it our hard feeling against a brother?
Is there anything that we know to be wrong that we refuse to make
right--anything that we know belongs to God that we are withholding?
If we Christians lived as high as we ought, if we lived up to our
professions, would there be any sinners unconverted? Let us beware
