the fish-fillets. Add a tablespoonful of butter to that in the pan
(previously cut up in flour), a teaspoonful of anchovy-sauce, and the
juice of a lemon, with a little minced parsley. Boil once, and pour
over fish and potatoes.


PATÉ OF SWEETBREADS.

Cut good puff-paste into rounds a quarter of an inch thick. Reserve one
of these for the bottom of each paté. With a smaller cutter take out
the centre of three others and pile upon this, making a deep well over
an inch across. Bake quickly, glazing with white of egg when nearly
done.

Boil three sweetbreads ten minutes, leave in cold water as long; cut
into dice, put into a saucepan with a great spoonful of butter, a
little pepper and salt, and a few spoonfuls of boiling water, and
stew twenty minutes. Stir, meanwhile, into half a cup of boiling
milk a tablespoonful of butter, cut up in as much flour. Add to the
sweetbreads with a little minced parsley. Boil up. Fill the patés, and
arrange upon a heated dish.


LIMA BEANS.

If dried, soak over night, put on next day in cold water, salted,
and cook gently until soft. Drain, stir in butter and pepper. If you
use the canned beans, put on in boiling water, then proceed as above
directed.


BOSTON CREAM CAKES.

  ½ lb. of butter.
  ¾ lb. of flour.
  6 eggs.
  1 pint water—warm—not scalding.

Stir the butter into the warm water, and heat slowly to a boil. Then
put in the flour, boil and stir one minute; empty into a dish to get
cold. Beat the eggs light, and whip, first the yolks, then the whites,
into the cooled paste. Drop in great spoonfuls, upon buttered paper,
not letting them touch each other, and bake, in a quick oven, ten
minutes. They should puff up to quadruple their original size. Pass a
sharp knife lightly around each, split, and fill with the following
mixture:

  1 quart of milk.
  4 tablespoonfuls of corn-starch.
  2 eggs.
  2 cups of sugar.
  1 teaspoonful butter.
  Vanilla.

Heat three cups of milk, and stir in the corn-starch wet with the other
cupful. Beat the eggs and sugar together, and add the boiling mixture,
by degrees. Put in the butter; mix well and cool before adding the
vanilla.



  Second Week.      Saturday.
  ——
  Soup Verte.
  Baked Mutton Cutlets.      Hominy Pudding.
  Potato Cakes.      Lettuce.
  ——
  Tapioca Pudding.
  ——


SOUP VERTE.

  2 lbs. coarse beef, chopped fine.
  1 turnip.
  1 onion.
  Celery-seed tied in a bag.
  1 grated carrot.
  Nearly a quart of spinach leaves.
  2 lumps of sugar.
  1 tablespoonful of butter, rubbed in flour.
  Bunch of parsley.
  Pepper and salt.
  A little of yesterday’s pastry, cut into strips—like “noodles.”
  2 quarts of cold water.

Stew the beef with the celery-seed in a quart of water for two hours,
or until the meat is in rags. Strain hard in a bag. Add the other
quart of water in which have been simmering, for half an hour, the
grated carrot, the spinach cut small, and the other vegetables sliced.
Stew all together fifteen minutes; rub entirely through a colander;
return to the fire, season; add sugar, chopped parsley, butter and
flour; boil up and drop in the noodles, one by one. Simmer ten minutes,
and pour out. It is a very good and wholesome soup for the spring-time.


BAKED MUTTON CUTLETS.

Trim neatly and put the bits of bone, skin, etc., on in a pint of cold
water to stew down into gravy. Pour a little melted butter upon the
cutlets and set over hot water, fifteen minutes. Then dip each in egg,
next in rolled cracker, and lay in your dripping-pan with a very little
water. Bake rapidly, basting with butter and water. When the gravy has
boiled down to one cupful, strain into a saucepan; season with pepper,
salt, and tomato catsup. Thicken with browned flour; strain into it the
gravy from the dripping-pan; lay the chops carefully in a frying-pan,
as being broad and easily managed. Pour over them the gravy, simmer ten
minutes; arrange the chops upon a dish, and serve the gravy in a boat.


HOMINY PUDDING.

  1 cupful cold boiled hominy—the small-grained kind.
  2 cups of milk.
  1 great spoonful of melted butter.
  1 teaspoonful of white sugar.
  3 eggs.
  A little salt.

Work the butter into the hominy; then the beaten yolks and sugar; then,
by degrees, the milk, and when all are smoothly mixed, the whites. Bake
in a buttered pudding-dish.


POTATO CAKES.

Make cold mashed potatoes into flat cakes, seasoning well, and flouring
all over. Fry to a good brown in dripping. Take up and drain as soon as
they are done, and serve hot.


LETTUCE.

Wash and pile the best parts in a salad-dish. Pass oil, vinegar,
pepper, salt, and powdered sugar to each one and let him season for
himself. It is well to do this, once in a while, that the children may
learn how to prepare their own salad.


TAPIOCA PUDDING.

  1 cup of tapioca.
  1 quart of milk.
  5 eggs.
  2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and the same of sugar.

Soak the tapioca in cold water three hours; drain off the water, if
it be not all absorbed. Soak another hour in the warmed milk. Then,
beat eggs and sugar up with the butter, add the milk and tapioca, stir
up well from the bottom, after it goes into the oven, and bake in a
buttered pudding-dish until firm and nicely browned. Eat warm with
sweet sauce. It is also good cold, eaten with sugar and cream.


  Third Week.      Sunday.
  ——
  Calf’s Head Soup.
  Imitation Turtle.      Chopped Macaroni.
  Bermuda Potatoes.    String-Beans and Fried Brains.
  ——
  Alice’s Pudding.
  Coffee and Whipped Cream.
  ——


CALF’S HEAD SOUP.

  The liquor in which a calf’s head has been boiled.
  1 lb. of lean beef cut into dice and fried brown.
  3 sliced and fried onions.
  1 grated carrot.
  Bunch of sweet herbs.
  2 tablespoonfuls of butter rubbed warm into the same quantity of
          browned flour.
  1 tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce.
  1 glass brown sherry.
  Dice of meat from the head.
  Pepper and salt.

Boil a calf’s head on Saturday until the flesh slips from the bones.
Salt and pepper the meat and set away, with the brains—also salted
and cooked—in a cool place. Return the bones to the liquor with the
vegetables and herbs cut small, the fried beef and onions, and boil
one hour. Season highly and put by in a cool cellar until Sunday. Take
off the fat, and melt the soup-jelly under it by heating all together
in a soup-kettle. When hot, strain, and set aside half the stock for
Monday. Boil up that meant for to-day, stir in the butter and flour,
and a cupful of dice made from one cheek of the cold head. Simmer ten
minutes, add sauce and wine, and pour out.


IMITATION TURTLE.

  The cold calf’s head, with the tongue.
  1 cup of good gravy. If you have nothing else, borrow a cupful from
          your soup-jelly.
  A dozen force-meat balls, made of the ears chopped fine, mixed with
          bread-crumbs, bound with beaten egg and rolled in flour.
  1 teaspoonful minced parsley and thyme.
  A little minced onion.
  Browned flour.
  4 hard-boiled eggs.
  Pepper and salt.

Slice the meat from the head neatly. Heat the gravy with seasoning,
herbs, and onion, and boil ten minutes. Strain; put the meat into the
saucepan; pour the gravy over it, and set all in boiling water fifteen
minutes. Put over the fire with the sliced eggs and force-meat balls.
Let them begin to boil, and take off. Lay the meat evenly upon a dish,
and the eggs upon it, the force-meat balls around all, and pour half
the gravy over it, sending up the rest in a boat.


CHOPPED MACARONI.

Boil half a pound of macaroni tender in hot salted water, and let it
cool. Then chop small. Have ready in a saucepan a cupful of hot milk in
which an onion has been boiled and strained out. Stir into this a great
spoonful of butter, pepper, salt, and two tablespoonfuls of grated
cheese. When these are well mixed, put in the macaroni, and shake—not
stir—until very hot. Turn into a deep dish, and grate more cheese on
the top. Pass a red-hot shovel over this until the cheese browns—or if
dry, takes fire. Blow it out, and serve.


STRING-BEANS AND FRIED BRAINS.

Cut the beans into short lengths and cook in boiling water salted.
Drain, stir in butter, pepper, and salt, and dish. Garnish with the
brains, rubbed smooth, seasoned, beaten up with a raw egg and a little
flour, and fried by the spoonful in hot fat.


BERMUDA POTATOES.

Put on in boiling water; cook until a fork will go in easily; dry off,
and serve in their skins.


ALICE’S PUDDING.

  1 quart of milk.
  4 eggs.
  1 cup dry crumbs.
  ½ cup of strawberry or other sweet jam.
  ½ cup of sugar.

Sprinkle the bottom of a buttered bake-dish with crumbs. Pour in the
jam, and cover this with the rest of the crumbs, wet with a little
milk. Scald the remainder of the milk, and pour, gradually, upon the
beaten eggs and sugar. Heat and stir three minutes; put it, spoonful by
spoonful, upon the crumbs, so as not to displace them, and when all is
in, bake until well set and slightly colored by the heat. Eat cold—with
cream, if you can get it.


COFFEE AND WHIPPED CREAM.

Whip a little cream in a syllabub churn, and lay a spoonful upon the
surface of each cup of made coffee.



  Third Week.      Monday.
  ——
  A Good White Soup.
  Ham and Eggs.      Succotash.
  Oyster Salad.      Stewed Potatoes.
  ——
  Plain Macaroni Pudding.
  ——


A GOOD WHITE SOUP.

Skim the stock set aside yesterday; heat and season, then strain
through thin muslin, and return to the fire. Skim again; add a great
spoonful of butter, cut up in flour, and boil up. Have ready in your
tureen a cupful of hot milk, in which has been soaked half a cupful of
bread-crumbs; beat into these the whites of two eggs; pour in the soup,
by degrees, stirring in well, and serve.


HAM AND EGGS.

Cut slices of ham of equal size; cover with boiling water, and cook ten
minutes, then let them get cold. Cut off the rind and fry in their own
fat, until browned. Lay upon a hot dish; strain the fat, returning it
to the pan with a little butter, and when hot break in the eggs. Fry
upon one side; trim off the ragged edges, and lay upon the ham. Dust
with pepper, and serve.


SUCCOTASH.

Open a can of succotash; drain off the liquor, cut the beans into short
lengths, and put on in boiling water, salted. Cook twenty-five minutes;
drain off the water, and add as much cold milk. When this is hot, stir
in a great spoonful of butter, cut up in flour; pepper and salt, cook
three minutes more and serve.


OYSTER SALAD.

Cut the oysters into thirds; pull the hearts out of nice lettuce heads
and shred up one-third as much as you have oysters. Make a dressing in
the proportion of two tablespoonfuls of best oil to four of vinegar;
one teaspoonful of salt and the same of sugar; half as much pepper, and
made mustard. Rub all up well, and pour over oysters and lettuce just
before serving.


STEWED POTATOES.

Cut into small squares and put on in boiling water, slightly salted.
When tender, but not broken, throw off half the water, and proceed as
with the succotash, only adding a teaspoonful of finely minced parsley.


PLAIN MACARONI PUDDING.

  ½ lb. macaroni, broken in pieces an inch long, boiled tender (or
          about twenty minutes) in hot, salted water.
  1 tablespoonful of butter.
  1 large cup of milk.
  2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar.
  2 eggs.
  Grated peel of half a lemon.
  A little cinnamon and salt.

When the macaroni is tender, drain off the water and add the salt
and butter. Heat the milk and pour over the beaten eggs, sugar and
flavoring. Mix with the macaroni, and bake in a buttered pudding-dish,
covered, for half an hour; then brown. Eat with butter and sugar.



  Third Week.      Tuesday.
  ——
  Pot-au-feu.
  Boiled Leg of Mutton.      Potatoes à la Lyonnaise.
  Stewed Pie-Plant.      Caper Sauce.
  ——
  Peach Lèche Crèma.
  ——


POT-AU-FEU.

  3 lbs. of lean beef, cut into dice.
  1 sliced and fried onion.
  2 carrots, cut into small squares.
  2 turnips, ditto.
  1 bunch of sweet herbs, minced.
  2 potatoes, parboiled and sliced.
  Pepper and salt.
  3 quarts of water.

Put on the beef in two quarts of water and cook slowly until it is
tender, and the water reduced to one quart. Put the vegetables—except
the potatoes—on in boiling water. Cook ten minutes; throw away the
water and cover with a quart of cold. Add the potatoes; pepper and salt
and cook gently half an hour. Put in the meat and the quart of gravy
and simmer ten minutes more, with the minced herbs. Then pour out. This
is only a family soup, but is a good one when properly cooked.


BOILED LEG OF MUTTON.

Do not have the shank too long, nor cut it so short as to make the leg
“chunky.” The meat will look cleaner and less sodden if you boil it in
a piece of mosquito net or tarlatan, sewed about it somewhat tightly.
Put on in boiling salted water, plenty of it, and cook fifteen minutes
to the pound. Unwrap and lay upon a hot dish. Butter all over, and
sprinkle lightly with salt. Twist frilled paper about the end of the
shank.


CAPER SAUCE.

Take out a cupful of the liquor in which the mutton was boiled
(putting away the rest for soup), strain, heat, and skim; stir in two
tablespoonfuls of butter rubbed in a teaspoonful of flour; pepper, boil
up, pour upon a beaten egg; return to the fire and stir for a minute;
add two dozen capers or nasturtium-seed, and pour into a sauce-boat.
Pass, of course, with the mutton.


POTATOES À LA LYONNAISE.

Parboil the potatoes, and cut into dice. Chop a small onion and mince a
tablespoonful of parsley. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter or excellent
dripping into a frying-pan, and when hot, stir in potatoes, onion, and
parsley. Shake and toss until all are hissing hot, but do not let them
brown. Shake off the fat in a hot colander, and serve in a deep dish.


STEWED PIE-PLANT.

Skin and wash the stalks, and cut into half inch lengths. Stew tender
in a little water, with a handful of seedless raisins. Sweeten to
taste. Eat cold with meat.


PEACH LÈCHE CRÈMA.

  1 can of peaches.
  Yolks of 3 eggs and whites of four.
  3 cups of milk.
  ½ cup of powdered sugar.
  2 tablespoonfuls of corn-starch.
  1 tablespoonful of melted butter.

Scald the milk; stir in the corn-starch wet with cold milk, and cook,
still stirring, until it begins to thicken. Take from the fire, and
beat in the butter, then the whipped yolks, two whites and sugar.
Whisk to a light cream. Drain the syrup from the peaches; lay them in
the bottom of a bake-dish, and pour the mixture gently over them. Bake
in a quick oven ten minutes, then spread with a méringue of four
whites whisked stiff with a little sugar. Shut up in the oven until
this is slightly tinged. Eat warm with sauce, or cold with cream.



  Third Week.      Wednesday.
  ——
  Scotch Broth.
  Mutton Pie.      Stewed Tomatoes.
  Cabbage Salad.      Mashed Potatoes.
  ——
  Lemon Puffs.
  ——


SCOTCH BROTH.

Take the fat from the top of the broth in which the mutton was boiled
yesterday. Chop up an onion, a good sized one, and put in it. Boil half
an hour and strain. Add a cup of barley, previously soaked two hours
in cold water, and cook for two hours more. Chop up some parsley fine
and add. When the barley is very soft, and the broth has boiled down
one-half, pour out and serve, having peppered to taste.


MUTTON PIE.

Cut the meat from yesterday’s mutton, into strips two inches long by
half an inch wide. Chop a pickled cucumber to pieces, also two boiled
eggs. Put a layer of meat in a bake-dish, strew with pickle and egg;
salt and pepper and drop, pretty thickly, over it, bits of butter
rolled in flour. Go on in this order, until your meat is used up, when
pour in a cup of oyster-liquor or cold water. Cover with a good crust,
ornamented around the edges; make a slit in the middle, and bake one
hour.

N. B.—The bare bones will “help out” to-morrow’s soup.


STEWED TOMATOES.

Receipts for these, as also for plain mashed potatoes, have been given
so lately that repetition here is needless.


CABBAGE SALAD.

  1 small, firm white cabbage, shred fine.
  1 cup of boiling milk.
  1 smaller cup of vinegar, also hot.
  1 tablespoonful of butter, and the same of sugar.
  2 eggs, well beaten.
  1 teaspoonful essence of celery.
  Pepper and salt to taste.

When the vinegar boils, put in butter, sugar, and seasoning. Boil,
and add the shred cabbage. When this is scalding hot, take from the
fire. Pour the hot milk upon the eggs, and cook one minute, stirring
constantly. Turn the cabbage into a bowl, pour over it the smoking
custard, toss up and mix well, and set it, covered, in ice-cold water.
Eat perfectly cold.


LEMON PUFFS.

  1 cup of prepared flour.
  ½ cup of powdered sugar.
  1 tablespoonful of butter.
  3 eggs—whites and yolks beaten separately.
  Grated peel of 1 lemon.
  3 tablespoonfuls of milk.
  A little salt.

Cream butter and sugar, whip in the yolks, milk, and lemon-peel; then,
the whisked whites and flour, alternately. Bake in small, buttered
tins, or in “gem” pans. Turn out while hot, and eat with sweet sauce.


  Third Week.      Thursday.
  ——
  Soup à la Bonne Femme.
