The two who seemed rapidly growing indifferent to the issue of the
election were Sybil and Ronald, who sat together with a huge portfolio of
photographs and sketches between them, laughing and talking pleasantly
enough. Joe did not hear a word of their conversation, and Mrs. Wyndham
paid little attention to it, though her practiced ears could have heard it
all if need be, while she herself was profoundly occupied with some one
else.

The four had a somewhat dreary meal together, and Ronald was told to go
into Sam's study and smoke if he liked, while Mrs. Wyndham led Joe and
Sybil away to look at a quantity of new things that had just come from
Paris. Ronald did as he was bid and settled himself for an hour, with a
plentiful supply of newspapers and railroad literature.

It was past three o'clock when Sam Wyndham entered the room, his face wet
with the snowflakes and red with excitement.

"Hollo!" he exclaimed, seeing Ronald comfortably ensconced in his favorite
easy-chair. "How are you?"

"Excuse me," said Ronald, rising quickly. "They told me to come in here
after lunch, and so I was waiting until I was sent for, or told to come
out."

"Very glad to see you, any way," said Sam cordially. "Well, I have been to
hear about an election--a friend of ours got put up for senator. But I
don't expect that interests you much?"

"On the contrary," said Ronald, "I have heard it so much talked of that I
am as much interested as anybody. Is it all over?"

"Oh yes, and a pretty queer business it was. Well, our friend is not
elected, anyway"--

"Has Mr. Harrington been defeated?" asked Ronald quickly.

"It's my belief he has been sold," said Sam. "But as I am a Republican
myself and a friend of Jobbins, more or less, I don't suppose I feel so
very bad about it, after all. But I don't know how my wife will take it,
I'm sure," said Sam presently. "I expect we had better go and tell her,
right off."

"Then he has really lost the election?" inquired Ronald, who was not
altogether sorry to hear it.

"Why, yes--as I say, Jobbins is senator now. I should not wonder if
Harrington were a good deal cut up. Come along with me, now, and we will
tell the ladies."

The three ladies were in the drawing-room. Mrs. Wyndham and Joe sprang to
their feet as Sam and Ronald entered, but Sybil remained seated and merely
looked up inquiringly.

"Oh now, Sam," cried Mrs. Wyndham, in great excitement, "tell us all about
it right away. We are dying to know!"

Joe came close to Mrs. Wyndham, her face very pale and her teeth clenched
in her great anxiety. Sam threw back the lapels of his coat, put his
thumbs in the armholes of his broad waistcoat, and turned his head
slightly on one side.

"Well," he said slowly, "John's wiped out."

"Do you mean to say he has lost the election?" cried Mrs. Wyndham.

"Yes--he's lost it. Jobbins is senator."

"Sam, you are perfectly horrid!" exclaimed his spouse, in deepest
vexation.

Josephine Thorn spoke no word, but turned away and went alone to the
window. She was deathly pale, and she trembled from head to foot as she
clutched the heavy curtain with her small white fingers.

"Poor Mr. Harrington!" said Sybil thoughtfully. "I am dreadfully sorry."

Mr. and Mrs. Wyndham and Ronald moved toward the fire where Sybil was
sitting. No one spoke for a few seconds. At last Mrs. Wyndham broke out:

"Sam, it's a perfect shame!" she said. "I think all those people ought to
be locked up for bribery. I am certain it was all done by some horrid
stealing, or something, now, was not it?"

"I don't know about that, my dear," said Sam reflectively. "You see they
generally vote fair enough in these things. Well, may be that fellow
Ballymolloy has made something out of it. He's a pretty bad sort of a
scamp, any way, I expect. Sorry you are so put out about it, but Jobbins
is not so very bad, after all."

Sybil suddenly missed Joe from the group, and looked across to where she
stood by the window. A glance told her that something was wrong, and she
rose from her seat and went to her friend. The sight of Josephine's pale
face frightened her.

"Joe, dear," she said affectionately, "you are ill--come to my room."
Sybil put one arm round her waist and quietly led her away. Ronald had
watched the little scene from a distance, but Mr. and Mrs. Wyndham
continued to discuss the result of the election.

"It is exactly like you, Sam, to be talking in that way, instead of
telling me just how it happened," said Mrs. Wyndham. "And then to say it
is not so very bad after all!"

"Oh, I will tell you all about it right away, my dear, if you'll only give
me a little time. You're always in such an immense fever about everything
that it's perfectly impossible to get along."

"Are you going to begin?" said Mrs. Wyndham, half vexed with her husband's
deliberate indifference.

"Well, as near as I can make out it was generally thought at the start
that John had a pretty good show. The Senate elected him right away by a
majority of four, which was so much to the good, for of course his friends
reckoned on getting him in, if the Senate hadn't elected him, by the
bigger majority of the House swamping the Senate in the General Court. But
it's gone just the other way."

"Whatever is the General Court?" asked Ronald, much puzzled.

"Oh, the General Court is when the House and the Senate meet together next
day to formally declare a senator elected, if they have both chosen the
same man, or to elect one by a general majority if they haven't."

"Yes, that is it," added Mrs. Wyndham to Ronald, and then addressing her
husband, "Do go on, Sam; you've not told us anything yet."

"Well, as I said, the Senate elected John Harrington by a majority of
four. The House took a long time getting to work, and then there was some
mistake about the first vote, so they had to take a second. And when that
was done Jobbins actually had a majority of eighteen. So John's beaten,
and Jobbins will be senator anyhow, and you must just make the best you
can out of it."

"But I thought you said when the House and the Senate did not agree, the
General Court met next day and elected a senator?" asked Ronald again;
"and in that case Mr. Harrington is not really beaten yet."

"Well, theoretically he's not," said Sam, "because of course Jobbins is
not actually senator until he has been elected by the General Court, but
the majority for him in the House was so surprisingly large, and the
majority for John so small in the Senate, and the House is so much larger
than the Senate, that the vote to-morrow is a dead sure thing, and Jobbins
is just as much senator as if he were sitting in Washington."

"I suppose you will expect me to have Mr. Jobbins to dinner, now. I think
the whole business is perfectly mean!"

"Don't blame me, my dear," said Sam calmly. "I did not create the
Massachusetts Legislature, and I did not found the State House, nor
discover America, nor any of these things. And after all, Jobbins is a
very respectable man and belongs to our own party, while Harrington does
not. When I set up creating I'll make a note of one or two points, and
I'll see that John is properly attended to."

"You need not be silly, Sam," said Mrs. Wyndham. "What has become of those
girls?"

"They went out of the room some time ago," said Ronald, who had been
listening with much amusement to the description of the election. He was
never quite sure whether people could be serious when they talked such
peculiar language, and he observed with surprise that Mr. and Mrs. Wyndham
talked to each other in phrases very different from those they used in
addressing himself.

Sybil had led Joe away to her room. She did not guess the cause of Joe's
faintness, but supposed it to be a momentary indisposition, amenable to
the effects of eau-de-cologne. She made her lie upon the great cretonne
sofa, moistening her forehead, and giving her a bottle of salts to smell.

But Joe, who had never been ill in her life, recovered her strength in a
few minutes, and regaining her feet began to walk about the room.

"What do you think it was, Joe, dear?" asked Sybil, watching her.

"Oh, it was nothing. Perhaps the room was hot, and I was tired."

"I thought you looked tired all the morning," said Sybil, "and just when I
looked at you I thought you were going to faint. You were as pale as
death, and you seemed holding yourself up by the curtains."

"Did I?" said Joe, trying to laugh. "How silly of me! I felt faint for a
moment--that was all. I think I will go home."

"Yes, dear--but stay a few minutes longer and rest yourself. I will order
a carriage--it is still snowing hard." Sybil left the room.

Once alone, Joe threw herself upon the sofa again. She would rather have
died than have told any one, even Sybil Brandon, that it was no sickness
she felt, but only a great and overwhelming disappointment for the man she
loved.

Her love was doubly hers--her very own--in that it was fast locked in her
own heart, beyond the reach of any human being to know. Of all that came
and went about her, and flattered her, and strove for her graces, not one
suspected that she loved a man in their very midst, passionately,
fervently, with all the strength she had. Ronald's suspicions were too
vague, and too much the result of a preconceived idea, to represent
anything like a certainty to himself, and he had not mentioned them to
her.

If anything can determine the passion of love in a woman, it is the great
flood of sympathy that overflows her heart when the man she loves is hurt,
or overcome in a great cause. When, for a little moment, that which she
thinks strongest and bravest and most manly is struck down and wounded and
brought low, her love rises up and is strong within her, and makes her
more noble in the devotion of perfect gentleness than a man can ever be.

"Oh, if only he could have won!" Joe said again and again to herself. "If
only he could have won, I would have given anything!"

Sybil came back in a few moments, and saw Joe lying down, still white and
apparently far from well. She knelt upon the floor by her side and taking
her hands, looked affectionately into her face.

"There is something the matter," she said. "I know--you cannot deceive
me--there is something serious the matter. Will you tell me, Joe? Can I do
anything at all to help you?" Joe smiled faintly, grateful for the
sympathy and for the gentle words of her friend.

"No, Sybil dear. It is nothing--there is nothing you can do. Thanks,
dearest--I shall be very well in a little while. It is nothing, really. Is
the carriage there?"

A few minutes later, Joe and Ronald were again at Miss Schenectady's
house. Joe recovered her self-control on the way, and asked Ronald to come
in, an invitation which he cheerfully accepted.

John Harrington had spent the day in a state of anxiety which was new to
him. Enthusiastic by nature, he was calm by habit, and he was surprised to
find his hand unsteady and his brain not capable of the intense
application he could usually command. Ten minutes after the results of the
election were known at the State House, he received a note from a friend
informing him with expressions of hearty sympathy how the day had gone.

The strong physical sense of pain which accompanies all great
disappointments, took hold of him, and he fell back in his seat and closed
his eyes, his teeth set and his face pale with the suffering, while his
broad hands convulsively grasped the heavy oaken arms of his chair.

It may be that this same bodily agony, which is of itself but the gross
reflection in our material selves of what the soul is bearing, is a
wholesome provision that draws our finer senses away from looking at what
might blind them altogether. There are times when a man would go mad if
his mind were not detached from its sorrow by the quick, sharp beating of
his bodily heart, and by the keen torture of the physical body, that is
like the thrusting of a red-hot knife between breastbone and midriff.

The expression "self-control" is daily in the blatant mouths of preachers
and moralists, the very cant of emptiness and folly. It means nothing, nor
can any play of words or cunning twisting of conception ever give it
meaning. For the "self" is the divine, imperishable portion of the eternal
God which is in man. I may control my limbs and the strength that is in
them, and I may force under the appetites and passions of this mortal
body, but I cannot myself, for it is myself that controls, being of nature
godlike and stronger than all which is material. And although, for an
infinitely brief space of time, I myself may inhabit and give life to this
handful of most changeable atoms, I have it in my supreme power and choice
to make them act according to my pleasure. If I become enamored of the
body and its ways, and of the subtleties of a fleeting bodily
intelligence, I have forgotten to control those things; and having
forgotten that I have free will given me from heaven to rule what is mine,
I am no longer a man, but a beast. But while I, who am an immortal soul,
command the perishable engine in which I dwell, I am in truth a man. For
the soul is of God and forever, whereas the body is a thing of to-day that
vanishes into dust to-morrow; but the two together are the living man. And
thus it is that God is made man in us every day.

All that which we know by our senses is but an illusion. What is true of
its own nature, we can neither see, nor hear, nor feel, nor taste. It is a
matter of time, and nothing more, and whatever palpable thing a man can
name will inevitably be dissolved into its constituent parts, that these
may again agglomerate into a new illusion for future ages. But that which
is subject to no change, nor disintegration, nor reconstruction, is the
immortal truth, to attain to a knowledge and understanding of which is to
be saved from the endless shifting of the material and illusory universe.

John Harrington lay in his chair alone in his rooms, while the snow
whirled against the windows outside and made little drifts on the sills.
The fire had gone out and the bitter storm beat against the casements and
howled in the chimney, and the dusk of the night began to mingle with the
thick white flakes, and brought upon the solitary man a great gloom and
horror of loneliness. It seemed to him that his life was done, and his
strength gone from him. He had labored in vain for years, for this end,
and he had failed to attain it. It were better to have died than to suffer
the ignominy of this defeat. It were better never to have lived at all
than to have lived so utterly in vain. One by one the struggles of the
past came up to him; each had seemed a triumph when he was in the glory of
strength and hope. The splendid aims of a higher and nobler government,
built by sheer truth and nobility of purpose upon the ashes and dust of
present corruption, the magnificent purity of the ideal State of which he
had loved to dream--all that he had thought of and striven after as most
worthy of a true man to follow, dwindled now away into a hollow and
mocking image, more false than hollowness itself, poorer and of less
substance than a juggler's show.

He clasped his hands over his forehead, and tried to think, but it was of
no use. Everything was vague, broken, crushed, and shapeless. Faces seemed
to rise to his disturbed sight, and he wondered whether he had ever known
these people; a ghastly weariness as of death was upon him, and his arms
fell heavily by his sides. He groaned aloud, and if in that bitter sigh he
could have breathed away his existence he would have gladly done it.

Some one entered the room, struck a match, and lit the gas. It was his
servant, or rather the joint servant of two or three of the bachelors who
lived in the house, a huge, smooth-faced colored man.

"Oh, excuthe me, Mister Harrington, I thought you wath out, Thir.
There's two o' them notes for you."

John roused himself, and took the letters without a word. They were both
addressed in feminine handwriting. The one he knew, for it was from Mrs.
Wyndham. The other he did not recognize. He opened Mrs. Wyndham's first.

"DEAR MR. HARRINGTON,--Sam and I are very much put out about it, and
sympathize most cordially. We think you might like to come and dine this
evening, if you have no other invitation, so I write to say we will be all
alone and very glad to see you. Cordially yours,

"JANE WYNDHAM."

"P.S. Don't trouble about the answer."

John read the note through and laid it on the table. Then he turned the
other missive over in his fingers, and finally tore open the envelope.

It ran as follows:--

"MY DEAR MR. HARRINGTON,--Please don't be surprised at my writing to you
in this way. I was at Mrs. Wyndham's this afternoon and heard all about
it, and I must write to tell you that I am very, very sorry. It is
too horrible to think how bad and wicked and foolish people are, and how
they invariably do the wrong thing. I cannot tell you how sorry we all
are, because it is just such men as you who are most needed nowadays,
though of course I know nothing about politics here. But I am quite sure
that all of them will live to regret it, and that you will win in
the end. Don't think it foolish of me to write, because I'm so angry that
I can't in the least help it, and I think everybody ought to.

"Yours in sincerity,"

"JOSEPHINE THORN."




CHAPTER XVII.



John read Joe's note many times over before he quite realized what it
contained. It seemed at first a singular thing that she should have
written to him, and he did not understand it. He knew her as an
enthusiastic and capricious girl who had sometimes laughed at him, and
sometimes treated him coldly; but who, again, had sometimes talked with
him as though he were an old friend. He called to mind the interest she
had taken in his doings of late, and how she had denounced Vancouver as
his enemy, and he thought of the long conversation he had had with her on
the ice under the cold moonlight. He thought of many a sympathetic glance
she had given when he spoke of his aims and intentions, of many a gentle
word spoken in praise of him, and which at the time he had taken merely as
so much small, good-natured flattery, such as agreeable people deal out to
each other in society without any thought of evil nor any especial meaning
of good. All these things came back to him, and he read the little note
again. It was a kindly word, nothing more, penned by a wild, good-hearted
girl, in the scorn of consequence or social propriety. It was nothing but
that.

And yet, there was something more in it all--something not expressed in
the abbreviated words and hurriedly-composed sentences, but something that
seemed to struggle for expression. John's experience of womankind was
limited, for he was no lady's man, and had led a life singularly lacking
in woman's love or sentiment, though singularly dependent on the
friendship of some woman. Nevertheless he knew that Joe's note breathed
the essence of a sympathy wider than that of mere every-day acquaintance,
and deeper, perhaps, than that of any friendship he had known. He could
not have explained the feeling, nor reasoned upon it, but he knew well
enough that when he next met Joe it would be on new terms. She had
declared herself his friend in a way no longer mistakable, for she must
have followed her first impulse in writing such a note, and the impulse
must have been a strong one.

For a while he debated whether to answer the note or not, almost
forgetting his troubles in the tumult of new thoughts it had suggested to
him. A note, thought he, required an answer, on general principles--but
such a note as this would be better answered in person than by any pen and
paper. He would call and see Joe, and thank her for it. But, again, he
knew he could not see her until the next day, and that seemed a long time
to wait. It would not have been long under ordinary circumstances, but in
this case it seemed to him an unreasonable delay. He sat down and took a
pen in his fingers.

"Dear Miss Thorn"--he began, and stopped. In America it is more formal to
begin without the preliminary "my;" in England the "my" is indispensable,
unless people are on familiar terms. John knew this, and reflected that
Joe was English. While he was reflecting his eye fell upon a heap of
telegraph blanks, and he remembered that he had not given notice of his
defeat to the council. He pushed aside the note paper and took a form for
a cable dispatch. In a moment Joe was forgotten in the sudden shock that
brought his thoughts back to his position. He wrote out a simple message
addressed to Z, who was the only one of the three whom he officially knew.

But when he had done that, he fell to thinking about Joe again, and
resolved to write the note.

"MY DEAR MISS THORN,--I cannot allow your very friendly words to remain
unanswered until tomorrow. It is kind of you to be sorry for the defeat I
have suffered, it is kinder still to express your sympathy so directly and
so soon. Concerning the circumstances which brought the contest to such a
result, I have nothing to say. It is the privilege of elective bodies to
choose as they please, and indeed, that is the object of their existence.
No one has any right to complain of not being elected, for a man who is a
candidate knows from the first what he is undertaking, and what manner of
men he has to deal with. Personally, I am a man who has fought a fight and
has lost it, and however firmly I still believe in the cause which led me
to the struggle, I confess that I am disappointed and disheartened at
being vanquished. You are good enough to say you believe I shall win in
the end; I can only answer that I thank you very heartily indeed for
saying so, though I do not think it is likely that any efforts of mine
will be attended with success for a long time.

"Believe me, with great gratitude,

"Very sincerely yours,

"JOHN HARRINGTON."

It was a longer note than he had meant to write, in fact it was almost a
letter; but he read it over and was convinced he had said what he meant to
say, which was always the principal consideration in such matters.
Accordingly the missive was dispatched to its destination. As for Mrs.
Wyndham, John determined to accept her invitation, and to answer it in
person by appearing at the dinner-hour. He would not let any one think he
was so broken-hearted as to be unable to show himself. He was too strong
for that, and he had too much pride in his strength.

He was right in going to Mrs. Wyndham's, for she and her husband were his
oldest friends, and he understood well enough what true hearts and what
honest loyalty lie sometimes concealed in the bosoms of those brisk,
peculiar people, who seem unable to speak seriously for long about the
most serious subjects, and whose quaint turns of language seem often so
unfit to express any deep feeling. But while he talked with his hosts his
own thoughts strayed again and again to Joe, and he wondered what kind of
woman she really was. He intended to visit her the next day.

The next day came, however, and yet John did not turn his steps up the
hill towards Miss Schenectady's house. It was a cloudless morning after
the heavy storm, and the great drifts of snow flashed like heaps of
diamonds in the sun. All the air was clear and cold, and the red brick
pavements were spotted here and there with white patches left from the
shovels of the Irishmen. Sleighs of all sizes were ploughing their way
hither and thither, breaking out a track in the heavy mass that encumbered
the streets. Every one was wrapped in furs, and every one's face was red
with the smarting cold.

Joe stayed at home until mid-day, when she went to a luncheon-party of
young girls. As usual, they had been sewing for the poor, but Joe thought
that she was not depriving the poor people of any very material assistance
by staying away from the more industrious part of the entertainment. The
sewing they all did together in a morning did not produce results whereby
even the very smallest baby could have been clothed, and the part effected
by each separate damsel in this whole was consequently somewhat
insignificant. Joe would have stayed at home outright had the weather not
been so magnificent, and possibly she thought that she might meet John
Harrington on her way to the house of her friend in Dartmouth Street.

Fate, however, was against her, for she had not walked thirty yards down
the hill before she was overtaken by Pocock Vancouver. He had been
standing in one of the semi-circular bay windows of the Somerset Club, and
seeing Joe coming down the steep incline, had hurriedly taken his coat and
hat and gone out in pursuit of her. Had he suspected in the least how Joe
felt toward him, he would have fled to the end of the world rather than
meet her.

"Good morning, Miss Thorn," he said, walking rapidly by her side and
taking off his hat, "how very early you are to-day."

"It is not early," said Joe, looking at him coldly, "it is nearly one
o'clock."

"It would be called early for most people," said Vancouver; "for Mrs.
Wyndham, for instance."

"I am not Mrs. Wyndham," said Joe.

"I am going to see Harrington," remarked Vancouver, who perceived that Joe
was not in a good humor. "I am afraid he must be dreadfully cut up about
this business."

"So you are going to condole with him? I do not believe he is in the least
disturbed. He has far too much sense."

"I fancy the most sensible man in the world would be a trifle annoyed at
being defeated in an election, Miss Thorn," said Vancouver blandly. "I am
afraid you are not very sorry for him. He is an old friend of mine, and
though I differ from him in politics, very passively, I cannot do less
than go and see him, and tell him how much I regret, personally, that he
should be defeated."

Joe's lip curled in scorn, and she flushed angrily. She could have struck
Vancouver's pale face with infinite pleasure and satisfaction, but she
