joist. The building was not inhabited, and there was little to be feared
at that height above the street from any noise they might make. Flint
sat down on the end of the lever, and the scuttle flew up at once, the
staple drawn out of the wood.

The master's mate was the first to enter; and he "hung off" to the floor
below. Then he assisted Christy to descend, and to close the scuttle
after him. Acting upon their belief that all the warehouses were
constructed on the same plan, they easily found the door by which they
reached the staircase. On the lower floor, they opened a window and
passed out into the alley in the rear of the building. They were on the
ground, and Christy soon ascertained where he was. He made his way to a
wharf where he was fortunate enough to find a boat.

This locality seemed to be entirely deserted, and there was no one to
challenge them, and no one appeared to take any notice of them on the
way. It was not yet nine o'clock, and many stores were open, one of
which they entered and bought a cooked ham and a large supply of bread.
The woman in charge asked no questions, though Christy talked about a
fishing trip to blind her. The boat they found was a very good one, and
as it was the property of the enemy, Christy had no scruples in regard
to confiscating it. He had money enough in his pocket to pay for it, but
as the owner did not appear to dispute his taking possession of it, he
dispensed with this ceremony.

Taking the oars which they found in the boat, they pulled away from the
wharf without interruption from any source. Christy took his bearings
as well as he could, and they passed out into the fog and darkness,
to which experience within a few days had accustomed them both. They
crossed the Alabama River, and then followed the land to the southward.
Striking across an inlet they reached the land again, and by midnight
they reached a point of land where Christy felt entirely at home. He
recognized it by the dilapidated wharf, from which he had embarked in
the Leopard.

It was still a long pull to Glenfield, and they went ashore to partake
of a little refreshment. Flint was a smoker, and he had some dry matches
which enabled them to make a fire, more for its light than its heat. The
ham was good and so was the bread to hungry men like the fugitives. At
the end of an hour by the midshipman's watch, they felt like new men,
and they resumed their places in the boat, and pulled two hours longer,
which brought them to the inlet at Glenfield. At the rude pier where the
Bellevite had been moored lay a topsail schooner.

"I don't find any fault, Mr. Passford, but it seems to me that it is
rather dangerous for you to come here," said Flint, in a low tone, as
soon as they had made out the schooner at the wharf. "I can't see what
you are to make by it; and your uncle would hand you over to the rebel
officers as readily as he would eat his breakfast."

"I have no doubt he would do so; but I don't intend to give him the
chance to do so," replied Christy, resting on his oar. "You see this
schooner. She is loaded with cotton, and she is going to run the
blockade about this time. I intend to take passage in her."

"Then you knew about this vessel?" asked Flint curiously.

"I did; and that is the particular reason why I came here. Lonley told
me that my uncle had offered him the command of the schooner; and now
that he has lost his position on board of the Teaser, I have no doubt
he has already applied for the berth that was offered to him. I am
confident that he has seen my uncle, and it must have been he who told
him that I was a prisoner."

"I begin to understand you now, Mr. Passford," added Flint.

"If you do, we will say no more about it just now, for there may be some
one within earshot of us," replied Christy.

Nothing more was said, and the boat cautiously approached the schooner.
No one appeared to be on board of her, and the fugitives found that she
was loaded with cotton, even carrying a deck-load of this staple of the
South, the price of which had bounded up to an enormous figure in the
markets of the world. In the early morning the clouds and the fog were
swept away, and the sun came out. Christy found a hiding-place on the
other side of the creek, in a dense mass of bushes, where the boat was
drawn out of the water.

A spot which commanded a full view of the schooner had been selected,
the boat was turned upside down so as to afford a shelter, and the weary
Unionists went to sleep, for they were not likely to be disturbed on
this side of the creek. It was noon when they woke, and it looked as
though something was going on at the vessel. About half a dozen negroes
were to be seen on the deck-load of cotton; and a little later in the
day, Colonel Passford and Lonley were observed talking together. But
nothing was done that day, and the night came on. Christy was not
satisfied with his information, and as soon as it was dark, the boat
was launched, and the fugitives pulled over to the schooner.

"Who's in dat boat?" shouted a negro, showing himself at the rail of the
vessel.

"I am," replied Christy, rather indefinitely.

"Be you de new mate, sar?" demanded the man.

"I am," answered Christy, at a venture.

"We done wait free days for you, an' Massa Lonley be mighty glad to see
you."

"Where is Captain Lonley now?" asked the lieutenant.

"Stoppin' wid Massa colonel. He done tole me to call him if de mate
come. Dis nigger gwine to do dat," added the man.

"Stop a little," added Christy, as he climbed on board of the vessel,
followed by Flint. "How many men have you on board?"

"Six men wid de cook."

"Are these men sailors?"

"Dey all done work aboard a vessel, but dey ain't much sailors."

"All free niggers?"

"No, sar; wish dey was."

"Where are the rest of the men?"

"In de fo'castle, sar. De capin specks de mate come to-night, an' I
reckon we's gwine down de bay right off den."

"Go and call the captain then," added Christy, as confidently as though
he had stood on his own ground.

The negro hastened away as fast as his legs would carry him, and in
a few minutes Colonel Passford and Captain Lonley came on board. The
latter seemed to be hung on wires, he was so active; and even before he
saluted the new mate, he called all hands and directed them to hoist the
mainsail.

"I am glad to see you, Fetters," said the captain, extending his hand to
him. "I expected you yesterday."

"My business was such that I could not leave," replied Christy.

It was very dark, and the captain did not recognize him.




CHAPTER XXX

THE PRIZE-MASTER OF THE JUDITH


The weather had been clear all day, with quite a fresh breeze, and the
same conditions prevailed after dark. Colonel Passford seemed to have a
great deal to say to Captain Lonley, now that the time for sailing had
come, and he occupied the attention of the latter so that neither of
them could observe the new mate, if he were disposed to do so. As soon
as Christy perceived the r√¥le which circumstances had laid out for
him, he put his hand into a slush-tub he found in the waist, and
anointed his face with the filthy stuff. There was just color enough in
the compound of grease and dirt to change his complexion, if it had been
light enough to observe his physiognomy. Flint did the same thing.

"You will have to take your chances when you come to the entrance of the
bay," said Colonel Passford, nervously. "This cargo is worth a fortune,
and we are in sore need of the supplies which its value will purchase
for us."

"I think I understand the matter perfectly, colonel," replied Lonley,
who did not seem to take kindly to any advice from a landsman.

"Do not take any unnecessary risks, Captain Lonley, for more than the
value of the cotton is at stake," continued the planter.

"I have a plan of my own which I am confident will take me through the
blockade all right," added the captain.

"You must remember that my brother's steamer is on the blockade, and
that she makes over twenty knots an hour."

"I shall pretend to be a prize of the Bellevite long enough to distract
the attention of the fleet," added Lonley, impatiently.

"I don't understand these things, and I shall leave you to manage the
affair as you think best; but I beg you will use all proper caution,"
continued Colonel Passford. "Here are the ship's papers. You will give
the one on the top to the officer from the fort, and he will cause you
no delay."

Lonley took the papers, and thrust them into his pocket without any
reply. Christy had taken charge of the hoisting of the mainsail without
waiting for any special orders, and Flint was doing his best to assist
him. The negroes, though not expert seamen, knew the ropes of a
schooner, and they did very well with Flint in their midst.

"We are going to have a fresh breeze, Fetters," said Captain Lonley,
as the new mate came near him.

"It looks like it now," added Christy, changing his voice as much as he
could, and as he had done before when he spoke to the captain.

"If things are not favorable when you get to the forte, I think you had
better anchor inside of the point," suggested the planter, who could not
be blamed for being deeply interested in the fate of his cotton, and the
fortune which was locked up in it.

"Of course, I shall have to do that if necessary; but I don't like to do
that, for every blockader will watch her all the time if I do," replied
Captain Lonley, still maintaining his respectful demeanor, though it
seemed to be hard work.

By this time the mainsail was set, and was banging in the lively breeze.
The negro sailors seemed to have become weary with wasting the day
in the sailing of the schooner, and they worked with a good deal of
enthusiasm.

"Now set the foresail, Fetters. I don't think we can carry the
topsails," said the captain. "Isn't that a white man with the hands?"
asked he, as the men went to the foremast.

"That's a man I brought along with me," replied Christy. "He is an able
seaman, and he is very anxious to get to some port outside where he can
obtain a berth as mate."

"All right; I thought the work was going on exceedingly well, and his
presence explains it," added the captain.

"He owns the boat in which we came over here, and I think we had better
hoist it on deck," said the mate.

"All right; do so, Fetters. I suppose you have nothing on your hands?"

"Nothing very particular," replied Christy.

"I am instructed to buy a fast steamer if I can find one, even if I have
to go to England to obtain her. What do you say to taking the berth of
first officer in her, Fetters, for I know that you are a sailor, and
that you have pluck enough to fire a gun?"

"Such a position would suit me first rate," replied Christy, with proper
enthusiasm.

Still Lonley did not recognize his voice, and he took especial pains
that he should not. But this state of things could not long continue. If
the Unionist went into the cabin where there was a light, he could not
help betraying himself. It was necessary to provide against this or any
similar emergency very soon. He had already arranged his plan, and it
was his purpose to carry it into execution as soon as the vessel was
fully clear of the creek.

The boat was hoisted on the deck; the fore and main sail were set, and
everything was in readiness for a departure. Colonel Passford, after
repeating some of his admonition to the captain, shook hands with him,
and stepped down upon the wharf. Lonley gave the order to stand by the
jib, and cast off the fasts. The two principal sails filled on the
starboard tack, the jib went up in the twinkling of an eye under the
direction of Flint, and the schooner began to gather headway. The
captain was at the helm, for he would trust no other there, and Christy
went forward.

"Set the fore topmast staysail," said the mate; but he was willing the
crew should execute the order in their own way, for he called the
master's mate to him. "The biggest job is yet to be done," he added,
in a low tone.

"What is that?" asked Flint.

"To get possession of the vessel," replied Christy, impressively.

"That will be an easy matter, with nothing but niggers on board," added
Flint.

They talked together for a few minutes, and the plan was arranged. Flint
saw that the fore topmast staysail was properly set and trimmed. The two
Unionists on board did not even know the name of the schooner, but she
gathered headway as she approached the mouth of the creek, and went
along at a very satisfactory rate. The mate of the vessel and his fellow
fugitive then went aft to be ready for the decisive action in which they
were to engage. But they had hardly reached the quarter-deck before the
schooner was hailed by a boat.

"Schooner, ahoy! On board the Judith!" shouted a man.

"In the boat!" replied the captain. "Who's there?"

"Fetters!" responded the boatman.

"Fetters!" exclaimed Captain Lonley, apparently bewildered by the reply.
"It seems to me that Fetterses are plenty to-night."

But this was all he was permitted to say, for the stroke of a handspike,
in the hands of Flint, fell upon his head at this instant, and he
dropped upon the quarter-deck like a log. At the same moment, Christy
sprang to the wheel, and the schooner was not allowed to broach to. She
dashed on her course, increasing her speed every moment, without heeding
the boat that had hailed her. In the darkness, the genuine Fetters, as
doubtless he was in the boat, could not have seen in what manner Captain
Lonley had been disposed of, and all the crew were forward, so that they
were no wiser.

"Judith, ahoy!" repeated the genuine and only true Fetters, at the top
of his lungs, as the schooner hurried off on her course. "I am Fetters,
the mate!"

"All right!" replied Christy. "I will see you in the morning. Come on
board at six o'clock."

Mr. Fetters said no more, and probably he concluded that the Judith had
gone to get firewood for the galley, to fill her water-casks, or for
some similar purpose. The fictitious Mr. Fetters kept his place at the
wheel. The binnacle had been lighted by the cook, and he knew the exact
course for the entrance to the bay. He felt that he was in possession of
the Judith and her valuable cargo; and he had become so hardened in his
patriotic duty that he felt no compunction of conscience because the
vessel and cotton had been wrested from his uncle.

As Colonel Passford had not scrupled to attempt to capture the
magnificent steamer of his own brother, it would be a poor rule that
would not work both ways. Besides, the proceeds of the sale of the cargo
were to be expended in the purchase of supplies, and a steamer to carry
them, for the use of the Confederacy. His uncle, from his elevated
standpoint of duty, would have an opportunity to consider the
application of his stringent views on the other side of the question.

"I hope he is not dead," said Christy, as Flint bent over the prostrate
form of the captain.

"I don't know; but I am going to take him below, and lock him up in his
stateroom, where the crew will not see him," replied Flint.

"That is right; and I would help you if I could leave the wheel long
enough," replied Christy.

"I can handle him alone; but see that none of the sailors come aft while
I am about it," added the master's mate, as he dragged the form to the
companion-way.

In such a work as he had on his hands, he had the strength of two men.
Without any great difficulty, he dragged the body to the cabin, and then
into one of the two staterooms he found, which was lighted. It was a
more difficult task, for Lonley was a heavy man, but he placed the form
in the berth. His first duty was to examine very carefully the pockets
of the captain. He secured the file of papers first, and then drew a
large naval revolver from each of his hip pockets. Then he took his
papers from his pocket-book, but left his money, watch, and other
valuables where he found them.

After a careful examination of the insensible form, he was satisfied
that he was not dead, though he might yet die from the blow he had
received. He locked the door of the room, and went on deck. He gave one
of the revolvers to Christy, and retained the other, handing over to him
also all the papers he had taken.

"This is the biggest venture we have undertaken yet," said Flint, as he
seated himself by Christy.

"But everything has gone well so far," replied the lieutenant. "If you
are not promoted for this and the Teaser affair, Flint, it shall not be
for the want of any recommendation on my part."

"Thank you, Mr. Passford; you are very kind. I hope your services will
be recognized in the same manner," returned the master's mate.

"I don't care so much for myself, and I should not cry if I were never
to become anything more than a midshipman."

"All I have done has been to obey your orders, and follow your lead;
and if anybody is promoted for the two affairs in which we have been
engaged, you are surely the one who is entitled to it."

"Well, we will do our duty, whether we are promoted or not," added
Christy.

It was not more than nine o'clock in the evening when the Judith came
out of the creek, and in about four hours she was approaching Fort
Morgan. She was still within the enemy's lines, and her acting captain
was disposed to do everything in a regular manner, especially as he
had the means of doing so. He had not the same risk to run in getting
through the blockading fleet that Captain Lonley would have had, and
he promptly decided to take his chances without waiting for a dark
and foggy night. A boat came off from the inner side of the fort, and
Christy ordered Flint to bring her to.

The permit to pass the forts was in due form, and signed by the proper
officials. The officer in the boat examined it carefully by the light
of a lantern, and declared that he was satisfied with it. Then he asked
some questions, which the acting commander of the Judith answered. The
toughest inquiry he made was as to how he expected to get through the
blockaders in a clear night like that. Christy assured him that he had a
plan which he was confident would carry him through without difficulty.

The schooner filled away again, and passed through the main channel;
and in another hour she was in the midst of the Union fleet. There was
a rattling of drums, a hissing of steam, and energetic commands heard as
soon as the Judith was made out in the darkness, and doubtless a vision
of prize-money flitted through the brains of officers and seamen. But
Christy soon impaired the vividness of these fancies by ordering the
foresail of the schooner to be taken in, and then the fore topmast
staysail. The expectant ships' companies were not willing to believe
that the vessel had come out for the purpose of surrendering.

"Schooner, ahoy!" shouted the officer of a boat sent off by the nearest
blockader. "What vessel is that?"

"The Judith, prize to the United States steamer Bellevite," replied
Christy, "Kindly inform me where the Bellevite lies."

In another half-hour, Christy had dropped his anchor a cable's length
from the Bellevite. Instructing Flint to ascertain the condition of
Lonley, the lieutenant went on board of her to make his report, using
the boat they had captured at Mobile, pulled by two of the negroes.

"I have come on board, Captain Breaker," said Christy, as he met the
commander, who had come on deck at the alarm.

"I see you have," replied the captain, grasping him by the hand. "I have
been terribly worried about you, Christy."

"I am all right, sir; and so is Mr. Flint, who was with me. We have
brought off a schooner of two hundred tons, loaded with cotton,"
continued Christy, as modestly as the circumstances would permit.

"I am very anxious to hear your report, Mr. Passford," said the
commander.

"Excuse me, sir, but the captain of that schooner is badly wounded, and
needs Dr. Linscott as soon as possible."

The surgeon was sent on board of the Judith. As Paul Vapoor caught a
sight of the returned third lieutenant, he hugged him as though he had
been separated from him for years instead of a few days. His welcome
was quite as cordial, though not as demonstrative, from the rest of the
officers. Then he went to the cabin with the captain, where he reported
all that had transpired since he had been separated from his companions
on board of the Teaser. He was warmly commended for his bravery and
skill, and Captain Breaker assured him that he should be remembered
in the reports to the department.

Captain Lonley was conveyed on board of the Bellevite, where he was
committed to the sick bay. He had recovered his senses, but it was
likely, the surgeon said, that it would be a month before his health was
restored. The Teaser had not yet been sent away; but the next day the
third lieutenant was appointed prize-master of the steamer, and Flint of
the schooner, for he had been the master of a coaster, and was competent
for the position.

A considerable crew was put on board of the Teaser, and both vessels
were sent to New York instead of Key West. The steamer was expected to
tow the Judith when necessary, and defend her if she was attacked. But
both arrived at their destination without any mishap, and both were
condemned; the Teaser was purchased by the government, for she was
likely to be a very useful vessel on account of her speed and light
draught.

Christy had a brief leave of absence after he had served as a witness
against the captured vessels. He had seen his father, mother, and sister
on his arrival, and they were as proud of him as though he had been
made a rear-admiral. Captain Breaker had written to his father of his
disappearance on Santa Rosa Island, and had no doubt he had been made
a prisoner within the enemy's lines. Christy brought the news of his
escape himself, which made him even doubly welcome at Bonnydale.
Certainly the young lieutenant had never been so happy before in his
life.

Captain Passford was a man of great influence, though he held no
position in authority. At the first opportunity he obtained to talk with
him, Christy made a strong plea in favor of the promotion of Flint. The
late owner of the Bellevite knew him well. The master's mate had been a
schoolmaster, and was very well educated; but he had a taste for the
sea. He had made several foreign voyages, and had bought a schooner
then, of which he went as master. But he had sold his vessel to great
advantage, and, having nothing to do, he shipped as third officer of the
Bellevite.

Sampson, who had come home as chief engineer of the Teaser, was also
remembered by Christy, who interceded for his promotion, or rather
appointment. The government promptly obtained possession from the court
of the prize-steamer, and the repairs and alterations upon her were
begun at once. She had proved herself to be a fast sailer, and had
logged sixteen knots, so that much was expected of her.

Captain Passford, after his son had pleaded so earnestly for the
promotion of the master's mate and the fireman, asked Christy what he
expected in the way of promotion for himself. The young officer did not
ask for any promotion, he was abundantly satisfied with his present
rank, and he rather preferred to retain it. His father laughed, and
declared that he was very glad of it, for he had some delicacy in asking
favors for a member of his own family.

Corny still remained at the house of his uncle; and he was as
thoroughbred a rebel as his father, though he said next to nothing
about his "cause." At a later period both he and Major Pierson were duly
exchanged; but the gallant officer had come to the conclusion that Miss
Florry Passford was very far from being infatuated with him.

As the Bronx, which was the name given to the Teaser at the suggestion
of Captain Passford, was to be ready about as soon as the legal
proceedings would permit of the departure of the officers and seamen of
the Bellevite, they were ordered to return to their ship in her. Flint's
commission as a master, and Sampson's as an assistant engineer, were
received. Christy's companion in the night expeditions had not expected
to be anything more than a midshipman, and he was immeasurably delighted
at his good fortune. Then it appeared that other influences than that of
Captain Passford had been employed, for Christy, almost in spite of
