He was told, and laid the money on the desk.

"The boy with you remains?"

"Yes, I suppose so. The boy is no acquaintance of mine. I only met him
on the train. There is something about that boy that excites my
curiosity," he added thoughtfully.

"Such as what?" asked the clerk, his curiosity aroused.

"He seems to have something on his mind. His sleep was very much
disturbed. He moved about a good deal, and muttered frequently, but I
could not make out any words."

"Perhaps he has run away from home," suggested the clerk.

The stranger shrugged his shoulders.

"He may have had good reasons for running away," he said. "However,
that is none of my business. I suppose you missed nothing during the
night."

"No. Good morning."

The stranger went out, directing his steps toward the Falls.

An hour later a quiet-looking man entered the office.

"Good morning, Mr. Ferguson," said the clerk. "What brings you here so
early?"

"Business," answered the other briefly. "Did you have any late arrivals
last evening?"

"Yes; two."

"Who were they?"

"A man and boy."

"Are they here still?"

"The boy is up-stairs. The man left at six o'clock. He wanted to see
the Falls before taking an early train. He said the boy seemed very
nervous, and had a troubled sleep."

The detective nodded. "I think he must be the party I want."

"Why, what has happened?"

"The house of a wealthy old gentleman in Elmira was entered yesterday
afternoon, and articles of value taken. I received a telegram this
morning which should have reached me last night, asking me to be on the
watch for any suspicious parties."

"And you think the boy committed the burglary?" asked the clerk in
excitement.

"It looks like it. With your permission I will go up-stairs and take a
look at him."




CHAPTER XI.

FRED FALLS UNDER A TERRIBLE SUSPICION.

About ten minutes before the arrival of the detective Fred woke up. He
generally awoke earlier, but his long ride of the day before had
fatigued him more than usual. It was natural for him to glance over to
the opposite bed, occupied by his traveling companion. He was surprised
to find it empty.

"He must have got up early," thought Fred. "I wonder if he has gone for
good."

This seemed likely, for the stranger's valise had disappeared also.

"I wonder he didn't wake me up and bid me good-by," thought the train
boy.

Then a momentary suspicion led him to search for the hundred dollars in
gold which he had carefully concealed in his inside vest pocket. If
that were taken, he would be in a quandary, for there would be little
chance of his being able to make up the loss to his friend, the Western
miner.

He found, to his relief, that the gold had not been touched, and he
reproached himself for the injustice he had in his thoughts, done his
late room-mate.

"Well," soliloquized Fred, as he lazily got out of bed and drew on his
clothes, "I am not sorry to have the room alone. If I could have a
friend from home with me I should like it, but I don't care for the
company of a stranger."

Fred reflected that he had all the day to himself. He could hear the
roar of the famous cataract, which he had not yet seen on account of
his late arrival the night before, and he determined to go there
immediately after breakfast, or even before breakfast if he found that
it was quite near. He went to the window and looked out, but it was not
in sight.

"I may as well put on a clean shirt," thought Fred, and he went to the
table to open the bundle which he had brought from Jersey City. He had
just unfastened the string when a quick, imperative knock was heard at
the door of his room.

"Come in!" said Fred, with some surprise.

He turned his face to the door, and his wonder increased as it opened
and he saw the clerk and a stranger standing on the threshold. They
entered the room and closed the door behind them.

"What is the matter?" asked the train boy. "Has anything happened?"

"When did your room-mate leave?" asked the detective, not answering his
question.

"I don't know; I only just woke up."

"Did you rest well?"

"That's a very queer question to ask me," thought Fred. "Yes," he
answered, "I rested very well."

The detective and the clerk exchanged glances. This statement did not
accord with what Fred's room-mate had said down-stairs.

"The bed was very comfortable," added Fred by way of compliment to the
house.

"I am glad you found it so," said the detective dryly.

"Did you come upstairs to ask how I rested?' asked Fred, with a smile.

"You are sharp, my young friend," said the detective, "and I think I
may say wonderfully cool under the circumstances."

"Under what circumstances?" asked Fred, his attention drawn to the last
part of the detective's speech.

"There was a burglary committed yesterday afternoon in Elmira," said
the detective, fastening his eyes keenly on the face of the train boy.

"Was there?" asked Fred, not seeing in what way this information was
likely to affect him. "I thought most burglaries were committed in the
night."

"They are, generally, but this was an exception. There was no one in
the house except old Mr. Carver, who is quite hard of hearing. The
burglary probably took place about five o'clock, and the burglar is
supposed to have taken the 5:51 train from Elmira."

"Why, that is the train I was on," said Fred in surprise.

"By a curious coincidence," said the detective with a queer smile, "it
was by your train that the burglar probably traveled."

His tone was so significant that Fred asked quickly, "What do you
mean?"

"I mean, my young friend," said the detective, "that you are suspected
to know something of this affair."

"If you are a detective," retorted Fred, "I don think much of your
sharpness. I have never been in Elmira in my life."

"Probably not," said Ferguson, the detective, with a provoking smile.

"I passed through there yesterday on my way from New York. With that
exception, I never saw the place."

"That may be true," said the detective cautiously, "or it may not. I
will take the liberty of examining your luggage to see if I can find
any of the stolen articles."

"You are welcome to do it," said Fred.

"Bring it out then. Where have you put it--under the bed?"

"All the luggage I have is in this bundle," said the train boy. "You
can open that if you think it will do you any good."

"You are sure you have no valise?"

Ferguson, who, like most of his class, was suspicious, peeped under
each bed, but found nothing to reward his search. Somewhat
disappointed, he went to the table and opened the newspaper bundle. He
did so listlessly, not really expecting to find anything, but as he
unrolled Fred's shirt there was a triumphant look in his eyes when he
uncovered the gold watch and chain.

"Just as I thought," he said, with a nod to the clerk.

"What is that?' gasped Fred.

"It appears to be a watch and chain," answered Ferguson coolly.
"Possibly you can tell me how it came there."

"I know nothing about it," said Fred in dire amazement.

"You do not claim it as yours, then?"

"Certainly not. I never saw it before in my life."

"Is this shirt yours?"

"Yes."

"You brought it with you?"

"Yes."

"Let me open the watch. Do you see this inscription?"

Fred and the clerk approached, and on the inside of the case read the
name, "Philo Carver, Elmira, 1865."

"You see? This is one of the articles stolen from Mr. Carver's house
yesterday afternoon. It is a little odd that this young man in whose
bundle I find it cannot explain its presence."

"You may believe me or not," said Fred desperately, "but it is true all
the same. I know nothing of this watch or chain, and I never saw either
before. Can you tell me what other articles were taken by the burglar?"

"Some government bonds, and a small sum of bank bills."

"Then you had better search for them also here: I will help you all I
can."

"Well, you are a cool hand."

"No; I am innocent, that is all."

"It is pretty clear you have nothing else with you, or you wouldn't be
so willing. However, I consider it my duty to do as you suggest."

He hunted under the mattresses, and finally examined Fred's pockets. At
last he felt in the inside vest pocket and drew out the gold coins.

"Ha, we have something here!" he exclaimed.

"Yes," answered Fred, "but those happen to belong to me."

"Where did you get them?"

"From a friend in New York. He intrusted them to me to use if I needed.
Meanwhile I was to put them in the savings bank."

"Not a very likely story," said the detective suspiciously.

"Likely or not, it is a true story. Does this man Carver claim to have
lost any gold coins?"

"No."

"I thought not."

"However, we come back to the inquiry--where did you get the watch?"

"The man who slept in the room with me must have left it here to throw
suspicion on me," said Fred, with sudden inspiration.

"That is possible," said the clerk, who was favorably impressed by
Fred's manner.

"We must not jump at conclusions," said the detective warily. "I shall
feel justified in detaining the boy after what I have found."

"You won't take me to the station house?" said Fred nervously.

"No; it will answer the purpose if you are locked up in this room--for
the present."

"Then," said Fred, turning to the clerk, "I shall be much obliged if
you will send me up some breakfast."

"It shall be done."

Within half an hour Fred was discussing a beefsteak and fried potatoes
with hearty enjoyment. It takes a good deal to spoil the appetite of a
healthy boy of seventeen.




CHAPTER XII.

FRED AS A PRISONER.

After breakfast Fred became restless. It was tantalizing to be so near
the Falls, and yet to be locked up, and prevented from seeing them. Of
course it would all come right in time, but it was hard to bear the
suspense and confinement. Hunting round the room he found a juvenile
book, and sitting down at the window read it. It helped to while away
the time till twelve o'clock. He had scarcely read the last page when
he heard the key turning in the lock outside. The door opened and two
persons appeared at the entrance. One was the clerk the other a boy,
rather short, with a bright, attractive face.

"I thought you might like company," said the clerk in a friendly
manner. "This is my young cousin, Frank Hamblin, who will remain with
yon for a while."

"I am glad to see you, Frank," said Fred offering his hand. "You are
very kind to come and see a bold, bad burglar."

"You don't look much like it," said Frank, laughing. "Still appearances
are deceitful."

"I don't think I look wicked," said Fred meditatively, as he glanced at
his reflection in a small mirror that hung over the washstand. "Yet it
appears that I have broken into a gentleman's house in Elmira, and
stolen a gold watch and chain and some government bonds."

"How could you do it?" asked Frank with much seriousness. "So young and
yet so wicked!"

"That's the question that puzzles me," said Fred. "How could I do it
when at the time the burglary was committed I was speeding over the
Erie road at the rate of thirty miles an hour?"

"Can you prove this?" asked Frank eagerly.

"Certainly I could, if the conductor or brakeman of my car were here."

"Where are they?"

"Probably on their way back to New York."

"Do you live there?"

"Yes."

"I have always wanted to see the city of New York. It must be a gay
place."

"You are right there, Frank. Whenever you do come, just inquire for
Fred Fenton, and I will show you round. There is my address."

"Thank you! I should like it ever so much. Have you ever been here
before?"

"No. I wanted very much to see the Falls, but here I am locked up in a
hotel chamber. I wish the Falls were visible from the window."

"They are on the other side of the house."

"Do you know this detective--the one that searched me?"

"Yes, I have seen him. I heard him tell my cousin that he did not
believe you guilty, but that finding the watch and chain in your bundle
was a suspicious circumstance."

"I suppose it is. Now I can understand how innocent people get into
trouble. Do you live here?"

"No, I am only visiting some friends here. I live in Auburn."

"That's where the State's prison is, isn't it?"

"Yes."

"Then I hope I shan't go to Auburn to live. Have you any idea how long
I shall have to stay here?"

"Till evening, I suppose. You will probably be brought before a justice
in the morning," was Frank's reply.

Fred sighed.

"How differently things have turned out from what I anticipated," he
said. "I expected to be walking round, and looking at the Falls to-day."

"Hold on a minute!" said Frank. "Mr. Ferguson boards here, and he may
be down-stairs now. I'll ask him if you can't go out under my charge if
you'll promise not to run away.

"I'll promise that fast enough. You can knock me down if I attempt to
escape."

"I am afraid I might find that difficult, as you are at least two
inches taller than I."

"I will be very gentle and submissive. I wouldn't be willing to run
away with such a suspicion hanging over me."

"Excuse me a minute! I'll do what I can for you."

Frank went to the door and attempted to open it, but it was locked on
the outside and resisted his efforts.

"I forgot," he said, laughing, "that I am a prisoner too. Really it
makes a fellow feel queer to be locked up."

"That's the way I feel. You can ring the bell, can't you?"

"A good thought!"

Frank rang the bell, and presently a hall boy opened the door about an
inch, and looked in.

"Is anything wanted?" he asked.

"Is Mr. Ferguson down-stairs?" said Frank.

"He has just come in."

"Won't you ask him to step up here a minute?"

"All right, sir."

The door was relocked, but two minutes later it was opened and the
detective walked in.

"Ha!" he said. "So we have two burglars instead of one."

"I am just as much a burglar as Fred is," said Frank.

"Then," said the detective with a smile, "I may feel it my duty to
search you. You do have rather a hardened expression."

"Do you think I have?" asked Fred smiling.

"Well, no. I wouldn't pick you out for a professional criminal, and to
be honest with you, I doubt whether you know anything of the burglary."

"Thank you! I am glad you have a better opinion of me than that."

"But what is it you want of me, Frank?"

"I want Fred to have a chance to see the Falls. He has never been here
before, and it will be a great disappointment to him if he has to go
away without seeing them."

"To be sure, to be sure!" said the detective thoughtfully.

"I thought you might let him go out under my escort."

Mr. Ferguson smiled.

"What could you do if he took it into his head to escape?"

"You couldn't lend me a club, could you?"

"I don't carry any. That is for policemen, and I have never acted in
that capacity."

"But he won't run away, will you, Fred?"

"No, I prefer to stay here till I am cleared of suspicion."

"You see, Mr. Ferguson," said Frank, eagerly, "there will be no risk
about it. He can give you his parole--that's the word, isn't it?"

"Yes; but this privilege is never accorded to those who are arrested
for burglary."

"It is certainly inconvenient to be a burglar," said Fred, smiling in
spite of his secret anxiety.

"Then you can't let him go?" questioned Frank, regretfully.

"Well, there is one way. I should not consider it safe to let him go
with you, but I might accompany you."

"That will be capital! You will, won't you?"

"Yes, I will," said Ferguson, after a momentary pause. "I have a boy of
my own about the age of--the young burglar--and that perhaps inclines
me to be more indulgent. But you must wait till after dinner."

"Will dinner be sent up here?" asked Frank.

"Yes, for him; but you are not staying at the house."

"I forgot; and I haven't got money enough to pay for a hotel dinner."

"That's all right, Frank," said Fred. "I invite you to dine with me,
and it shall be charged on my bill. I shall enjoy dinner better if I
have company."

"Thank you. I accept the invitation, but I don't like to be an expense
to you."

"Never mind."

Dinner was sent up in the course of half an hour, and the two boys
enjoyed it.

"Are you still attending school, Frank?" asked Fred.

"Yes."

"I should like to, but poor boys like me have to work for a living."

"If you won't tell I will let you into a secret."
