to insinuate anything by saying in return that it was a pretty brisk day
to be knocking round much in a stone quarry. Northwick smiled in saying,
"It was, rather;" he watched the conductor to see if he should betray
any particular interest in the matter when he left him. But the
conductor went on punching the passengers' tickets, and seemed to forget
Northwick as soon as he left him. At the next station, Northwick
followed him out on the platform to find if he sent any telegram off.
When he had once given way to this anxiety, which he knew to be
perfectly stupid and futile, he had to yield to it at every station. He
took his bag with him each time he left the car, and he meant not to go
back if he saw the conductor telegraphing. It was intensely cold, and in
spite of the fierce heat of the stove at the end of the car, the frost
gathered thickly on the windows. The train creaked, when it stopped and
started, as if it were crunching along on a bed of dry snow; the noises
of the wheels seemed at times to lose their rhythmical cadence, and then
Northwick held his breath for fear one of them might be broken. He had a
dread of accident such as he had never felt before; his life had never
seemed so valuable to him as now; he reflected that it was so because it
was to be devoted now to retrieving the past in a new field under new
conditions. His life, in this view, was not his own; it was a precious
trust which he held for others, first for his children, and then for
those whom he was finally to save from loss by the miscarriage of his
enterprises. He justified himself anew in what he was intending; it
presented itself as a piece of self-sacrifice, a sacred duty which he
was bound to fulfil. All the time he knew that he was a defaulter who
had used the money in his charge, and tampered with the record so as to
cover up the fact, and that he was now absconding, and was carrying off
a large sum of money that was not morally his. At one of the stations
where he got out to see whether the conductor was telegraphing, he
noticed the conductor eyeing his bag curiously; and he knew that he
believed there was money in it. Northwick felt a thrill of gratified
cunning in realizing how mistaken the conductor was; but he was willing
the fellow should think he was carrying up money to pay off his quarry
hands.

He was impatient to reach the Junction, where this conductor would leave
the train, and it would continue northward in the charge of another man;
he seldom went beyond Willoughby on that road, and the new conductor
would hardly know him. He meant to go on to Blackbrook Junction, and
take the New England Central there for Montreal; but he saw the
conductor go to the telegraph office at Willoughby Junction, and it
suddenly occurred to him that he must not go to Montreal by a route so
direct that any absconding defaulter would be expected to take it. He
had not the least proof that the conductor's dispatch had anything to do
with him; but he could not help acting as if it had. He said good-day to
the conductor as he passed him, and he went out of the station, with his
bag, as if he were going up into the town. He watched till he saw the
conductor go off in another direction, and then he came back, and got
aboard the train just as it was drawing out of the station. He knew that
he was not shadowed in any way, but his consciousness of stealth was
such that he felt as if he were followed, and that he must act so as to
baffle and mislead pursuit.

At Blackbrook, where the train stopped for dinner, he was aware that no
one knew him, and he ate hungrily; he felt strengthened and encouraged,
and he began to react against the terror that had possessed him. He
perceived that it was senseless and ridiculous; that the conductor could
not possibly have been telegraphing about him from Willoughby, and there
was as yet no suspicion abroad concerning him; he might go freely
anywhere, by any road.

But he had now let the New England Central train leave without him, and
it only remained for him to push on to Wellwater, where he hoped to
connect with the Boston train for Montreal, on the Union and Dominion
road. He remembered that this train divided at Wellwater, and certain
cars ran direct to Quebec, up through Sherbrooke and Lennoxville. He
meant to go from Montreal to Quebec, but now he questioned whether he
had better not go straight on from Wellwater; when he recalled the long,
all-night ride without a sleeper, which he had once made on that route
many summers before, he said to himself that in his shaken condition, he
must not run the risk of such a hardship. If he were to get sick from
it, or die, it would be as bad as a railroad accident. The word now made
him think of what Hilary had said; Hilary who had called him a thief. He
would show Hilary whether he was a thief or not, give him time; he would
make him eat his words, and he figured Hilary retracting and apologizing
in the presence of the whole Board; Hilary apologized handsomely, and
Northwick forgave him, while it was also passing through his mind that
he must reduce the risks of railroad accident to a minimum, by
shortening the time. They reduced the risk of ocean travel in that way,
by reducing the time, and logically the fastest ship was the safest. If
he could get to Montreal from Wellwater in four or five hours, when it
would take him twelve hours to get to Quebec, it was certainly his duty
to go to Montreal. First of all, he must put himself out of danger of
every kind. He must not even fatigue himself too much; and he decided to
telegraph on to Wellwater, and secure a seat in the Pullman car to
Montreal. He had been travelling all day in the ordinary car, and he had
found it very rough.

It suddenly occurred to him that he must now assume a false name; and he
reflected that he must take one that sounded like his own, or else he
would not answer promptly and naturally to it. He chose Warwick, and he
kept saying it over to himself while he wrote his dispatch to the
station-master at Wellwater, asking him to secure a chair in the
Pullman. He was pleased with the choice he had made; it seemed like his
own name when spoken, and yet very unlike when written. But while he
congratulated himself on his quickness and sagacity, he was aware of
something detached, almost alien, in the operation of his mind. It did
not seem to be working normally; he could govern it, but it was like
something trying to get away from him, like a headstrong, restive horse.
The notion suggested the colt that had fallen lame; he wondered if
Elbridge would look carefully after it; and then he thought of all the
other horses. A torment of heartbreaking homesickness seized him; his
love for his place, his house, his children, seemed to turn against him,
and to tear him and leave him bleeding, like the evil spirit in the
demoniac among the tombs. He was in such misery with his longing for his
children, that he thought it must show in his face; and he made a feint
of having to rise and arrange his overcoat so that he could catch sight
of himself in the mirror at the end of the car. His face betrayed
nothing; it looked, as it always did, like the face of a kindly,
respectable man, a financially reliable face, the face of a leading
citizen. He gathered courage and strength from it to put away the
remorse that was devouring him. If that was the way he looked that was
the way he must be; and he could only be leaving those so dear to him
for some good purpose. He recalled that his purpose was to clear the
name they bore from the cloud that must fall upon it; to rehabilitate
himself; to secure his creditors from final loss. This was a good
purpose, the best purpose that a man in his place could have; he
recollected that he was to be careful of his life and health, because he
had dedicated himself to this purpose.

He determined to keep this purpose steadily in mind, not to lose thought
of it for an instant; it was his only refuge. Then a new anguish seized
him; a doubt that swiftly became certainty; and he knew that he had
signed that dispatch Northwick and not Warwick; he saw just how his
signature looked on the yellow manilla paper of the telegraph blank. Now
he saw what a fool he had been to think of sending any dispatch. He
cursed himself under his breath, and in the same breath he humbly prayed
to God for some way of escape. His terror made it certain to him that he
would be arrested as soon as he reached Wellwater. That would be the
next stop, the conductor told him, when he halted him with the question
on his way through the cars. The conductor said they were behind time,
and Northwick knew by the frantic pull of the train that they were
running to make up the loss. It would simply be death to jump from the
car; and he must not die, he must run the risk. In his prayer he
bargained with God that if He would let him escape, he would give every
thought, every breath to making up the loss of his creditors; he half
promised to return the money he was carrying away, and trust to his own
powers, his business talent in a new field, to retrieve himself. He
resolved to hide himself as soon as he reached Wellwater; it would be
dark, and he hoped that by this understanding with Providence he could
elude the officer in getting out of the car. But if there were two, one
at each end of the car?

There was none, and Northwick walked away from the station with the
other passengers, who were going to the hotel near the station for
supper. In the dim light of the failing day and the village lamps, he
saw with a kind of surprise, the deep snow, and felt the strong, still
cold of the winterland he had been journeying into. The white drifts
were everywhere; the vague level of the frozen lake stretched away from
the hotel like a sea of snow; on its edge lay the excursion steamer in
which Northwick had one summer made the tour of the lake with his
family, long ago.

He was only a few miles from the Canadian frontier; with a rebound from
his anxiety, he now exulted in the safety he had already experienced. He
remained tranquilly eating after the departure of the Montreal train was
cried; and when he was left almost alone, the head-waiter came to him
and said, "Your train's just going, sir."

"Thank you," he answered, "I'm going out on the Quebec line." He wanted
to laugh, in thinking how he had baffled fate. Now, if any inquiry were
made for him it would be at the Montreal train before it started, or at
the next station, which was still within the American border, on that
line. But on the train for Quebec, which would reach Stanstead in half
an hour, he would be safe from conjecture, even, thanks to that dispatch
asking for a chair on the Montreal Pullman. The Quebec train was slow in
starting; but he did not care; he walked up and down the platform, and
waited patiently. He no longer thought with anxiety of the long
all-night ride before him. If he did not choose to keep straight on to
Quebec, he could stop at Lenoxville or Sherbrooke, and take up his
journey again the next day. At Stanstead he ceased altogether to deal
with the past in his thoughts. He was now safe from it beyond any
possible peradventure, and he began to plan for the future. He had
prepared himself for the all-night ride, if he should decide to take it,
with a cup of strong coffee at Wellwater, and he was alert in every
faculty. His mind worked nimbly and docilely now, with none of that
perversity which had troubled him during the day with the fear that he
was going wrong in it. His thought was clear and quick, and it obeyed
his will like a part of it; that sense of duality in himself no longer
agonized him. He took a calm and prudent survey of the work before him;
and he saw how essential it was that he should make no false step, but
should act at every moment with the sense that he was merely the agent
of others in the effort to retrieve his losses.




II.


At Stanstead a party of three gentlemen came into the car; and their
talk presently found its way through Northwick's revery, at first as an
interruption, an annoyance, and afterwards as a matter of intensifying
personal interest to him. They were in very good spirits, and they made
themselves at home in the car; there were only a few other passengers.
They were going to Montreal, as he easily gathered, and some friends
were to join them at the next junction, and go on with them. They talked
freely of an enterprise which they wished to promote in Montreal; and
they were very confident of it if they could get the capital. One of
them said, It was a thing that would have been done long ago, if the
Yankees had been in it. "Well, we may strike a rich defaulter, in
Montreal," another said, and they all laughed. Their laughter shocked
Northwick; it seemed immoral; he remembered that though he might seem a
defaulter, he was a man with a sacred trust, and a high purpose. But he
listened eagerly; if their enterprise were one that approved itself to
his judgment, the chance of their discussing it before him might be a
leading of Providence which he would be culpable to refuse. Providence
had answered his prayer in permitting him to pass the American frontier
safely, and Northwick must not be derelict in fulfilling his part of the
agreement. The Canadians borrowed the brakeman's lantern, and began to
study a map which they spread out on their knees. The one who seemed
first among them put his finger on a place in the map, and said that was
the spot. It was in the region just back of Chicoutimi. Gold had always
been found there, but not in paying quantity. It cost more to mine it
than it was worth; but with the application of his new process of
working up the tailings, there was no doubt of the result. It was simply
wealth beyond the dreams of avarice.

Northwick had heard that song before; and he fell back in his seat, with
a smile which was perhaps too cynical for a partner of Providence, but
which was natural in a man of his experience. He knew something about
processes to utilize the tailings of gold mines which would not
otherwise pay for working; he had paid enough for his knowledge: so much
that if he still had the purchase-money he need not be going into exile
now, and beginning life under a false name, in a strange land.

By and by he found himself listening again, and he heard the Canadian
saying, "And there's timber enough on the tract to pay twice over what
it will cost, even if the mine wasn't worth a penny."

"Well, we might go down and see the timber, any way," said one of the
party who had not yet spoken much. "And then we could take a look at
Markham's soap-mine, too. Unless," he added, "you had to tunnel under a
hundred feet of snow to get at it. A good deal like diggin' the north
pole up by the roots, wouldn't it be?"

"Oh, no! Oh, no!" said he who seemed to be Markham, with the optimism of
an enthusiast. "There's no trouble about it. We've got some shanties
that we put up about the mouth of the hole in the ground we made in the
autumn, and you can see the hole without digging at all. Or at least you
could in the early part of January, when I was down there."

"The hole hadn't run away?"

"No. It was just where we left it."

"Well, that's encouragin'. But I say, Markham, how do you get down there
in the winter?"

"Oh! very easily. Simplest thing in the world. Lots of fellows in the
lumber trade do it all winter long. Do it by sleigh from St. Anne's,
about twenty miles below Quebec--from Quebec you have your choice of
train or sleigh. But I prefer to make a clean thing of it, and do it all
by sleigh. I take it by easy stages, and so I take the long route: there
is a short cut, but the stops are far between. You make your twenty
miles to St. Anne from Quebec one day; eighteen to St. Joachim, the
next; thirty-nine to Baie St. Paul, the next; twenty to Malbaie, the
next; then forty to Tadoussac; then eighteen to Rivière Marguerite. You
can do something every day at that rate, even in the new snow; but on
the ice of the Saguenay, to Haha Bay, there's a pull of sixty miles;
you're at Chicoutimi, eleven miles farther, before you know it. Good
feed, and good beds, all along. You wrap up, and you don't mind. Of
course," Markham concluded, "it isn't the climate of Stanstead," as if
the climate of Stanstead were something like that of St. Augustine.

"Well, it sounds a mere bagatelle," said the more talkative of the other
two, "but it takes a week of steady travel."

"What is a week on the way to Golconda, if Golconda's yours when you get
there?" said Markham. "Why, Watkins, the young spruce and poplar alone
on that tract are worth twice the price I ask for the whole. A
pulp-mill, which you could knock together for a few shillings, on one of
those magnificent water-powers, would make you all millionnaires, in a
single summer."

"And what would it do in the winter when your magnificent water-power
was restin'?"

"Work harder than ever, my dear boy, and set an example of industry to
all the lazy habitans in the country. You could get your fuel for the
cost of cutting, and you could feed your spruce and poplar in under your
furnace, and have it come out paper pulp at the other end of the mill."

Watkins and the other listener laughed with loud haw-haws at Markham's
drolling, and Watkins said, "I say, Markham, weren't you born on the
other side of the line?"

"No. But my father was; and I wish he'd stayed there till I came. Then
I'd be going round with all the capitalists of Wall Street fighting for
a chance to put their money into my mine, instead of wearing out the
knees of my trousers before you Canucks, begging you not to slap your
everlasting fortune in the face."

They now all roared together again, and at Sherbrooke they changed cars.

Northwick had to change too, but he did not try to get into the same car
with them. He wanted to think, to elaborate in his own mind the
suggestion for his immediate and remoter future which he had got from
their talk; and he dreaded the confusion, and possibly he dreaded the
misgiving, that might come from hearing more of their talk. He thought
he knew, now, just what he wanted to do, and he did not wish to be
swerved from it.

He felt eager to get on, but he was not impatient. He bore very well the
long waits that he had to make both at Sherbrooke and Richmond; but when
the train left the Junction for Quebec at last, he settled himself in
his seat with a solider content than he had felt before, and gave
himself up to the pleasure of shaping the future, that was so obediently
plastic in his fancy. The brakeman plied the fierce stove at the end of
the car with fuel, and Northwick did not suffer from the cold that
strengthened and deepened with the passing night outside, though he was
not overcoated and booted for any such temperature as his
fellow-travellers seemed prepared for. They were all Canadians, and they
talked now and then in their broad-vowelled French, but their voices
were low, and they came and went quietly at the country stations. The
car was old and worn, and badly hung; but in spite of all, Northwick
drowsed in the fervor of the glowing stove, and towards morning he fell
into a long and dreamless sleep.

He woke from it with a vigor and freshness that surprised him, and found
the train pulling into the station at Pointe Levis. The sun burned like
a soft lamp through the thick frost on the car-window; when he emerged,
he found it a cloudless splendor on a world of snow. The vast landscape,
which he had seen in summer all green from the edge of the mighty rivers
to the hilltops losing themselves in the blue distance, showed rounded
and diminished in the immeasurable drifts that filled it, and that hid
the streams in depths almost as great above their ice as those of the
currents below. The villages of the habitans sparkled from tinned roof
and spire, and the city before him rose from shore and cliff with a
thousand plumes of silvery smoke. In and out among the frozen shipping
swarmed an active life that turned the rivers into highroads, and
speckled the expanse of glistening white with single figures and groups
of men and horses.

It was all gay and bizarre, and it gave Northwick a thrill of boyish
delight. He wondered for a moment why he had never come to Quebec in
winter before, and brought his children. He beckoned to the walnut-faced
driver of one of the carrioles which waited outside the station to take
the passengers across the river, and tossed his bag into the bottom of
the little sledge. He gave the name of a hotel in the Upper Town, and
the driver whipped his tough, long-fetlocked pony over the space of ice
which was kept clear of snow by diligent sweeping with fir-tree tops,
and then up the steep incline of Mountain Hill. The streets were
roadways from house-front to house-front, smooth, elastic levels of
thickly-bedded, triply-frozen snow; and the foot passengers, muffled to
the eyes against the morning cold, came and went among the vehicles in
the middle of the street, or crept along close to the house-walls, to
keep out of the light avalanches of an overnight snow that slipped here
and there from the steep tin roofs.

Northwick's unreasoned gladness grew with each impression of the beauty
and novelty. It quickened associations of his earliest days, and of the
winter among his native hills. He felt that life could be very pleasant
in this latitude; he relinquished the notion he had cherished at times
of going to South America with his family in case he should finally fail
to arrange with the company for his safe return home; he forecast a
future in Quebec where he could build a new home for his children, among
scenes that need not be all so alien. This did not move him from his
fixed intention to retrieve himself, though it gave him the courage of
indefinitely expanded possibilities. He was bent upon the scheme he had
in mind, and as soon as he finished his breakfast he went out to prepare
for it.




III.


The inn he had chosen was one which he remembered, from former visits to
Quebec, as having seemed a resort of old world folk of humble fortunes.
He got a room, and went to it long enough to count the money he had with
him, and find it safe. Then he took one of the notes from the others,
and went to a broker's to get it changed.

The amount seemed to give the broker pause; but he concerned himself
only with the genuineness of the greenback, and after a keen glance at
Northwick's unimpeachable face, he paid over the thousand dollars in
Canadian bills. "We used to make your countrymen give us something
over," he said with a smile in recognition of Northwick's nationality.

"Yes; that's all changed, now," returned Northwick. "Do I look so very
American?" he asked.

"Oh, I don't know that," said the broker, with an airy English
inflection. "I suppose it's your hard hat, as much as anything. We all
wear fur caps in such weather."

"Ah, that's a good idea," said Northwick. He spoke easily, but with a
nether torment of longing to look at the newspaper lying open on the
counter. He could see that it was the morning paper; there might be
something about him in it. The thought turned him faint; but he knew
that if the paper happened to have anything about him in it, any rumor
of his offence, any conjecture of his flight, he could not bear it. He
could bear to keep himself deaf and blind to the self he had put behind
him, but he could not bear anything less. The papers seemed to thrust
themselves upon him; newsboys followed him up in the street with them;
he saw them in all the shops, where he went for the fur cap and fur
overcoat he bought, for the underclothing and changes of garments that
he had to provide; for the belt he got to put his money in. This great
sum, which he dared not bank, must be carried about with him; it must
not leave him night or day; it must be buckled into the chamois belt and
worn round his waist, sleeping and waking. The belt was really for gold,
but the forty-two thousand-dollar notes, which were not a great bulk,
would easily go into it.

He returned to his hotel and changed them to it, and put the belt on.
Then he felt easier, and he looked up the landlord to ask about the
route he wished to take. He found, as he expected, that it was one very
commonly travelled by lumber merchants going down into the woods to look
after their logging camps. Some took a sleigh from Quebec; but the
landlord said it was just as well to go by train to St. Anne, and save
that much sleighing; you would get enough of it then. Northwick thought
so too, and after the early dinner they gave him he took the cars for
St. Anne.

He was not tired; he was curiously buoyant and strong. He thought he
might get a nap on the way; but he remained vividly awake; and even that
night he did not sleep much. He felt again that pulling of his mind, as
if it were something separate from him, and were struggling to get
beyond the control of his will. The hotel in the little native village
was very good in its way; he had an excellent supper and an easy bed;
but he slept brokenly, and he was awake long before the early breakfast
which he had ordered for his start next day. The landlord wished to
persuade him that there was no need of such great haste; it was only
eighteen miles to St. Joachim, where he was to make his first stop, and
the road was so good that he would get there in a few hours. He had
better stop and visit the church, and see the sick people's offerings,
which they left there every year, in gratitude to the saint for healing
them of their maladies. The landlord said it was a pity he could not
come some time at the season of the pilgrimage; his countrymen often
came then. Northwick perceived that in spite of his fur cap and
overcoat, and his great Canadian boots, he was easily recognizable for
an American to this man, though he could not definitely decide whether
his landlord was French or Irish, and could not tell whether it was in
earnest or in irony that he invited him to try St. Anne for any trouble
he happened to be suffering from. But he winced at the suggestion, while
his heart leaped at the fantastic thought of hanging that money-belt at
her altar, and so easing himself of all his pains. He grotesquely
imagined the American defaulters in Canada making a pilgrimage to St.
Anne, and devoting emblems of their moral disease to her: forged notes,
bewitched accounts, false statements. At the same time, with that part
of him which seemed obedient, he asked the landlord if he knew of the
gold discoveries on the Chicoutimi River, and tried to account for
himself as an American speculator going to look into the matter in his
own way and at his own time.

In spite of his uncertainty about the landlord in some ways, Northwick
found him a kindly young fellow. He treated Northwick with a young
fellow's comfortable deference for an elderly man, and helped him forget
the hurts to his respectability which rankled so when he remembered
them. He explained the difference between the two routes from Malbaie
on, and advised him to take the longer, which lay through a more settled
district, where he would be safer in case of any mischance. But if he
liked to take the shorter, he told him there were good campes, or
log-house stations, every ten or fifteen miles, where he would find
excellent meals and beds, and be well cared for by people who kept them
in the winter for travellers. Ladies sometimes made the journey on that
route, which the government had lately opened, and the mails were
carried that way; he could take passage with the mail-carriers.

This fact determined Northwick. He shrank from trusting himself in
government keeping, though he knew he would be safe in it. He said he
would go by Tadoussac; and the landlord found a carriole driver, with a
tough little Canadian horse, who agreed to go the whole way to
Chicoutimi with him.

After an early lunch the man came, with the low-bodied sledge, set on
runners of solid wood, and deeply bedded with bearskins for the lap and
back. The day was still and sunny, like the day before, and the air
which drove keenly against his face, with the rush of the carriole,
sparkled with particles of frost that sometimes filled it like a light
shower of snow. The drive was so short that he reached St. Joachim at
noon, and he decided to push on part of the way to Baie St. Paul after
dinner. His host at St. Joachim approved of that. "You goin' have snow
to-night and big drift to-morrow," he said, and he gave his driver the
name of an habitant whom they could stop the night with. The driver was
silent, and he looked sinister; Northwick thought how easily the man
might murder him on that lonely road and make off with the money in his
belt; how probably he would do it if he dreamed such wealth was within
his grasp. But the man did not notice him after their journey began,
except once to turn round and say, "Look out you' nose. You' goin'
freeze him." For the rest he talked to his horse, which was lazy, and
which he kept urging forward with "Marche donc! Marche donc!" finally
shortened to "'Ch' donc! 'Ch' donc!" and repeated and repeated at
regular intervals like the tolling of a bell. It made Northwick think of
a bell-buoy off a ledge of rocks, which he had spent a summer near. He
wished to ask the man to stop, but he reflected that the waves would not
let him stop; he had to keep tolling.

Northwick started. He must be going out of his mind, or else he was
drowsing. Perhaps he was freezing, and this was the beginning of the
death drowse. But he felt himself warm under his furs, where he touched
himself, and he knew he had merely been dreaming. He let himself go
again, and arrived at his own door in Hatboro'. He saw the electric
lights through the long piazza windows, and he was going to warn
Elbridge again about that colt's shoes. Then he heard a sharp fox-like
barking, and found that his carriole had stopped at the cabin of the
habitant who was to keep him over night. The open doorway was filled
with children; the wild-looking dogs leaping at his horse's nose were in
