
“Goin’ to Californy!” ejaculated Mr. Tarbox in a dazed tone.

“Yes. I’ve seen John Heywood—that’s what I went to Crestville for—and he
tells me there’s a chance for a boy to make money out there.”

“Goin’ to walk, I s’pose,” said Seth satirically.

“I’m going across the plains, if that’s what you mean.”

“Where are you goin’ to get the money? It will cost a good deal.”

“I have made arrangements about the money.”

“Is John Heywood goin’ to supply you with funds?”

“I’d rather not tell,” answered Grant mysteriously. He was glad that
this idea had occurred to his step-father, as he did not wish him to
know that he had any funds of his own.

“I don’t know as I’ll let you go,” went on Seth Tarbox slowly.

“What right have you to stop me?” demanded Grant, not very much alarmed.

“I’m your step-father.”

“Yes; but you’re not my guardian.”

“Mind, I don’t say I’ll stop you,” said Seth, for an idea had occurred
to him whereby he might turn the expedition to his own advantage. Should
Grant bring back a good sum of money, he meant to get control of it, and
thought he should succeed on account of the boy’s being so young.

“No, Mr. Tarbox, it wouldn’t be any use.”

“Does John Heywood really think you can make it pay?”

“He says there’s piles of gold there.”

“Piles of gold!” repeated Seth Tarbox, an expression of greed stealing
over his face.

“Yes, that’s what he said.”

“I wish I was a young man. I ain’t sure but I’d go myself. But I’m
sixty-eight.”

“That’s a little too old to go.”

“If you are prosperous, Grant, take care of your money and bring it all
home. We’ll be glad to see you back safe and prosperous, your mother and
me.”

“Thank you, Mr. Tarbox.”

This conversation relieved Grant’s mind. Even if Mr. Tarbox were opposed
to his going, he meant to go all the same, but it was pleasanter to have
no trouble in the matter.

The next day he went to Crestville again, this time to see Jerry Cooper,
as everybody called him, and his son Tom, and ascertain whether they
were willing that he should join their party.

Mr. Cooper, a weather-beaten man of fifty, was at work in his yard when
Grant came up. Grant knew him by sight, and bade him good-morning.

“Has John Heywood spoken to you about me?” he asked.

“Yes. You’re the boy that wants to go to Californy with us.”

“Yes, sir.”

“You look kind of rugged; I guess you can stand it,” said the
blacksmith, surveying critically Grant’s broad shoulders and athletic
frame.

“Yes, Mr. Cooper; I’m not a city dude. I’ve always been accustomed to
hard work.”

“That’s good. There’s a good deal of hard work in goin’ across the
plains.”

“How long do you think it will take to make the journey?”

“About four months.”

“It will give us a good chance to see the country——”

“That ain’t what I’m goin’ for. When you get to be fifty years old you
won’t care much about seein’ the country. You will be more practical.”

“I shall try to be practical,” said Grant, with a smile.

“It’s my belief we shall see more of the country than we care for. I
wish it wasn’t so fur.”

“So do I. Some time there may be a railroad across the continent.”

Mr. Cooper shook his head.

“I never expect to see that,” he said. “It wouldn’t pay. You’re a boy,
and by the time you get to be an old man there may be a railroad, but I
doubt it.”

“When do you expect to start, Mr. Cooper?”

“Next Thursday. Can you be ready?”

“I could be ready to-morrow if necessary,” returned Grant promptly. “How
much is it going to cost me, Mr. Cooper?” he added. “If you will tell
me, I can give you the money in a lump, and you can undertake to see me
through.”

“Mebbe that will be a good plan, as I shall have to lay in more
supplies. We’ll say seventy-five dollars; and it will be well for you to
bring a pair of blankets.”

“All right. I will give you the money now if you will give me a paper
acknowledging the receipt, and what it is for.”

“Just as you say, Grant.”

Grant had brought a hundred dollars with him, and handed over to Jerry
Cooper the sum he had mentioned, receiving back a receipt. This he put
into his pocket with a sense of satisfaction. He felt that now the die
was cast, and he was really bound for California; that he had taken the
first step on the road to fortune.

On his way home he chanced to meet Rodney Bartlett. Rodney was walking
with an affected step and swinging his cane. He had an idea that he was
a striking figure and excited the admiration of all whom he met.

When his eyes fell on Grant, he started in genuine surprise.

“How do you happen to be over here, Grant Colburn?” he asked.

“I am here on business,” answered Grant.

“Oh, come over on an errand for my grandfather, I suppose.”

“No, I came on business of my own.”

Rodney arched his eyebrows.

“Oh, so you have business of your own?” he said, in a ironical tone.

“Yes.”

“What is it?”

“I don’t think you would feel interested in it.”

“Look here, Grant, I don’t believe you have any business here at all,”
said Rodney rudely.

“It makes little difference to me what you think,” returned Grant
briefly.

“I think you are playing truant from the farm—that you have come over
here to get rid of work. If I were grandfather I wouldn’t let you come.
I’d keep you at work.”

“You are very kind and considerate, as usual, Rodney. However, you are
mistaken in one thing.”

“What’s that?”

“You think I am in the employ of your grandfather.”

“I know you are a farm boy.”

“I was, but am so no longer.”

“What do you mean? Has grandfather discharged you?”

“No, I have discharged myself. I don’t expect to work for your
grandfather any longer.”

“What are you going to do? Do you expect to live without work?”

“No; I expect to work harder next year than ever before.”

“I don’t understand you,” said Rodney, puzzled. “Are you trying to fool
me?”

“No.”

“Then what do you mean?”

“I start next Thursday for California.”

Rodney was surprised.

“You—don’t—mean—it!” he ejaculated.

“It’s true.”

“Who are you going with?”

“With Jerry Cooper’s family.”

“But you can’t go without money.”

“That’s true.”

“And you haven’t got any.”

“That’s a mistake. I have all I need.”

“Where did you get it?”

“That’s my business.”

“Who put you up to going?”

“I had a talk with John Heywood. He told me he thought I would succeed
in making money.”

“Oh, I see. I suppose he was fool enough to lend you the money.”

Grant smiled, but did not answer. This confirmed Rodney in his belief.
He looked at Grant with envy and dislike. With the amiable desire to
depress him, he said, “I predict that you’ll come back poorer than you
went away.”

“It may be so, but I don’t believe it.”

When he parted with Grant, Rodney went around to John Heywood’s house,
with the view of ascertaining whether he had supplied Grant with the
funds necessary for his journey.

“I think you are foolish, Mr. Heywood,” Rodney began, “to lend Grant
Colburn money to go to California.”

John Heywood looked up from his work.

“Who told you I had supplied him with money?” he asked.

“Well, no one.”

“Then why do you say I did?”

“He must have got the money somewhere, so I concluded you had let him
have it.”

“Then you concluded wrong. He never asked me to lend him money. If he
had——”

“Well, if he had?” repeated Rodney eagerly.

“If he had, I should probably have done it. Grant Colburn’s a
hardworking boy and a good fellow, and I think he’ll be happier out in
California than on your grandfather’s farm.”

“It’ll be a relief to grandfather to have him go. He’s been supporting
him for the last two years.”

“Grant has earned his living twice over. He’ll have to work hard in
California, but he’ll be paid for it. I shouldn’t be surprised to see
him a rich man some time.”

Rodney scowled and walked away. He thought the prediction ridiculous,
and hoped it would not come true.




                              CHAPTER IX.
                        THE LONG JOURNEY BEGINS.


The day before they were to start Grant came over and spent the night
with Mr. Cooper and his family. The blacksmith had been guided by John
Heywood in making his preparations. Independence, Mo., was at that time
the usual starting-point for overland emigrants, and it was to this
point that the little party directed their course. Mr. Cooper started
with two horses, but at Independence he exchanged one of them for a yoke
of oxen, being advised that oxen were upon the whole more reliable, and
less likely to be stolen by the Indians. Here, too, he laid in a supply
of flour, bacon, coffee, and sugar, with a quantity of rice, crackers,
and smaller articles, for they were going through a land where there
were no hotels, and must carry their own provender.

When they had completed their outfit they set out. A long journey lay
before them. From Independence to the gold region was rather more than
two thousand miles, and such were the difficulties of the way that they
only averaged about fifteen miles a day. A detailed account of the trip
would only be wearisome, and I shall confine myself to some of the
salient incidents.

The custom was to make an early start and stop at intervals, partly for
the preparation of meals and partly to give the patient animals a chance
to rest.

One evening—it was about ten weeks after the start—they had encamped for
the night, and Mrs. Cooper, assisted by Grant, was preparing supper, a
fire having been kindled about fifty feet from the wagon, when steps
were heard, and a singular looking figure emerged from the underbush. It
was a man, with a long, grizzled beard, clad in a tattered garb, with an
old slouch hat on his head, and a long, melancholy visage.

“I trust you are well, my friends,” he said. “Do not be alarmed. I mean
you no harm.”

Tom Cooper laughed.

“We are not alarmed,” he said. “That is, not much. Who are you?”

“An unhappy wayfarer, who has been wandering for days, almost famished,
through this wilderness.”

“Do you live about here?”

“No; I am on my way to California.”

“Not alone, surely?”

“I started with a party, but we were surprised a week since by a party
of Cheyenne Indians, and I alone escaped destruction.”

Mrs. Cooper turned pale.

“Are the Indians so bloodthirsty, then?”

“Some of them, my dear lady, some of them. They took all our supplies,
and I have been living on what I could pick up. Pardon my saying so, but
I am almost famished.”

“Our supper is nearly ready,” said Mrs. Cooper hospitably. “You are
welcome to a portion.”

“Ah, how kind you are!” ejaculated the stranger, clasping his hands. “I
shall, indeed, be glad to join you.”

“What is your name, sir?” asked the blacksmith cautiously.

“Dionysius Silverthorn.”

“That’s a strange name.”

“Yes, but I am not responsible for it. We do not choose our own names.”

“And where are you from?”

“I came from Illinois.”

“Were you in business there?”

“Yes. Ahem! I was a teacher, but my health gave way, and when I heard of
the rich discoveries of gold in California, I gathered up, with
difficulty, money enough for the journey and started; but, alas! I did
not anticipate the sad disaster that has befallen me.”

Mr. Silverthorn was thin and meager, but when supper was ready he ate
nearly twice as much as any of the little party.

“Who is this young man?” he asked, with a glance at Grant.

“My name is Grant Colburn.”

“You are the image of a boy I lost,” sighed Dionysius. “He was strong
and manly, like you—a very engaging youth.”

“Then he couldn’t have looked like you,” was Tom Cooper’s inward
comment.

“Did he die of disease?” asked Mrs. Cooper.

“Yes; he had the typhoid fever—my poor, poor Otto,” and Mr. Silverthorn
wiped his eyes with a dirty red silk handkerchief. “Have you a father
living, my young friend?”

“No, sir.”

“Then it would be a gratification to me if you would look upon me as a
parent.”

Grant was quite overwhelmed by this unexpected suggestion.

“Thank you, sir,” he said; “but you are a stranger, and I have a
step-father living.”

He said this on the impulse of the moment, as a reason for not acceding
to Mr. Silverthorn’s request, but it occurred to him that it would be
about as difficult to regard Mr. Tarbox with filial feelings as the
newcomer.

“Ah, he is indeed fortunate!” sighed Mr. Silverthorn. He had a habit of
sighing. “My friend”—here he addressed himself to the blacksmith—“do you
ever smoke?”

“Yes, when I get the chance.”

“And have you, perchance, a cigar?”

“No; a cigar is too high-toned for me. I have a pipe.”

“That will do.”

“But I have no tobacco.”

“Ah!” Here there was another long-drawn sigh.

After supper they sat down around the fire, to rest and chat for a while
before retiring.

“I suppose, my friends,” continued Dionysius, “you would be surprised if
I should tell you that I was once wealthy.”

“You don’t look like it now,” said Tom Cooper bluntly.

“No; indeed I don’t. Yet six years ago I was worth fifty thousand
dollars.”

“I shall be glad if I am worth as much six years hence.”

“How did you lose it?” asked Jerry Cooper.

“Through the knavery of wicked men. I was so honest myself that I
supposed all with whom I had dealings were equally honorable, and I was
deceived. But I am happy to think that when I was rich I contributed to
every good work. I gave a thousand dollars to the church in my town. I
gave five thousand dollars as a fund for a town library. All men spoke
well of me, but when I lost my fortune all turned the cold shoulder, and
I found I had no friends. It is the way of the world.”

“If you were a teacher I don’t see where you got so much money,”
remarked Grant curiously.

“I didn’t make it by teaching, my young friend. An old uncle died and
left me his money. He had been a miser, and never took any notice of me,
so it was a great surprise to me when his will was read and I was
constituted his sole heir.”

“I wish an old uncle would die and leave me fifty thousand dollars,”
said Tom.

“Such may be your luck.”

“Not much chance of that. I haven’t got but one uncle living, and he’s
as poor as Job after he lost all his flocks and herds.”

“I don’t complain of my unhappy condition,” said Dionysius meekly. “I
have been rich and now I am poor, but I am resigned to the Lord’s will.”

“He seems to be a very good man,” whispered Mrs. Cooper to Tom.

Tom shrugged his shoulders.

“I don’t take much stock in him,” he whispered back.

“How did you happen to escape when the rest of your party were destroyed
by the Indians?” asked the blacksmith.

“The attack was made in the night. I had been unable to sleep, and I got
up and went for a walk in the woods, hoping to become fatigued and
drowsy. I was absent for an hour and a half, as well as I can estimate.
When I returned to the camp, what was my dismay when I saw that my
friends had been surprised, their goods confiscated, and a scene of
violence enacted.”

“Were all killed?”

“I don’t know, but on the ground, by the dismantled tent, I saw a human
arm which had been lopped from the shoulder.”

“Do you know whose it was?” asked Tom.

“Yes, it was the arm of a young man about your age, who doubtless had
excited the anger of the Indians by resistance.”

Mr. Silverthorn put his red handkerchief to his eyes and sobbed, or
appeared to do so, convulsively.

“Excuse these tears,” he said. “They are a tribute to my murdered
friends.”

“Did you follow the Indians? Did you try to find out where they had
carried your companions?”

“No. It would have been no good. I was single-handed.”

“I would have done it!” said Tom resolutely.

“I would expect it of you, for you are a brave young man.”

“How do you know I am?”

“By your looks and manner. I am not. You may despise me, but I am
obliged to confess that I am chicken-hearted. I am afraid I am a coward.
It is not a pleasant confession, but I do not wish to represent myself
other than I am.”

“Then I am afraid that you are not the right kind of a man to cross the
plains to California.”

“I am not sure but you are right. I sometimes think so myself. But I
hoped to retrieve my fortunes, and in my state of health there seemed no
other way open to me.”

