used by the Rangers.

The two haystacks seen the day before had been entirely removed, and the
road built of it was about a foot deep of hay. The officers and the ten
men followed the guides; and the hay causeway conducted them to an
inclined plane built of old boards and planks, which the party mounted,
and came to a field near the road. The mysterious disappearance of the
Texans was fully explained.




CHAPTER XXIX

THE RIVERLAWN CAVALRY CHANGES BASE


The first thing Major Lyon did when he reached the road, and the
disappearance of the Texans was no longer mysterious, was to take from
his pocket his map of the county. He found the hill road, and the one
where they stood.

"If the sentinel who reported that he could hear the Rangers snore in
the bog told the truth, the enemy got some rest last night," said the
major, addressing Captain Gordon.

"But he did not hear them snore; that was absurd," replied the captain.
"If they had been snoring, he could not have heard them; for they were
at work too far from him. If he heard anything, it must have been the
bubbling of the brook; but probably it was all in his imagination. But
what is the point in regard to the snoring, Major Lyon?"

"If the Rangers worked all night, and did not get any sleep, they are
too tired and sleepy this morning to make a long march," replied the
commander.

"Then you think they have camped at some place not far from us?" asked
the captain.

"I only think it is possible they have done so. Captain Dingfield
appeared to be badly wounded, from all reports; and I doubt if there is
as much strategy in his brain to-day as he had yesterday. I shall not
make a business of pursuing him."

"It would be a good thing for this part of the State if he could be
cleaned out entirely, bagged, and his company sent to Louisville as
prisoners," suggested Captain Gordon.

"No doubt of it; but it would be hardly consistent with the orders I
have just received for me to delay in this section to carry out your
idea. We are more needed elsewhere than here."

"Then we are to march on a sort of roving commission to the eastward,
where the Confederates are breaking through from Tennessee, it appears."

"It amounts to that, though my orders are very explicit," replied the
major, as he led the way back to the narrow pass where the company had
been halted. "The situation here is not so bad as it was. We have saved
the bridge; and the Home Guards which arrived there last night are
described as consisting of good men, who will be mustered into a
Kentucky regiment as soon as circumstances permit; and Captain Woodward,
who commands it, is an old soldier, and likely to be made a colonel."

"Then the bridge will be safe."

"It can be better defended by infantry than by cavalry alone; both would
do better than either. Captain Dingfield and his bridge-burners have
been sent to the north, and I have no doubt he intends to join them
there. To follow him would keep me some days, if not a week, from the
more pressing duty assigned to me," reasoned the commander.

"I understand it better now," added the captain.

"I have been informed that troops have been sent to the vicinity of
Munfordville, in Hart County, where the railroad bridge has been partly
destroyed, though a temporary structure has been built to replace it. I
think Dingfield means to go there, and complete the work others failed
to finish."

"I hope we shall find the guerillas, or whatever they are; and I believe
our boys will soon make an end of them," said the captain with
enthusiasm. "Your orders permit you to go where you please, Major."

"They do; for it was not possible for those charged with the protection
of the State to inform me definitely where the guerillas were to be
found, as they are continually changing their locality, though I have
some papers to aid me. I am not a little surprised at the confidence
placed in me by my superiors, who send me on a mission with no definite
instructions."

"All the details of the fights at Riverlawn and its vicinity are known
to them; for I have taken care that they should not be ignorant in
regard to you."

"But I have just become a soldier," added the major modestly.

"Then it runs in the blood, and it has got as far down as Deck," said
Captain Gordon, laughing, as they came to the company.

The party mounted, and rode back at a gallop to the camp. The cooks of
the company had prepared an unusually good breakfast, which was disposed
of with a relish, stimulated by three days' feeding from the haversacks
of the troopers. As soon as it was finished, the order was given to
"break camp;" and, as it had been hardly more than a bivouac, the work
was speedily accomplished, and the two companies were soon in line.

While these preparations were in progress, the major was studying his
county map. What little baggage had been taken from the wagons was soon
loaded again. There was little for the officers to do, after the orders
had been given.

"We are about ready to march," said Captain Gordon, approaching the
commander, who had seated himself on a log near the road.

"I am all ready," replied the major, as he glanced at Artie, who was
holding his horse near him. "Of course Dingfield followed this by-road,
which will take him to another by which he can reach Munfordville, if he
is going there. We will take the same road; and if the Rangers are
resting themselves in camp after the fatigues of the day and night, we
may have a chance to pay our respects to them."

"I should like one more slap at them; for they ran away so rapidly that
I did not get a fair hit at them," added the captain.

"But they are brave men, and we outnumber them two to one. Truman says
they fought like tigers on the east road."

"That is true, and that is the reason I should like to meet them again;
for I believe there is not a braver or more reliable body of men in the
Union army than the Riverlawn Cavalry; and I am not a Kentuckian
either."

"Neither am I by birth, though I am by adoption; and I am precisely of
your opinion in regard to our men," added the major as he mounted his
horse; and his orderlies did the same.

Deck was at home again in the saddle; for Ceph had come to the camp with
the second company. After the prisoners at the bridge had been disposed
of, the wounded had been cared for by sending them in one of the
captured wagons to Riverlawn, consigned to the care of Levi Bedford; for
a hospital had been established there for the wounded in the battles
with the ruffians.

The column moved down the road, and turned into that which the Rangers
had used in their escape. As the right of the line approached the house
of the farmer, that worthy presented himself before the officers; and he
appeared to be mad enough to swallow half-a-dozen Yankees. Possibly he
thought the squadron had started in pursuit of the Texans.

"I want to know who's ter pay me for that dog o' mine some o' you uns
killed last night," he broke out, walking along by the side of the major
and Captain Gordon. "That critter was wuth a hund'ed dollars, and that's
what I want you uns to pay me before you go any furder."

"Are you a loyal citizen of the United States?" asked Major Lyon.

"I'm nothin' o' that sort!" replied the native, who began to heap curses
and maledictions on the government. "The' ain't no United States! She's
done busted all to pieces!"

The major made no reply, and had not even stopped his horse. The fellow
followed him; but he took no further notice of the irate Secessionist,
rather to the amusement of Captain Gordon and others within hearing. But
the farmer was soon tired of addressing one who treated him with silent
contempt, and seated himself on a stump to observe the procession.

Two skilful scouts, one of whom was Life Knox, had already been sent
forward to search for any indications of the camp of the Texans. The
squadron soon reached another road running through a valley. The major
had learned from his map that it connected with the east road in one
direction, and the hill-road in the other.

The column halted to wait for the return of the scouts. Knox and his
companion soon appeared, and reported that he had followed this road to
its junction with the hill-road, without seeing anything of the enemy.

"They ain't within ten miles of here," added the Kentuckian. "I got so I
know the tracks o' them Texas hosses, and I follered 'em five miles.
They don't want nothin' more o' the Riverlawn Cavalry."

This information settled the point so far as the Rangers were concerned,
and nothing was seen of them, though they appeared in some skirmishes
farther north. The Indian craft of Knox had proved to be very useful,
and he was a great favorite with both officers and men. The march was
resumed; but the events of the next two days on the road are not of
interest enough to be reported. At the end of this time the squadron
were in the territory described in the orders of the commander, and
active work was expected.

Just before sunset the battalion halted on the outskirts of a small
village, and went into camp there. The American flag was hoisted on a
pole planted for the purpose, in order that the inhabitants of the
vicinity might make no mistake in regard to the character of the force.
Not only the negroes and loungers to be found in every village flocked
to the camp, but some of the influential citizens appeared on the
ground. The guard kept them outside of the lines. A person on
horse-back, who had the air and manner of the genuine Kentucky
gentleman, attracted the attention of Major Lyon, who was desirous of
obtaining information on the spot in regard to the sentiments of the
people.

"Who is the gentleman on horse-back?" he asked of a well-dressed negro,
who looked like an intelligent man; for the commander suspected that he
was a Secessionist, though he had no reason for supposing that he was
such.

"That is Colonel Coffee, sir, the biggest man in these parts," replied
the colored man.

"How does he stand on the war question? Do you happen to know?"
continued the major.

"Yes, sir," replied the man with a smile; "everybody within twenty miles
of this village knows which side Colonel Coffee is on, sir."

"Well, which side is he on?" demanded the commander, who saw that the
gentleman was approaching him.

"He's a Union man all over and all through; and the people are trying to
get up a Home Guard to protect his place--that's the one you see on the
side of the hill. We expect the gorillas down here."

"You have named them well, my friend," added the major with a laugh. "Do
you know where there are any of them?"

"No, sir; they are like flies, and don't make nests anywhere. I reckon
Colonel Coffee wants to speak to you, sir; for I suppose you are an
officer of this company," added the man, who retired at the approach of
the great man of the locality.

The magnate of the county rode up to the major, and saluted him with
courtly grace; and though the latter was not brought up in a
drawing-room, he was as polite as the occasion required.

"I am exceedingly happy to see that flag hoisted over a body of military
in this county," said the colonel, with a cheerful smile, as he pointed
with his riding-whip at the emblem of the Union.

"I am very glad to be where there are those who appreciate the flag,"
added the major.

"I am only sorry that you will find so few of them in this
neighborhood," returned the dignified Kentuckian. "We are threatened by
roving bands of plunderers to the east and south of us, and for the last
week I have expected to walk away from my place by the light of my
burning house. I live in that one on the side of the hill."

"I hope we shall be able to put an end to this state of affairs at once,
Colonel Coffee," replied the major.

"You know my name," said the magnate with a smile.

"I asked it of that negro."

"He is the village barber, and a very intelligent man. May I ask whom I
have the honor to address?" inquired the colonel.

"Major Lyon, in command of a squadron of United States cavalry," replied
the officer.

"I am very glad to see you, Major, personally, and especially to see you
at Greeltop; for we are greatly in need of efficient protection,"
returned the colonel. "I have heard all about you before."

"I am equally happy to meet you, Colonel Coffee; for I am at present in
urgent need of full information in regard to the condition of affairs in
this section."

"I shall be pleased to have you dine with me, and we can talk over
matters at our leisure in my library."

Major Lyon excused himself from the dinner, and invited the colonel to
his tent, which had been set up by this time.




CHAPTER XXX

THE MAGNATE OF GREELTOP'S VISIT


The cavalrymen had been duly drilled in all the details of forming a
camp; and in a short time the tents were pitched, the pickets set up for
the horses, and the cooks were busy in preparing supper. The
headquarters tent was the first to be arranged, as soon as the major had
indicated its location. Colonel Coffee was invited to take a camp-stool;
for they do not have sofas and armchairs in a camp.

"I have been pleading with the officials for the last two weeks to
attend to the security of this region," said the colonel, as he seated
himself. "I have wondered every day during the last week that Greeltop
has not been sacked, and all our houses burned down; for there is a
great deal of Union sentiment in the place."

"Then the place must be particularly liable to an assault from the
guerillas," suggested the major.

"We have tried to form a Home Guard here for the protection of the
village, and we have a little band of about twenty men; but most of our
young and middle-aged men have left the place to enlist in the loyal
army, so that we have not much stock of which to form a company. But our
little band keep a picket of five or ten of their number in the
outskirts of the village, to warn us of the approach of an enemy."

"We shall soon relieve them of that duty."

"Our men are not soldiers, for they have had no training; but they are
made up of fighting material. Though I am sixty-five years old, I belong
to the company; and I have just returned from patrolling the region to
the eastward of us."

While he listened to the visitor, Major Lyon had spread out his map,
which included the locality; and with the assistance of the colonel he
obtained a clear idea of the surface of the country, the first requisite
for a military commander. While they were still busy over the map, the
sentinel at the entrance to the tent drew aside the curtain, and saluted
the commander.

"A messenger in a great hurry to see Colonel Coffee," said he.

"Admit him," replied the major promptly.

A gentleman dressed in a black coat with a standing collar to it,
encircled with a belt, in which was secured a pair of navy revolvers,
entered the tent, out of breath with excitement of running.

"The Rev. Mr. Elbroon, Major Lyon, one of our Home Guard," said the
colonel as soon as the clergyman appeared at the entrance.

There was nothing clerical in his appearance except the standing collar
of his coat; and the revolvers especially belied his profession.

"The Lord be praised for his great mercy!" exclaimed the minister, as
soon as he could get breath for utterance.

"What is the matter, Joseph?" asked the magnate of Greeltop very
familiarly.

"The guerillas are coming!" exclaimed the reverend gentleman.

"Where are they?" asked the colonel, as coolly as though he had been in
command of a regiment for years.

"They are coming down by the mountain road back of your mansion!"
gasped Mr. Elbroon, who was evidently very much alarmed, and could
hardly speak in his fatigue and excitement.

"Sentinel!" called the major sharply.

The man appeared at once.

"Where is Captain Gordon?"

"He is close by, Major."

"Ask him to come to my tent."

"Sit down, Joseph," said the colonel, giving his stool to his friend and
his fellow-soldier, it appeared. "You don't gain anything by blowing
yourself out."

"But this is no time to sit down," replied the excited minister, though
he took the proffered seat.

Captain Gordon appeared immediately.

"A raid of guerillas on the place, Captain! Have the first company ready
to march in three minutes!" said the commander in hurried tones.

The captain retired in haste, without asking any questions; and a moment
later the bugles were heard sounding the assembly. The major buckled on
his sword, and sent out an order for his horse.

"Thank the good Lord that the military have come at last!" exclaimed
Mr. Elbroon, as he crossed his arms on his breast, and looked up to
heaven in earnest prayer. "But we are wasting time, Colonel; and I am
afraid we shall see your beautiful mansion in flames before we can get
there."

"If we do, it will go up in a good cause," replied the magnate, with a
smile on his dignified face. "I can afford to lose it better than some
of the poor people of the village could their houses. But cool off,
Joseph; you are still all in a flutter."

"I will try to do so," replied the clerical soldier, "I saw them coming
when I was on the top of the mountain. I hurried my poor horse till he
broke down under me; and I had to run on foot the rest of the way."

"Rest yourself, Joseph. If you saw the guerillas from the top of the
mountain, there is no hurry; for they will not reach my house this
half-hour," added the colonel.

"You shall have another horse, my reverend friend," interposed the
commander, as he ordered the sentinel to send for a spare steed.

"Now, Joseph, where were the guerillas when you saw them?" inquired the
magnate.

"They were on the Cliff Road, just coming around the bend."

"That is four miles from my house, and five from here," continued the
colonel.

"But I have been a long time coming here," suggested Mr. Elbroon.

"Excuse me, Colonel Coffee; I should like a little more definite
information in regard to the road by which these guerillas will approach
the village," interposed the commander.

"I don't think they will approach the village at all, Major Lyon. I have
not the remotest doubt that my mansion is their objective point; and
they will first plunder that."

"We will take care that they don't do anything of the sort. Have you any
idea how many there were in the company you saw, Mr. Elbroon?"

"I could see them marching along under the cliff; I should say there
were not less than fifty of them," replied the clergyman. "I did not
wait to count them, but hurried to the village, where I inquired of
everybody for Colonel Coffee. The barber told me he was here."

"Company formed," reported the sentinel at the door.

"We are ready now, gentlemen," said the major, as he passed out of the
tent, followed by the others.

"The spare horse ordered, Major," said the sentinel, as he led him up.

The clerical gentleman was invited to mount this animal, which had been
ridden by one of the men killed; and the colonel mounted his own steed.
The commander took his horse, which was led by Deck, while Artie had
brought up the spare steed. The animal was a higher-spirited beast than
the parson had been in the habit of riding, and Artie had to take him by
the head to prevent him from running away; for he was one of the colts
of the Riverlawn planter's stock.

"My orderlies will ride with me," said the major; "I may want them.
Captain Truman, you will have the second company in marching order, in
case I send for them, though I don't know what this affair will amount
to; and you will leave a guard at the camp if you are called away."

The order was given to Captain Gordon to march. The commander led the
column at full gallop, with the colonel at his side, and the orderlies
in the rear of them. In less than a minute they came to a road turning
off at the left, leading in the direction of the magnate's mansion. It
was situated on the side of a hill, and near the top of it. The
elevation was elliptical in form, and the loftiest part was not more
than sixty feet high, at the summit of which was a Chinese pagoda,
painted in gaudy colors.

There was a valley behind it; for the major could see the tops of some
tall trees, whose roots must be far below the top of the elliptical
hill. Beyond it were what the colonel called the mountains, though
probably not one of them was more than five hundred feet high. The
column followed the road into which it had turned till it came to
another; and here the major ordered the captain to halt his company.

"Here is another road, Colonel Coffee; and it passes behind the hill
which you call Greeltop," said the commander.

"Precisely so," replied the magnate, who thought the major had acquired
a very good knowledge of the locality when he had been there hardly more
than an hour.

"Captain Gordon, you will go that way with half your company, and
Lieutenant Gilder will follow me," said Major Lyon. "The road through
the valley unites with the one from the mountains, by which the
guerillas must approach the village. You will move cautiously as you
come near this road, and halt there till you hear firing on your right."

"You can hardly call it a road through the valley, though the captain
can get through without any difficulty," interposed the magnate. "It is
all a grove, but the ground has been cleared off."

"Dexter, you will call Knox, and scout the road ahead of us. Don't let
the enemy see you, and obey the orders of the sergeant," continued the
major, as the first platoon rode off.

Life Knox was called from his place in the ranks, and the order of the
commander given to him. It was the kind of duty the sergeant liked; for
he was more at home there than in following military forms; though he
was a faithful and obedient soldier, and his captain wished he had a
hundred more like him.

"Here we go again, Deck," said the sergeant, as they galloped up the
road, by the entrance to Colonel Coffee's estate. "Your pa does well to
send me along with you this time, and not leave you alone as he did on
that bridge."

"But I can take care of myself, and I did that time; for I came back
like a bad penny," replied Deck.

"You managed fust-rate, my boy; and if you live to be as old as the
white-haired owner of this place, you will be a brigadier-general; and I
hope I shall be an orderly sergeant under you."

"You are a good deal more likely to become a brigadier-general than I
am, though I may get to be a corporal some time. You may be
major-general; for you understand war much better than most of us."
