"You seem to be ready for battle, Colonel Hickman," said Deck, as he
surveyed the armament.

"I am ready; and I expect to have a use for these rifles and
field-pieces before night," replied the planter.

"To-day?" queried Deck.

"I expected three times as many as came this morning; but I suppose the
rest of them have cleaned out some other mansion. The ruffians in the
house promised to come with thirty men when they were here before. If
all the white men belonging on the plantation had not been absent, we
should never have let this lot of infernals come near the place."

"But I think we had better get rid of the lot here now before we
entertain another horde of them," suggested the lieutenant.

"The sergeant appears to have locked up the ruffians in the second
story as though he meant to keep them there the rest of their natural
lives," replied the planter. "We have not yet lost a single one of our
number."

"It is the policy of war to save your own men while you destroy the
enemy," added Deck. "The next thing to be done is to drive the ruffians
out of the house."

"That seems to be easier said than done," replied the colonel, with an
inquiring look at the young officer. "How do you propose to do it?"

"I don't know that it can be done; but there is nothing like trying. I
suppose you are still a rifleman, Colonel Hickman?"

"I am, as I have been since I was a dozen years old. I have my old
rifle here," he answered, pointing to the dozen of them resting against
the side of the house. "I judge that you have some plan in your busy
young head, Lieutenant. I am ready to obey all your orders, without
regard to my age."

Deck stated his plan, which he had arranged after a survey of the
surroundings of the mansion. It involved a change of position among the
men, the most important of which was placing the planter behind the
safe in the hall, thus releasing Fronklyn for more active duty. The
colonel was willing, and even glad, to take the position assigned to
him, and, like a good soldier, asked no questions.

"But what about the attack you expect this afternoon?" asked Deck.

"I have put my servants on picket, as they have been for several days.
They are all mounted, just as they came back from the avenue. They are
all faithful to me, though I don't expect them to do any fighting; but
they can keep watch as well as white men."

"Then, if you are ready, Colonel, we will go to the front hall of the
house," said the lieutenant, as he led the way.

At the door he called the sergeant from behind his breastwork, and put
the planter in his place. The old soldier had hardly shown himself in
the hall before a shot was fired down the stairway. Doubtless one or
more of the ruffians had been on the lookout for the appearance of a
man in the hall below; and as the planter passed behind the open door,
the opportunity had been used.

Fortunately the venerable planter was not hit; for the enemy had only
such old flint-lock guns as General Crittenden describes in his report
of the battle of Mill Springs, and they were far from being reliable
weapons. The bullet shattered the edge of the door, and no other damage
was done. The veteran proved that he was still an active man; for as
soon as he was behind the steel fortress, he cast a searching glance up
the stairs.

On the landing he discovered a head on the floor; for the man who had
fired the shot was lying where he could see down into the hall. It
would have been better for him if his feet had been where his head was;
for the planter raised his rifle, and fired at almost the same instant.
His companions drew his body back without exposing themselves to the
deadly fire from the hall.

"Flickens is killed!" exclaimed one of them; and the enemy were one
less in number.

The planter, with his rifle in position for instant use, fixed his gaze
upon the head of the staircase; but no one now was to be seen there.
Deck and the sergeant had passed into the parlor, the door of which was
next to the safe, after the colonel had discharged his rifle.

"Are you all right, sir?" asked the lieutenant, stopping in a safe
place near the door of the apartment.

"I am better off than the fellow I just hit in the top of his head,"
replied the planter. "I wish another of them would try that experiment
again."

"I know you can hold this position, and I will see what can be done
elsewhere," returned Deck, as he moved towards the door of the rear
room.

"You need not be concerned about me; I can finish the affair if the
villains will only show themselves," replied the colonel; and his
cheerful tones indicated that he was happy in his new position.

Deck and Fronklyn passed around into the rear of the hall, where they
found Warren Hickman standing at the door of the dining-room, where he
could not be seen from the head of the back stairs. He was informed
that an attempt would be made to drive the enemy from the second story.
He was to remain in his present position. The lieutenant and the
sergeant passed out at the back door into the kitchen, some distance
from the mansion. Here they found the other two sons of the planter,
watching the windows on that side of the house.

The end of the cook-room extended back into a grove of trees which
surrounded the mansion, and which had given Deck his first suggestion
of his method of future operations. Taking the two Hickmans with them,
the four went through a window into the grove. The building containing
the kitchen concealed them from the view of the ruffians, if any of
them went to the windows.

The trees around the mansion, like those in the avenue, were large, and
the foliage dense. Deck explained to his companions his plan, and then
directed one of them to proceed by the grove to each of the sides of
the house, reserving the one by the stable for himself.

"What then?" inquired Fronklyn.

"Each of you will sling his rifle, and then climb a tree commanding all
the windows on his side of the mansion," replied Deck. "When you see
one of the enemy at a window, use your rifle. I shall be on the stable
side."

The lieutenant, who had provided himself with a rifle on the piazza,
followed the grove in the direction of the stable, outside of all the
out-buildings, while the other three proceeded the opposite way. There
were no trees between the mansion and the stable; but Deck made his way
to the hayloft, which commanded a view of all the windows of the
former. He waited long enough to enable his companions to secure their
places in the trees, and then opened a window, which enabled him to
obtain a safe position for himself.

While he was waiting, he took a couple of horse-blankets from the
harness-room, and fastened them up before the only two windows in the
loft. This made the place quite dark, though there was light enough to
enable him to find his way. Then he kneeled about ten feet from the
open window, darkened to within a foot of the bottom. From this point
he discovered, by looking through the window directly opposite his
opening, three men sitting on a bed.

He fired his rifle, and saw one of the ruffians drop on the floor.




CHAPTER XXX

THE SURRENDER OF CAPTAIN GRUNDY


Deck Lyon reloaded his rifle without a moment's delay; then resuming
his kneeling posture, he gazed at the window again. The ruffian had
fallen forwards from the bed, and his companions had picked him up. The
observer could see that he had not been killed. The other two laid him
on the bed, and it was evident that he had been severely wounded. They
examined him, but of course the result could not be known to the
lieutenant.

While one of them was tying a handkerchief around the head of the
wounded man, the other went to the window. A pane of glass had been
broken, and this must have assured him that the ball had come from
outside of the mansion. Then he proceeded to look about the
surroundings in search of the person who had fired the shot, confining
his gaze to the ground. If he had reasoned at all over the matter,
which perhaps his education did not enable him to do, he might have
realized that the bullet did not come from the ground.

The man had thrown the window wide open, and was making a very
scrutinizing examination of every part of the courtyard. He could see
plainly whatever was in front of the window; but this did not seem to
satisfy him. He thrust half his body out of the opening, looking both
sides of him, as though it had been possible to fire a rifle around a
corner. The fellow was certainly stupid enough to be shot, and Deck did
not wait any longer to do his work.

The ball struck him in the head as he was stretching his neck to the
utmost to enlarge the extent of his vision to a point from which the
fatal bullet could not possibly have come. If he could have imagined a
line from the round hole in the pane of glass to the point where his
comrade's head had been, it would have pointed directly to Deck's
locality when he discharged the rifle.



The ruffian dropped from the window-sill to the ground with a heavy
thud, and did not move again. The ball had penetrated his brain, and he
was the victim of his unscientific observations. But the lieutenant did
not remove his gaze from the open window. It seemed very like slaughter
to shoot down the enemy in this manner, and a twinge of conscience
disturbed him. But he reasoned that he had given the ruffians a chance
to surrender, which they had refused to accept. Then they were pirates,
robbers, making war for gain against friend and foe alike.

The third man in the room did not remain there any longer. He could
hardly have known what became of the one at the window, unless he had
heard the crack of a rifle, and failed to see him again. Under these
circumstances it was not difficult for him to reason out the conclusion
that the chamber where he was must be a dangerous locality, and he
sought a safer place.

The lieutenant continued to watch the window, but no enemy appeared in
the room again. It had proved to be a chamber of death. He had hardly
lost sight of the foe before he heard the crack of a rifle in the
grove. The two Hickmans there were riflemen, and Deck did not believe
it would be possible for either of them to fire without killing or
wounding his man; but he heard but one shot, and probably four of the
land pirates were still living.

Deck waited some time for the sound of another shot, but in vain. He
did not believe another ruffian would enter the fatal room commanded by
his position, and he decided to seek a more promising place for his
operations. Since the shot he had heard, he was confident that none of
the enemy would show themselves at the windows. He descended to the
cellar of the stable, and then, by the way he had come, reached the
kitchen, and then the parlor, at the door of which the planter was
fortified.

"Anything new, Colonel Hickman?" he asked.

"Yes, indeed!" exclaimed the sentinel over the staircase. "What have
you been doing outside? Something has happened."

"I think we have reduced the enemy by three, and perhaps more," replied
the young officer; and he proceeded to explain what he and his
companions had been doing.

"You think you have knocked down three or more of the robbers?"

"As many as that."

"Then that explains it!"

"Explains what?" asked Deck, as much puzzled by the exhilarated tones
of the planter as by his questions.

"One of them hailed me some time ago, and wanted to see the one in
command. I told him the commander was not in the house, but was
conducting the fight outside. He asked me to send for him, but I
refused to do so. I did not intend to interrupt your operation; for I
never take another's command away from him," replied the colonel,
indulging at the same time in a chuckle, to which he was somewhat given
when pleased.

"Do you know what he wanted?"

"I do; for he shouted down the stairs that he and the rest of them
desired to surrender."

"Then we will let them do so," added Deck, who was not disposed to
fight after the battle had been won.

"What shall you do with them after they have surrendered, Lieutenant?"
asked the planter, plainly much interested in the question.

"I shall do nothing at all with them; I am not the judge or the civil
power of Russell County. We have beaten the enemy, and I have nothing
further to do with the matter," answered Deck.

The colonel decided not to ask any more questions, though the
lieutenant suspected he intended to dispose of the prisoners as he
thought best.

"Up-stairs, there!" shouted the planter. "The commander is here now."

"Ask him to come up here, and we will arrange things," returned the
ruffian with unblushing effrontery.

"The commander will do nothing of the sort," replied the colonel
indignantly. "Do you really believe that he would trust himself with
such cutthroats as you are?"

"We will agree not to hurt him, though he has used us very unfairly,"
said the spokesman. "He has tried to murder all of us!"

"You deserve to be hung; and it would be too merciful to shoot you!"
roared the colonel, his wrath getting the better of him.

"Do Union men hang their prisoners?" demanded the ruffian bitterly.

"Prisoners!" exclaimed the planter contemptuously. "You are such
prisoners as they shut up in the penitentiary, or hang in the public
square."

"Can I see the commander?" asked the spokesman, quite gently by this
time.

"I will see him if he comes down into the parlor," said Deck. "I shall
make prisoners of them; but I wish to stipulate that neither Sergeant
Fronklyn nor myself shall have anything to do with punishing them,
either by hanging or shooting after they have surrendered."

"The commander will see you down-stairs; but I will shoot any other
that attempts to put his foot on the first stair," shouted Colonel
Hickman.

"I will come down," replied the spokesman; and he came to the head of
the staircase with a gun in his hand.

"Halt!" cried the planter. "Leave all your arms up-stairs! Have you any
pistols about you?"

He passed his musket to one of the others, and did the same with a
couple of pistols when the colonel mentioned them. Having complied with
the order, he came down the stairs. He was directed to the parlor in
which the lieutenant was waiting for him.

"Are you the commander here?" he inquired.

"I am. May I ask what you are?" demanded Deck, without rising from the
armchair in which he was seated.

"I am called Captain Grundy."

"Not Mrs. Grundy?"

"Captain Grundy," replied the ruffian, with something of dignity in his
looks and manner.

"Have you a captain's commission?"

"Not yet."

"In what service are you?"

"In the service of the Confederate States of America."

"In what regiment?"

"In no regiment; in a company organized by my government."

"A company of Partisan Rangers?"

"But in the service of my country."

"Are you a Kentuckian?"

"I am."

"And your service is to roam over your native State, killing, robbing,
plundering your fellow-citizens; a highwayman, a thief, and a
murderer," continued the lieutenant very severely. "This is the second
time you have visited this mansion for plunder; but you don't come out
of it so well as you expected," said Deck with a sneer, evident in his
tones as well as his looks.

"Where is the rest of your company, Captain Grundy?"

"On duty in another county."

"But you expect the balance of your command here some time to-day?"

"There will soon be a time when the treatment we have received here
will be returned with compound interest," said Grundy with a savage and
revengeful look on his ill-favored countenance.

"You wished to see me; what is your business?" demanded the lieutenant.

"I am ready to surrender. You and your gang have murdered nearly all my
men here in cold blood. I can do nothing more, and I must yield,"
replied Grundy.

"Are you a lawyer, Captain?"

"I am not; I am a horse-dealer."

"I should think you might be!" sneered Deck. "Do you think it is right
to ride over the State, robbing your fellow-citizens, threatening to
hang a planter to a tree for refusing to give up his money?"

"In the service of my country, yes! Kentucky belongs to the
Confederacy; and those who fight to keep the State in the exploded
Union are traitors, and should be treated as enemies of the State and
the Confederacy."

"Suppose I should visit your house, demand your money, and hang you if
you did not give it up? Would that be all right?"

"That is another matter," growled Grundy.

"Precisely; the same boot don't fit both feet," returned Deck.

"I am your prisoner; but you need not thorn me with your Union logic."

At this moment the lieutenant heard the voice of Davis Hickman in the
hall, talking to his father. He called him into the parlor, and
requested him to bring a quantity of cord or straps to him; and he went
for them.

"What do you want of cords and straps?" asked Grundy.

"To bind my prisoner."

"Do you mean to hang me?"

"I do not; I leave that job to the regular hangman. He will perform it
in due time, I have no doubt," replied Deck, as Davis brought in the
cords.

"I don't mean to be tied up like a wildcat," said the captain doggedly.

"Then you do not surrender; and if you wish to do so, you may go
up-stairs again."

"I surrender; but I will not be bound like a nigger!" exclaimed Captain
Grundy, as he sprang away from the lieutenant, and ran into the back
room.

"What's the matter now, Phil?" demanded the colonel, as the mulatto of
this name rushed into the hall, panting more from excitement than
physical exertion, for his horse was at the door.

Both Deck and Davis pursued the captain; but they were taken off their
guard, and neither of them succeeded in getting hold of the ruffian. He
fled to a window which some one had left open, leaped out, and ran
towards the front of the mansion. Davis fired his rifle at him; but
being "on the wing," he failed to bring him down. Deck, believing that
the fight was finished, had left his rifle in the parlor.

"The Lord save us, Mars'r Cun'l!" shouted Phil, as he broke into the
hall. "The ruffians, more'n twenty of 'em, is coming up the road on
hossback, at full gallop!"

It looked like another fight against great odds.




CHAPTER XXXI

AN UNEXPECTED RE-ENFORCEMENT


Captain Grundy's claim that he was in the Confederate service was
undoubtedly pure fiction; and he did not even pretend to have a
commission of any kind, not even as a Partisan Ranger. The Riverlawn
Cavalry had rendered important service to the State in the suppression
of guerilla bands, acting under no authority whatever, plundering and
killing Union men. Grundy's force consisted of over thirty men. They
were mounted, and doubtless had stolen the horses they rode from the
plantations they had raided.

They were simply brigands; they wore no uniform beyond a belt, and had
taken no part in the battle of the day before. Their leader was an
enterprising man, and seemed to be operating at the same time in
several places. Their sole mission was to rob the planters; and they
were especially eager to obtain money, though it was a very scarce
article in the State.

Lieutenant Lyon had talked with Colonel Hickman about the band, and he
had gathered much information in regard to their operations in the
northern and western counties. The planter was a fighting man, as well
as a strong Unionist. He had been aware of the approach of the gang,
and while he had seven white men living on his estate he had felt
abundantly able to defend his property.

His spring-house was his arsenal; and it was well stored with arms and
ammunition, including two field-pieces. He was not a man to be
intimidated, as many loyal citizens had been; and he had made his
preparations to give the brigands a warm reception when they paid him a
visit, as he had no doubt they would.

After the return of the colonel with his re-enforcements from the
ferry, Deck Lyon had not had the opportunity to examine minutely the
premises, especially outside of the immediate scene of operations. He
had followed Captain Grundy from the mansion when he escaped from the
parlor in company with Davis. The latter had fired at him; but the
density of the grove interfered with his aim, and the ruffian had
suddenly disappeared.

Outside of the grove there were no trees, and the lieutenant saw on a
hill the mounted gang riding at full speed towards the elevation on
which stood the mansion. The road was a private one, and very narrow.
Deck counted twenty-four riders in the distance, for they rode two
abreast. As he and his companion came out of the grove to the front of
the mansion, the officer discovered something that looked like a mound
of earth on one side of the road to the mansion.

"What is that, Davis?" asked Deck, pointing at the work.

"That is the governor's fortification," replied the rifleman.

"The governor's?"

"Not the governor of the State, but my father's."

"What is it?" asked the lieutenant curiously; for he had not been able
to make out the use of the mound.

"Come in a little nearer to the mansion, and you will see," replied
Davis; and he led the way across a corner of the grove.

"It looks like a fort," added Deck as he obtained a view of the inside
of the earthwork.

"That is just what it is," said his companion. "The governor has kept a
