"And Frank means to keep it a secret, does he?" continued the delighted
father.

"Yes, sir; till to-morrow."

"Very well; I will not mention the fact that you have told me about
it."

"Thank you, sir," replied Charles doubtfully.

"And I am glad you told me--that is, if you have not betrayed his
confidence;" and Captain Sedley looked rather sharply at Charles.

"Oh, no, sir! I have not."

"Because, when he tells me he does not intend to go, I should otherwise
have insisted on knowing the reason."

Charles was already sorry he had said a word about it.

"It was a noble sacrifice, Charles," continued Captain Sedley with much
enthusiasm. "If from a worthy motive we sacrifice our inclinations for
the good of others, we are always sure of finding our reward--indeed,
the act is its own reward."

Charles began to feel a little uneasy. It seemed to him as though
Captain Sedley never looked so sharply at him before. What could he
mean? He had given all his money to the widow Weston as well as Frank,
but Captain Sedley's looks seemed to reprove rather than commend him.
He did not feel satisfied with himself, or with Captain Sedley--why, he
could not exactly tell; so he happened to think that his father might
want him, and he ran home as fast as his legs would carry him.

But his father did not want him, and he walked nervously about the
house till breakfast-time. He had no appetite, and everything seemed to
go wrong with him.

"Come, Charles," said his mother, "eat your breakfast, or you will get
hungry before you get to Boston."

"Not going," answered he sulkily.

"Why not?" asked his father and mother in the same breath.

"Haven't got any money."

"No money! Where is the two dollars I gave you yesterday?" asked Mr.
Hardy rather sternly.

"Gave it away."

"You did?"

"Yes, sir."

"To whom?"

"Frank proposed last night to give our money to the widow Weston
instead of spending it; and like a great fool as I was, I agreed to
it."

"Poor fellow! It is too bad!" added Mrs. Hardy.

"What did he do it for, then?" said Mr. Hardy.

"Of course he didn't want to be behind Frank in doing a good action."

"But he is a long way behind him."

"Why, husband!"

"He has given the woman the money, and played the hypocrite," replied
Mr. Hardy, with the most evident expression of disgust in his tones and
looks. "He has acted just like a great many folks who put money into
the contribution-box for missions and Bible societies, because they
think it looks well."

"But, husband, you will give him some more money? You will make up the
sum to him which he has given in charity?"

"Given in charity! Given in hypocrisy, you mean! I shall do no such
thing."

"Deprive the poor boy of all his anticipated pleasure?" said the
indulgent mother.

"The bitter fruit of his own hypocrisy," replied Mr. Hardy.

"You are too bad!"

"No, I am not. If he gave away his money because he thought it was an
act of charity that would look well, that would make Frank and his
father think better of him, he is rightly served; and I am disposed to
shut him up in this room with a good book to teach him better, instead
of letting him go to the celebration."

Mr. Hardy was a blunt, honest man, perhaps a little too much inclined
to be harsh with his son when he had done wrong. Possibly his views of
parental discipline were not altogether correct, but in the main he
meant right. He was disgusted at the conduct of Charles, and thought no
reasonable penalty too severe for hypocrisy and deceit.

"On the other hand," continued he, "if he had made up his mind to
sacrifice his inclination at the call of charity, he would not have
felt as he does now. He would have been contented to stay at home. He
would have found a nobler satisfaction in the consciousness of having
done a good deed than in all the anticipated pleasures of the
celebration. It is very plain to me the whole thing was an act of gross
hypocrisy;" and Mr. Hardy rose from the table, and left the room.

Charles understood his father's analysis of his conduct. He felt that
it was truthful. What would his father have said if he had known his
motive in seeking Captain Sedley that morning? He was ashamed of
himself, and was glad that his father knew nothing about it.

He had not yet lost all hope that Captain Sedley would reimburse the
sums they had given the widow, and take them to Boston. But Frank's
father, appreciating the noble sacrifice his son had made, was content
that he should receive all the moral discipline to be derived from the
act. Therefore he said nothing about it, and went to the city alone.

Charles waited impatiently till ten o'clock; but no one came for him,
and he left the house in search of such enjoyment as Rippleton could
afford him.




CHAPTER IV

THE FOURTH OF JULY


Charles Hardy was sadly disappointed. He had given his money to the
widow Weston in the fullest confidence that it would be refunded to
him, and that he should be able to attend the celebration in Boston.
When Frank had proposed the charitable plan, his heart told him how
good and pleasant it would be to assist the poor woman. His feelings
were with his friend in the benevolent design; it was a mere impulse,
however, which prompted him to join in the act. He thought of the
sacrifice, but the hope of not being actually compelled to make it in
the end involuntarily helped him to a decision.

His father had misjudged his motive in calling him hypocritical, for he
really felt like doing the noble deed. He felt kindly towards the widow
Weston; but his principle was not strong and deep enough to enable him
to bear with pleasure, or even with a good grace, the deprivation which
his benevolent act had called upon him to suffer.

It was not so with Frank. He had given without the hope of reward; and
in staying at home on the Fourth of July, he was perfectly contented,
because it was the price he paid for the pleasure of doing good.

Charles, when he found that Captain Sedley did not come for him,
hastened over to find Frank. He and Tony Weston were on the beach.

"Hello, Charley! We have been waiting for you," said Frank, as he
approached.

"Hello, fellows! What's in the wind?" replied Charles. "What are you
going to do to-day?"

"We were just thinking about something."

"Has your father gone to the city, Frank?"

"Yes."

"What did he say?"

"Nothing."

"Didn't he look surprised?"

"Not much. He only asked me the reason, and I said I would tell him
to-morrow. He didn't say any more about it. Got off nicely, didn't I?"

"First-rate," replied Charles coldly.

"What are you talking about?" asked Tony, to whom, of course, this
conversation was unintelligible.

"Tell you some other time, Tony," replied Charles. "Now, what shall we
do to-day?"

"I don't know. Here comes Uncle Ben; perhaps he can give us an idea."

Uncle Ben was an old seaman, who had sailed a great many years in the
employ of Captain Sedley. He was a rough, blunt old fellow, but so
honest, warm-hearted, and devoted to his employer, that when the latter
retired from the duties of his profession, he had given him a home on
his estate. Uncle Ben was a good sailor, but he had never risen above
the place of second mate. Without much ambition to distinguish himself,
or to make money, he was perfectly content to live with Captain Sedley,
even in a humble capacity.

Frank was an especial favorite of Uncle Ben; and as the old sailor's
habits were good, and as his ideas of morality and religion rendered
him a safe companion for his son, Captain Sedley permitted and
encouraged their intimacy. During the long winter evenings, he listened
with the most intense interest and delight to Uncle Ben's descriptions
of sea life and of the various countries he had visited.

With the neighbors, and especially the boys in the vicinity, the old
sailor was respected, and treated with a great deal of consideration.
He was an old man, but he had always maintained an unblemished
character. He was full of kindness and sympathy, always manifesting the
liveliest regard for the welfare of his friends; and on this account
people had got into the way of calling him by the familiar sobriquet
of Uncle Ben. It is true he was sometimes rude and rough, but his kind
heart atoned for the blemishes in his deportment.

Though Captain Sedley considered Uncle Ben a necessary appendage to his
estate, he did not impose upon him the performance of any very arduous
duties. He kept a pleasure-boat on the lake, and the old sailor had the
entire charge of that. Occasionally he worked a little in the garden,
groomed the horses, and did the "chores" about the house; but to use
his own expression, he was "laid up in ordinary."

"Here comes Uncle Ben," said Frank.

"I have been lookin' for you, boys. What are you up to here?"

"Nothing, Uncle Ben."

"What do you stand there for, then? Arn't this the Fourth of July?"

"It is, Uncle Ben; and we were thinking what we should do with
ourselves. Can't you tell us?"

"That I can, boys; I am goin' across the lake in the boat, and Cap'n
Sedley told me I might take you over with me if you'd like to go."

"Hurrah!" cried Charles Hardy, throwing up his cap with delight.

"That we would, Uncle Ben; and right glad we are of the chance to go,"
replied Frank.

"Tumble up to the boat-house, then," replied Uncle Ben, as he hobbled
after the boys, who, delighted with the prospect of a sail on the lake,
bounded off like so many antelopes.

The boat was cast off from her moorings in the boat-house, and the boys
jumped in.

"You will let me steer, won't you, Uncle Ben?" said Frank.

"Sartin, if you want to. Take the helm."

The old sailor hoisted the sails, and the boat stood out towards the
middle of the lake.

"Steady, there," said Uncle Ben; "keep the sails full."

Frank found it was not so easy a matter to steer a sailboat as he had
supposed; for one moment he stopped the boat by "throwing her up into
the wind," and the next ran her almost on shore by "keeping away."

"Keep her away!" cried Uncle Ben. "That will do; steady as she is. No,
no; you are six p'ints off the course now. Luff a little! Hard a port!"

"I don't know what you mean, Uncle Ben; I think you had better steer
yourself," said Frank, resigning the helm.

"I think I had."

Under the old sailor's skilful management, the boat soon reached Centre
Isle, where they decided to land.

"Now, boys, if you want to celebrate a little, here's half a dozen
bunches of crackers," said Uncle Ben, as he took a little package from
the locker in the stern of the boat.

"Bravo, Uncle Ben! We will have a nice time."

"Now, if you are of a mind to stay here and have a good time, while I
sail over to the other shore to see a sick man, I will give you a good
sail when I return."

"Hurrah! we will, Uncle Ben. Have you got any matches?"

"There are matches and a slowmatch in the bundle," replied Uncle Ben,
as he pushed off. "Now blaze away, and don't burn your fingers."

"Now for it!" exclaimed Charles, as he lighted the slowmatch. "Here
goes the first shot. Hurrah!"

The boys were in high glee. The crackers snapped admirably, and the
little forest of Centre Isle reverberated with the reports of their
mimic guns. Various expedients were devised to vary the entertainment.
Crackers were fired in the water, in the stumps, thrown in the air, or
half buried in the wet sand of the beach.

"By gracious! the Bunkers are coming!" exclaimed Tony Weston, as he
discerned the raft, navigated by half a dozen boys, approaching the
island.

"Let them come," said Charles.

"I had rather they would not come," added Frank.

"What harm will they do?"

"They are quarrelsome and disagreeable."

"Well, they won't be here this half-hour yet; that is one consolation;
and we can have a good time till they do get here," returned Charles,
as he lighted a whole bunch of the crackers.

"Go it!" cried Tony. "Hurrah! Fourth of July comes but once a year."

"Don't fire them all at once, Charley," interposed Frank.

"That is all the fun of it."

"But the fun won't last long at that rate."

"We must fire them all before the Bunkers get here, or they will take
them away from us."

And before the half-hour which Charles had given them to reach the
island had expired, their stock was entirely gone, their ammunition
exhausted, their noisy patriotism evaporated, and they seated
themselves on the grass to watch the approaching raft.

It had been a long and difficult passage, but at last the Bunkers
landed.

"Hello, Tony," said Tim, as he leaped ashore; "what are you doing
here?"

"Been firing crackers," replied Tony.

"Got any more?"

"I haven't."

"Who has?"

"None of us," replied Frank. "We have fired them all."

"You haven't!" answered Tim with an oath.

"I tell you the truth; don't I, Charley?"

"We had but six bunches, and we have fired them all," added Charles.

"I don't believe it; you long-face fellers will lie twice as quick as
one of us," said Tim, walking up to Frank.

"I have no more; I would not lie about it," protested Frank.

"Yes, yer would lie about it too. Now, just hand over some o' them
crackers, or I'll duck you in the lake."

Frank made no reply to this rude speech. He heartily wished himself off
the island, and out of the company of the newcomers.

"Hit him, Tim!" cried one of the Bunkers.

"Hit him!" repeated the others.

"Want to fight?" said Tim, doubling up his fists, and assuming a
pugilistic attitude.

"No, I don't want to fight; I will not fight," replied Frank,
retreating backward from the quarrelsome boy.



"Oh, you won't fight, eh? Then, you'll git licked," replied Tim,
following him.

"I have not injured you; I don't see why you should wish to fight with
me."

"You lie! yer have. Didn't yer tell me yer hadn't got no more
crackers?"

"I have not."

"Yes, yer have;" and Tim struck Frank a severe blow which made his lip
bleed.

"Don't do that again!" cried Tony Weston, his face flushed with
indignation.

"What are you going to do about it?" said Tim, turning to Tony.

"I don't want to fight, but I won't see him abused in that shape."

"Never mind him, Tony," interposed Frank. "He didn't hurt me much. Let
us go over to the other side of the island."

"No, yer won't!" said Tim Bunker, approaching Frank again, and giving
him another blow in the face.

Tony Weston could bear no more; and springing upon the leader of the
Bunkers, he struck him several times in rapid succession.

"Don't, Tony, don't," said Frank, trying to separate the combatants.

"Fair play!" cried the Bunkers.

Tony, though younger and lighter than his antagonist, pressed him so
severely that he brought him to the ground before Frank and Charles
could draw him off. Tim instantly leaped to his feet again.

"Come on!" said he.

"Don't, Tony."

"Mind your own business!" said Tim to Frank as he renewed the assault
upon him.

Frank tried to get away; and when Tony and Charles came to his
assistance the other Bunkers attacked them, and the fight became
general.

"Give it to 'em," shouted Tim, as he struck his opponent several times
on the head.

Frank saw that he had nothing to hope for unless he defended himself.
He had done his best to prevent the fight, and now he felt justified in
resorting to necessary violence to save himself from further injury.

Suddenly springing upon his assailant, he bore him to the ground, and
held him there. In the meantime Tony and Charles were getting the worst
of it, when a loud shout arrested the attention of the combatants. They
all suspended the strife.

"It is Uncle Ben," said Charles.

The Bunkers seemed to understand the character of the old sailor; and
taking to their heels, they fled precipitately towards the other end of
the island.

"What are you about, boys?" said Uncle Ben sternly, as he landed.

"We could not help it, Uncle Ben; indeed we could not," replied Frank,
wiping his bleeding lip, and proceeding to tell the particulars of the
whole affair.

"It was my fault; I ought not to have left you here alone. What will
your father say?" said Uncle Ben, looking much troubled.

"He will not say anything; I am sure you are not to blame, Uncle Ben."

"Jump into the boat, and let us be off. These boys must be attended
to."

Uncle Ben, instead of immediately following the boys into the boat,
pushed off the raft from the shore, and attaching a line to it, made
fast the other end to the boat.

"What are you going to do, Uncle Ben?" asked Frank.

"I am going to keep them ruffians prisoners for a while," replied he,
as the boat shot away from the island with the raft in tow.

"You don't mean to keep them there?"

"I sartinly do, till your father comes home, and he may do what he
pleases with 'em. If I had my way, I'd tie 'em up to the grating, and
give 'em a dozen apiece. 'Twould sarve 'em right, the meddlesome
rascals! I like good boys, but such boys as them is worse nor marines."

"But, Uncle Ben, we can't sail with this raft dragging after us."

"We will make the shore with it, then."

The raft was towed ashore, and the boys had a fine sail the entire
length of the lake. As they passed Centre Isle, they could see the
Bunkers gathered in a ring, apparently discussing their prospects; and
on their return, Tim hailed them, begging to be taken ashore.

"What do you say, boys? Shall we forgive 'em?" asked Uncle Ben.

"Yes!" exclaimed all three.

Uncle Ben landed at the island, and took them in, and during the
passage read them a severe lecture on the error of their ways. They
gave good attention to him, and seemed very penitent. But no sooner had
they got ashore, and out of reach of the old sailor, than they insulted
him by hooting his name, coupled with the most opprobrious epithets.

"No use to be easy with 'em. The better you use 'em the worse they
sarve you," said Uncle Ben, as he hauled the boat into its house.




CHAPTER V

THE CLUB BOAT


For a fortnight the Bunkers did not venture to approach the residence
of Captain Sedley. The raft, which Uncle Ben had been instructed to
break up, was removed some distance down the lake before he had time to
