and then call blessed. There are not a few who, even in this life,
seem to be preparing themselves for that smileless eternity to which
they look forward by banishing all gayety from their hearts and all
joyousness from their countenances. I meet one such in the street not
infrequently--a person of intelligence and education, but who gives me
(and all that he passes), such a rayless and chilling look of
recognition--something as if he were one of Heaven's assessors, come
down to 'doom' every acquaintance he met--that, I have sometimes begun
to sneeze on the spot, and gone home with a violent cold dating from
that instant. I don't doubt he would cut his kitten's tail off if he
caught her playing with it. Please tell me who taught her to play with
it?"

It is one of the unexplained mysteries of human nature that people
receive their griefs as direct from the hand of God, but not their
joys. Why does not a kind Father mean for us to profit by the one as
much as by the other? And since into nearly every life falls more
sunshine than shadow, why leave the sunny places and go out of our way
to sit and mope in the darkest, dreariest shade we can find? I believe
in the Gospel of Cheerfulness. It is your duty and mine to get every
drop of cream off of our own especial pan of milk. And if we do have
to drink skim milk, shall we throw away the cream on that account? If
it were not to be used it would not be there. God does not make things
to have them wasted.

All of us have our worries--some small, some great--and the strength
and depth of our characters are proved by the way in which we meet the
trials. Cheerfulness is God's own messenger to lighten our burdens
and to make our times of joy even more bright and beautiful. Have you
noticed how, as soon as you can laugh over a vexation, the sting of it
is gone? And the best of it all is that you cannot be happy yourself
without casting a little light, even though it be but reflected
sunshine, into some other life.

William Dunbar, in 1479, said:

"Be merry, man, and take not sair to mind
  The wavering of this wretched world of sorrow:
To God be humble, to thy friend be kind,
  And with thy neighbor gladly lend and borrow;
  His chance to-night, it may be thine to-morrow!
Be blyth in heart for any aventure,
  How oft with wise men it has been said aforow,
Without gladness availes no treasure."




CHAPTER XXX.

THE FAMILY INVALID.


One of the most anomalous of the inconsistencies peculiar to human
nature is that we who are flesh, and consequently liable to all the
ills to which flesh is heir, should know so little about the manner in
which to check or, at least, alleviate these miseries. In the average
household the proper care of the sick is an unknown art, or one so
little understood that illness would seem to be an impossible
contingency.

The chamber of illness is at best a sadly uncomfortable place, and it
is the duty of the nurse, be she a hireling or the nearest and dearest
of kin to the prostrate inhabitant thereof, to be cognizant of the
methods of tending and easing the unfortunate being during the trying
period of his enforced idleness. Only those who have been confined to
a sick couch can appreciate its many trying features. The looker-on
sees a man or woman uncomfortable or in pain, lying in an easy bed,
"the best place for sick folk," with nothing to trouble him beyond the
bodily malease which holds him there. He is merely laid aside for
repairs, and, if the observer be somewhat wearied and overworked, he
is conscious of a pang of envy. But he does not think of the sleepless
nights through which the monotonous ticking of the clock is varied
only by the striking of the hours, each one of them seeming double its
actual length; or of the aching head and limbs; the feverish
restlessness which makes repose an impossibility; or--most trying of
all--the dumb nausea and loathing of the food, which, as one poor
woman complained of meals partaken in bed, "tastes of the mattress and
covers!"

The member of the family who is laid low by illness should receive the
first consideration of the entire household. Intelligent care and
nursing will be of more benefit than medicines. An old poem, written
over two hundred and fifty years ago, struck the right chord when it
advised:

   "Use three physicians: First, Dr. Quiet,
   Then Dr. Merryman, and Dr. Diet."

Noise and disturbance of whatever description must be an unknown
quantity in a sick room. There "Dr. Quiet" should hold undisputed and
peaceful sway. Felt or soft kid slippers, devoid of any offensive
squeak, should be worn, and loud tones and exclamations prohibited. On
the other hand, do not whisper to any person who chances to be in the
room. Whispering arouses the patient's curiosity and suspicions, and,
if he be asleep, the sibilant sound will pierce his slumbers and
awaken him. Let all remarks be made in a low-pitched undertone. Never,
even at the risk of causing offence, allow discussion of any subject
to occur in the presence of the invalid. You may imagine that he does
not mind it, that his mind will be diverted; but the argument ended,
there may be noticed a flush on the cheek and a rapidity of breathing
that bodes ill. One admirable physician makes it a rule never to
permit political or religious topics to be canvassed in the hearing
of one of his "cases," as a wide experience has taught him that such
matters cannot be talked of without causing some degree of excitement,
and thus retarding the patient's progress on the road toward health.
For the same reason, try, by every effort, to keep your charge from
thinking of work which should be done, and of any possible
inconvenience he may be causing. There never was, and never will be, a
convenient time for a person to be ill, so, whenever it comes, resolve
to make the best of it. There is no greater cruelty than that of
allowing a sick person to imagine that, but for his ill-timed
indisposition, you might be able to go here or there, or to do this or
that. Under such an idea the couch becomes a bed of clipped
horse-hairs to the helpless sufferer, and he feels himself to be a
useless hulk. This unkindness is oftentimes unintentional, and due
more to thoughtlessness than to deliberate hard-heartedness. To avoid
causing such discomfort do not look worried or distracted while
ministering to your patient's wants, and do not fussily "fly around"
in straightening and setting the room to rights. Let everything be
done decently and in order, rapidly and quietly.

Another desideratum of the chamber of illness is cleanliness in the
minutest particular. When the disease permits it, the sick person
should be sponged all over daily, the teeth cleansed and the hair
brushed. Wash the face and hands often during the day, as this process
rests and refreshes.

The same gown should not be worn day and night, and the sheets must be
changed frequently. If practicable, place a lounge at the side of the
bed and lift or roll the patient off upon that, and turn mattresses
and beat up pillows before re-making the bed. If this cannot be done
with safety, the sheets may be removed, and others adjusted, simply by
moving the invalid from one side to the other of the bed, rolling up
the soiled sheet closely to the body, and spreading on the clean one
in its place. Then the patient may be moved back to his original
place, and the fresh sheet spread on the other side of the couch.

Air the room often, covering the patient warmly for a moment while you
let in a sluice of ozone. Do not allow the chamber to become
overheated, or to grow so cold as to chill the hands and face. The
sick person may wear over the shoulders a flannel "nightingale" or
jacket, to leave the arms at liberty.

In preparing the tray of food, let everything be as dainty as
possible. Use for this purpose your choicest china and whitest linen.
One important rule with regard to food is, Give a very little at a
time, and avoid vulgar abundance. The sight of the loaded plate will
discourage a weak appetite, and the delicate stomach will revolt at
the suggestion of accepting such a mass. A small bird, a neatly
trimmed French chop, a bit of tenderloin steak, or tender broiled
chicken, will be eaten, when, if two chops or half a steak were
offered, not a mouthful would be swallowed. To the well and strong
this may seem like folly, but let us, in our strength, pity and humor
the weaknesses of those upon whom God has laid suffering. It takes all
the ingenuity and tact which love can muster to make a sick-room
tolerable, and food anything but distasteful.

A poor consumptive girl had fancied that she could eat a few raw
oysters, and the physician cheerfully prescribed them. At his next
visit he was met by the mother, who informed him with dismay that her
daughter would not touch the delicacy--"her stomach turned against it
the instant the dish was brought in."

"How many did you let her see?" he asked.

"Two dozen!"

"Which would have daunted a well man, madam!" said the wise man. "Give
her one at a time--cold and crisp, upon your best china plate, and
tell her that is all she can have for at least an hour. Make her
think that her appetite is under restraint. This is in itself a
stimulant."

The hint is valuable.

In administering medicine, be careful to follow the physician's
directions as to quantity and time of taking. Do not prepare the dose
in the presence of the patient, as it may make him exceedingly nervous
to watch the dropping or pouring of the drug; and after it has been
swallowed, put bottle and spoon out of sight.

In too many families there exists sinful ignorance as to what should
be done in case of illness before the doctor arrives. If a child comes
in from play, hoarse and feverish, with nausea and pain in the head,
he is often allowed to sit or lie about the house until the
disagreeable symptoms become so pronounced as to cause alarm, and the
physician is summoned. The sufferer should have his feet soaked in hot
water, be put to bed, and some anti-febrine like aconite administered
until a slight perspiration is induced. Aconite is such deadly poison
that the mother must be sure she knows just in what quantity to give
it. The dose for a child from three to six years of age is half a drop
in a teaspoonful of water, every hour until the feverishness
disappears. Unless serious illness is beginning, the chances are that,
under this treatment, the little one will be almost well by the next
day.

Mothers would do well to make a study of children's ailments and their
proper treatment. Above all, the matter of diet should be
comprehended. It is appalling to see the conglomeration of
indigestible substances which a sick person is allowed to eat. All
children should be trained to take medicine, and to submit to any
prescribed dietary without resistance.

To keep up your patient's courage be, or at all events seem, cheerful.
Wise old Solomon, in his day, knew that a merry heart did good like a
medicine, and the morsel of wisdom is no less true now than then. Such
being the case, bring into the presence of the sufferer a bright face
and undisturbed demeanor.

Much may be said on the other side of the question, i.e., from the
nurse's standpoint. There are patients and patients, and some of
them are impatients. It is a pity for a sick person to allow himself
to so far lose control over his temper and manners as to be
disagreeable when all that tender care and nursing can do is his. But
really ill people are seldom cross, and the tried nurse may take to
heart the comforting thought that one rarely hears of a man dying in a
bad humor. It is undoubtedly discouraging to have a patient turn away
from a carefully prepared dainty with a shudder of disgust and
revulsion. It may sound harsh to say it, but nobody, sick or well,
has the right to do such an unkind and rude thing. Any one in extreme
bodily discomfort cannot be always smiling and uttering thanks, but he
can be gentle and appreciative of the efforts that are made toward
mitigating his distress. On his own account, as well as for the sake
of his attendant, he should keep up a semblance of cheerfulness, the
moral force of which is great. On the part of patient and nurse there
must be self control and forbearance, which if closely practiced may
bring sunshine into the most darkly shaded chamber of suffering.




CHAPTER XXXI.

A TEMPERANCE TALK.

(Frank and Personal.)


A correspondent sends me, under cover of a personal letter, this
request:

"Will Marion Harland show her hand upon the temperance question? The
occasional mention of wine, brandy, etc., in her cookery-books, and
her silence upon a subject of such vital moment to humanity, may
predispose many to doubt her soundness as to the apostle's injunction
to be 'temperate in all things.'"

To clear decks for action, I observe that the text quoted by my
catechist contains no "injunction" but an impersonal statement of the
truth that "Every man that striveth for the mastery" (or in the games)
"is temperate in all things." The apostle is likening the running and
wrestling of the Olympic games to the Christian warfare, and throws in
the pregnant reminder that he who is training for race or fight must,
as he says elsewhere, "Keep his body under." The same rules hold good
with the athlete of to-day. While training, he neither drinks strong
liquors nor smokes.

The stringency of the regulation, I interject in passing, is a
powerful argument laid ready to the hand of the advocates of total
abstinence. A habit that so far injures the physical powers as to tell
upon the action of heart, brains, lungs or muscles, must be an evil to
any human being, however healthy.

The Chief Apostle, in another place, admonishes his neophytes to let
their "moderation" be known of all men. The revised version translates
the word "forbearance" or "gentleness." We will try to keep both texts
in mind during the informal homily that is the outcome of the question
put to my surprised self.

"Surprised," because in the course of thirty-odd years of literary
life I have had so many opportunities of "showing my hand" upon this
and other great moral issues, and have improved them so diligently
that my readers should by now be tolerably familiar with the platform
on which I stand. Not being a card player, and knowing absolutely
nothing of the technicalities of the game, I am at a loss whether or
not to look for an implication of underhand work in the phrase chosen
by the inquisitor. If she means that I have kept aught back which that
part of the reading public that does me the honor to be interested in
my work has a right to know, I hope in the course of this paper to
disabuse her mind of the impression.

As a means to this end, I wish to put upon record disapproval that
amounts to detestation of the practice of drinking anything that, in
the words of the old temperance pledge I "took" when a child, "will
make drunk come." That was the way it ran. The Rev. Thomas P. Hunt,
one of the best known temperance lecturers in America, used to make us
stand up in a body and chant it, he keeping time with head and hand,
and the boys imitating him.

   "We do not think
   We'll ever drink
   Brandy or rum,
   Or anything that makes drunk come"

I have never changed my mind on that head. What I thought then, I
know now, that for half a century I have seen what desolation
drunkenness has wrought in our land. I never see a boy toss off his
"cocktail," or "cobbler", or "sling," or by whatever other
name the devil's brew is disguised, with the mannish, knowing air that
proves him to be as weak as water, when he would have you think him
strong as--fusel oil!--that I do not recall the vehement outburst in
Mrs. Mulock-Craik's "A Life for a Life," of the old clergyman whose
only son had filled a drunkard's grave:

"If I had a son, and he liked wine, as a child does, perhaps--a pretty
little boy, sitting at table and drinking healths at birthdays; or a
schoolboy, proud to do what he sees his father doing--I would take his
glass from him, and fill it with poison--deadly poison--that he might
kill himself at once, rather than grow up to be his friends' curse and
his own damnation--a drunkard!"

I lack words in which to express my contempt for the petty ambition,
rooted and grounded in vanity, that urges a young fellow to prove the
steadiness of his brain by tippling what he does not want, or even
like. For not one in fifty of those who take "nips" and "coolers,"
cared for the taste of the perilous stuff at the first or twentieth
trial. He proved himself a man, one of the stronger parts of creation,
by pouring liquid fire down his quailing throat until he could do so
without winking. He swears and smokes cigarettes at street corners for
the same reason.

"I love a dog!" exclaimed a lively young girl, patting a big St.
Bernard.

"Would I were a dog!" sighed an amorous dude.

"Oh, you'll grow!" retorted the fair one, consolingly.

I feel like plagiarizing the saucy hit, in witnessing the desperate
efforts aforementioned on the part of our mistaken boy. Sometimes (let
us thank a merciful heaven that this is so!) he does grow out of the
folly, and into manly self-contempt at the recollection of it.
Often--ah!--the pity and the shame of it!

If somebody were to make it fashionable to take belladonna, aconite or
prussic acid in "safe" doses, three, or six, or a dozen times a day in
defiance of all the medical science in the world, the would-be man
would never be content until he had overcome natural repugnance to the
"bitters," and rate himself as so much higher in the scale of being by
the length of time his constitution could hold out against the deadly
effect of the potation--plume himself upon his superiority to men who
killed themselves by taking a like quantity. To drink one glass of
wine or spirits a day is to venture upon thin ice; when the one glass
has become the three that our boy must have, it is but a question of
time how soon the treacherous crust will give way.

Clearly, then--so clearly that it is difficult to see how anybody,
however blinded by self-conceit, can fail to perceive it--the only
safe thing is to let liquor as a beverage alone. The practice is, at
the best, like kindling the kitchen fire every morning with kerosene.
Insurance agents are slow to take risks upon property where this is
the rule.

Nobody is so besotted as to ask, "Does dram-drinking pay?" There is
not a sane man or woman in America who would hesitate in the reply,
and the answers would all be the same.

If he is a fool who tempts the approach of appetite that may--that
does in seventy-five times out of one hundred--become deadly and
incurable disease, what shall we say of the "strong head" that espies
no sin in social convivialities with the weak brother? Let me tell one
or two stories of the score that rush upon my memory with the approach
to this part of my subject.

Forty years ago I sat down to the dinner-table of a man who stood high
in the community and church. He was a liberal liver, as his father
had been before him. That father had taken his toddy tri-daily for
seventy years, and died in the odor of sanctity. They could do such
things in that day, and never transcend the three-glass limit. My
godly grandfather did the same, and was never one whit the worse for
liquor in his life. Their sons and grandsons cannot do it without
ruining themselves, body and soul.

I italicize the sentence. I wish I could write it in letters of fire
over the door of every liquor saloon.

It may be the climate; it may be the high-pressure, fever-heated rate
of modern living; it may as well be that those honest men who made
their own apple whiskey and peach brandy, by their daily dram-drinking
transmitted the taste which adulterated liquors, in the generation
following, were to lash into uncontrollable appetite.

But to my story. My father, one of the first in his day to set the
example of total abstinence "for his brethren and companions' sake,"
had spoke repeatedly in my presence of the harm done by social
drinking, and what influence women could exert for or against the
custom. So I declined wine upon general principles when it was offered
by the courtly host. No verbal comment was made upon my singular
conduct, but the pert fifteen-year-old son of the house took occasion
to drink my health with a dumb grimace, and beckoned the butler
audaciously to fill up his glass, and a distinguished clergyman, whose
parishioner the host was, looked polite astonishment across the table
at the girl who dared. He took his wine gracefully--pointedly, it
seemed to me--an example imitated by his curate, a much younger man.
When we returned to the drawing-room, the master of the house sought
me out, and began to rally me upon the attentions of a young man in
the company to myself, in such a fashion that my cheeks flushed hotly
with indignant astonishment. Lifting my eyes to his, I saw that he was
drunk! The horror and dismay of the discovery were inconceivable.
The rest of the interview, which was ended by his wife's appearance
upon the scene to coax him off to his room, left an indelible
impression upon my mind. The Spartans had a way of "drenching" a helot
with liquor, then parading him in his drunken antics before the boys
of the town to disgust them with dram-drinking. My object-lesson was
the more striking because I had honored the inebriate.

The eloquent rector read the burial service over him ten years ago.
For over twenty years he had been a hopeless sot, beggared in fortune,
wrecked in reputation--a by-word and a hissing in a town where he
had once stood among the best and purest. He outlived his son, who
drank himself to death before he was thirty.

Another and later experience was in a fine old farm-house in the
Middle States. There had been a birthday celebration, and neighbors
and friends gathered about a board laden with country dainties, and
congratulated the worthy couple who presided over the feast upon the
four stalwart sons who, with their wives and children, were settled
upon and about an estate that had been for six generations in the
family. Hale, merry fellows they were--a little more red of face and
loud of talk than was quite seemly in a stranger's eyes, but
industrious and "forehanded," and kind of heart to parents, wives and
babies. After dinner we sat under the cherry trees upon the lawn, and
one of the sons brought out a round table, another a tray of glasses,
another a monster bowl of milk punch.

Everybody pledged the patriarch's health in the creamy potation except
myself. Again, I acted upon general principles. Were I a wine-bibber I
should never touch glasses with a young man, or offer him anything
"that could make drunk come." Disliking spirituous draughts of all
kinds, and with the object-lesson of my girlhood branded upon memory,
I refused to taste the brimming glass, even when the pastor of the
household, a genial "dominie," rallied me upon my abstinence. He
offered gallantly, when he found me obdurate, to drink my share, and
had his glass replenished by the reddest-faced and loudest-mouthed of
the farmer-sons.

"You're the right sort, dominie!" he said, with a roar of laughter,
filling the tumbler until it ran over and into the pastor's cuffs.
Whereat the farmer laughed yet more uproariously.

One of the four young men died a while ago of delirium tremens, and
not one of the other three has drawn a sober breath in years. The
parents are dead, the old farm is sold, and the brothers are all poor.
Rum has done it all.

I do not imply that either of these scenes had any marked influence
upon the destiny of the slaves of appetite, except as they were
encouraged to pursue a course tacitly approved by the wise and good.
But I am thankful that I did not lend the weight of a straw to the
downward slide. "Woe unto him that putteth the cup to his neighbor's
lips!" says the Book of books. There might be subjoined, "Or helps to
hold it there when the neighbor's own hand has lifted it!"

Had I my way, not one drop of intoxicating liquors should be sold,
except by druggists, and then only by a physician's prescription.
For--and here comes the answer to the second part of my querist's
appeal--I hold that pure brandy, wine and whiskey are of inestimable
value as medicine. I know that the judicious use of them as
restoratives has saved many lives. I know, too, how nearly worthless
they are where the system of the patient is used to them as daily or
frequent beverages.

I hold, furthermore, that there is no sin or even danger--unless the
taste be already enkindled--in the occasional use of them in the
kitchen, as one would handle vanilla, lemon or bitter-almond flavoring
extracts. I do not believe that a single drunkard was ever made by the
tablespoonful of wine that goes into a half pint of pudding-sauce, or
the wineglassful that "brightens" a quart of jelly. Every house-mother
knows for whom she is catering. If one of her family or guests already
loves and craves the stimulant, it is prudent to omit it. The same man
would be tempted by the wine of the consecrated cup. When the disease
of inebriety has gone thus far she cannot save him, but she can look
to it that her hand does not give the final touch, which is death.

I have written frankly, and I think temperately. I am not a "crank"
upon this--I hope not upon any subject. I am a temperance woman who
does not scruple to avow what is her practice, as well as her belief.
That thousands of better people than I will think my creed goes too
far, and as many that it stops short of temporal and spiritual safety,
ought not to trouble me. Upon the individual conscience lies the
responsibility of principle and action. Yet holding as I do that each
of us is his brother's keeper, I lift my hand in protest against the
crying sin of the age, and the mistaken toleration of good people with
that which leads to it.




CHAPTER XXXII.

FAMILY MUSIC.


Our grandfathers and our grandmothers were drilled in vocal music in
the church or neighboring singing-school. In that day--and for
twenty-five years later--almost every household possessed and made
frequent use of the Boston Academy, the Carmina Sacra, the Shawm and
other collections of vocal music adapted for the use of societies and
churches. Nearly everybody sang by note, and she was dull of ear or
