
"It is not necessary for me to tell you. It is enough that I am
commissioned by the boy's mother to find him and restore him to her.
There may be trouble in store for you, Miss Jane Gilman," he added
significantly.

Jane Gilman fanned herself vigorously and seemed very ill at ease.

"However," continued the detective, "you can save yourself and secure a
handsome reward by giving me all the help you can, and making full
confession of your stealing the child, and telling who instigated you to
do it."

The woman hesitated, but her hesitation was brief.

"Will you promise this?" she asked.

"Yes. I am the confidential agent of Lady Fenwick, who is now in
America."

"Then I'll do it. Guy Fenwick hasn't treated me right, and I don't mind
if I do go back on him. It was he that hired me to make off with little
Robert, though I didn't let him know what I did with him."

"And what was your present object?"

"To take the boy away and make Sir Guy pay a good round sum for my
keeping the secret."




CHAPTER XXXVIII.

THE DETECTIVE SECURES AN ALLY.


"Are you in communication with Guy Fenwick? Do you know whether he is
now at Fenwick Hall?" asked the detective.

"No, he is not there."

"Where is he, then?"

"At sea. In a day or two he will probably be in New York," answered Jane
Gilman coolly.

Mr. Peake started. This was unexpected intelligence.

"What brings him to New York?" he inquired hastily.

"I do."

"What do you mean by that?"

"I wrote him some time since for a hundred pounds. He sent me five
pounds and told me that I needn't call on him again."

"He doesn't seem much afraid of you."

"No; he thought the boy was dead."

"I suppose you told him so?"

"I let him think that the boy had died of fever four years ago. That
made him feel safe, and he concluded that he had no more use for Jane
Gilman. He'll find out!" and Jane tossed her head, in an independent
manner.

"Have you any letters from him in reference to the matter?" asked
Detective Peake.

From a pocket of unknown depth Miss Gilman drew out an epistle which she
handed to the detective.

"You can read it if you want to," she said.

Mr. Peake opened the letter and read it. It ran thus:


     MISS JANE GILMAN:

     Your letter requesting me to send you a hundred pounds is received.
     Your request is certainly an audacious one. Why I should send you a
     hundred pounds, or even ten pounds, I am at a loss to imagine. The
     boy Robert, whose existence you think would be dangerous to me, is
     dead by your own admission, and my right to the Fenwick title and
     estates is undisputed and indisputable. If you expect me to support
     you for the balance of your life, your expectations are doomed to
     disappointment. You are strong and healthy, and are able to earn
     your own living in the sphere in which you were born. Besides, if
     you had been prudent you would have saved a considerable sum out of
     the large pension you have received from me during the last dozen
     or more years. I think it quite probable that you have a snug sum
     invested and are not in any danger of suffering.

     Still I don't want to be hard upon you. I accordingly inclose a
     five-pound note, which you will please consider as a final gift on
     my part.

          GUY FENWICK.


"Miss Gilman," said Detective Peake, "will you permit me to keep this
letter--for the present?"

"What do you want to do with it?" asked Jane suspiciously.

"Use it against the man who calls himself Sir Guy Fenwick. In connection
with your testimony it will prove valuable evidence."

"You have promised that I shall be well paid?"

"Yes, I can take it upon myself to promise that."

"Very well. You may keep the letter."

"One question more. You tell me that Sir Guy Fenwick is on his way to
New York. Can you tell me why he is coming?"

"Yes. I dropped him a hint, in answer to this letter, that the boy
Robert was still living, and this alarmed my gentleman," she added with
a laugh.

"Did he write you that he was coming?"

"Yes."

"Have you that letter?"

"No; but I can tell you what was in it. He wrote that he did not believe
my story, but he would come to New York, and I might call upon him at
the Brevoort House on Monday next."

"You infer from that that he was anxious?"

"It looks like it, doesn't it?"

"Yes. What did you propose to say to him?"

"That the boy was living, and that I could lay my hand upon him."

"That is why you came to Scranton?"

"Yes."

"I see. The whole thing lies in a nutshell. Even without your evidence I
shall probably be able to establish the rights of my young client. But
your help will make it surer."

"I am at your service, if you will keep your promise. What do you want
me to do?"

"Go with me to Bar Harbor and see the boy."

"I would like to," said Jane Gilman with an expression of pleasure. "I
haven't seen him since he was a baby. I'd like to see how he looks now."

"When he is restored to his title and estate he will not see you
suffer."

"When will you start for Bar Harbor?"

"We shall leave Scranton by the next train."




CHAPTER XXXIX.

JED LEARNS WHO HE IS.


Mr. Roper and Jed were having a very enjoyable time at Bar Harbor. They
made trips, chiefly on foot, to the various interesting
localities--Schooner Head, Great Head, Hull's Cove and The Ovens--being
favored with unusually fine and clear weather. They had just returned at
four o'clock in the afternoon from a trip to the summit of Green
Mountain when they were informed at the hotel that a gentleman wished to
see them.

Mr. Roper took the card and examined it.

"James Peake," he said. "I don't know of any such person. Do you, Jed?"

"No, sir," answered Jed.

"You may bring him up," said Roper, turning to the bell boy.

In less than a minute the latter reappeared, followed by a plain-looking
man, who scanned both attentively as he entered, but devoted the most
attention to Jed.

"Mr. Peake?" said Schuyler Roper interrogatively.

"Yes, sir."

"You have business with me?"

"Rather with your young friend. Is he known as Jed Gilman?"

"Yes," answered the boy so designated.

"I am a detective from the staff of Inspector Byrnes of New York."

Jed blushed and looked uneasy. This announcement naturally alarmed him.

"Am I charged with any offense?" he asked quickly.

"No," answered Mr. Peake with a pleasant smile. "When I state my
business I am inclined to think you will be glad to see me."

"I feel relieved, Jed," said Mr. Roper with a smile. "I took you without
a character, and I trembled lest some terrible charge was to be brought
against you."

"Rest easy on that score, Mr. Roper," returned the detective. "My
mission may involve some one else in trouble, but not your young
friend. Will you permit me to ask him a few questions?"

"I am sure he will be quite ready to answer any questions you may ask."

Jed nodded assent.

"Then, Mr. Gilman, may I inquire your age?"

"I am sixteen."

"What is the date of your birth?"

Jed colored and looked embarrassed.

"I do not know," he answered.

"Can you tell me where you were born?"

"No, sir," returned Jed. "I was left at the age of two years at the
Scranton poorhouse by a girl who disappeared the next morning. Of course
I was too young to know anything of my earlier history."

"Exactly; and you spent the intervening years at that interesting
institution."

Jed laughed.

"It didn't prove very interesting at the last," he said. "When my good
friends the Averys were turned out, Mr. and Mrs. Fogson succeeded them,
and I concluded to leave."

"I am not surprised to hear it. I have seen Mrs. Fogson," remarked the
detective dryly.

"Did she give me a good character?"

"Quite the contrary. She prepared me to find you a desperate young
ruffian."

Jed laughed.

"Do I come up to your expectations?" he asked.

"Not altogether. I may conclude that you have no information in regard
to your family or parentage?"

"No, sir. Can you"--something in the detective's face prompted the
question--"can you give me any information on the subject?"

Jed fixed his eyes with painful intensity upon the visitor.

"I think I can," he answered.

"Who, then, am I?"

"To the best of my knowledge you are the nephew of Sir Guy Fenwick, of
Fenwick Hall, Gloucestershire, England."

Both Mr. Roper and Jed looked exceedingly surprised.

"Sir Guy Fenwick?" repeated Roper.

"He is so called, but I have reason to believe he is a usurper, and that
the title and estates belong to your young friend, who, if I am correct,
isn't Jed Gilman, but Sir Robert Fenwick."

Jed looked dazed. Schuyler Roper went up to him and grasped his hand.

"My dear Jed, or rather Robert," he said, "let me be the first to
congratulate you. But, Mr. Peake, are you prepared to substantiate Jed's
claim to his title and inheritance?"

"I think so. I will tell you how the case stands."

When he had concluded, Mr. Roper asked, "And where is this nurse whose
testimony is so important?"

"At Rodick's. I brought her with me to Bar Harbor."

"And what is your program?"

"I should like to carry our young friend with me to New York to confront
the pseudo baronet."

"We will be ready whenever you say. I say we, for I propose to
accompany Jed--I beg pardon, Sir Robert--and stand by him at this
eventful period."

"Call me Jed, Mr. Roper, till I have proved myself entitled to the other
name," returned the "poorhouse boy."




CHAPTER XL.

GUY FENWICK'S DEFEAT.


Sir Guy Fenwick sat in his handsome apartment at the Brevoort House. He
was of slender build and dark complexion, bearing a very slight
resemblance to Jed, but his expression was much less agreeable.

"Jane Gilman was to have called this morning. She ought to be here now,"
he muttered, consulting his watch. "She is certain to come," he added
with a sneer, "for she wants money. I shall never be safe from annoyance
while she lives. However, she can do me little harm."

There was a knock at the door, and a bell boy appeared with a card.

Sir Guy took it from his hand, and regarded it with surprise.

"Mr. James Peake!" he repeated. "What does he want?"

"I don't know, Sir Guy."

"Let him come up, but the interview must be brief, for I am expecting
another party."

Directly afterward Detective Peake entered the presence of the baronet.

"You wish to see me, Mr.--ahem!--Mr. Peake?"

"Yes. Mr. Fenwick?"

"Mr. Fenwick!" repeated the Englishman, frowning. "I am Sir Guy
Fenwick."

"I am aware that you call yourself so," said the detective quietly.

"What do you mean by this insolence?" demanded Guy Fenwick, his face
flaming.

"You will understand me when I say I call in behalf of Sir Robert
Fenwick, the real baronet."

Guy Fenwick half rose from his seat. He looked angry and alarmed.

"I don't know what you mean," he said.

"I think you do. Sir Robert is your nephew, and the title and estate are
his by right."

Guy Fenwick laughed--a harsh, mirthless laugh.

"Really," he said, "this is most amusing. Robert Fenwick is dead. If
any one calls himself by that name he is an impostor."

"That remains to be seen. I have to inform you that Sir Robert Fenwick
is in this city, in the company of his mother, who has received and
acknowledged him."

"This is a conspiracy!" exclaimed Guy Fenwick, whose appearance showed
that he was deeply disturbed. "It is a very foolish conspiracy, I will
add. Of course I understand the object of my amiable sister-in-law in
giving her countenance to what she must know to be an imposture. Do me
the favor to inform me where you discovered the boy who impudently
claims the title and estate which I inherited from my brother."

"Only by procuring the disappearance of that brother's lawful heir."

"Who says this--who dares say it?"

"You are partially acquainted with a woman named Jane Gilman?"

Guy Fenwick's countenance changed.

"Yes," he said after a pause, "I do know a woman of that name. She has
been writing me blackmailing letters, and threatening to injure me if I
did not send her a hundred pounds. So this is the mare's nest you have
stirred up? I congratulate you."

"Call it a mare's nest if you like, Mr. Fenwick," said the detective
undisturbed. "You may find it a very serious matter. Shall I tell you
what we are able to prove?"

"If you please. I should like to know the details of this base
conspiracy."

"Fourteen years ago Jane Gilman appeared towards nightfall at the door
of a poorhouse not far away and left a child of two years old with the
people in charge. Before morning she disappeared. The child grew up a
healthy, sturdy boy; frank and handsome."

"So he prepared himself to claim the Fenwick title in an almshouse?"

"It wasn't his fault that he was brought up there, only his misfortune."

"What name was given him?"

"Jed Gilman."

"He had better retain it."

"Not while he has a better claim to the name of Robert Fenwick. Hanging
from his neck at the time he was placed in the poorhouse was a locket
containing miniatures of your brother, the late Sir Charles Fenwick, and
Lady Mary Fenwick, still living."

"Have you the locket with you?"

"It is in safe custody. You will admit that this is pretty strong
evidence of our claim. But we have in addition the confession of Jane
Gilman, who testifies that, in obedience to your instructions, she
abducted and disposed of the boy as aforesaid."

"This is a very cunning conspiracy, Mr. Peake, if that is your name, but
it won't succeed. I shall defend my right to the title and estate; but
if this boy is poor I don't mind settling a pension of a hundred pounds
upon him, and finding him some employment."

"In his name I decline your offer."

"Then I defy you! What are you going to do about it?"

"Lady Fenwick has engaged the services of one of our most famous
lawyers, and legal proceedings will be commenced at once. We will,
however, give you a week to decide on your course."

"Give me the name of your lawyer. I will call upon him and show him
that he has consented to aid an imposture."

Before the week ended, however, Sir Guy, to give him this title once
more, had decided that discretion was the better part of valor, and had
consented to surrender the title and estates, his nephew agreeing to pay
him an income of a thousand pounds per annum, in order that he might
still be able to live like a gentleman.

When matters were arranged Guy Fenwick returned hastily to England, and,
making but a short stay there, went to the continent, where he would not
have the humiliation of meeting old acquaintances whom he had known in
the days of his grandeur.




CHAPTER XLI.

CONCLUSION.


Not the least gratifying circumstance in his sudden change of fortune
was Jed's discovery of a mother--a gracious and beautiful woman--to whom
he was drawn in almost instinctive affection. Before leaving New York
for his native land he expressed a wish to revisit Scranton, and view
once more the scenes of his early privations. His mother not only
consented, but decided to accompany him.

Mr. and Mrs. Fogson were engaged in their usual morning labors when a
handsome carriage stopped at the gate. A servant descended and made his
way to the front door, which Mrs. Fogson herself opened.

"Madam," said the servant bowing, "do you receive visitors?"

Mrs. Fogson espying the handsome carriage was dazzled, and responded
graciously:

"We ain't fixed for company," she said, "but if you'll make allowances
I shall be happy to receive visitors. Who is it?" she inquired
curiously.

"Lady Fenwick and Sir Robert Fenwick, of Fenwick Hall, England."

"You don't say!" ejaculated Mrs. Fogson, awe-stricken. "Tell 'em to come
right in."

Jed assisted his mother to alight and walk up to the front door, Mrs.
Fogson having retreated inside to change her dress.

"And you say you lived in this forlorn place, Robert?" asked Lady
Fenwick with a shudder.

"For fourteen years, mother."

"I never can forgive Guy Fenwick--never!"

"I am none the worse for it now, mother."

Jed led the way into Mrs. Fogson's private sitting-room, where that lady
found them. She stopped short at the threshold.

"Why, it's Jed Gilman!" she said sharply, with a feeling that she had
