grass. The moonbeams were ghostly and the stillness of the wide solitude
was eerie. Being but a child,--and a girl-child,--I thought of these
things, and of the likelihood of meeting runaway negroes, and mad dogs,
and stray sane curs whose duty it was to attack nocturnal trespassers,
and of a vicious bull never let out to roam the pasture except at night.
I was afraid of them all, intellectually. My heart was too full of a
mightier dread to let bugbears turn me back. I ran right on until the
branch, a silver ribbon on the dark bosom of the meadow, was before me.
Grasses and weeds were laden with dew, and the water whirled and
whispered about the roots. I could have believed that the purling formed
itself into words when I knelt down to fumble for the snake-bite cure. I
would not let myself be scared. I kept saying over and over--"To save
his life! to save his life!"

In the intensity of my excitement, language that I was afraid was
blasphemous, yet could not exclude from my mind, pressed upon me:--

"He saved others. Himself he cannot save!"

He might be dying now. He had said that the poultice ought to be applied
at once. Horrid stories of what had happened to people who were bitten
by rattlesnakes and cobras tormented me, and would not be beaten off.

"A copperhead, I think he said. How could he know that it was not a
cobra? Would he swell up, turn black, and expire in convulsions before I
could reach him?" I said "expire in convulsions," out of a book.
Everyday Virginia vernacular fell short of the exigency.

My feet were drenched, my pantalettes and skirts were bedraggled up to
the knees, my eyes were large and black in my colorless face, when I
burst into the chamber, and threw the bunch of priceless herbs into
Cousin Molly Belle's lap. I was too spent for speech.

Cousin Frank's coat and vest were off; his right shirt-sleeve was rolled
up to the shoulder, and he was holding his hand and wrist in a deep
bowl of warm water. The air reeked with the fumes of whiskey and
hartshorn.

I concluded, when I came to think of it the next day, that the whiskey
must have been doing antidotal work by getting into his head, for he
laughed outright at sight of the specific I had brought. Then,
tears--real tears and plenty of them--suffused his eyes and made his
voice weak and husky. Or--was it the whiskey?

"You are a dear, brave, thoughtful Namesake!" he said, clearing his
throat. "Darling!" to his wife who was eyeing the herbs
wonderingly,--"She has been all the way to the lower meadow for those. I
showed her the snake-bite cure to-day. Bruise them and put them on my
wrist. Then Namesake must get off her wet clothes and go to bed. The
danger is over."

I was thirty years old before I found out that what I had risked so much
to procure was not the panacea he had showed me, but common jewel-weed,
or wild touch-me-not, a species of the Impatiens of botanists,
harmless, but not curative.

And they had never let me guess what a blunder I had made!

[Illustration]




Chapter XIV

Miss Nancy's Nerves


The Gateses were our distant relatives. Not nearer than fourth
cousins-in-law, I fancy, but we counted them among our "kinfolks" in
Virginia, calling Mrs. Gates "Cousin Nancy," and Captain Gates, "Cousin
'Ratio." His proper name was Horatio, of course, and he belonged to the
family that gave the Revolutionary hero, Horatio Gates, to his country.

I was slowly getting over the whooping-cough, having taken it, as I took
most "catching" things that fell in my way,--with all my might. I began
to whoop the last of April, and kept it up all summer, when every other
child on the plantation was entirely well.

Captain Gates drove over to our house by the time the breakfast-table
was cleared one sultry August day, bringing in his roomy double buggy a
basket of Georgia peaches--brunettes with crimson cheeks--and the
biggest watermelon I had ever seen, as a neighborly gift to my mother.

"Miss Nancy gave me no peace of my life till I got off with them," he
said in his loud, breezy tones. "There's none of her kin she sets more
store by than by Cousin Ma'y Anna Burwell. And she's as proud as a
peacock of our fruit. I tell her a judgment will come upon her for it.
As I take it, Old Marster sends the rain upon the unjust as well as upon
the just, and if it's our turn this year, somebody else's turn will come
next year, and yet we'll be as good Christians then as we are now. It's
one of His ways that's past finding out. Howdy'e, little lady!" putting
out a brawny hand to pull me between his knees.

I was standing a yard or so away, but right in front of him, my hands
behind me, my eyes and ears, and, I'm afraid, my mouth, open to his
hearty talk. I had never heard God called "Old Marster" before, and if I
had not been taught that children ought not to criticise what grown
people say and do, I should have been quite sure that it was wrong. I
did not want to think any harm of Cousin 'Ratio, and determined that I
would not, when he drew a great finger gently over my thin cheek, and
looked down at me with kindly, pitying eyes.

"Tut! tut! tut! this is too bad! too bad! We must fill up this gulley
somehow, Cousin Ma'y Anna. Other folks' victuals are the best physic I
know for that sort of work. Miss Nancy would cry her eyes out if I was
to go home with the story that little Molly Burwell had coughed her
bones pretty near as bare as barrel-staves, and I didn't try to cover
them up again. A week in my peach-orchard and watermelon-patch, with
quarts of cream and Miss Nancy's breakfasts, dinners, and suppers--is
what she wants. Get her bonnet, and stick a tooth-brush and a
pocket-handkerchief into a bandbox, Chloe, for I'm going to take her
home with me, right straight off."

My mother shook her head smilingly at the thought of the week's visit.

"The child coughs so badly at night that I don't like to have her away
from me, Cousin 'Ratio. But change of air, even for a day, would do her
good. Her father and I will come for her about sundown."

Thus it happened, that, decked in a clean pink calico frock and white
muslin apron, I was hoisted to my perch in the high gig beside Cousin
'Ratio, and set off to spend a whole day at Cold Comfort.

The name was so out of keeping with Cousin 'Ratio's kind, red face and
funny ways, and the warm, sweet-smelling day, that I couldn't help
asking him on the way "why he called his house such a shivery name?"

The gig swayed and creaked under his laugh.

"That was just the reason my grandmother gave for naming it. You see,
the house stands on the top of a hill, and all the winds from three
counties get at it in winter. The house my grandfather put up was of
wood, and none too tight in the joints, and the poor old lady, his
wife--my step-grandmother she was--had rheumatism, and suffered a heap
all the year 'round. So, nothing would do but it must be 'Cold Comfort,'
and Cold Comfort it has been ever since. We Gateses have a way of giving
in to our wives in 'most everything. Everything that's reasonable, I
mean. And we don't pick out unreasonable girls for wives."

The fat, sleek horse was taking his own lazy pace in a mile of shady
road, cut through the heart of a pine forest. The ground was brown and
soft with pine needles, and the high gig swung and creaked a sort of
drowsy tune. Cousin 'Ratio tapped the wheel nearest him with his whip,
and fell into talk with himself, rather than with the child under his
elbow.

"Now, there's Miss Nancy! There's been a heap of fun poked at me, first
and last, for building my house in the shape I did. Though, for the
life of me, I can't see why I should be obleeged to live in a
four-square box because every other man-Jack in Pow'tan County builds
his in that way. Miss Nancy was always mighty nervous from the time she
was a child; I knew it when I married her. Fact is, she says to me:
'Cap'n Gates, I'm as nervous as a witch, and I'm afraid you'll get out
of patience with me sometimes, and I wouldn't blame you if you did.'
And, says I,--my hand right on my heart,--'Miss Nancy Miller! if you'll
take me as I am, I'll be proud and happy to take you as you are,
nerves and all!' says I. 'The proudest man in the State of Virginia,'
says I. 'Call it a bargain.'

"And she did--bless her soul! It was the best bargain that ever I made,
or ever expect to make, too. Some men marry Temper, and some Extravagant
Notions, and some Vanity, and some Jealous, Suspicious Dispositions, and
some, again, Stinginess--Good gracious! there's no end to the
disagreeable things men do marry! I married Nerves! and with them,
the best and sweetest and, to my way of thinking, the prettiest woman in
the County and State, and the Universe, and I've been thankful for it
every day and every hour since--God bless her!"

I waited for him to say something more until I began to wonder, then to
get impatient, that he let the horse jog along, the soft creak of the
gig keeping time with the leisurely motions of the pampered beast, the
master's eyes fixed upon the wheel he was tapping with his whip, as if
he had forgotten me entirely.

I made a bold effort to reopen the conversation.

"I suppose Cousin Nancy asked you to build your house round, instead of
square?"

I had heard so many different stories about the odd structure which was
one of the county curiosities that I was anxious to get at the truth.

He laughed low and pleasantly:--

"Ask me! Not she, bless your soul! She would never have thought of such
a thing. 'Twas me that studied it out, lying awake on windy nights
because I knew she couldn't sleep for the roaring and whistling around
the corners of the old house, and the wind humming in the chimneys and
between the window-sashes like a bumblebee as big as a whale. It made
her feel so lonesome and blue that many's the time I've heard her crying
to herself when she thought I was sound asleep. We were going to pull
down the old house, anyhow. It was a rickety concern, and inconvenient
as could be. So I got Miss Nancy to tell me how many rooms and closets
and all that she'd like to have in a house that was to be built on
purpose for her, and for nobody else, and I made a plan of it all on
paper, and then I sent her up to stay with her mother in Buckingham
County for six months, going up to see her myself every Saturday to
spend Sunday--like a nigger going to his 'wife-house,'"--here he stopped
to laugh again--"until the last window-shutter was hung, and all the
furniture put back and in order--Jerewsalem! how I did work! Then I
brought her home. I wish you could have seen her face when we came in
sight of the solid brick house--round as a cheese box--and I told her I
had it built in that shape, so's she should never be made sorrowful, nor
kept awake again by the wind a-cutting up shines around sharp corners,
so long as we both should live--Amen!"

He jerked a blazing red bandanna handkerchief out of his pocket, turning
his face clear away from me to do it, and blew his nose until the woods
rang as with the echoes of a foxhunter's horn, then rolled the
handkerchief into a ball and polished his face with it in the oddest
possible fashion.

Most of the tales current about the round brick house had something to
do with Cousin Nancy's whims, especially with her dislike to hearing the
wind blow around the corners. Young as I was, I felt, after hearing
Cousin 'Ratio's story, that he had done a beautiful thing in planning
the ingenious surprise for his delicate wife. It crossed my mind, too,
that she might have thought the house as ridiculous as other people did,
yet pretended to like it sooner than hurt his feelings. She must be a
good and devoted wife. Furthermore, I got into my foolish head the
notion that it was nice and interesting to have Nerves. I resolved to
get a set of my own at an early opportunity and to work them well. To
this end, I would watch Cousin Nancy's ways and copy them as closely as
a little girl could copy the behavior of a grown-up heroine.

She met us in the porch of the house, crying out with pleasure at sight
of me.

"That's a little lady, not to be afraid to come all by herself to see
two quiet old folks!" she said as she kissed me. "I ought to have had a
dozen girls and boys for you to play with by this time--but I haven't a
single one."

She laughed in saying it, yet with such sincere regret of face and
accent that I answered, without taking time to think:--

"I'm mighty sorry you haven't!" Catching myself up, I blundered on: "Not
that you and Cousin 'Ratio are not company enough for me. But it seems a
pity that, in this pretty place, with so many peaches and watermelons
and flowers--and pigeons--and chickens--and all that--there are not any
children to eat, and to play with them--and keep you company. I've heard
mother say, 'Home wouldn't be Home without the babies.'"

"Your mother is right, child! Your mother is right!"

The words seemed to stick in her throat, and to scrape it as she got
them out. Then, to my horror, she sank into a rocking-chair, and,
throwing her hands over her face, began to cry, with queer little
squeals between the sobs that shook her all over.

[Illustration: A TEA-PARTY IN THE SUMMER-HOUSE.

"Dovey appeared with a large saucer of peaches and cream."]

Malviny, her mulatto maid, ran to her with a bottle of hartshorn, and
Cousin 'Ratio knelt upon the floor by her and put his arm about her,
and fanned her with a turkey-tail fan, and another colored woman rushed
off to the kitchen, and was back in a jiffy with a bunch of feathers all
on fire, and making a dreadful smell, and stuck them under her
mistress's nose. I backed to the door with a wild notion of getting out
of the way, and running back home, yet could not tear myself away from
the unusual scene.

As soon as Cousin Nancy could speak, she laughed at sight of my
face,--the tears still dripping all the way to her chin,--and held out
her arms:--

"Poor little lammie! did I frighten the life out of her? You mustn't
mind my nervous turns, dear. They don't mean anything."

"I was afraid I had said something I oughtn't to," I faltered, on the
verge of tears. "I'm sorry if I did!"

Whereupon I was drawn close to her, and kissed three times to assure me
that I was the "best little girl in the world, and that she wouldn't
give way again."

"But, you see, I had got so nervous because you were gone so long, and
you drove that skittish colt, and I was sure something had happened,"
she explained to her husband, who still stood by her, stroking the back
of her hand, in awkward fondness. He stooped to lay his bearded face
against hers.

"That's like you! Always thinking of other people, and never of
yourself!" he said admiringly.

She thought a great deal of me for the rest of my visit, ordering
Malviny to cut out and make a doll's pelisse for me of a lovely piece of
red silk, saying that she would have done it herself if sewing did not
make her so nervous.

"I haven't darned a sock or hemmed a pocket-handkerchief for Cap'n Gates
in ten years. If he were not the best man on earth, he would have sent
me packing long ago."

She despatched another servant to the garret for some toys her sister's
children had left with her last year, and gave me permission to pull all
the flowers I wanted in the garden. I carried three maimed dolls, a
headless horse, a three-legged cat, and a Britannia tea-set to a
summer-house at the end of a long walk, and made believe that I was
Titania, the Queen of the Fairies, of whom I had read in a tattered copy
of Shakespeare I found in a lumber closet. By and by, Malviny brought
out to me a pretty china plate with four sugar cakes, shaped like ivy
leaves, and a glass of very sweet lemonade. Awhile later, Dovey, a
half-grown girl, appeared with a large saucer of peaches and cream,
plentifully sugared.

"Mistis says you must eat 'em all, for she knows you mus' be mighty
thirsty, and peaches is coolin' for little ladies whar's been sick."

There were still some cake crumbs and a spoonful of peaches left when I
saw Cousin Nancy herself come sailing down the walk.

[Illustration]




Chapter XV

Side-Blades & Water-Melons


My far-away cousin could never have been pretty except to a fond
husband's eyes. I should have liked to think her tolerably good-looking
now, since he loved her so dearly and praised her so enthusiastically,
and she was so much more than good to me. I could not help using and
believing the eyes that showed me a tall, lean woman whose skin, once
fair, was now nearly as yellow as the freckles spattered all over her
forehead, nose, cheeks, and chin. Nose and chin were long, her
cheek-bones were high, her eyes were pale, the lashes so light and thin
as to be scarcely visible at all, and her scanty flaxen hair was
dragged tightly away from a high bony forehead. Her gown to-day was
white cambric, as clean, as glossy, and as opaque as cream-laid
letter-paper. Her head was bare, and she carried over it a green parasol
which made her complexion livid. Her voice was soft and sweet, and her
manners were liked by everybody. I was glad to think of these things,
and to feel the charm of tone and manner, as she asked if I "would not
like to pay a visit to the peaches and watermelons."

I should have preferred to stay where I was, having got very well
acquainted with my attendant fairies, and eaten enough sweets to take
the edge from my appetite, even for ripe, fresh fruit. Still, I got up
with a tolerable show of cordiality, comprehending that she meant to
please me, took the hand she offered, and was soon out of the cool shade
in the open field separating garden from orchard. Captain Gates was
really as proud of his reputation as the most successful fruit-grower
in the county as his wife was, although he affected to ridicule her
weakness in the same direction. There were two acres of peach trees,
most of them laden with fruit. When pressed to "eat all I could
swallow," I managed to do away with three immense globes of
crimson-and-gold, and then gave out, shamefacedly:--

"You see I am so little, and the peaches are so big!" I urged. "I hold
just so many and no more."

"Of course, you comical little thing!" interrupted Cousin Nancy, highly
amused. "By and by, on our way back from the watermelon patch, maybe
there will be more room. I shan't ask you to pick the melons from the
vines and eat them by the dozen. Come along!"

She did not seem to mind the heat that struck upon my face and head like
the breath of an oven, as we crossed another open field, to that in
which Captain Gates's famous melons lay by the hundred, growing larger
and more luscious in the August sunlight that warmed them through and
through. Some were dark green, some light green, some were streaked and
mottled with white-and-green.

"Oh, Cousin Nancy!" I cried, "I did not know there were so many in the
world! What will you do with them all?"

She led the way farther into the network of vines, the rank leaves and
starry blossoms bobbing about her feet. The fruit and flowers of Cold
Comfort did something toward filling the place left void in her heart by
the lack of the children that had never come. She stood still and looked
over the wide patch as if she had made every melon there, and meant to
have the full credit for her work.

"Do with them, monkey! Why they are as good as a silver mine--the
beauties! Every full-grown one stands for a quarter of a dollar. We send
six wagon-loads to Richmond every week, and people come for them from
every direction--as far as across the river in Goochland; and we give
dozens away to our neighbors, and the negroes come at night to steal
them--Oh! oh!! OH!!!"

She gathered her skirts tightly and high above her ankles with both
hands, letting the green parasol tumble, head foremost, to the ground,
and screeched as if she had trod upon a yellow-jacket's nest. She was
going to have Nerves again, with no hartshorn, or burnt feathers, or
turkey-tail fan, or Cousin 'Ratio near. I started to run to the house
for help, but she grabbed my frock frantically.

"If you budge one inch you are a dead child!" she wheezed, her pale eyes
bulging from the sockets. "Cap'n Gates and the overseer came out here
last night and just sowed all this patch with side-blades!"
(Scythe-blades.) "Edges up! Sharp as razors and thick as thieves!
Hundreds of them! To keep the negroes from stealing any more of them! I
heard Cap'n Gates tell them he was going to do it, and the overseer told
them this morning that they had done it. And I haven't an atom of an
idea where a solitary one of the murderous things is! We are as good as
dead if we try to get out. We might tread upon one, at the first step!
How could I forget it? Oh, how could I?"

I felt the blood drain away from my face, and I trembled as violently as
she. Then a thought came to me, and I got it out between chattering
teeth.

"We didn't tread on any of them coming into the patch."

"That was sheer providence, honey. We might have been cut in two
before we had gone ten yards."

"But, Cousin Nancy!" catching at her hands as she began to wring them
again, and to sob and squeal as she had done in the morning. "Listen! I
am sure I could go out by the very same path! Let's try! We can't stay
here always."

"Path! There isn't a sign of a path! Look!"

She pointed a bony finger in the direction we had come. The leaves and
blossoms disturbed by our feet and skirts were as still as the hundreds
and thousands of other leaves on all sides of us. We had not bruised a
vine, or left a footprint, that we could see. The sun poured down upon
us like fire from heaven; we were in the middle of the patch that
seemed, to my horrified eyes, miles and miles in extent, and not another
creature was in sight.

"Our only hope is to scream as loud as ever we can," said Cousin Nancy.
"Nobody knows where we are; the hands are all in the tobacco, a mile on
the other side of the house, and Cap'n Gates and Mr. Owen may be even
farther off, for all I know. If we can't make anybody hear us, the Lord
have mercy upon our souls! We shall have sunstroke inside of an hour."

I picked up the green parasol, and with clumsy, shaking fingers opened
it, and stood on tiptoe to hold it over her head, crying, meantime, as
piteously as she, such was the contagion of hysterical terror. Then,
with one accord, we lifted up our voices, weak with weeping, in a thin
screech. I said "Help! help! help!" she cried, "Murder! murder!" and
"Cap'n Ga-a-tes!" We made enough noise to startle the dogs in the
house-yard and at the stables, and brought from the nearer "quarters"
and corn-field a gang of negroes, of all sizes and ages, all running at
the top of their speed, and the faster as they descried us. It would
have been excruciatingly funny at any other time, and to one that was
not an actor in the drama, to observe that not one man, woman, or
pickaninny of the excited crowd offered to pass the confines of the
melon patch. Each one was mindful of the hundreds of buried side-blades
with their edges uppermost, and almost all were bare-footed.

"Run! some of you-all, for Marster an' Mr. Owen!" shrieked Malviny,
getting her wits together before the others could rally theirs. The
shrill order arose above the chorus of groans and cries and pitying
exclamations, and Cousin Nancy, on hearing it, gave one wild cry, and
dropped where she stood, a heap of white cambric, head, arms, and green
parasol, crushing the vines, and her head just grazing a mammoth melon.

I had never been so frightened in all my life as when I got hold of her
head, and tried to lift it. It was as heavy as lead. Too much terrified
and too foolish to bethink myself that a cut would bleed, I concluded
that she had struck one of the murderous blades, and it had killed her.
Her eyes were closed; her jaw had fallen; her cheek lay close against
that of the big melon, and the vines met over her nose. It was a ghastly
and a grotesque spectacle, and I behaved as any other nine-year-old
would--jumped up and down and screamed, beating my palms together, and
calling alternately for "Father!" and "Cousin 'Ratio!"

Since that horrible moment I have believed stories read and heard of
people being scared to death, or into insanity. In the great, round
world, there was nothing present to me but a cruel expanse of green
below, a white-hot sky above, and at my feet a dead woman, killed by
the razor-like blades thick-set under every leaf, and guarding every
melon. Then all this was swept out of sight by a black wave that took me
off my feet.

I awoke in the shade of the peach orchard. Mr. Owen, the overseer, had
laid me down on the grass, and I heard him say, "She's all right now." I
sat up and stared around me. Cousin Nancy, still in a dead faint, was
stretched upon the ground a little way off, a fluttering swarm of women
about her, with water, brandy, hartshorn, cologne, fans, and burning
feathers, and Cousin 'Ratio, kneeling over her, was calling in her ear,
the tears running down his bristly cheeks.

"Miss Nancy! honey! sugar-lump! wake up! it's me, dearie! The danger is
all over. What a doggoned fool I was to put the side-blades there!"

When she at last revived, she was taken to the house and put to bed. She
was not yet able to sit up when my father and mother drove over for me
in the cool of the afternoon.

"My tomfoolery came near to being the end of the poor dear," said Cousin
'Ratio, walking with us to the carriage, when we had taken leave of his
wife. "I feel mighty bad about it, too, as you may suppose, for it was
my fault in not reminding her of those cussed side-blades. Between
ourselves, Burwell,"--coming nearer to my father and glancing over his
shoulder to be sure none of the servants were within hearing,--"Owen and
I put just exactly two in the whole patch, and they were near the
fence. Miss Nancy never went within a Sabbath day's journey of them. We
made a mighty parade of toting twenty of them past the quarters, taking
two of the hands along to help. They laid them down by the fence, and we
came down after dark and carried all but two off to the old tobacco
