Shemuel, smiling and folding his hands over his belly--a greasy
spectacle in sooth for a hungry stomach--and I scowled and bade him
state his business quickly in the devil's name.

"Goot-day and greeding, sir," said the peddler, bowing and rubbing
himself against the door like a cat. "Gott save our country, Mr.
Cardigan. You are oxpected to join the gendlemens in 13, sir. Mr.
Mount begs you will hold no gonversation mit strangers hereabouts, nor
entertain no one until he sees you, sir."

"Who are you, anyway, Shemuel?" I asked, curiously.

"A peddler, Mr. Cardigan--only a poor peddler," he protested,
spreading out his grimy fingers and peeping up cunningly. "Pray, do
not look as if you knew me, sir, should you see me abroad in the
streeds, sir. But if you wish to speag to me, please to buy a buckle;
one buckle if I shall seek you here, two buckles if I am to follow you
in the streed, sir, three buckles if you would seek me in my lodgings,
Mr. Cardigan. I live at the 'Bear and Cubs Tavern,' sir, on the King's
Road."

"Very well," I said, somewhat amused at the idea of my pining for
Shemuel's company under any circumstances. "Where is room 13, Shemuel?
Eh? Oh, you appear to know this inn. Here's sixpence for you, Shemmy.
That's right, cut away now!"

"If I might speak von vort, sir," he began, hoisting his basket on his
back and looking slyly up at me as I passed him.

"Well?" I said, impatiently.

"I haf often seen you, sir, at Johnson Hall."

"Well?"

"And I haf also sold gilt chains to Miss Warren."

"Well!" I demanded, sharply.

"Miss Warren iss here in Pittsburg, sir," he ventured.

"I supposed so," I said, coldly; "but that does not interest me."

"Maybe," he said, spitefully, "you don'd know somedings?"

"What things?"

"Miss Warren weds mit Lord Dunmore in July."

He was gone like a slippery lizard before I could seize him. He
vanished around the corridor ere my thoughts assembled from the shock
that had routed them. Now they began to rally pell-mell, and my cheeks
burnt with scorn and anger, though I could not truly credit the
preposterous news. That unformed child thrown into the arms of a thing
like Dunmore! What possessed all these rakes and roués to go
mad--stark, staring, March-mad--over my playfellow? What did an Earl
want of her--even this bloodless Dunmore with his simper and his snuff
and his laces and his bird's claws for fingers? What the devil had
enchanted him to seek her for his wife; to make her Countess of
Dunmore and the first lady in Virginia?

And Silver Heels, had she sold her beauty for the crest on this man's
coach? Had she bargained her innocence for the rank that this
toothless conspirator and assassin could give her? How in God's name
could she endure him? How could she listen without scorn, look at him
without loathing? An old man, at least a man who might be a rotten
forty or a patched and mended sixty, with his painted face and his
lipless line of a mouth--horror!--if she had seen him grinning and
gumming his wine-glass as I had seen him--or sprawling on the carpet,
too drunk to clean his own chin!

Agitated and furious I paced the hallway, resolving to seek out my
lady Silver Heels without loss of time or ceremony, and conduct her
back to the nursery where the little fool belonged.

Countess, indeed! I'd bring her to her senses! And wait!--only wait
until Sir William should learn of this!

Somewhat comforted at the thought of the Baronet's anger and dismay, I
pocketed my excitement and began to search for the door of room 13,
where, according to Shemuel, I was expected. I had forgotten the
peddler's directions; besides the house was unexplored ground for me,
and I wandered about several corridors until I noticed a
pleasant-faced gentleman watching me from the stairs.

He doubtless noticed my perplexity, for he bowed very courteously as I
passed him and made some polite observation which required a civil
answer; and before I was fully aware of it, he had invited me to a
morning cup with him in the tap-room.

This was a trifle too friendly on short acquaintance; Shemuel's
warning to hold my tongue and avoid strangers instantly occurred to
me. On my guard, I prayed him to pardon my declining, with many
compliments and excuses, which I heaped upon him to avoid the seeming
discourtesy of refusing him my name.

He was truly a most pleasant gentleman, a stranger in Pittsburg, so he
said, and bearing very gracefully the title of captain and the name of
Murdy. He appeared most anxious to present me to his friend, Doctor
Connolly, in the tap-room; but I begged permission to defer the
honour and left him, somewhat nonplussed, on the stairway.

In a few moments I found room 13, and knocked. And, as I was ushered
in, I glanced back at the stairway, and was annoyed to see my friendly
Captain Murdy peering at me through the balustrade.

It was Corporal Paul Cloud who admitted me, greeting me respectfully,
and immediately closing and locking the door. The room was large; a
table stood in the centre, around which were gathered Jack Mount, Cade
Renard, Jimmy Rolfe, the landlord of the "Virginia Arms"; my former
host, Timothy Boyd; and another man whom I had never before seen.
Cresap was not there, but, in a corner, wrapped to the eyes in his
dark blanket, sat the bereaved Cayuga chief, Logan, staring at the
floor.

The company were at breakfast, and when I approached to greet them,
Mount jumped to his feet and gave me a warm handclasp, leading me to a
chair beside the only man whom I did not know.

I saluted the stranger, and he bowed silently in return. He appeared
to be a man of forty, elegantly yet soberly dressed, wearing his own
dark hair, unpowdered, in a queue--a gentleman in bearing, in voice,
in every movement--a thoroughbred to the tips of his smooth,
well-ordered fingers. A pair of gold-rimmed spectacles which he wore
had been pushed up over his forehead; now he lowered them to the
bridge of his nose again, and looked at me gravely and searchingly,
yet entirely without offence. The scrutiny of certain men sometimes
conveys a delicate compliment.

Mount, in a very subdued voice, asked permission to present me, and
the gentleman bowed, saying he knew my name from hearing of my father.

As for his name, I think anybody in the colonies--ay, in London,
too--would know it. For the gentleman beside whom I had been placed
was the famous Virginian, Patrick Henry, that fiery orator who had
bade our King mark well the lives of Cæsar and Charles the First to
profit by their sad examples: and when the cries of "Treason!" dinned
in his ears, had faced a howling Tory Legislature with the
contemptuous words: "If this be treason--make the most of it!"

Sideways I admired his delicate aquiline nose, his firm chin, the
refinement of every muscle, every line.

He drank sparingly; once he raised his glass to me and I had the
honour of drinking a draught of cinnamon cold-mulled with him.

There was little conversation at table. Mr. Henry asked Boyd about the
burning of Cresap's village, and the brave old man told the story in a
few, short phrases. Once he spoke to Cloud about the militia.
Presently, however, he left the table and sat down by Logan; and for a
long time we watched them together, this sensitive, high-bred orator,
and the sombre savage, burying his grief in the dark ruins of a broken
heart. Their blended voices sounded to us like the murmur of the deep
thrilling chords of a harp, touched lightly.

Mount came over beside me, and, resting his massive head on his hands,
spoke low, "Cresap was arrested last night by Doctor Connolly,
Dunmore's deputy, and is to be relieved of his command."

"Is Doctor Connolly Dunmore's agent?" I asked, quietly. "Then he's
here in the house now."

"I know it," said Mount. "He and his fawning agent, Murdy, are
watching the inn to learn who is here. By-the-way, my name is anything
you please, if they ask you. It won't do for the Weasel and me to
flaunt our quality in Pittsburg town. There was once a fat Tory judge
walking yonder on the highway, and--well, you know, moonlight and
mischief are often abroad together. Curious, too, that this same fat
judge should have come to grief; for he once issued some valentines to
me and the Weasel."

I looked up sharply; Mount blinked mildly as a kitten who is filled
with milk.

"Why did they arrest Cresap?" I asked.

"Why? Oh, Lord, the town is full o' people blaming Dunmore for this
new war. There was like to be a riot yesterday when one of Cresap's
runners came in with news of the rising. So Dunmore, frightened,
called in Connolly and Murdy and they went about town swearing that
Dunmore was innocent and that the wicked Cresap did it all. And now
Connolly has had Cresap arrested, and he swears that Dunmore will
make an example of Cresap for oppressing the poor Indians. There's
your Tory Governor for you!"

Horrified at such hypocrisy, I could only gasp while Mount shrugged
his broad shoulders and went on:

"But this rattlesnake, Dunmore, has bitten off more than he can
poison. Logan's here to demand justice on Greathouse. And now you are
here to protest in Sir William's name. Oh, it's a fine pickle Dunmore
will find himself swimming in."

"When is Logan to have an audience with Dunmore?" I asked.

"To-night, in the fortress. And, Mr. Cardigan, I took the liberty of
announcing to the Governor's secretary, Gibson, that an envoy from Sir
William Johnson had arrived with a message for Lord Dunmore. So you
also are to deliver your message to the Governor of Virginia in the
hall to-night."

"But," said I, puzzled, "does Dunmore expect a messenger from Sir
William?"

"Haven't you heard from Shemuel?" asked Mount. "I told him to tell you
that Dunmore wants to marry the beautiful Miss Warren, who's cutting
such a swath here. He sent his offer by runner to Sir William, and,
being a Tory, an Earl, and Governor of Virginia, he naturally expects
Sir William will throw the poor girl at his head!"

I took Mount's arm in my hand and tightened my grip till he groaned.

"Mark you, Mount," I said, choking back my passion, "this night my
Lord Dunmore will learn some things of which he is ignorant. One of
them is that my kinswoman, Miss Warren, is betrothed to me!"

The big fellow's eyes had grown wider and bluer as I spoke. When I
finished he gaped at me like a dying fish. Suddenly he seized my hand
and wrung it till the whole table shook, and Mr. Henry looked at us in
displeasure.

"Tell the Weasel," said Mount, gently. "Tell him, lad. It will please
him. He's full o' sentiment; he'll never breathe a word, Mr. Cardigan;
the Weasel's a gentleman. He dotes on love and lovers."

Lovers! Love! The words fell harshly on my ear.

I did not love Silver Heels; I did not want to wed her. But something
had to be done, and that quickly, if I was to take the silly, deluded
girl back to Johnstown with me.

"Won't you tell the Weasel?" said Mount, anxiously.

"You tell him," I said. "You must stick by me now, Jack Mount, for the
Lord knows what trouble lies before me ere I shake the Pittsburg dust
off my moccasins!"

After a moment Mount said, "I suppose you don't know where Butler is?"

"You mean to say that Butler is back in Pittsburg?" I asked, faintly.

"He's in attendance on Dunmore, lad. Shemmy told me last night."

"Very well," said I, smacking my suddenly parched lips. "I will kill
him before I leave Pittsburg."

Mr. Henry rose from his seat beside Logan and came over to where I was
standing by the window.

"Mr. Cardigan," he said, "I know from Mount something concerning your
mission here. I know you to be a patriot, and I believe that your
honourable guardian, Sir William Johnson, will aid us with all his
heart in whatever touches the good of our country. Am I not right?"

"Sir William's deeds are never secret, sir," I replied, cautiously.
"All men may read his heart by that rule."

"Sir William has chosen in you a discreet deputy, to whom I beg to pay
my sincerest compliments," said Mr. Henry, smiling.

"I can say this, sir," I replied, with a bow; "that I have heard him
many times commend your speeches and the public course which you
pursue."

"Sir William is too good," he replied, bowing.

"Ay, sir," I said, eagerly; "he is good! I do believe him to be the
greatest and best of men, Mr. Henry. I am here as his deputy, though
without orders, now that my mission to Colonel Cresap has failed. But,
sir, I shall use my discretion, knowing Sir William's mind, and this
night I shall present to my Lord Dunmore a reckoning which shall not
be easily cancelled!"

"In the face of all his people?" asked Mr. Henry, curiously.

"In the face of the whole world, sir," I said, setting my teeth with a
snap.

He held out his finely formed hand; I took it respectfully.

When he had gone away I drew Mount and Renard aside and asked them
where Miss Warren was staying. They did not know.

"We'll make a tour of the town and find Shemuel; he knows," suggested
Mount.

I assented, smiling bitterly to find myself so soon seeking Shemuel's
company; and we three, clad in our soiled buckskins, descended the
stairway and sallied forth into the sunlit streets of Pittsburg, arm
in arm.

Riflemen, rangers, forest-runners, and the flotsam and jetsam from the
wilderness were no rare spectacles in Pittsburg, so at first we
attracted little attention. We would have attracted none at all had
not Mount swaggered so, arms akimbo, fur cap over his left eye. He
stopped at every tap-room, a sad habit of his in towns; and the
oftener he stopped the more offensive became his swagger. The Weasel,
too, strutted along, cap defiantly cocked, reaching up to tuck his arm
under the elbow of his giant comrade, which at moments forced the
little Weasel to march on tiptoe.

It was strange and ludicrous, the affection between these waifs of the
wilderness; what Mount did the Weasel imitated most scrupulously,
drinking whatever his companion drank, swaggering when he swaggered,
singing whatever catch Mount sang. And the oftener they drank the more
musical they became with their eternal:

     "Diddle diddle dumpling,
       My son John!--"

until I remonstrated so vigorously that they quieted their voices if
not their deportment.

It was on Pitt Street that we found Shemuel, trudging towards the
King's Road. A number of people gathered about him and followed him.
Some bought ribbons or tablets for the races. The peddler saw us
immediately, but made no sign as we approached until I asked the price
of gilt buckles, and purchased three.

Then the little Jew fumbled in his pockets and whined and protested
he could not make change, and I was uncertain what to say until he
brightened up and begged us to follow to the "Bear and Cubs," just
opposite, where change might be had in the tap-room.

The "Bear and Cubs" was a grizzly tavern, a squalid, unpainted house,
swinging a grotesque sign which was meant to represent a she-bear
suckling her young. The windows were dim with filth; the place reeked
with the stale stench of malt and spirit dregs.

Into this grewsome hostelry I followed, perforce, to the tap-room,
where Mount and Renard bawled for ale while I made known my business
to Shemuel, who curiously enough appeared to suspect in advance what I
wanted.

"If you hatt dold me this morning--ach!--bud I pelieved you care
noddings, Mister Cardigan. She wass waiting to see you, sir, at Lady
Shelton's in the Boundary--"

"Did you tell her I was here?" I asked, angrily.

"Ach--yess! I wass so sure you would see her--"

Exasperated, I shook my fist at the peddler.

"You miserable, tattling fool!" I said, fiercely. "Will you mind your
own business hereafter? Who the devil are you, to pry into my affairs
and spy upon your betters?"

"It wass to hellup you, sir," he protested, spreading his fingers and
waving his hands excitedly. "I dold you she wass to marry Lord
Dunmore; if you hatt asked me I could haff dold you somedings more--"

"What?"

"The bans will be published to-morrow from efery church in Pittsburg,
Richmond, and Williamsburg!"

I glared at him, catching my breath and swallowing.

"Sir," he whined, "I ask your pardon, but I haff so often seen you in
Johnstown, and Miss Warren, too, and--and--I would not haff harm come
to her, or you, sir; and I pelieved you--you lofed her--"

I looked at him savagely.

"Ach!--I will mix me no more mit kindness to nobody!" he muttered.
"Shemmy, you mint your peezeness and sell dem goots in dot
pasket-box!"

"Shemuel," I said, "what did she say when you told her I was in Fort
Pitt?"

"Miss Warren went white like you did, sir."

"And you said you would tell me where she was to be found?"

"Ach!--yess."

"What did she say?"

"Miss Warren wass crying, sir--"

"What?" I asked, astonished.

"Yess, sir; Miss Warren she only sat down under the drees, and she cry
mit herselluf."

"And you came to get me? And my manner made you believe I did not care
to see Miss Warren?"

"Miss Warren she knew I hatt come to fetch you. I dold her so. When I
passed py dot Boundary again, she wass waiting under the drees--"

"How long since?"

"It is an hour, sir."

I fumbled in my belt and pulled out a gold piece.

"Thank you, Shemmy," I muttered, dropping it into his greasy cap;
"tell Mount and Renard where I have gone."

"Ach--ach, Mister Cardigan," cried Shemuel, plucking me timidly by the
sleeve, "von vort, if you please, sir. Remember, sir, I beg of you,
that Miss Warren must not stay here. And if she will stay, and if she
will not listen to you, sir, I beg you to gome to me at vonce."

"Why?" I asked, searching his agitated face.

"Pecause I haff a knowledge that will hellup you," he muttered.

"Very well," I said, calmly. "I will come to you, Shemmy, if I need
you. Where is Lady Shelton's house?"

He led me to a back window and pointed out the Boundary, which was a
tree-shaded road skirting the inner fortifications. Then he opened the
rear door, pointed out the way through a filthy alley, across the
market square, and then north until I came to a large, white-pillared
house on a terrace, surrounded by an orchard.

As I walked swiftly towards the Boundary my irritation increased with
every stride; it appeared to me that the world was most impudently
concerning itself with my private affairs. First, Mount had coolly
arranged for my reception by Dunmore without a word on the subject to
me; and now the peddler, Shemuel, had without my knowledge or consent
made a rendezvous for me with Silver Heels before I knew for certain
that she still remained in Pittsburg. The free direction of my own
affairs appeared to be slipping away from me; apparently people
believed me to be incapable of either thinking or acting for myself. I
meant to put an end to that.

As for Silver Heels, no wonder the announcement to her of my presence
here had frightened her into tears. She knew well enough, the little
hussy, that Sir William would not endure her to wed such a man as
Dunmore: she knew it only too well, and, by the publishing of the
bans, it was clear enough to me that she meant to wed Dunmore in spite
of Sir William and before he could interfere or forbid the bans.

As I hastened on, biting my lip till it bled, I remembered her vow to
wed rank and wealth and to be "my lady," come what might. And now the
mad child believed she was in a fair way to fulfil her vow! I would
teach her to try such tricks!

I found no great difficulty in discovering the house. Stone steps set
in the hill-side led up to an orchard, through which, bordered by a
garden, walks of gravel stretched to the veranda of the white-pillared
house with its dormers and dignified portico.

There was a lady in the orchard, with her back turned towards me,
leaning on a stone-wall and apparently contemplating the town below.
My moccasins made no noise until I stepped on the gravel; but, at the
craunch of the pebbles, the lady looked around and then came hastily
towards me across the grass.

"Are you a runner from Johnstown?" she asked, sharply.

I stood still. The lady was Silver Heels. She did not know me.

She did not know me, nor I her, at first. It was only when she spoke.
And this change had come to us both within four weeks' time!

That she did not recognize me was less to be wondered at. The dark
mask of the sun, which I now wore, had changed me to an Indian;
anxiety, fatigue, and my awful peril in the Cayuga camp had made
haggard a youthful face, perhaps scored and hollowed it. In these
weeks I had grown tall; I knew it, for my clothes no longer fitted in
leg or sleeve. And I was thin as a kestrel, too; my added belt holes
told me that.

But that I had not recognized her till she spoke distressed me. She,
too, had grown tall; her face and body were shockingly frail; she had
painted her cheeks and powdered her hair, and by her laces and frills
and her petticoat of dentelle, she might have been a French noblewoman
from Quebec. It were idle to deny her beauty, but it was the beauty of
death itself.

"Silver Heels," I said.

Her hand flew to her bosom, then crept up on her throat, which I saw
throbbing and whitening at every breath. Good cause for fear had she,
the graceless witch!

After a moment she turned and walked into the orchard. 'Deed I scared
her, too, for her dragging feet told of the shock I had given her, and
her silk kirtle trembled to her knees. She leaned on the wall, looking
out over the town as I had first seen her, and I followed her and
rested against the wall beside her.

"Silver Heels," I asked, "are you afraid to see me?"

"No," she said, but the tears in her throat stopped her. Lord! how I
had frightened her withal!

"Do you know why I am here?" I demanded, impressively, folding my arms
in solemn satisfaction at the situation.

To my amazement she tossed her chin with a hateful laugh, and shrugged
her shoulders without looking at me.

"Do you realize why I am here?" I repeated, in displeasure.
