her friend has some faults, or fails in two or three points, and she
is on with a new admiration. Girls are crude, funny creatures! Do you
suppose we were like them?" she questioned with laughing, disavowing
eyes.

"No, we were not," returned Marian. "Times have changed. Life and its
demands have changed. We were taught to sew, to darn, to do fine
needlework; here a Mexican or a Spanish woman will do the most
exquisite work for a trifle. Every country lays its treasures at our
feet; it would be folly to spin and to weave. And there is money to
buy everything with. How careful we were of a bit of lace that our
grandmother had! The women of the street flaunt in yards and yards of
it, handsomer than we could ever have achieved. We are on the other
side of the country, and are topsy-turvy. We have begun at the big end
of everything. Whether we are to come out at the little end----" and
she paused, her eyes indecisive in their expression.

"Would you like to go back?"

"I'd like to see dear old, proper Boston, and really feel how much we
had changed. But the breadth and freedom here are fascinating. It has
not the hardships of new settlers. Even the men who sleep out on the
foothills with the blue sky for covering may be rich six months hence,
and putting up fine buildings. And when you come to that there is no
lack of intelligence. Haven't we some of the best brain and blood of
the East, as well as some of the worst? Our papers are teeming with
news, with plans, with business schemes, that would craze an Eastern
man. No, I do not believe I should be satisfied to take up the old
life there again."

"And now I must consider my daughter's entrée into society. Think of
the mothers in the old novels, who took their daughters to Bath or to
London, and looked over the list of eligibles and made two or three
selections. Our young women will select for themselves in a
half-mercenary fashion, and one can't altogether blame them. Poverty
is not an attractive subject."

Miss Holmes was out for a little shopping expedition, and went in her
friend's carriage. Every year saw great changes. Fire destroyed only
to have something grander rise from the ashes. There was already an
imposing line of stores, and a display of fabrics that roused envy and
heart-burning. Where there had been one-story shanties filled with the
miscellany of a country store, only a few years ago, now all things
were systematized and compared well with some Eastern towns, not as
much, but certainly as great a variety. It had taken San Francisco
only a few years to grow up. She sprang from childhood to full
stature.

Then one drove round the Plaza to Russ's, mingling in the gay
cavalcade until a stranger might have considered it a gala day of some
sort. Then to Winn's for luncheon, tickets, perhaps, to the theatre
where Laura Keene was drawing full houses of better-class people.

The little girl was not in much of this. She went to school regularly;
she found some very congenial friends. She never could tell how much
she liked Olive, and she was accustomed to be taken up with fervor
and then dropped with a suddenness that might have dislocated most
regards, and would if she had set her heart on Olive. She had a serene
sort of temperament not easily ruffled; she had brought that from
Maine with her. She talked over her lessons with Uncle Jason, who
seemed to know so many things, more she thought than Miss Holmes,
though she had taught school in Boston.

She had a host of squirrel friends now, though Snippy was amusingly
jealous, and at times drove the others off. There were flocks of
birds, too, who would hop up close or circle round her and
occasionally light on her shoulder, and sing deafeningly in her ear,
trills and roulades, such as Mam'selle played on the piano--she was
not so fond of the organ, it was fit only for church and convents in
the Frenchwoman's estimation.

It was funny to see Balder follow her about. During the rainy season
he found so many puddles in which to stop and rest and disport
himself, but in the dry times they filled a tub for him, and he was
content. Pablo caught fish for him, and it was his opinion that Balder
lived like some grand Señor. She never tired of the flowers, and was
always finding stray nooks where they bloomed. She and Miss Holmes
often went over to the ocean and sat on the rocks, looking, wondering.

"Sometime Uncle Jason is going to take me way over yonder," nodding
her head. "We shall go to the Sandwich Islands, which he says are
still more beautiful than California. And then to China. Perhaps then
all the gates of Japan will be open and they will let us in. I'd like
to see the little girls in Japan; they don't drown them there, they
never have too many. And then there will be India, and all those
queer islands. You wouldn't think there would be room for Australia,
which is almost a continent by itself, would you? The world is very
wonderful, isn't it?"

Sometimes they watched magnificent sunsets when the whole Pacific
seemed aflame with gorgeous tints, for which there could be no name,
for they changed as quick as thought. Then they noted a faint
pearl-gray tint just edging the horizon line, it seemed, and then
spreading out in filmy layers, growing more distinct and yet darker,
marching on like an army. Gulls circled and screamed, great loons and
murres gave their mournful cry, cormorants swept on, hardly stirring a
wing until, with one swift lurch, they went down and came up
triumphant. Then the sky and sea faded, though you knew the sea was
there because it dashed upon the rocks, though its tone was curiously
muffled.

"Come," Miss Holmes would say, "we shall be caught in the fog."

"I'd just like to be damp and cold. It has been so dry that one wants
to be wet through and through."

"We shall have to pick our way."

It would sometimes come up very fast, woolly, soft to the skin, at
others like a fine cutting mist, when the west wind drove it in. And
now it was all gray like a peculiar twilight that made ghosts out of
the rocks, piled about and shut out the Golden Gate and the peaks
beyond, but they drew long breaths of the sea fragrance that were
reviving. The ponies stepped carefully down this way, and across that
level, and then on the road Pablo was making for his mistress. The
ponies shook their heads and whinnied for very gladness. Bruno gave
his cheerful bark. Balder made a funny grumbling noise as if he were
scolding.

"Oh, you know you like the fog. You are dripping wet," with a hug of
tenderness.

They were dripping wet, too, but they soon found dry clothes. Miss
Holmes kindled up the fire, for Pablo kept them well supplied, though
sometimes he went long distances and came home with a great bundle on
his back that almost bent him double.

"Now you look just like a German peasant," Laverne would declare; and
Pablo would shake his head mysteriously. The young Missy had seen so
many wonderful things.

Wood was a rather scarce article in this vicinity, and was expensive.
Coal likewise, though now some had been discovered nearer home. The
charcoal venders were familiar figures in the streets. Wild indeed
would he have been who had ventured to predict a gas range, even the
useful kerosene stove.

The fog storms were all they would have for a time in the summer, and
it was wonderful how in a night vegetation would start up.

Then Uncle Jason would come in puffing and blowing, fling off his
long, wet coat, and stand before the fire and declare that Maine
people said:

     "An August fog would freeze a dog,"

which always made Laverne laugh.

Miss Holmes did not go to the ball given in honor of Miss Isabel
Personette, but Miss Gaines was among the grown people. It was at one
of the fine halls used for such purposes, and was beautifully
decorated with vines and flowers and American flags. The greatest
curiosity was the really splendid chandelier with its branching
burners and glittering prisms. Few of the real boy friends were
invited--there were enough young men very glad to come and dance their
best. No one had to entreat them in those days. Indeed, dancing
parties were the great entertainment for young people. True, women
played cards and lost and won real money, but it was done rather
privately and not considered the thing for any but the seniors.

It was very gay and delightful, quite an ovation to Miss Personette,
and the banquet part eminently satisfactory to the elders. Of course,
Victor Savedra was included, being a cousin, and went, and it brought
freshly to his mind the party when he had danced with the sweet,
fair-haired, little girl, who had no knowledge, but infinite grace,
and how happy she had been.

Even with politics, city improvements, vigilance committees, quarrels,
and crimes, there was found space in the papers of the day for the
social aspects of life, and though "sweet girl graduates" had not come
in fashion, débutantes were graciously welcomed. Miss Isabel felt much
elated. She had shot up into a tall girl and was very well looking.
Miss Gaines had transformed her into beauty.

Olive considered it very hard and cruel that she could not go, but she
was quite a heroine at school for several days. It was truly the next
thing to a wedding.

"And to think of all the splendid things that come to real young
ladies!" she complained, yet there was a kind of pride in her tone as
well. "Two theatre parties, and she goes to Sausalito to a birthday
ball, and stays three days with some very stylish English people,
friends of father's. I just hate being thought a little schoolgirl!
And I want to go to the Seminary."

And then she said to Laverne:

"I don't see what you find in Isola to be so devoted to her. I
wouldn't go over there twice a week and bother with her for all the
music in the world. And those cold hands of hers make you shiver.
They're like a frog."

"They have grown warmer. She goes to ride every day now. And we read
French and English, and--verses. I like the music so much."

Olive was still secretly jealous of Victor. But presently he was going
away to finish his education. And she knew several boys who went to
the Academy that she thought much more fun. Victor was growing too
sober, too intellectual.

They had all become very fond of the little girl at the Savedras. Even
wild Elena, in a half-bashful way, copied her. She could run races and
climb and ride the pony with the utmost fearlessness, she did not
squeal over bugs and mice and the little lizards that came out to sun
themselves. Lena had thrown one on her, and she had never told of it.
She was not a bit like Isola, although she could sit hours over the
music and reading of verses. And she knew so much of those queer
countries where tigers and lions and elephants lived.

"But you have never been there," the child said with severe disbelief.

"You study it in books and at school."

"I hate to study!"

"You will love it when you are older. Some day your father may take
you to France, and then you will want to know the language."

"I know a little of it, enough to talk."

"Mam'selle will be glad to teach you the rest."

"And Spanish--I knew that first."

"And I had to learn it, and French, with a good deal of trouble."

"But you knew English," rather jealously.

"Just as you knew Spanish--in my babyhood."

That seemed very funny, and Lena laughed over it.

"Then you really were a baby, just like Andrea, only whiter. Will your
hair always be goldy like that?"

"I think so. Uncle Jason likes it."

She asked dozens of inconsequent questions.

"You must not let her trouble you so much," Mrs. Savedra said. "She
will have more sense as she grows older."

Laverne only smiled a little.

Isola found her such a companion, such a listener as she had never
known before. Isabel did not care for music; Olive teased her, and she
put her stolid side out. She would not get angry and satisfy them. And
then it seemed as if Victor suddenly cared more for her, and she half
unconsciously did some of the things he suggested. She did not know
that Laverne had said to him, "Oh, you ought to do the things that
please her, and then she will love you. I wish I had a sister."

She wondered a little whom she would want her like? It was a serious
matter to have a sister who would be with one continually. She was
used to Miss Holmes, and that was more like--well, like an aunt.
Sometimes she tried to think of her mother, but the remembrance was
vague. She could seem to see her old grandmother much easier, fretting
and scolding.

Victor was glad and proud that she had found a way to all their
hearts.

There were Christmas and New Year's with all their gayety. And in a
month spring, that had run away from the tropics.

"It goes on too fast," she said to Uncle Jason. "And do you see how I
am growing? Miss Holmes says something has to be done to my frocks all
the time. I don't want to be big and grown up."

He studied her in amazement. He did not want her to be big and grown
up either. These years were so satisfying.




CHAPTER XIII

BALDER THE BEAUTIFUL


They were planning at the school for a May Celebration. They would go
clear up the bay in a boat to San Pablo, and have a picnic and a dance
out of doors, and come home in the moonlight.

So it was a little late, and Bruno stood watching out for her. "Good
old fellow!" she said, with a pat. Miss Holmes had a visitor, she saw
through the open window. She went round by the kitchen.

Bruno tugged at her skirt.

"What is it, Bruno?"

His eyes had a sorrowful look, she thought. "What is it, what do you
want?"

He tugged again at her skirt.

"Well, come on. Though I've stacks of lessons to learn. Look at all
those books."

She dropped them on the step, and followed the dog. Up the winding
path, and now there was water enough for a musical trickle over the
stones.

There was Balder's basin, where he was so fond of disporting himself
after the rains filled it up. Oh, what was that lying on the side,
that still white thing glistening in the sunshine!

"Bruno?" She stamped her foot and looked upbraidingly at him. Had he
been playing roughly with her pet? Oh, what was the meaning of these
blood-stained feathers about his neck! She flung herself down beside
him. The eyes were dull and partly closed. She stroked the white
feathers with tender hands.

"Bruno, I shall never love you again, never! Oh, how could you!"

He took a few steps away. Then he dragged some tumbled gray thing to
her feet. Why, that was a fox, with his bushy tail. They had been
hunted a good deal and were giving civilization a rather wide berth.

She looked at the dog, who told the story with his eyes as he glanced
from one to the other. She reached up and put her arms about his neck.

"Oh, Bruno, I'm sorry I blamed you. I thought perhaps you were a
little rough, but you cared so for my beautiful Balder that I might
have known you couldn't hurt him! And that wicked, wretched fox! Well,
I am glad he has his deserts. But that will not bring back my dear
Balder. Oh, have you gone to join the old heroes in Valhalla? For I
can't think you were just a common bird. You would have gone back to
your kind if you had been. I ought to write a lament for you."

Pablo was coming up the road with a back load of brush. But he dropped
it in dismay as she called.

Bruno pawed the fox, then gave it a push, and glanced up at Pablo.

"You see--the fox must have crept up here, and seized my dear Balder
by the neck and killed him. And Bruno made him pay for it."

When Pablo was deeply moved or amazed, he went back to his Mexican
patois, that Bruno had come to understand very well, and nodded
sagaciously.

"The thief! The murderer! Last year, you know, your uncle and I shot
two of the bloody thieves over the ridge there, and I've not seen one
since. Bruno seized him by the throat, and has torn him well. Look at
the brush--why, a lady could put it on her tippet. And the skin--I'll
have that. We'll throw him out to feed the hawks. Oh, the poor gull!
He was like folks, Missy, you had all trained him so much. Oh, don't
cry so, Missy."

Bruno came up and rubbed her shoulder, licked her hand, and gave a
low, mournful lament of sympathy.

Laverne rose and took the dead bird in her arms. The visitor had gone,
and Miss Holmes stood out by the door, wondering. The procession took
their way thither.

"The mean, sneaking brute, that he should have come just when I had
gone. The bird was so fond of paddling round there. Strange that he
never wanted to go with his kind, but most things want to keep by you,
Missy."

They told the sad story over. Laverne laid the gull down tenderly on a
bit of matting.

"Pablo, will you wash his neck and have him all clean and white?"

"My dear," Miss Holmes said, and clasped the child in her arms,
letting her cry out her sorrow. She and Bruno went down to meet Uncle
Jason presently. No grief, hardly a disappointment, had come near her
until now. How could he comfort his darling? And he felt with Pablo
that the bird had been almost human.

"I wonder," he said in the evening, "if you would like to have him
mounted. There's an old Frenchman down in Rincon Street who does this
to perfection. The birds look alive."

Laverne considered. "No, I believe I would rather have him buried. I
should think how the sly fox crept up and dragged him out before he
could turn to defend himself. We will put him in a box and bury him.
Oh, Balder, I shall miss you so much."

"I think I could capture one easily."

"To be sure you could. They're stupid things," subjoined Pablo.

"But he wasn't. Uncle Jason, I think some wicked fairy changed him
from something else, for he used to look at times as if he had a story
in his eyes. No, I don't want another. And I should always be afraid
of a fox."

He snuggled her up with his arm close about her. So they sat until the
stars came out, twinkling like live spirits in the cloudless blue. It
was warm, with all manner of odors in the air, and the hum of the
city, lying below them, came up faintly. Oh, how he loved her. And he
prayed there might never come any deeper sorrow to touch her tender
heart.

Pablo dug a grave the next morning, and they buried Balder the
beautiful. All day she dreamed of the Norse gods, and of Hermod, who
took the journey to the barred gates of Hell, at Frigga's earnest
persuasion, and how every rock, and tree and all living things wept
for him, except one old hag, sitting in the mouth of a cavern, who
refused because she hated him, and so Balder could not return. She was
a little absent, and missed two or three questions, and Miss Bain
asked her if her head ached, she made such an effort to keep the tears
from her eyes.

So Balder slept under a straight young pine near the little lake they
had made for him. Pablo skinned the fox with great zest, and made of
it a fine rug, with a strip of black bearskin for a border.

She wondered whether she ought to feel merry enough to go on the May
party. But the children insisted. The boat was a fine strong one, and
there really was no danger; Uncle Jason was assured of that. Then it
was such a glorious day. There was a fog early in the morning, and the
fight between the golden arrows of the sun and the gray armor that
came up out of the sea. Sometimes it did conquer, and came over the
city, but this morning it was pierced here and there, and then torn to
tatters, driven out beyond the strait, into the ocean.

Miss Bain took supervision of her scholars, and Miss Holmes had many
charges not to let the little girl out of her sight a moment. There
were a number of schools, but some of the children preferred the May
walk, and the treat afterward. They started off with flags flying, and
the young Geary Band had volunteered their services. There were a
drum, two fifes, a cornet, and a French horn, and the boys began with
the stirring patriotic tunes. But even here the old negro melodies had
found their way, many of them pathetic reminders of the cotton fields
of the South, that seemed to gain melody from the stretch of bay.

They passed Fort Point and Alcatraz Island, where the government was
beginning magnificent defences, its high point looming up grandly.
Angel Island, then almost covered with a forest of oak, yet oddly
enough containing a fine quarry, where laborers were at work, hewing
into the rock, almost under the shadow of the waving trees. Yerba
Buena, with its fragrant odors blown about by the wind, smaller
islands, big rocks rising out of the sea, the inhabitants being
chiefly birds; vessels of nearly every description, and intent mostly
upon trade, plied hither and thither. Here was another strait opening
into San Pablo Bay, into which emptied creeks and rivers, the
Sacramento washing down golden sands; and the San Joaquin. And up
there was the wonderful land where the Argonauts were searching for
treasure with less toil and anxiety than the elder Jason, though here,
too, there were treachery and murder.

Almost by the strait there was a beautiful point of land jutting out
in the water, and nearly covered with magnificent trees, that had
grown so close together that the branches interlaced and made arches,
while underneath were aisles, carpeted with fallen leaves and moss,
that made you feel as if you were walking over velvet. You could see
San Raphael and San Quentin, and the mountain range with the one high
peak, as you looked westward; eastward there was, after the woodland,
meadows of richest verdure, with their thousand blooms nodding gayly
to each other, and softly gossiping, perhaps about these strange
newcomers, who were presently to disturb their long, long
possessorship. There the great, grand Sierras, that looked so near in
the marvellously clear air.

They found a choice spot, and built a fire--it would not have been a
picnic without that. There were boys, of course, though a girl was
restricted to a brother or cousin. I fancy some cousins were smuggled
in. They ran about; they were even young enough to play "tag," and
"blind man in a ring," and "fox and geese," which was the greatest fun
of all. Then they spread out their tablecloths on a level space, and
though real paper plates and thin wooden ones had not come in yet,
they had made some for themselves that answered the purpose. They were
merry enough with jests and laughter.

Olive Personette was quite the heroine of the day. Miss Isabel's
engagement to Captain Gilbert, who had been appointed to take some
charge at Alcatraz, and had come of an old Californian family, beside
being educated at West Point, was still a topic of interest, because
there had been two other aspirants for her hand who had quarrelled and
fought a duel, which was quite an ordinary matter in those days,
though frowned upon by the best people. So neither had won her heart.
One was lying in the hospital, the other had fled northward. But it
had made quite a stir.

Of course, she had asked Victor, importuned him, though he had meant
all the time to come. He was a fine, manly fellow now, and the girls
did flock about him. He had such a grave, courteous manner, and
never descended into rudeness, though he was quick enough at fun, and
it does not need an intricate order of wit to amuse before one is
twenty.

Olive picked out the most prominent girls for him, and kept him busy
enough. But he managed now and then to pass Laverne and say a word to
show that she was in his mind.

"I think Isola wanted to come very much," he announced to her once.
"She's taking such an interest in the pleasures that girls have, and
she has grown stronger. Father is planning some day to take a sail all
around the bay, just a little party of us, and we want you and Miss
Holmes."

That was such a delight. She did not refuse to talk to other boys, but
she liked the girls better. Her rather secluded life had not given her
so much interest in hunting and fishing and ball-playing and
