go home. Moreover, he carefully avoided passing in front of the
booth lest Maria should think that he was watching her, and he went
off to another part of the Kermess.

Meanwhile the old gentleman drank his lemonade, and it chanced that
no other customer was at the counter when Castiglione reached it
and took off his hat. He was a square-shouldered man of thirty or
a little less, with short and thick brown hair and a rather heavy
moustache, such as is often affected by cavalrymen; his healthy,
sunburnt face made his rather hard eyes look very blue, and the
well-shaped aquiline nose of the martial type, with the solid
square jaw, conveyed the impression that he was a born fighting
man, easily roused and soon dangerous, somewhat lawless and violent
by nature, but brave and straightforward.

He took off his hat and bowed as he came up, neither stiffly nor at
all familiarly, but precisely as he would have bowed to ninety-nine
women out of a hundred whom he knew. He did not put out his hand,
and he did not speak for a moment, apparently meaning to give Maria
a chance to say something.

Her hand was no longer shaking now, but the warmth had not come
back to her face, and when she slowly looked up and met the man’s
eyes her own were coldly resentful. She did not speak; she merely
met his look steadily, by an effort of will which he was far from
understanding at the moment.

‘I have left Milan on a fortnight’s leave,’ he said quietly. ‘Will
you let me come and see you?’

‘Certainly not.’

The decided answer was given in a voice as calm as his own, but
the tone would have convinced most men that there was to be no
appeal from the direct refusal. Castiglione’s features hardened and
his jaw seemed more square than ever. There was a look of brutal
strength in his face at that moment, though his voice was gentle
when he spoke.

‘Have you never thought of forgiving me?’ he asked.

‘I have prayed that I might.’ Maria fixed her eyes fearlessly on
his.

‘But your prayer has not been answered, I suppose,’ he said, with
some contempt, and with an evident lack of belief in the efficacy
of prayer in general.

‘No,’ Maria answered. ‘God has not yet granted what I ask every
day.’

Castiglione looked at her still. It was strange that the face of
such a man should be capable of many shades of expression, so
subtle that only a portrait painter of genius could have defined
them and reproduced any one of them, while most men would hardly
have noticed them all. Yet every woman with whom he talked felt
that his face often said more than his words.

The keen blue light in his eyes softened at Maria’s simple answer
to his contemptuous speech; the strength was in his face still, but
without the brutality. She saw, and remembered why she had loved
him too well, and when he spoke she turned away lest she should
remember more.

‘I beg your pardon for what I said. I am sorry. Please forgive me.’

‘Yes,’ she answered, ‘I can forgive that, for you did not mean it.’

She looked behind her, for she had been expecting Oderisio to come
back at any moment. The booth was so small that she could lift the
curtain without leaving the counter. She looked under it and saw
that Oderisio was gone, and she guessed that he knew something and
had seen Castiglione coming; instead of being grateful to him for
leaving her, she at first resented his going away and bit her lip;
for she was a very womanly woman, and every woman is annoyed that
any man should know any secret of hers which she has not told him.
But later, when she was thinking over what had happened, she felt
that Oderisio had done what a gentleman should, according to his
lights; for he must have known that the two had not seen each other
for years, and that such a meeting could hardly take place without
some show of feeling on one side or the other.

Castiglione thanked her gently for her answer, and was going to say
more, but she interrupted him, and suddenly began to busy herself
with a lemon and a glass.

‘I am making you a lemonade,’ she said in a low voice. ‘There are
some people we know coming to the booth. Do not turn round to look.’

The new-comers were two rather young women and a man who was not
the husband of either. Castiglione knew them too, as Maria was well
aware, and she would not have let them find him there, talking to
her, without so much as a lemonade for an excuse.

But the necessity for the small artifice, the low tone in which she
had been obliged to speak, and, above all, the close connection of
that necessity with the past, had slightly changed the situation.

‘I shall go to your house to-morrow at three o’clock,’ said
Castiglione in a tone which the approaching party could not
possibly have heard. ‘Not much sugar, if you please,’ he added very
audibly and without pausing a second.

Again she bit her lip a little, and she drew a short breath which
he heard, and she shook her head, but it was impossible to answer
him otherwise, for the three new-comers were close to the booth,
and a moment later they were greeting her and Castiglione. The man
was one of the now numerous Saracinesca tribe, a married son of
the gigantic old Marchese di San Giacinto, who was still alive,
and who had married Flavia Montevarchi nearly forty years earlier.
His companions were the Marchesa di Parenzo, the Roman wife of
a gentleman of Bologna, and Donna Teresa Crescenzi, whose wild
husband had been killed in a motor-car accident at last, and who
was supposed to be looking for another. The Marchesa di Parenzo
was Maria Montalto’s most faithful friend, and Donna Teresa was one
of the most accomplished gossips in Rome.

An accomplished gossip is one who tells stories which sound as if
they might be true. This kind is very dangerous.

Neither of these two ladies knew all the truth about Maria and
Castiglione; the difference between them was that the Marchesa
never talked of the story, whereas Donna Teresa had concocted a
tale which she repeated at intervals in the course of years, with
constantly increasing precision of detail and dramatic sequence,
till society had almost accepted it as an accurate account of what
had taken place.

In actual fact there was not a word of truth in it, except that
Maria and Castiglione had loved each other dearly. Donna Teresa was
a tolerably good-natured woman on the whole, however, and her story
gave Maria credit for the most splendid self-sacrifice and the most
saintly life; it represented Baldassare del Castiglione as a hero
worthy of his knightly ancestor and a perfect Galahad, so far as
Maria was concerned; and it threw every particle of the blame on
Montalto, who had left his wife to go and live in Spain, and was
therefore permanently enrolled amongst those absent friends whose
healths are drunk at family gatherings with a secret prayer that
they may remain absent for ever, and whose characters may be torn
to rags and tatters with perfect safety.

Donna Teresa had reached the point of believing her own story.
She said she had been present at almost every crisis in the two
years’ drama which had so completely separated three people that
they apparently meant never to set eyes on one another again; she
had consoled the lovers, she had inspired them with courage to
sacrifice themselves, and had metaphorically dried their scalding
tears; and she had spoken her mind to that monster of brutality,
the Count of Montalto. In fact, she had contributed to his
determination to go away for ever and to leave his poor young wife
to bring up his son in peace.

Maria knew Donna Teresa’s story well, for her friend Giuliana
Parenzo had told it to her; and as Maria was in no way called upon
to make a public denial of it, she simply said nothing and was
grateful to the gossip for treating her so kindly. Giuliana was not
curious, and if she rightly guessed some part of the secret which
her friend had never told her, she would not for worlds have asked
her a question.

The three new-comers were all in the best possible humour, and the
ladies wore perfectly new spring frocks of the very becoming model
that was in fashion that spring; the one was of the palest grey and
the other of the softest dove-colour. Giuliana was a dark woman
with a quiet face; Teresa Crescenzi was very fair, fairer, perhaps,
than all probability, and when she was excited she screamed.

‘Dear Maria!’ she cried in a high key, after the first words of
greeting. ‘You are quite adorable in that costume! The Princess
Campodonico was saying just now that it is a real pleasure to see
you in colours at last. Maria has worn nothing but black and grey
for seven years,’ added the lively lady, turning to Castiglione.

‘We all are dying of thirst,’ said Giuliana, seeing the look of
annoyance in her friend’s face. ‘We all want lemonade, and we all
want it at once. Won’t you let me come inside and help you?’

‘No, dear,’ answered Maria with a grateful look. ‘I really do not
need help, and you do not look at all like a Neapolitan Acquaiola
in that frock! Besides, Oderisio Boccapaduli is supposed to be my
adjutant, but he has gone off to smoke a cigarette.’

She was very busy, and Donna Teresa turned to Castiglione.

‘And where in the world have you been since I met you in Florence
last year?’ she asked. ‘I thought your regiment was coming to Rome
at the beginning of the winter. I am sure you told me so.’

‘You are quite right. My old regiment came to Rome before
Christmas, but I had already exchanged into another.’

In spite of herself Maria glanced at Castiglione as he spoke, but
he was not looking at her, nor even at Donna Teresa. From the
place where the booth was situated he could see a certain clump of
ilex-trees that grow near what has always been called the Piazza di
Siena, I know not why. Maria saw that his eyes were fixed on that
point, and she shivered a little, as if she felt cold.

‘Why did you exchange?’ Donna Teresa asked, with the shameless
directness of a thoroughly inquisitive woman. ‘Did you quarrel with
your colonel, or fight a duel with a brother officer?’

Castiglione smiled and looked at her.

‘Oh, no! Nothing so serious! It was only because I was sure that
you no longer loved me, dear Teresa!’

The younger generation of Romans, who have grown up more
gregariously than their parents did, very generally call each
other by their first names. Even Giuliana laughed at Castiglione’s
answer, and Maria herself smiled quite naturally. Five minutes
earlier she would not have believed that anything could make her
smile while he stood there, and she was displeased with herself for
being amused. It was as if she had yielded a little where she meant
never to yield again.

Donna Teresa herself laughed louder than Giuliana.

‘The impertinence of the man!’ she screamed. ‘As if I did not know
that curiosity is my besetting sin, without being reminded of it in
that brutal way! I, love you, Balduccio? I detest you! You are an
odious man!’

‘You see!’ he answered. ‘I was quite right to exchange! And since
you admit that you find me odious, this is an excellent moment for
me to go away!’

He put down a gold piece on the metal counter to pay for the
lemonade which he had not drunk, for he was a poor man and could
not afford to be mean. As a matter of fact, the lemonade which
Maria had so hastily begun to make for him had been finished for
Teresa Crescenzi, but no one had noticed that, and it was all for
charity.

Donna Teresa protested that it was atrocious of him to go away,
but he was quite unmoved. He only smiled at everybody, took young
Saracinesca’s outstretched hand and lifted his hat in a vague
way to the three ladies without looking particularly at any
of them. Then he turned and went off at a leisurely pace, and
soon disappeared in the crowd. Teresa watched Maria Montalto’s
face narrowly, but she could not detect the slightest change of
expression in it, either of disappointment or of satisfaction.
Maria had recovered herself and the sweet warmth was in her pale
cheeks again.

The spring sun was low and golden, and for a few moments the pretty
scene took more colour; by some inexplicable law of nature the many
laughing voices rang more musically as the light grew richer, just
before it began to fade. It was the last day of the fair, and Maria
knew that she should never forget it.

Then the chill came that always falls just before sunset in Rome,
and the people felt it and began to hurry away. No one would ask
for another lemonade now.

Before Maria went home she put the money she had taken into a
rather shabby grey velvet bag. For a few moments she stood still,
watching the fast-diminishing crowd in the distance and the
changing light on the trunks of the pines. Then her eyes fell
unawares on the ilexes, and she started and instantly bent down her
head so as not to see them, and her hands tightened a little on
the old velvet bag she held. Without looking up again she turned
and went under the curtain to the back of the booth where her
footman was waiting with a long cloak that quite hid her pretty
costume; and she covered her head and the crimson kerchief with a
thick black lace veil, and went away towards the avenue where her
brougham was waiting.

Just before she reached it, and as if quite by accident, Oderisio
Boccapaduli came strolling by. He helped her to get in and begged
her to excuse him if he had not come back to the booth before she
had left it, adding that he had met his mother, which was quite
true, and that she had detained him, which was a stretch of his
imagination.

‘Get in with me,’ Maria answered as he stood at the open door of
the carriage. ‘If you are going away, too, I will take you into
town and drop you wherever you like.’

He thanked her and accepted the invitation with alacrity, though he
wondered why it was given. He could not have understood that she
was physically afraid to be alone with her memory just then.




CHAPTER II


Maria asked her friend Giuliana Parenzo to lunch with her the next
day. If Baldassare Castiglione came at three o’clock, and if it
seemed wiser not to refuse him the door outright, he should at
least not find her alone.

The Countess occupied one floor of a rather small house in the
broad Via San Martino, near the railway station. It was a sunny
apartment, furnished very simply but very prettily. After her
husband had left her she had declined to accept any allowance
from him and had moved out of the old palace, in which the state
apartment was now shut up, while the rest of the great building
was now occupied by a cardinal, an insurance company, and a rich
Chicago widow. Maria lived on her own fortune, which was not large,
but was enough, as she had been an only child and both her parents
were dead.

Giuliana sat on her right at the small square table, and on her
left was seated a sturdy boy over eight years old, and lately
promoted to sailor’s clothes. Why are all boys now supposed to go
to sea between six and eight or nine, or even until ten and twelve?

Leone was a handsome child. He had thick brown hair and a fair
complexion; his bright blue eyes flashed when he was in a rage,
as he frequently was, and his jaw was already square and strong.
Maria was the only person who could manage him, and was apparently
the only one to whom he could become attached. He behaved very
well with Giuliana Parenzo; but though she did her best to make
him fond of her, she was quite well aware that she never succeeded
in obtaining anything more from him than a kind of amusing boyish
civility and polite toleration. As for nurses, he had made the
lives of several of them so miserable that they would not stay in
the house, and Maria had now emancipated him from women, greatly
to his delight. He submitted with a tolerably good grace to being
dressed and taken to walk by a faithful old man-servant who had
been with Maria’s father before she had been born. He was not
what is commonly known as a ‘naughty boy’; he spoke the truth
fearlessly, and did not seek delight in torturing animals or
insects; but his independence and his power of resistance, passive
and active, were amazing for such a small boy, and he seemed not to
understand what danger was. Maria did not remember that he had ever
cried, either, even when he was in arms. Altogether, at the age of
eight, Leone di Montalto was a personage with whom it was necessary
to reckon.

Maria knew that she loved him almost to the verge of weakness, but
she would not have been the woman she was if she had been carried
beyond that limit. He was all she had left in life, and so far
as lay in her she meant that he should be a Christian gentleman.
Nature seemed to have made him without fear; and Maria would have
him reach a man’s estate without reproach. It was not going to be
easy, but she was determined to succeed. It was the least she could
do to atone for her one great fault.

Without reproach he should grow up, for his very being was a
reproach to her. That was the bitterest thing in her lonely
existence, that the sight of what she loved best, and in the best
way, should always remind her of the blot in her own life, of
that moment of half-consenting weakness when she had been at the
mercy of a desperate, daring, ruthless man whom she could not help
loving. It was cruel that her only great consolation, the one
living creature on whom she had a right to bestow every care and
thought of her loving heart, should for ever call up the vision of
her one and only real sin.

There were moments when the mother’s devotion to her child felt
like a real temptation, when she asked herself in self-torment
whether it was all for the boy alone, or whether some part of it
was not for that which should never be, for what she had fought so
hard to thrust out of her heart since the day when she had married
Montalto, seven years ago. For she had loved Castiglione even
then, and before that, when she had been barely seventeen and he
but twenty, and they had danced together one autumn evening at the
Villa Montalto, at a sort of party that had not been considered
a real party, and to which her mother had taken her because she
wished to go to it herself, or perhaps because she wanted Montalto
to see her pretty daughter and fall in love with her before she
was out of the schoolroom.

And that was what had happened. It had all been fated from the
first. On that very night Montalto fell in love with her, and she
with Baldassare del Castiglione, whom she had called Balduccio,
and who had called her Maria, ever since they had known each other
as little children. On that night she had felt that he was a man,
and no longer a boy. It was the first time she had seen him in his
new officer’s uniform, for it was not a week since he had got his
commission. But she had hardly known Montalto, who had been brought
up much more in Spain and Belgium than in Rome, because his mother
was Spanish and his father had been a block of the old school, who
feared the (godless) education of modern Italy.

Giuliana Parenzo was a year or two older than Maria, and the latter
had felt for her the boundless admiration which very young girls
sometimes have for those slightly older ones in whom they see their
ideals. Giuliana had been a thoroughly good girl, had married
happily, was a thoroughly good wife, and was the conscientious
mother of five children; but she was very far from being the
saintly heroine her friend’s imagination had made of her.

She was morally lucky. Without in the least depreciating the
intrinsic value of her virtue, it is quite fair to ask what she
might have done if she had ever been placed in the same situation
as her friend. But this never happened to her, though she was
apparently not without those gifts and qualities that suggest
enterprise on the part of admirers. She had been a very pretty
girl, and in spite of much uneventful happiness and five children
she was considered to be a beautiful woman at nine-and-twenty; and,
moreover, she was extremely smart. In looks she was not at all like
a rigid Roman matron.

But temptation had not come her way; it had passed by on the other
side, and she could hardly understand how it could exist for
others, since it certainly had never existed for her. There are
people who go through life without accidents; they cross the ocean
in utterly rotten steamers without knowing of the danger, they
travel in the last train that runs before the one that is wrecked,
they go out in high-speed motors with rash amateur chauffeurs who
are killed the very next day, they leave the doomed city on the eve
of the great earthquake, and the theatre five minutes before the
fire breaks out.

Similarly, there are women who are morally so lucky that an
accident to their souls is almost an impossibility. Giuliana
Parenzo was one of them, and Maria’s affection gave her credit for
strength because she had never faced a storm. Not that it mattered
much, after all. The important thing was that Maria, even at the
worst crisis of her young life, had always looked upon her spotless
friend as her guide and her ideal. Yet there had been a time when
it would have been only too easy for her to look another way.

To-day Maria had turned to Giuliana naturally in her difficulty. It
was hardly a trouble yet, but Castiglione’s return and his intended
visit were the first incidents that had disturbed her outwardly
peaceful life in all the seven years that had passed since her
husband had left Rome. The rest had been within her.

It would not last long. Castiglione had said that he had only a
fortnight’s leave, and with the most moderate desire to avoid him,
she need not meet him more than two or three times while he was in
Rome. To refuse to receive him once would perhaps look to him like
fear or weakness, and she believed that she was strong and brave;
yet she did not wish to see him alone, not because she was afraid
of him, but because to be alone with him a few moments, even as she
had been yesterday afternoon, brought the past too near, and it
hurt her.

Giuliana often lunched with her friend, and was far from suspecting
that she had been asked for a special reason to-day. The two talked
of indifferent matters, much as usual, and presently went into the
drawing-room. It was warm already, and the blinds were closed to
keep out the blazing sunlight and the reflection from the white
street. The friends sat near each other, exchanging a few words
now and then, and both were preoccupied, which hindered each from
noticing that the other was so.

Leone knelt on a chair at the window looking down into the street
between the slits of the green blinds.

‘Summer is coming!’ he suddenly called out, turning to look at his
mother.

‘Yes,’ she answered, smiling at him merely because he spoke. ‘It
will come soon.’

‘But do you know why? There are two bersaglieri in linen trousers.’

‘Yes, dear. They have probably been drilling.’

‘No,’ answered the small boy. ‘They have no knapsacks and no
rifles, and they are not dusty. It is because summer is coming that
they wear linen trousers. I can’t see them any more. They walk so
fast, you know. When shall I be a bersagliere, mama?’

‘Would you not rather be a sailor?’ asked Giuliana.

‘Oh, no!’ Leone laughed. ‘A sailor? To sit inside an iron box
and shoot off guns at other iron boxes? That’s not fighting! But
the bersaglieri, they charge the enemy and kill them with their
bayonets. And sometimes they are killed themselves. But that
doesn’t matter, for they have had the glory!’

‘What glory?’ inquired Maria, watching the small boy’s flashing
eyes.

‘They kill the enemies of Italy,’ he answered. ‘That’s glory!’

He turned to look through the blinds again, doubtless in the hope
of seeing more soldiers.

‘Your son certainly has a warlike disposition, my dear,’ laughed
Giuliana.

But Maria did not laugh; on the contrary, she looked rather grave.

‘All boys want to be soldiers,’ she answered. ‘I’m sure yours do,
too!’

‘No,’ said Giuliana, rising. ‘My boys are almost too peaceable! I
sometimes wish they had more of Leone’s spirit!’

Maria looked at her thoughtfully, thinking at first of what she had
said, but suddenly realised that she had left her seat.

‘You are not going already?’ Maria cried in real anxiety.

‘Yes, dear, I must. It’s a quarter past two, and I have to allow
five minutes for driving to the Quirinal.’

‘You did not tell me that you had an audience to-day,’ said Maria,
deeply disappointed. ‘I’m so sorry! I had hoped you would stay with
me, and that we might go out together by and by. How long shall you
be there? Can you not come directly back?’
