"It is no trouble," she said, flushing slightly. "I hope you will be
comfortable."

And she continued to descend the stairs a trifle more hastily, not
quite sure she cared very much to talk to that kind of man.

                 

In the spare bedroom, whither Stull and Brandes had been conducted,
the latter was seated on the big and rather shaky maple bed, buttoning
a fresh shirt and collar, while Stull took his turn at the basin. Rain
beat heavily on the windows.

"Say, Ben," remarked Brandes, "you want to be careful when we go
downstairs that the old guy don't spot us for sporting men. He's a
minister, or something."

Stull lifted his dripping face of a circus clown from the basin.

"What's that?"

"I say we don't want to give the old people a shock. You know what
they'd think of us."

"What do I care what they think?"

"Can't you be polite?"

"I can be better than that; I can be honest," said Stull, drying his
sour visage with a flimsy towel.

After Brandes had tied his polka-dotted tie carefully before the
blurred mirror:

"What do you mean by that?" he asked stolidly.

"Ah--I know what I mean, Eddie. So do you. You're a smooth talker, all
right. You can listen and look wise, too, when there's anything in it
for you. Just see the way you got Stein to put up good money for you!
And all you done was to listen to him and keep your mouth shut."

Brandes rose with an air almost jocular and smote Stull upon the
back.

"Stein thinks he's the greatest manager on earth. Let him tell you so
if you want anything out of him," he said, walking to the window.

The volleys of rain splashing on the panes obscured the outlook;
Brandes flattened his nose against the glass and stood as though lost
in thought.

Behind him Stull dried his features, rummaged in the suitcase,
produced a bathrobe and slippers, put them on, and stretched himself
out on the bed.

"Aren't you coming down to buzz the preacher?" demanded Brandes,
turning from the drenched window.

"So you can talk phony to the little kid? No."

"Ah, get it out of your head that I mean phony."

"Well, what do you mean?"

"Nothing."

Stull gave him a contemptuous glance and turned over on the pillow.

"Are you coming down?"

"No."

So Brandes took another survey of himself in the glass, used his comb
and brushes again, added a studied twist to his tie, shot his cuffs,
and walked out of the room with the solid deliberation which
characterised his carriage at all times.




CHAPTER VI

THE END OF SOLITUDE


A rain-washed world, smelling sweet as a wet rose, a cloudless sky
delicately blue, and a swollen stream tumbling and foaming under the
bridge--of these Mr. Eddie Brandes was agreeably conscious as he
stepped out on the verandah after breakfast, and, unclasping a large
gold cigar case, inserted a cigar between his teeth.

He always had the appearance of having just come out of a Broadway
barber shop with the visible traces of shave, shampoo, massage, and
manicure patent upon his person.

His short, square figure was clothed in well-cut blue serge; a smart
straw hat embellished his head, polished russet shoes his remarkably
small feet. On his small fat fingers several heavy rings were
conspicuous. And the odour of cologne exhaled from and subtly pervaded
the ensemble.

Across the road, hub-deep in wet grass and weeds, he could see his
wrecked runabout, glistening with raindrops.

He stood for a while on the verandah, both hands shoved deep into his
pockets, his cigar screwed into his cheek. From time to time he
jingled keys and loose coins in his pockets. Finally he sauntered down
the steps and across the wet road to inspect the machine at closer
view.

Contemplating it tranquilly, head on one side and his left eye closed
to avoid the drifting cigar smoke, he presently became aware of a
girl in a pink print dress leaning over the grey parapet of the
bridge. And, picking his way among the puddles, he went toward her.

"Good morning, Miss Carew," he said, taking off his straw hat.

She turned her head over her shoulder; the early sun glistened on his
shiny, carefully parted hair and lingered in glory on a diamond scarf
pin.

"Good morning," she said, a little uncertainly, for the memory of
their first meeting on the bridge had not entirely been forgotten.

"You had breakfast early," he said.

"Yes."

He kept his hat off; such little courtesies have their effect; also it
was good for his hair which, he feared, had become a trifle thinner
recently.

"It is beautiful weather," said Mr. Brandes, squinting at her through
his cigar smoke.

"Yes." She looked down into the tumbling water.

"This is a beautiful country, isn't it, Miss Carew?"

"Yes."

With his head a little on one side he inspected her. There was only
the fine curve of her cheek visible, and a white neck under the
chestnut hair; and one slim, tanned hand resting on the stone
parapet.

"Do you like motoring?" he asked.

She looked up:

"Yes.... I have only been out a few times."

"I'll have another car up here in a few days. I'd like to take you
out."

She was silent.

"Ever go to Saratoga?" he inquired.

"No."

"I'll take you to the races--with your mother. Would you like to go?"

She remained silent so long that he became a trifle uneasy.

"With your mother," he repeated, moving so he could see a little more
of her face.

"I don't think mother would go," she said.

"Would she let you go?"

"I don't think so."

"There's nothing wrong with racing," he said, "if you don't bet money
on the horses."

But Rue knew nothing about sport, and her ignorance as well as the
suggested combination of Saratoga, automobile, and horse racing left
her silent again.

Brandes sat down on the parapet of the bridge and held his straw hat
on his fat knees.

"Then we'll make it a family party," he said, "your father and mother
and you, shall we? And we'll just go off for the day."

"Thank you."

"Would you like it?"

"Yes."

"Will you go?"

"I--work in the mill."

"Every day?"

"Yes."

"How about Sunday?"

"We go to church.... I don't know.... Perhaps we might go in the
afternoon."

"I'll ask your father," he said, watching the delicately flushed face
with odd, almost sluggish persistency.

His grey-green eyes seemed hypnotised; he appeared unable to turn them
elsewhere; and she, gradually becoming conscious of his scrutiny,
kept her own eyes averted.

"What were you looking at in the water?" he asked.

"I was looking for our boat. It isn't there. I'm afraid it has gone
over the dam."

"I'll help you search for it," he said, "when I come back from the
village. I'm going to walk over and find somebody who'll cart that
runabout to the railroad station.... You're not going that way, are
you?" he added, rising.

"No."

"Then----" he lifted his hat high and put it on with care--"until a
little later, Miss Carew.... And I want to apologise for speaking so
familiarly to you yesterday. I'm sorry. It's a way we get into in New
York. Broadway isn't good for a man's manners.... Will you forgive me,
Miss Carew?"

Embarrassment kept her silent; she nodded her head, and finally turned
and looked at him. His smile was agreeable.

She smiled faintly, too, and rose.

"Until later, then," he said. "This is the Gayfield road, isn't it?"

"Yes."

She turned and walked toward the house; and as though he could not
help himself he walked beside her, his hat in his hand once more.

"I like this place," he said. "I wonder if there is a hotel in
Gayfield."

"The Gayfield House."

"Is it very bad?" he asked jocosely.

She seemed surprised. It was considered good, she thought.

With a slight, silent nod of dismissal she crossed the road and went
into the house, leaving him standing beside his wrecked machine once
more, looking after her out of sluggish eyes.

Presently, from the house, emerged Stull, his pasty face startling in
its pallor under the cloudless sky, and walked slowly over to
Brandes.

"Well, Ben," said the latter pleasantly, "I'm going to Gayfield to
telegraph for another car."

"How soon can they get one up?" inquired Stull, inserting a large
cigar into his slitted mouth and lighting it.

"Oh, in a couple of days, I guess. I don't know. I don't care much,
either."

"We can go on to Saratoga by train," suggested Stull complacently.

"We can stay here, too."

"What for?"

Brandes said in his tight-lipped, even voice:

"The fishing's good. I guess I'll try it." He continued to contemplate
the machine, but Stull's black eyes were turned on him intently.

"How about the races?" he asked. "Do we go or not?"

"Certainly."

"When?"

"When they send us a car to go in."

"Isn't the train good enough?"

"The fishing here is better."

Stull's pasty visage turned sourer:

"Do you mean we lose a couple of days in this God-forsaken dump
because you'd rather go to Saratoga in a runabout than in a train?"

"I tell you I'm going to stick around for a while."

"For how long?"

"Oh, I don't know. When we get our car we can talk it over and----"

"Ah," ejaculated Stull in disgust, "what the hell's the matter with
you? Is it that little skirt you was buzzing out here like you never
seen one before?"

"How did you guess, Ben?" returned Brandes with the almost
expressionless jocularity that characterised him at times.

"That little red-headed, spindling, freckled, milk-fed
mill-hand----"

"Funny, ain't it? But there's no telling what will catch the tired
business man, is there, Ben?"

"Well, what does catch him?" demanded Stull angrily. "What's the
answer?"

"I guess she's the answer, Ben."

"Ah, leave the kid alone----"

"I'm going to have the car sent up here. I'm going to take her out. Go
on to Saratoga if you want to. I'll meet you there----"

"When?"

"When I'm ready," replied Brandes evenly. But he smiled.

Stull looked at him, and his white face, soured by dyspepsia, became
sullen with wrath. At such times, too, his grammar suffered from
indigestion.

"Say, Eddie," he began, "can't no one learn you nothin' at all? How
many times would you have been better off if you'd listened to me?
Every time you throw me you hand yourself one. Now that you got a
little money again and a little backing, don't do anything like
that----"

"Like what?"

"Like chasin' dames! Don't act foolish like you done in Chicago last
summer! You wouldn't listen to me then, would you? And that Denver
business, too! Say, look at all the foolish things you done against
all I could say to save you--like backing that cowboy plug against
Battling Jensen!--Like taking that big hunk o' beef, Walstein, to San
Antonio, where Kid O'Rourke put him out in the first! And everybody's
laughing at you yet! Ah----" he exclaimed angrily, "somebody tell me
why I don't quit you, you big dill pickle! I wish someone would tell
me why I stand for you, because I don't know.... And look what you're
doing now; you got some money of your own and plenty of syndicate
money to put on the races and a big comish! You got a good theayter in
town with Morris Stein to back you and everything--and look what
you're doing!" he ended bitterly.

Brandes tightened his dental grip on his cigar and squinted at him
good-humouredly.

"Say, Ben," he said, "would you believe it if I told you I'm stuck on
her?"

"Ah, you'd fall for anything. I never seen a skirt you wouldn't
chase."

"I don't mean that kind."

"What kind, then?"

"This is on the level, Ben."

"What! Ah, go on! You on the level?"

"All the same, I am."

"You can't be on the level! You don't know how."

"Why?"

"You got a wife, and you know damn well you have."

"Yes, and she's getting her divorce."

Stull regarded him with habitual and sullen distrust.

"She hasn't got it yet."

"She'll get it. Don't worry."

"I thought you was for fighting it."

"I was going to fight it; but----" His slow, narrow, greenish eyes
stole toward the house across the road.

"Just like that," he said, after a slight pause; "that's the way the
little girl hit me. I'm on the level, Ben. First skirt I ever saw that
I wanted to find waiting dinner for me when I come home. Get me?"

"I don't know whether I do or not."

"Get this, then; she isn't all over paint; she's got freckles, thank
God, and she smells sweet as a daisy field. Ah, what the hell----" he
burst out between his parted teeth "--when every woman in New York
smells like a chorus girl! Don't I get it all day? The whole city
stinks like a star's dressing room. And I married one! And I'm
through. I want to get my breath and I'm getting it."

Stull's white features betrayed merely the morbid suffering of
indigestion; he said nothing and sucked his cigar.

"I'm through," repeated Brandes. "I want a home and a wife--the kind
that even a fly cop won't pinch on sight--the kind of little thing
that's over there in that old shack. Whatever I am, I don't want a
wife like me--nor kids, either."

Stull remained sullenly unresponsive.

"Call her a hick if you like. All right, I want that kind."

No comment from Stull, who was looking at the wrecked car.

"Understand, Ben?"

"I tell you I don't know whether I do or not!"

"Well, what don't you understand?"

"Nothin'.... Well, then, your falling for a kid like that, first crack
out o' the box. I'm honest; I don't understand it."

"She hit me that way--so help me God!"

"And you're on the level?"

"Absolutely, Ben."

"What about the old guy and the mother? Take 'em to live with you?"

"If she wants 'em."

Stull stared at him in uneasy astonishment:

"All right, Eddie. Only don't act foolish till Minna passes you up.
And get out of here or you will. If you're on the level, as you say
you are, you've got to mark time for a good long while yet----"

"Why?"

"You don't have to ask me that, do you?"

"Yes, I do. Why? I want to marry her, I tell you. I mean to. I'm
taking no chances that some hick will do it while I'm away. I'm going
to stay right here."

"And when the new car comes?"

"I'll keep her humming between here and Saratoga."

"And then what?"

Brandes' greenish eyes rested on the car and he smoked in silence for
a while. Then:

"Listen, Ben. I'm a busy man. I got to be back in town and I got to
have a wedding trip too. You know me, Ben. You know what I mean.
That's me. When I do a thing I do it. Maybe I make plenty of mistakes.
Hell! I'd rather make 'em than sit pat and do nothing!"

"You're crazy."

"Don't bet on it, Ben. I know what I want. I'm going to make money.
Things are going big with me----"

"You tinhorn! You always say that!"

"Watch me. I bet you I make a killing at Saratoga! I bet you I make
good with Morris Stein! I bet you the first show I put on goes big! I
bet----"

"Ah, can it!"

"Wait! I bet you I marry that little girl in two weeks and she stands
for it when I tell her later we'd better get married again!"

"Say! Talk sense!"

"I am."

"What'll they do to you if your wife makes a holler?"

"Who ever heard of her or me in the East?"

"You want to take a chance like that?"

"I'll fix it. I haven't got time to wait for Minna to shake me loose.
Besides, she's in Seattle. I'll fix it so she doesn't hear until she
gets her freedom. I'll get a license right here. I guess I'll use your
name----"

"What!" yelled Stull.
