Alston, not like his sister, who had a highbred charm, something in the
way of Alston's own. Mother was different. She was of the Griswolds who
had land in Cuba and other islands, and were said to have kept slaves
there while the Choates were pouring blood into the abolitionist cause.
There was a something about mother quite different from anybody in
Addington. She conformed beautifully, but you would have felt she
understood your not conforming. She never came to grief over the
neutralities of the place, and you realised it was because she expressed
so few opinions. You might have said she had taken Addington for what it
was and exhausted it long ago. Her gaze was an absent, yet, of late
years, a placid one. She might have been dwelling upon far-off islands
which excited in her no desire to be there. She was too cognisant of
the infinite riches of time that may be supposed to make up eternity. If
she was becalmed here in Addington, some far-off day a wind would fill
her sails and she might seek the farther seas. And, like her son, she
read novels.

Alston, going home at midnight, saw the pale glimmer in her room and
knew she was at it there. He went directly upstairs and stopped at her
door, open into the hall. He was not conscious of having anything to
say. Only he did feel a curious hesitation for the moment. Here in
Addington was an Esther whom he had just met for the first time. Here
was another woman who had not one of Esther's graces, but whom he adored
because she was the most beautiful of mothers. Would she be horrified at
the little strange animal that had looked at him out of Esther's eyes?
He had never seen his mother shocked at anything. But that, he told
himself, was because she was so calm. The Woman's Club of Addington
could have told him it was because she had poise. She looked up, as he
stood in the doorway, and laid her book face downward on the bed.
Usually when he came in like this she moved the reading candle round, so
that the hood should shield his eyes. But to-night she gently turned it
toward him, and Alston did not realise that was because his fagged face
and disordered hair had made her anxious to understand the quicker what
had happened to him.

I "Sit down," she said.

And then, having fairly seen him, she did turn the hood. Alston dropped
into the chair by the bedside and looked at her. She was a plain woman,
it is true, but of heroic lines. Her iron-grey hair was brushed smoothly
back into its two braids, and her nightgown, with its tiny edge, was of
the most pronouncedly sensible cut, of high neck and long sleeves. Yet
there was nothing uncouth about her in her elderly ease of dress and
manner. She was a wholesome woman, and the heart of her son turned
pathetically to her.

"Mary gone to bed?" he asked.

"Yes," said Mrs. Choate. "She was tired. She's been rehearsing a dance
with those French girls and their class."

Alston lay back in his chair, regarding her with hot, tired eyes. He
wanted to know what she thought of a great many things: chiefly whether
a woman who had married Jeff Blake need be afraid of him. But there was
a well-defined code between his mother and himself. He was not willing
to trap her into honest answers where he couldn't put honest questions.

"Mother," said he, and didn't know why he began or indeed that he was
going to say just that at all, "do you ever wish you could run away?"

She gave the corner of the book a pat with one beautiful hand.

"I do run away," she said. "I was a good many miles from here when you
came in. And I shall be again when you are gone. Among the rogues, such
as we don't see."

"What is it?"

"Mysteries of Paris."

"That's our vice, isn't it," said Alston, "yours and mine, novel
reading?"

"You're marked with it," said she.

There was something in the quiet tone that arrested him and made him
look at her more sharply. The tone seemed to say she had not only read
novels for a long time, but she had had to read them from a grave
design. "It does very well for me," she said, "but it easily mightn't
for you. Alston, why don't you run away?"

Alston stared at her.

"Would you like to go abroad?" he asked her then, "with Mary? Would you
like me to take you?"

"Oh, no," said Mrs. Choate. "Mary wouldn't want to. She's bewitched with
those French girls. And I don't want to. I couldn't go the only way I'd
like."

"You could go any way you chose," said Alston, touched. He knew there
was a war chest, and it irked him to think his mother wouldn't have it
tapped for her.

"Oh, no," said she. "I should need to be slim and light, and put on
short petticoats and ride horses and get away from tigers. I don't want
to shoot them, but I'd rather like to get away from them."

"Mother," said Alston, "what's come over you? Is it this book?"

She laughed, in an easy good-humour.

"Books don't come over me," said she. "I believe it's that old Madame
Beattie."

"What's Madame Beattie done that any--" he paused; Esther's wrongs at
Madame Beattie's hands were too red before him--"that any lady would be
willing to do?"

"I really don't know, Alston," said his mother frankly. "It's only that
when I think of that old party going out every night--"

"Not every night."

"Well, when she likes, and getting up on a platform and telling goodness
knows what to the descendants of the oldest civilisations, and their
bringing her home on their shoulders--"

"No, no, mother, they don't do that."

"I tell you what it makes me feel, Alston: it makes me feel fat."

"Madame Beattie weighs twenty pounds more than you do, and she's not so
tall by three inches."

"And then I realise that when women say they want to vote, it isn't
because they're all piously set on saving the country. It's because
they've peeped over the fence and got an idea of the game, and they're
crazy to be in it."

"But, mother, there's no game, except a dirty one of graft and politics.
There's nothing in it."

"No," said Mrs. Choate. "There isn't in most games. But people play
them."

"You don't think Amabel is in it for the game?"

"Oh, no! Amabel's a saint. It wouldn't take more than a basket of wood
and a bunch of matches to make her a martyr."

"But, mother," said Alston, "you belong to the antis."

"Do I?" asked his mother. "Yes, I believe I do."

"Do you mean to say you're not sincere?"

"Why, yes, of course I'm sincere. So are they. Only, doesn't it occur to
you they're having just as much fun organising and stirring the pot as
if it was the other pot they were stirring? Besides they attitudinise
while they stir, and say they're womanly. And they like that, too."

"Do you think they're in it for the game?"

"No, no, Alston, not consciously. Nobody's in it for the game except
your Weedon Moores. Any more than a nice girl puts on a ribbon to trap
her lover. Only nature's behind the girl, and nature's behind the game.
She's behind all games. But as to the antis--" said Mrs. Choate
impatiently, "they've gone on putting down cards since the rules were
changed."

Alston rose and stood looking down at her. She glanced up brightly, met
his eyes and laughed.

"All is," said she, in a current phrase even cultured Addington had
caught from its "help" from the rural radius outside, "I just happened
to feel like telling you if you want to run away, you go. And if I
weighed a hundred and ten and were forty-five, I'd go with you.
Actually, I should advise you, if you're going to stay here, to stir
the pot a little now it's begun to boil so hard."

"Get into politics?" he asked, remembering Jeff.

"Maybe."

She smiled at him, pleasantly, not as a mother smiles, but an implacable
mistress of destiny. In spite of her large tolerance, there were moments
when she did speak. So she had looked when he said, as a boy, that he
shouldn't go to gymnasium, and she had told him he would. And he went.
Again, when he was in college and had fallen in with a set of
ultra-moderns and swamped himself in decoration and the beguilements of
a spurious art, he had seen that look; then she had told him the
classics were not to be neglected. Now here was the look again. Alston
began to have an uncomfortable sense that he might have to run for
office in spite of every predilection he ventured to cherish. He could
have thrown himself on the floor and bellowed to be let alone.

"But keep your head, dear," she was saying. "Keep your head. Don't let
any man--or woman either--lose it for you. That's the game, Alston,
really."

It was such a warm impetuous tone it brought them almost too suddenly
and too close together. Alston meant to kiss her, as he did almost every
night, but he awkwardly could not. He went out of the room in a shy
haste, and when he dropped off to sleep he was thinking, not of Esther,
but of his mother. Even so he did not suspect that his mother knew he
had come from Esther and how fast his blood was running.




XXVI


Jeff, writing hard on his book to tell men they were prisoners and had
to get free, was tremendously happy. He thought he saw the whole game
now, the big game these tiny issues reflected in a million mirrors. You
were given life and incalculable opportunity. But you were allowed to go
it blind. They never really interfered with you, the terrible They up
there: for he could not help believing there was an Umpire of the game,
though nobody, it seemed, was permitted to see the score until long
afterward, when the trumpery rewards had been distributed. (Some of them
were not trumpery; they were as big as the heavens and the sea.) He
found a great many things to laugh over, sane, kind laughter, in the way
the game was played there in Addington. Religion especially seemed to
him the big absurd paradox. Here were ingenuous worshippers preserving a
form of observance as primitive as the burnt-offerings before a god of
bronze or wood. They went to church and placated their god, and swore
they believed certain things the acts of their lives repudiated. They
made a festival at Christmas time and worshipped at the manger and
declared God had come to dwell among men. They honored Joseph who was
the spouse of Mary, and who was a carpenter, and on the twenty-sixth of
December they nodded with condescension to their own carpenter, if they
met him in the street, or they failed to see him at all. And their
carpenter, who was doing his level best to prevent them from grinding
the face of labour, himself ground the face of his brother carpenter if
his brother did not heartily co-operate in keeping hours down and
prices up. And everybody was behaving from the prettiest of motives;
that was the joke of it. They not only said their prayers before going
out to trip up the competitor who was lying in wait to trip up them;
they actually believed in the efficacy of the prayer. They glorified an
arch apostle of impudence who pricked bubbles for them--a modern
literary light--but they went on blowing their bubbles just the same,
and when the apostle of impudence pricked them again they only said:
"Oh, it's so amusing!" and blew more. And even the apostle of impudence
wasn't so busy pricking bubbles that he didn't have time to blow bubbles
of his own, and even he didn't know how thin and hollow his own bubbles
were, which was the reason they could float so high. He saw the sun on
them and thought they were the lanterns that lighted up the show. Jeff
believed he had discovered the clever little trick at the bottom of the
game, the trick that should give over to your grasp the right handle at
last. This was that every man, once knowing he was a prisoner, should
laugh at his fetters and break them by his own muscle.

"The trouble is," he said, at breakfast, when Mary Nellen was bringing
in the waffles, "we're all such liars."

The colonel sat there in a mild peaceableness, quite another man under
the tan of his honest intimacy with the sun. He had been up hoeing an
hour before breakfast, and helped himself to waffles liberally, while
Mary Nellen looked, with all her intellectual aspirations in her eyes,
at Jeff.

"No, no," said the colonel. He was conscious of very kindly feelings
within himself, and believed in nearly everybody but Esther. She, he
thought, might have a chance of salvation if she could be reborn,
physically hideous, into a world obtuse to her.

"Liars!" said Jeff mildly. "We're doing the things we're expected to do,
righteous or not. And we're saying the things we don't believe."

"That's nothing but kindness," said the colonel. Mary Nellen made a
pretence of business at the side table, and listened greedily. She would
take what she had gathered to the kitchen and discuss it to rags. She
found the atmosphere very stimulating. "If I asked Lydia here whether
she found my hair thin, Lydia would say she thought it beautiful hair,
wouldn't you, Lyddy? She couldn't in decency tell me I'm as bald as a
rat."

"It is beautiful," said Lydia. "It doesn't need to be thick."

Jeff had refused waffles. He thrust his hands in his pockets and leaned
back, regarding his father with a smile. The lines in his face, Lydia
thought, fascinated, were smoothed out, all but the channels in the
forehead and the cleft between his brows. That last would never go.

"I am simply," said Jeff, "so tickled I can hardly contain myself. I
have discovered something."

"What?" said Lydia.

"The world," said Jeff. "Here it is. It's mine. I can have it to play
with. It's yours. You can play, too. So can that black-eyed army Madame
Beattie has mobilised. So can she."

Anne was looking at him in a serious anxiety.

"With conditions as they are--" said she, and Jeff interrupted her
without scruple.

"That's the point. With conditions as they are, we've got to dig into
things and mine out pleasures, and shake them in the faces of the mob
and the mob will follow us."

The colonel had ceased eating waffles. His thin hand, not so delicate
now that it had learned the touch of toil, trembled a little as it held
his fork.

"Jeff," said he, "what do you want to do?"

"I want," said Jeff, "to keep this town out of the clutch of Weedie
Moore."

"You can't do it. Not so long as Amabel is backing him. She's got
unlimited cash, and she thinks he's God Almighty and she wants him to be
mayor."

"It's a far cry," said Jeff, "from God Almighty to mayor. But Alston
Choate is going to be nominated for mayor, and he's going to get it."

"He won't take it," said Anne impulsively, and bit her lip.

"How do you know?" asked Jeff.

"He hates politics."

"He hates Addington more as it is."

They got up and moved to the library, standing about for a moment, while
Farvie held the morning paper for a cursory glance, before separating
for their different deeds. When Farvie and Anne had gone Jeff took up
the paper and Lydia lingered. Jeff felt the force of her silent waiting.
It seemed to bore a hole through the paper itself and knock at his brain
to be let in. He threw the paper down.

"Well?" said he.

Lydia was all alive. Her small face seemed drawn to a point of
eagerness. She spoke.

"Alston Choate isn't the man for mayor."

"Who is?"

"You."

Jeff slowly smiled at her.

"I?" he said. "How many votes do you think I'd get?"

"All the foreign vote. And the best streets wouldn't vote at all."

"Why?"

She bit her lip. She had not meant to say it.

"No," said Jeff, interpreting for her, "maybe they wouldn't. That's like
Addington. It wouldn't stand for me, but it would be too well-bred to
stand against me. No, Lyddy, I shouldn't get a show. And I don't want a
show. All I want is to bust Weedon Moore."

Lydia looked the unmovable obstinacy she felt stiffening every fibre of
her.

"You're all wrong," she said. "You could have anything you wanted."

"Who says so?"

"Madame Beattie."

"I wish," said Jeff, "that old harpy would go to Elba or Siberia or the
devil. I'm not going to run for office."

"What are you going to do?" asked Lydia, in a small voice. She was
resting a hand on the table, and the hand trembled.

"It's a question of what I won't do, at present. I won't go down there
to the hall and make an ass of myself talking history and be dished by
that old marplot. But if I can get hold of the same men--having
previously gagged Madame Beattie or deported her--I'll make them act
some plays."

"What kind of plays?"

"Shakespeare, maybe."

"They can't do that. They don't know enough."

"They know enough to understand that old rascal's game, whatever it is,
and hoot with her when she's done me. And she's given me the tip, with
her dramatics up there on the platform, and the way they answered.
They're children, and they want to play. She had the cleverness to see
it. And they shall play with me."

"But they won't act Shakespeare," said Lydia. "They only care about
their own countries. That's why they love Madame Beattie."

"What are their countries, Lydia?"

"Greece, Italy, Poland, Russia--oh, a lot more."

"Aren't they voting here in this country?"

"Why, yes, ever so many of them."

"Then," said Jeff, "this is their country, and this is their language,
and they've got to learn some English plays and act them as God pleases.
But act them they shall. Or their children shall. And you may give my
compliments to Madame Beattie and tell her if she blocks my game I'll
block hers. She'll understand. And they've got to learn what England was
and what America meant to be till she got on the rocks."

"Jeff," said Lydia, venturing, "aren't you going into business?"

"I am in business," said Jeff. "It's my business to bail out the
scuppers here in Addington and bust Weedie Moore."

"If you went into business," said Lydia, "and made money you could--"

"I could pay off my creditors? No, I couldn't, Lydia. I could as easily
lift this house."

"But you could pay something--"

"Something on a dollar? Lydia, I've been a thief, a plain common thief.
I stole a chicken, say. Well, the chicken got snatched away somehow and
scrambled for, and eaten. Anyway, the chicken isn't. And you want me to
steal another--"

"No, no."

"Yes, you do. I should have to steal it. I haven't time enough in my
whole life to get another chicken as big and as fat, unless I steal it.
No, Lydia, I can't do it. If you make me try, I shall blow my nut off,
that's all."

Lydia was terrified and he reassured her.

"No. Don't worry. I sha'n't let go my grip on the earth. When I walk now
I'm actually sticking my claws into her. I've found out what she is."

But Lydia still looked at him, hungry for his happiness, and he
despairingly tried to show her his true mind.

"You mustn't think for a minute I can wipe out my old score and show you
a perfectly clean slate with a nice scrollwork round it. Can't do it,
Lydia. I sha'n't come in for any of the prizes. I've got to be a very
ordinary, insignificant person from now on."

That hurt her and it did no good. She didn't believe him.

Not many days from this Jeff started out talking to men. He frankly
wanted something and asked for it. Addington, he told them, if they
built more factories and put in big industries, as they were trying to
do, was going to call in more and more foreign workmen. It was going to
be a melting-pot of small size. That was a current catchword. Jeff used
it as glibly as the women of the clubs. The pot was going to seethe and
bubble over and some demagogue--he did not mention Weedie--was going to
stir it, and the Addington of our fathers would be lost. The business
men looked at him with the slow smile of the sane for the fanatic and
answered from the fatuous optimism of the man who expects the world to
last at least his time. Some of them said something about "this great
country", as if it were chartered by the Almighty to stand the assaults
of other races, and when he reminded them that Addington was not trying
to amalgamate its aliens with its own ideals, and was giving them over
instead to Weedon Moore, they laughed at him.

"What's Weedon Moore?" one man said. "A dirty little shyster. Let him
talk. He can't do any harm."

"Do you know what he's telling them?" Jeff inquired.

They supposed they did. He was probably asking them to vote for him.

"Not a bit of it," said Jeff. "He'll do that later. He's telling them
they hold the key of the treasury and they've only to turn it to be
inside. He's giving no credit to brains and leadership and tradition and
law and punishment for keeping the world moving. He's telling the man
with the hod and the man with the pickaxe that simply by virtue of the
hod and the pickaxe the world is his: not a fraction of it, mind you,
but the earth. To kick into space, if he likes. And kick Addington with
it."

They smoothed him down after one fashion or another, and put their feet
up and offered him a cigar and wanted to hear all about his prison
experiences, but hardly liked to ask, and so he went away in a queer
coma of disappointment. They had not turned him out, but they didn't
know what he was talking about. Every man of them was trying either to
save the dollar he had or to make another dollar to keep it warm. Jeff
went home sore at heart; but when he had plucked up hope again out of
his sense of the ironies of things, he went back and saw the same men
and hammered at them. He explained, with a categorical clearness, that
he knew the West couldn't throw over the East now she'd taken it aboard.
Perhaps we'd got to learn our lesson from it. Just as it might be it
could learn something from us; and since it was here in our precincts,
it had got to learn. We couldn't do our new citizens the deadly wrong of
allowing the seeds of anarchy to be planted in them before they even got
over the effects of the voyage. If there were any virtue left in the
republic, the fair ideal of it should be stamped upon them as they came,
before they were taught to riot over the rights no man on earth could
have unless men are going to fight out the old brute battle for bare
supremacy.

Then one day a man said to him, "Oh, you're an idealist!" and all his
antagonists breathed more freely because they had a catchword. They
looked at him, illuminated, and repeated it.

One man, a big coal dealer down by the wharves, did more or less agree
with him.

