intolerant of any civilisation which is not his conception of
civilisation--his monkey-like conception of Christ--whom, in his pagan
soul, he secretly sneers at--not always secretly, now!"

She straightened up with a quick little gesture of contempt. Her face
was brightly flushed; her eyes brilliant with scorn.

"Garry, has not America heard enough of 'the good German,' the 'kindly
Teuton,' the harmless, sentimental and 'excellent citizen,' whose
morally edifying origin as a model emigrant came out of his own sly
mouth, and who has, by his own propaganda alone, become an accepted
type of good-natured thrift and erudition in your Republic?

"Let me say to you what a French girl thinks! A hundred years ago you
were a very small nation, but you were homogeneous and the average of
culture was far higher in America then than it is at present. For now,
your people's cultivation and civilisation is diluted by the ignorance
of millions of foreigners to whom you have given hospitality. And, of
these, the Germans have done you the most deadly injury, vulgarising
public taste in art and literature, affronting your clean, sane
intelligence by the new decadence and perversion in music, in
painting, in illustration, in fiction.

"Whatever the normal Hun touches he vulgarises; whatever the decadent
Boche touches he soils and degrades and transforms into a horrible
abomination. This he has done under your eyes in art, in literature,
in architecture, in modern German music.

"His filthy touch is even on your domestic life--this Barbarian who
feeds grossly, whose personal habits are a by-word among civilised and
cultured people, whose raw ferocity is being now revealed to the world
day by day in Europe, whose proverbial clumsiness and stupidity have
long furnished your stage with its oafs and clowns.

"This is the thing that is now also invading you with thousands of
spies, betraying you with millions of traitors, and which will one
day turn on you and tear you and trample you like an enraged hog,
unless you and your people awake to what is passing in the world you
live in!"

She was on her feet now, flushed, lovely, superb in her deep and
controlled excitement.

"I'll tell you this much," she said. "It is Germany that wishes my
destruction. Germany trapped me; Germany would have destroyed me in
the trap had I not escaped. Now, Germany is afraid of me, knowing what
I know. And her agents follow me, spy on me, thwart me, prevent me
from earning my living, until I--I can scarcely endure it--this
hounding and persecution----" Her voice broke; she waited to control
it:

"I am not a spy. I never was one. I never betrayed a human soul--no,
nor any living thing that ever trusted me! These people who hound me
know that I am not guilty of that for which another Government is
ready to try me--and condemn me. They fear that I shall prove to this
other Government my innocence. I can't. But they fear I can. And the
Hun is afraid of me. Because, if I ever proved my innocence, it would
involve the arrest and trial and certain execution of men high in rank
in the capital of this other country. So--the Hun dogs me everywhere I
go. I do not know why he does not try to kill me. Possibly he lacks
courage, so far. Possibly he has not had any good opportunity, because
I am very careful, Garry."

"But this--this is outrageous!" broke out Barres. "You can't stand
this sort of thing, Thessa! It's a matter for the police----"

"Don't interfere!"

"But----"

"Don't interfere! The last thing I want is publicity. The last thing I
wish for is that your city, state, or national government should
notice me at all or have any curiosity concerning me or any idea of
investigating my affairs."

"Why?"

"Because, although as soon as your country is at war with Germany, my
danger from Germany ceases, on the other hand another very deadly
danger begins at once to threaten me."

"What danger?"

"It will come from a country with which your country will be allied.
And I shall be arrested here as a German spy, and I shall be sent
back to the country which I am supposed to have betrayed. And there
nothing in the world could save me."

"You mean--court-martial?"

"A brief one, Garry. And then the end."

"Death?"

She nodded.

After a few moments she moved toward the door. He went with her,
picking up his hat.

"I can't let you go with me," she said with a faint smile.

"Why not?"

"You are involved sufficiently already."

"What do I care for----"

"Hush, Garry. Do you wish to displease me?"

"No, but I----"

"Please! Call me a taxicab. I wish to go back alone."

In spite of argument she remained smilingly firm. Finally he rang up a
taxi for her. When it signalled he walked down stairs, through the dim
hall and out to the grilled gateway beside her.

"Good-bye," she said, giving her hand. He detained it:

"I can't bear to have you go alone----"

"I'm perfectly safe, mon ami. I've had a delightful time at your
party--really I have. This affair of the letter does not spoil it. I'm
accustomed to similar episodes. So now, good-night."

"Am I to see you again soon?"

"Soon? Ah, I can't tell you that, Garry."

"When it is convenient then?"

"Yes."

"And will you telephone me on your safe arrival home to-night?"

She laughed:

"If you wish. You're so sweet to me, Garry. You always have been.
Don't worry about me. I am not in the least apprehensive. You see I'm
rather a clever girl, and I know something about the Boche."

"You had your letter stolen."

"Only half of it!" she retorted gaily. "She is a gallant little thing,
your friend Dulcie. Please give her my love. As for your other
friends, they were amusing.... Mr. Mandel spoke to me about an
engagement."

"Why don't you consider it? Corot Mandel is the most important
producer in New York."

"Is he, really? Well, if I'm not interfered with perhaps I shall go to
call on Mr. Mandel." She began to laugh mischievously to herself:
"There was one man there who never gave me a moment's peace until I
promised to lunch with him at the Ritz."

"Who the devil----"

"Mr. Westmore," she said demurely.

"Oh, Jim Westmore! Well, Thessa, he's a corker. He's really a
splendid fellow, but look out for him! He's also a philanderer."

"Oh, dear. I thought he was just a sculptor and a rather strenuous
young man."

"I wasn't knocking him," said Barres, laughing, "but he falls in love
with every pretty woman he meets. I'm merely warning you."

"Thank you, Garry," she smiled. She gave him her hand again, pulled
the rose-coloured cloak around her bare shoulders, ran across the
sidewalk to the taxi, and whispered to the driver.

"You'll telephone me when you get home?" he reminded her, baffled but
smiling.

She laughed and nodded. The cab wheeled out into the street, backed,
turned, and sped away eastward.

       

Half an hour later his telephone rang:

"Garry, dear?"

"Is it you, Thessa?"

"Yes. I'm going to bed.... Tell Mr. Westmore that I'm not at all sure
I shall meet him at the Ritz on Monday."

"He'll go, anyway."

"Will he? What devotion. What faith in woman! What a lively capacity
for hope eternal! What vanity! Well, then, tell him he may take his
chances."

"I'll tell him. But I think you might make a date with me, too, you
little fraud!"

"Maybe I will. Maybe I'll drop in to see you unexpectedly some
morning. And don't let me catch you philandering in your studio with
some pretty woman!"

"No fear, Thessa."

"I'm not at all sure. And your little model, Dulcie, is dangerously
attractive."

"Piffle! She's a kid!"

"Don't be too sure of that, either! And tell Mr. Westmore that I may
keep my engagement. And then again I may not! Good-night, Garry,
dear!"

"Good-night!"

       

Walking slowly back to extinguish the lights in the studio before
retiring to his own room for the night, Barres noticed a piece of
paper on the table under the lamp, evidently a fragment from the torn
letter.

The words "Ferez Bey" and "Murtagh" caught his eye before he realised
that it was not his business to decipher the fragment.

So he lighted a match, held the shred of letter paper to the flame,
and let it burn between his fingers until only a blackened cinder fell
to the floor.

But the two names were irrevocably impressed on his mind, and he found
himself wondering who these men might be, as he stood by his bed,
undressing.




XIV

PROBLEMS


The weather was turning hot in New York, and by the middle of the week
the city sweltered.

Barres, dropping his brushes and laying aside a dozen pictures in all
stages of incompletion; and being, otherwise, deeply bitten by the
dangerously enchanting art of Manship--dangerous as inspiration but
enchanting to gaze upon--was very busy making out of wax a diminutive
figure of the running Arethusa.

And Dulcie, poor child, what with being poised on the ball of one
little foot and with the other leg slung up in a padded loop, almost
perished. Perspiration spangled her body like dew powdering a rose;
sweat glistened on the features and shoulder-bared arms of the
impassioned sculptor, even blinding him at times; but he worked on in
a sort of furious exaltation, reeking of ill-smelling wax. And Dulcie,
perfectly willing to die at her post, thought she was going to, and
finally fainted away with an alarming thud.

Which brought Barres to his senses, even before she had recovered
hers; and he proclaimed a vacation for his overworked Muse and his
model, too.

"Do you feel better, Sweetness?" he enquired, as she opened her eyes
when Selinda exchanged a wet compress for an ice-bag.

Dulcie, flat on the lounge, swathed in a crash bathrobe, replied only
by a slight but reassuring flutter of one hand.

Esmé Trenor sauntered in for a gossip, wearing his celebrated
lilac-velvet jacket and Louis XV slippers.

"Oh, the devil," he drawled, looking from Dulcie to the Arethusa;
"she's worth more than your amateurish statuette, Garry."

"You bet she is. And here's where her vacation begins."

Esmé turned to Dulcie, lifting his eyebrows:

"You go away with him?"

The idea had never before entered Barres's head. But he said:

"Certainly; we both need the country for a few weeks."

"You'll go to one of those damned artists' colonies, I suppose,"
remarked Esmé; "otherwise, washed and unwashed would expel shrill
cries."

"Probably not in my own home," returned Barres, coolly. "I shall write
my family about it to-day."

Corot Mandel dropped in, also, that morning--he and Esmé were ever
prowling uneasily around Dulcie in these days--and he studied the
Arethusa through a foggy monocle, and he loitered about Dulcie's
couch.

"You know," he said to Barres, "there's nothing like dancing to
recuperate from all this metropolitan pandemonium. If you like, I can
let Dulcie in on that thing I'm putting on at Northbrook."

"That's up to her," said Barres. "It's her vacation, and she can do
what she likes with it----"

Esmé interposed with characteristic impudence:

"Barres imitates Manship with impunity; I'd like to have a plagiaristic
try at Sorolla and Zuloaga, if Dulcie says the word. Very agreeable job
for a girl in hot weather," he added, looking at Dulcie, "--an easy
swimming pose in some nice cool little Adirondack lake----"

"Seriously," interrupted Mandel, twirling his monocle impatiently by
its greasy string, "I mean it, Barres." He turned and looked at the
lithely speeding Arethusa. "If that is Dulcie, I can give her a good
part in----"

"You hear, Dulcie?" enquired Barres. "These two kind gentlemen have
what they consider attractive jobs for you. All I can offer you is
liberty to tumble around the hayfields at Foreland Farms, with my
sketching easel in the middle distance. Now, choose your job,
Sweetness."

"The hayfields and----"

Dulcie's voice faded to a whisper; Barres, seated beside her, leaned
nearer, bending his head to listen.

"And you," she murmured again, "--if you want me."

"I always want you," he whispered laughingly, in return.

Esmé regarded the scene with weariness and chagrin.

"Come on," he said languidly to Mandel, "we'll buy her some flowers
for the evil she does us. She'll need 'em; she'll be finished before
this amateur sculptor finishes his blooming Arethusa."

Mandel lingered:

"I'm going up to Northbrook in a day or two, Barres. If you
change--change Dulcie's mind for her, just call me up at the Adolf
Gerhardt's."

"Dulcie will call you up if she changes my mind."

Dulcie laughed.

When they had gone, Barres said:

"You know I haven't thought about the summer. What was your idea about
it?"

"My--idea?"

"Yes. You'd want a couple of weeks in the country somewhere, wouldn't
you?"

"I don't know. I never went away," she replied vaguely.

It occurred to him, now, that for all his pleasant toleration of
Soane's little daughter during the two years and more of his residence
in Dragon Court, he had never really interested himself in her
well-being, never thought to enquire about anything which might really
concern her. He had taken it for granted that most people have some
change from the stifling, grinding, endless routine of their
lives--some respite, some quiet interval for recovery and rest.

And so, returning from his own vacations, it never occurred to him
that the shy girl whom he permitted within his precincts, when
convenient, never knew any other break in the grey monotony--never
left the dusty, soiled, and superheated city from one year's summer to
another.

Now, for the first time, he realised it.

"We'll go up there," he said. "My family is accustomed to models I
bring there for my summer work. You'll be very comfortable, and you'll
feel quite at home. We live very simply at Foreland Farms. Everybody
will be kind and nobody will bother you, and you can do exactly as you
please, because we all do that at Foreland Farms. Will you come when
I'm ready to go up?"

She gave him a sweet, confused glance from her grey eyes.

"Do you think your family would mind?"

"Mind?" He smiled. "We never interfere with one another's affairs.
It's not like many families, I fancy. We take it for granted that
nobody in the family could do anything not entirely right. So we take
that for granted and it's a jolly sensible arrangement."

She turned her face on the pillow presently; the ice-bag slid off;
she sat up in her bathrobe, stretched her arms, smiled faintly:

"Shall I try again?" she asked.

"Oh, Lord!" he said, "would you? Upon my word, I believe you would!
No more posing to-day! I'm not a murderer. Lie there until you're
ready to dress, and then ring for Selinda."

"Don't you want me?"

"Yes, but I want you alive, not dead! Anyway, I've got to talk to
Westmore this morning, so you may be as lazy as you like--lounge
about, read----" He went over to her, patted her cheek in the smiling,
absent-minded way he had with her: "Tell me, ducky, how are you
feeling, anyway?"

It confused her dreadfully to blush when he touched her, but she
always did; and she turned her face away now, saying that she was
quite all right again.

Preoccupied with his own thoughts, he nodded:

"That's fine," he said. "Now, trot along to Selinda, and when you're
fixed up you can have the run of the place to yourself."

"Could I have my slippers?" She was very shy even about her bare feet
when she was not actually posing.

He found her slippers for her, laid them beside the lounge, and
strolled away. Westmore rang a moment later, but when he blew in like
a noisy breeze Dulcie had disappeared.

"My little model toppled over," said Barres, taking his visitor's
outstretched hand and wincing under the grip. "I shall cut out work
while this weather lasts."

Westmore turned toward the Arethusa, laughed at the visible influence
of Manship.

"All the same, Garry," he said, "there's a lot in your running nymph.
It's nice; it's knowing."

"That is pleasant to hear from a sculptor."

"Sculptor? Sometimes I feel like a sculpin--prickly heat, you know."
He laughed heartily at his own witticism, slapped Barres on the
shoulder, lighted a pipe, and flung himself on the couch recently
vacated by Dulcie.

"This damned war," he said, "takes the native gaiety out of a
man--takes the laughter out of life. Over two years of it now, Garry;
and it's as though the sun is slowly growing dimmer every day."

"I know," nodded Barres.

"Sure you feel it. Everybody does. By God, I have periods of sickness
when the illustrated London periodicals arrive, and I see those dead
men pictured there--such fine, clean fellows--our own kind--half of
them just kids!--well, it hurts me to look at them, and, for the sheer
pain of it, I'm always inclined to shirk and turn that page quickly.
But I say to myself, 'Jim, they're dead fighting Christ's own battle,
and the least you can do is to read their names and ages, and look
upon their faces.'... And I do it."

"So do I," nodded Barres, sombrely gazing at the carpet.

After a silence, Westmore said:

"Well, the Boche has taken his medicine and canned Tirpitz--the wild
swine that he is. So I don't suppose we'll get mixed up in it."

"The Hun is a great liar," remarked Barres. "There's no telling."

"Are you going to Plattsburg again this year?" enquired Westmore.

"I don't know. Are you?"

"In the autumn, perhaps.... Garry, it's discouraging. Do you realise
what a gigantic task we have ahead of us if the Hun ever succeeds in
kicking us into this war? And what a gigantic mess we've made of two
years' inactivity?"

Barres, pondering, scowled at his own thoughts.

"And now," continued the other, "the Guard is off to the border, and
here we are, stripped clean, with the city lousy with Germans and
every species of Hun deviltry hatching out fires and explosions and
disloyal propaganda from the Atlantic to the Pacific, from the Lakes
to the Gulf!

"A fine mess!--no troops, nothing to arm them with, no modern
artillery, no preparations; the Boche growing more insolent, more
murderous, but slyer; a row on with Mexico, another brewing with
Japan, all Europe and Great Britain regarding us with contempt--I ask
you, can you beat it, Garry? Are there any lower depths for us?--any
sub-cellars of iniquity into which we can tumble, like the basket of
jelly-fish we seem to be!"

"It's a nightmare," said Barres. "Since Liège and the Lusitania,
it's been a bad dream getting worse. We'll have to wake, you know. If
we don't, we're of no more substance than the dream itself:--we are
the dream, and we'll end like one."

"I'm going to wait a bit longer," said Westmore restlessly, "and if
there's nothing doing, it's me for the other side."

"For me, too, Jim."
