being in the subway, one that Ma Tamby had lodged, like a flea, in her
ear.

But now, near the heart of Manhattan, the train had stopped. Cassy got
out, looked at her white gloves, wondered if they smelled of benzine,
decided that they did, took them off and went on to the Splendor where
Paliser was waiting.

Other people appeared to be similarly occupied. In the high, wide hall
were groups of careful men and careless women, the latter very
scrumptious in their imported frocks. The sight of these Parisianisms
abashed Cassy no more than her appearance abashed Paliser. Etiquette,
Formality, the Proper Thing, the great inane gods of the ante-bellum
heavens, he had never acknowledged and now, though locally their altars
remained and their worship persisted, he knew they were forever dead,
blown into the dust-bin of the things that were, tossed there in
derision by that atheist, the War.

The careless women looked at Cassy and carefully looked away. The
careful men looked at her and carelessly looked again. In the severity
of the wide, high hall, the girl with her rebellious beauty and
harlequin gown, struck a note which it lacked, struck two of them, the
go-and-be-hanged-to-you and originality.

In evening clothes that said Savile Row, Paliser approached. "You are
punctual as a comet and equally luminous."

Cassy, ignoring the remark, ignoring, too, the hand that accompanied it,
cut him short. "Haven't seen Madame Tamburini, have you?"

Paliser's hair had the effect of a mirror. He smoothed the back of it.
The ex-diva he had certainly seen and not later than just before she
telephoned to Cassy. But it is injudicious, and also tiresome, to tell
everything. With the wave of a cheque, the complicity of the former
first-lady had been assured, and assured moreover without a qualm on her
part. Ma Tamby did not know what it is to have a qualm--which she could
not have spelled if she had known. She was differently and superiorly
educated. In the university that life is, she had acquired encyclopedias
of recondite learning. She knew that ice is not all that it is cracked
up to be: that a finger in the pie is better than two in the fire, and
that angels have been observed elsewhere than at Mons--learning which,
as you may see, is surprising.

Over the ham and eggs of an earlier evening, the syllables of Paliser's
name had awakened echoes of old Academy nights and Mapleson's "grand
revivals" of the Trovatore, echoes thin and quavering, yet still
repeating hymns in glory of the man's angelic papa. On the way from ham
and eggs to Harlem, she had, in consequence, conjured, for Cassy's
benefit, with performing fleas. But when, on this afternoon, M. P. Jr.,
had come and waved cheques at her, she had felt that her worst hopes
were realised, that her finger was really in the pie, and she had agreed
to everything, which, however, for the moment, was nothing at all,
merely to abandon Cassy that evening; merely also to collaborate later
in the evocation of a myth, and meanwhile to keep at it with the fleas.

Now, in the hall of the Splendor, as Paliser patted the back of his
head, he was enjoying Cassy's open-air appearance that needed only a
tennis-racket to be complete.

Cassy glanced about. She had a penny or two more than her carfare and
yet, if she had owned the shop, she could not have appeared more at ease
in this smartest of smart inns, a part of which, destiny, in its
capriciousness, was to offer her.

"No," he answered. "But I have a private room somewhere. She can find
her way there, unless you prefer palms and an orchestra."

"I do," said Cassy, to whom a room with this man said only boredom and
who liked to see what was going on.

Then when, presently, they were seated at a table, to which the
chastened captain of the ham-and-egg night had piloted the way, Cassy
beheld what she had never beheld before, and what few mortals ever do
behold, a cradled bottle of Clos de Vougeot. But to her, the royal crû
was very much like the private room. It said nothing. A neighbouring
table was more eloquent.

Among the people seated there was an imperial woman with an imperial
manner, whom Cassy instantly recognised. She was prima donna, prima
donna assoluta, and though Cassy did not know it--nor would it have
interested her if she had known--dissoluta also.

To be in her shoes!

In that seven-leagued dream, she forgot Paliser, the delinquent
Tamburini, the trick that Lennox had played. In a golden gloom, on a
wide stage, to a house packed to the roof, Cassy was bowing. Her final
roulade had just floated on and beyond, lost now in cyclonic bravas.

"It was the Duc d'Aumale," Paliser was saying.

"Eh?" Abruptly Cassy awoke.

"Or, if not, some other chap who, recognising it, ordered his regiment
to halt and present arms."

"To whom?"

"To the vineyard where the grape in that bottle was grown."

Cassy shook out a napkin. "You talk just like my janitress. I never
understand a word she says."

But now a waiter was bringing delicacies other than those obtainable in
Harlem; in particular, a dish that had the merit of pleasing Cassy.

"What is it?" she asked.

"Muskrat."

"What!"

"Muskrat with terrapin for a pseudonym. The pseudonym shows imagination.
Let us be thankful for that. Gastronomy is bankrupt. Formerly it was
worshipped. Formerly gastronomy was a goddess. To-day the sole tributes
consist in bills-of-fare that are just like the Sahara minus the oases.
It is the oases we want and it is muskrat we get. That is all wrong. The
degree of culture that any nation may claim is shown in its cookery and
if there is anything viler than what we get here it must be served in
Berlin. It must have been Solon who said: 'Tell me what you eat and I
will tell you who you are.' He added, or should have, that animals feed,
man dines and, when permitted, dines devoutly. There are dishes, as
there are wines, to which one should rise and bow. But hereabouts it is
only by special dispensation that one gets them. In a hotel such as this
there is an outward show of reverence, but it is sheer hypocrisy; of
real piety there is none, a sham attempt to observe the sacred rites
without knowing how. I admit I don't know either. From me the divine
afflatus has been withheld. But elsewhere I have been conscious of the
presence. Once or twice I was blessed. Here, though, in default of
shrines there should be chairs. Harvard, Yale, Columbia, should
establish a few. When I was in college I was taught everything that it
is easiest to forget. If the youth of the land were instructed in
gastronomy we would all be wiser and better. Chairs on gastronomy, that
is what we need!"

Cassy laughed. "Why not tables?"

Paliser laughed with her. The laughter was a bond. It joined them
however tenuously. It was what he had been driving at. Accustomed to
easy successes, Cassy's atmosphere, with its flavour of standoffishness
and indifference, appealed to this man, who had supped on the facile and
who wanted the difficult. Cassy, he could have sworn, would supply it
and, if he had, he would have sworn very truly.

Meanwhile the muskrat had gone. Dishes less false but equally fair had
followed. Now, with the air of a conjurer, the waiter just showed them
an entremets which he hastened to serve. It was a soufflée.

At it, Cassy, just showing the point of her strawberry tongue, exclaimed
without rancour: "Ma Tamby has thrown us over."

Paliser lit a cigarette. "She may be singing in the private room."

Cassy laughed again. "Yes. 'Una voce poco fa!' That would be just the
thing--wouldn't it?--to sing privately in private."

Paliser answered, though what, she did not hear. The orchestra drowned
it and for a moment she considered him, conscious that he was less
objectionable than he had seemed, yet entirely unconscious that such
objection as she had experienced was due to his extreme good-looks,
which in a man are always objectionable to a woman when she herself is
handsome, for they make him resemble her and, in so doing, constitute an
encroachment on her prerogatives, which, in itself, is an affront.

Cassy, ignorant of the psychology of it, equally unaware that
familiarity which may breed contempt can also dissolve dislike, and
feeling merely a lessening of her instinctive hostility, told herself
that he was perhaps not as cocky as he looked and drank of the glass
before her.

The Clos de Vougeot which, to the educated palate, is art, literature
and song combined, meant nothing more to her than if it had been Médoc.
She drank it because it was there at her hand, as she would have drunk
water, without savouring it, without any realisation of the enormity of
the crime. Yet though it meant nothing, nothing at least of which she
was aware, the royal crû was affecting her. It modified and mollified,
admonishing her that this man was an inoffensive insect who,
circumstances favouring, might, as Ma Tamby when inserting the flea had
told her, put her father on his feet.

In just what the favouring circumstances could consist, the fallen star
had not bothered to indicate, and she had not bothered because they were
too obvious and also because she was sure that Cassy was not insane.

Paliser abandoned his cigarette. "If you like, we might look in at the
Metropolitan. I believe I have a box."

Apart from down-stage and the centre of it, apart, too, from the flys
and the dressing-rooms, Cassy's imagination had not as yet conceived
anything more beckoning than a box at the opera, even though, as on this
occasion, the opera happened to be a concert. "Why, yes. Only----"
Pausing, she looked about. The imperial lady had gone.

"Only what?" Paliser very needlessly asked for he knew.

"I fear I am a bit overdressed."

"Not for Sunday. The house will be full and nobody in it. Besides, what
do you care?"

Cassy shrugged. "Personally, not a rap. It was of you I was thinking."

Paliser, who had been signing the check and feeing the waiter, looked at
her. "I did not know that you were so considerate."

Cassy, in surprise not at him, but at herself, laughed. "Nor did I."

Paliser stood up and drew back her chair. "Be careful. You might become
cynical. It is in thinking of others that cynicism begins."

The platitude slipped from him absently. He had no wish for the concert,
no wish to hear Berlinese trulls and bubonic bassi bleat. But, for the
tolerably delicate enterprise that he had in hand, there were the
preliminary steps which could only be hastened slowly and anything
slower than the Metropolitan on a Sunday night, it was beyond him to
conjecture.

But though on that evening a basso did bleat, it may be that he was not
bubonic. Moreover he was followed by a soprano who, whether trullish or
not, at any rate was not Berlinese and whose voice had the lusciousness
of a Hawaiian pineapple. But the selections, which were derived from old
Italian cupboards, displeased Paliser, who called them painted mush.

But not twice! Cassy turned her back on him. The painted mush shook
stars in her ears, opened vistas on the beyond. Save for him she would
have been quite happy. But his remark annoyed her. It caused her to
revise her opinion. Instead of an inoffensive insect he was an offensive
fool. None the less, as the concert progressed, she revised it again. On
entering the box she had seen his name on the door. The memory of that,
filtering through the tinted polenta from the ancient cupboards,
softened her. A man so gifted could express all the imbecilities he
liked. Elle s'enfichait.

As a result, before it was over, in lieu of her back, she gave him the
seduction of her smile, and, later when, in his car, on the way to the
walk-up, he spoke of future dinners, fresher songs, she had so far
forgotten the painted mush insult, that momentarily she foresaw but one
objection. She had nothing to wear and frankly, with entire unconcern,
she out with it.

For that he had a solution which he kept to himself. The promptly
obliterating stare with which she would have reduced him to
non-existence, he dodged in advance.

Apparently changing the subject, he said: "You know--or know of--Mrs.
Beamish, don't you?"

"Never heard of her," said Cassy, entirely unaware that no one else ever
had either.

"She was at the Bazaar the other night and admired your singing."

"Very good of her I am sure," replied Cassy, who, a born anarchist and
by the same token a born autocrat, loathed condescension.

Paliser corrected it. "No, not good--appreciative. She wants you to sing
at her house. If you are willing, could she arrange about it through
Madame Tamburini?"

"If she tried very hard, I suppose she might," Cassy, with the same
loftiness, answered.

But the loftiness was as unreal as Mrs. Beamish. Inwardly she jubilated,
wondering how much she would get. A hundred? In that case she could
repay Lennox at once. At the thought of it, again she revised her
opinion. Paliser was young and in her judgment all young men were
insects. On the other hand he was serviceable. Moreover, though he
looked cocky, he did not presume. He talked rot, but he did not argue.
Then, too, his car was a relief.

But now the car, after bolting through the Park and flying along the
Riverside, had swerved. It was mounting the upper reaches of the longest
highway on the planet. There it swerved again. From Broadway it barked
loudly into a side-street where easily, with a soapy slide, it stopped.

Paliser got out, preceded Cassy to the steps of the walk-up and smiled
in her face. "When?"

Cassy, the revised opinion of him about her, gave him her hand. "Ask the
telephone."

The hall took her. She was scaling the stairs. On the way Mrs. Beamish
accompanied her. She wished she could tell her father. Yet, if she told
him, how could she account for what she did with the money? And would it
be a hundred? Perhaps fifty, perhaps less.

But Paliser saw to it that Mrs. Beamish behaved properly. On the morrow
Ma Tamby dumped in Cassy's astonished lap two hundred and fifty--less
ten per cent., business is business--for samples of the bel canto which
Mrs. Beamish was not to hear, and for an excellent reason, there was no
such person.




XI


Mrs. Austen looked at Lennox, who had been looking at her, but who was
then looking at the rug, in the border of which were arabesques. He did
not see them. The rug was not there. The room itself had disappeared.
The nymph, the dial, the furniture, the decorations and costly
futilities with which the room was cluttered, all these had gone. Mrs.
Austen had ceased to be. In that pleasant room, in the presence of this
agreeable woman, Lennox was absolutely alone, as, in any great crisis of
the emotions, we all are.

Of one thing he was conscious. He was suffering atrociously. Pain
blanketed him. But though the blanket had the poignancy of thin knives,
he kept telling himself that it was all unreal.

He raised his eyes. During the second in which they had been lowered, a
second that had been an eternity in hell, his expression had not
altered. He was taking it, apparently at least, unmoved.

Mrs. Austen, who was looking at him, saw it and thought: He is a
gentleman. The reflection encouraged her and she sighed and said:
"Believe me, I am sorry."

Lennox did not believe her, but he let it go. What he did believe was
that Margaret could not see him. But whether she would, if she could,
was another matter. On Saturday he had expected her at his rooms. She
had not come. In the evening he had called. She had a headache. On the
following day he had returned. She was not feeling well. Now on this
third day, Mrs. Austen, who on the two previous occasions had received
him, once more so far condescended, yet on this occasion to tell him
that he was free, that it was Margaret's wish, that the engagement was
ended.

In so telling him, Mrs. Austen told, for a wonder, the truth, though as
will sometimes happen even to the best of us, not all the truth. It were
extravagant to have expected it of her. But she told all that she
thought good for him; more exactly good for Margaret; more precisely for
herself.

It was then that the pleasant room with its clutter of costly futilities
disappeared and this agreeable woman ceased to be. The avalanche of the
modulated announcement sent Lennox reeling not merely out of the room,
but out of the world, deeply into hell.

It was then, too, that with a sigh, modulated also, Mrs. Austen had
added: "Believe me, I am sorry."

Lennox looked at her. "You say that Margaret wants our engagement
broken. Why?"

"She has changed her mind."

"So I infer. But why?"

"Because she is a woman."

"But not the ordinary woman. It is the ordinary woman who changes her
mind--when she has one to change. Margaret is not of that kind. Margaret
is not the kind to promise herself to a man and then throw him over. You
will forgive me if I speak heatedly, but I do not believe it."

With frosty indulgence Mrs. Austen reassured him. "You do not believe
that I will forgive you? But, really, there is nothing to forgive.
Though, whether Margaret is ordinary or superior, has nothing to do with
it. Dear me, no. Women are not what they were. One often hears that and
often, too, one hears people wondering why. That always amuses me. The
reason is so simple, isn't it? Women are not what they were because they
used to be girls. Before that they were children. At one time they were
babes. Naturally they change. They can't help it. It must be a general
law. Or at least one may suppose so. One may suppose, too, that, in
changing, they develop and in developing acquire the extraordinary
ability to think things over. That is just what Margaret had done. It is
no reflection on you, Mr. Lennox, and I should be very sorry if you
thought so. I am sure Margaret has the highest esteem for you. I know
that I have."

Mrs. Austen, smiling frostily as she lied, thought: Now why doesn't he
take it and go? I hope he won't be tedious.

Lennox too had his thoughts. She is trying to swamp me in words, he told
himself. That angered him and he showed it.

"What are these things? When I last saw Margaret she said nothing about
any things. There was no change in her then. I would stake my life that
she had no idea of breaking our engagement. There must be a reason for
it. What is it?"

Arrogantly Mrs. Austen took it up. "There is no reason for your raising
your voice, at any rate. As for the things, they ought to be obvious. In
addition to habits and customs, very suitable in Wall Street no doubt,
but not otherwise appealing, Margaret has found you a bit rough,
high-tempered, domineering for all I know to the contrary, and----"

That's a damned lie, thought Lennox, who aggressively cut in: "Margaret
never found me anything of the kind. What is more I will thank you to
understand that I will not accept this dismissal--if it be one--from
you."

There is a show of decency that is due to any woman. But the veneer of
civilisation is very thin. From beneath it, the potential troglodyte,
that lurks in us all, is ready enough to erupt. Ready and eager then, he
was visible in Lennox' menacing eyes, manifest in his threatening voice.

Mrs. Austen saw the brute, saw rather that little, if anything,
restrained Lennox from jumping up, banging about, hunting for Margaret's
room, entering there and catechising her violently. Margaret was ill but
never too ill to tell the truth. Once he learned that, there was the fat
in the fire.

She had no time to lose. From the wardrobe of the actress that she was,
she snatched at an oleaginous mask and with the mucilage of it smiled at
him.

"Why, of course not. Not for a moment would I have you accept it from
me. I never dreamed of such a thing. It wouldn't be right. Margaret
shall tell you herself. She would be here now, but the poor child had
such a wretched night. You never had neuralgia, have you? At her age I
was a martyr to it. I remember I took something that ended in 'ine.'
Yesterday I suggested it but the doctor would not hear of it. Said she
needed building up. Spoke of her just as though she were a town out
West; so unsympathetic I thought him, but of course I did not say so. He
might have charged extra and he is expensive enough as it is, and always
so ready to talk about his own affairs, just like my dentist. I told him
once--the dentist I mean--that I really could not afford to pay him
thirty dollars an hour to hear about his wife and I don't think he liked
it. I know I didn't when I got his bill. But where was I? Oh, yes.
To-morrow or the next day, as soon as Margaret is the least bit better,
you will be sure to have a line from her and if you do not, and you care
to, you must certainly look in. For you must always regard us as
friends. Me at any rate. Won't you, Mr. Lennox?"

Moistening her lips, mentally she continued: Yes, count on that. But
inwardly she relaxed. Such danger as there may have been had gone. Under
the dribble of the mucilage the fire in his eyes had flickered and sunk.
He was too glued now for revolt. So she thought, but she did not know
him.

During the sticky flow of her words, he knew she was trying to gammon
him. But he knew quite as well that Margaret would make no such attempt,
and he knew it for no other reason than because he knew she was
incapable of it. Incidentally he determined what he would do. Having
determined it, he stood up.

"Very good. I shall expect to hear from Margaret to-morrow. If I do not
hear I will come, and when I come----"

Lennox paused and compressed his lips. The compression finished the
sentence. If come he did, no power of hers, or of any one else, would
budge him an inch until he saw Margaret and had it out with her.

"Good-evening," he added and Mrs. Austen found herself looking at his
retreating back which, even in retreat, was a menace.

"Merciful fathers!" she exclaimed, and, with that sense of humour which
is the saving grace, the dear woman put her hand to her stays. She was
feeling for her heart. She had none. Or any appetite, she presently told
a servant who came to say that dinner was served.

She misjudged herself. For twenty-five minutes, in an adjoining room,
she ate steadily and uncomplainingly. She had bouillon, skate in black
butter, cutlets in curl-papers, sweetbread and cockscombs, a cold
artichoke, hot almond pudding, an apricot, a bit of roquefort, a pint of
claret, a thimble of bénédictine and not a twinge, none of the
indigestion of square-dealing, none of gastritis of good faith. She was
a well-dressed ambition, intent on her food. No discomfort therefore. On
the contrary. Margaret was in bed--safe there. Fate and the cook were
kind.

With the taste of the liqueur still in her mouth, she went to her
daughter who was ill with one of those maladies which, being primarily
psychical, science cannot treat. Science is a classification of human
ignorance. It has remedies for the flesh, it has none for the soul. The
remedies exist, but they are dispensed only by the great apothecaries
that time and philosophy are.

At the moment neither was available. Behind Margaret's forehead a
monster crouched and crunched. That was nothing. It was in the tender
places of her heart that the girl agonised and by comparison to the
torture there, the monster was benign.

Margaret was nineteen, which is a very mature age; perhaps the most
mature, since all girlhood lies behind it. Beyond are the
pharmacop[oe]ias of time and, fortune favouring, the sofas of
philosophy. But these sofas, even when within reach, are not adapted to
everybody. To the young, they are detestable. Reposefully they admonish
that nothing is important. They whisper patience to the impatient. To
hope, they say, "Be still"; to desire, "Be quiet"; to wisdom, "Be
foolish."

Conversation of that kind is very irritating, when you have heard it,
which Margaret never had. She was otherwise ignorant. She did not know
that a sage wrote a book in praise of folly. But she acted as though she
knew it by heart. She believed, as many of us do believe, that love
confers the right to run a fence around the happy mortals for whom we
care. It is a very astounding belief. Margaret, who believed in many
wonderful things, believed in that and, being credulous, believed also
that her betrothed had crawled under the fence and into what mire! It
polluted her, soiled her thoughts, followed and smeared her in the
secret chambers of her being. Any cross is heavy. This cross was
degrading.

In her darkened room, on her bed of pain, she had shrunk from it. Her
forehead was a coronet of fire. That was nothing. A greater pain
suppresses a lesser one. The burn of her soul was a moxa to the burn of
