community as a veritable document, I found myself a secular dignitary
in the church militant. Previously I had been only a pew-holder, and an
unambitious attendant upon the Sabbath ministrations of the Rev. Mr----.
But a new field suddenly opened before me; I was a man of weight and
influence, and must be used for what I was worth. It is no joke, I can
assure the reader, when I tell them that the way my pocket suffered was
truly alarming. I don’t know, but I have seriously thought, sometimes,
that if I hadn’t kicked loose from my dignity, I would have been
gazetted as a bankrupt long before this time.

Soon after sending in my resignation as vestryman or deacon, I will not
say which, I met the Rev. Mr----, and the way he talked to me about the
earth being the “Lord’s and the fullness thereof;” about our having the
poor always with us; about the duties of charity, and the laying up of
treasure in heaven, made me ashamed to go to church for a month to come.
I really began to fear that I was a doomed man and that the reputation
of being a “wealthy citizen” was going to sink me into everlasting
perdition. But I am getting over that feeling now. My cash-book, ledger,
and bill-book set me right again; and I can button up my coat and
draw my purse-strings, when guided by the dictates of my own judgment,
without a fear of the threatened final consequences before my eyes.
Still, I am the subject of perpetual annoyance from all sorts of people,
who will persist in believing that I am made of money; and many of these
approach me in, such a way as to put it almost entirely out of my
power to say “no.” They come with appeals for small amounts, as loans,
donations to particular charities, or as the price of articles that I do
not want, but which I cannot well refuse to take. I am sure that, since
I have obtained my present unenviable reputation, it hasn’t cost me a
cent less than two thousand, in money given away, loaned never to be
returned, and in the purchase of things that I never would have thought
of buying.

And, with all this, I have made more enemies than I ever before had in
my life, and estranged half of my friends and acquaintances.

Seriously, I have it in contemplation to “break” one of these days,
in order to satisfy the world that I am not a rich man. I see no other
effectual remedy for present grievances.




“WE’VE ALL OUR ANGEL SIDE.”



     DESPAIR not of the better part
       That lies in human kind--
     A gleam of light still flickereth
       In e’en the darkest mind;
     The savage with his club of war,
       The sage so mild and good,
     Are linked in firm, eternal bonds
       Of common brotherhood.
     Despair not! Oh despair not, then,
       For through this world so wide,
     No nature is so demon-like,
       But there’s an angel side.

     The huge rough stones from out the mine,
       Unsightly and unfair,
     Have veins of purest metal hid
       Beneath the surface there;
     Few rocks so bare but to their heights
       Some tiny moss-plant clings,
     And round the peaks, so desolate,
       The sea-bird sits and sings.
     Believe me, too, that rugged souls,
       Beneath their rudeness hide
     Much that is beautiful and good--
       We’ve all our angel side.

     In all there is an inner depth--
       A far off, secret way,
     Where, through dim windows of the soul,
       God sends His smiling ray;
     In every human heart there is
       A faithful sounding chord,
     That may be struck, unknown to us,
       By some sweet loving word;
     The wayward heart in vain may try
       Its softer thoughts to hide,
     Some unexpected tone reveals
       It has its angel side.

     Despised, and low, and trodden down,
       Dark with the shade of sin:
     Deciphering not those halo lights
       Which God hath lit within;
     Groping about in utmost night,
       Poor prisoned souls there are,
     Who guess not what life’s meaning is,
       Nor dream of heaven afar;
     Oh! that some gentle hand of love
       Their stumbling steps would guide,
     And show them that, amidst it all,
       Life has its angel side.

     Brutal, and mean, and dark enough,
       God knows, some natures are,
     But He, compassionate, comes near--
       And shall we stand afar?
     Our cruse of oil will not grow less,
       If shared with hearty hand,
     And words of peace and looks of love
       Few natures can withstand.
     Love is the mighty conqueror--
       Love is the beauteous guide--
     Love, with her beaming eye, can see
       We’ve all our angel side.




BLIND JAMES.



IN the month of December, in the neighbourhood of Paris, two men, one
young, the other rather advanced in years, were descending the village
street, which was made uneven and almost impassable by stones and
puddles.

Opposite to them, and ascending this same street, a labourer, fastened
to a sort of dray laden with a cask, was slowly advancing, and beside
him a little girl, of about eight years old, who was holding the end of
the barrow. Suddenly the wheel went over an enormous stone, which lay
in the middle of the street, and the car leaned towards the side of the
child.

“The man must be intoxicated,” cried the young man, stepping forward to
prevent the overturn of the dray. When he reached the spot, he perceived
that the man was blind.

“Blind!” said he, turning towards his old friend. But the latter, making
him a sign to be silent, placed his hand, without speaking, on that of
the labourer, while the little girl smiled. The blind man immediately
raised his head, his sightless eyes were turned towards the two
gentlemen, his face shone with an intelligent and natural pleasure, and,
pressing closely the hand which held his own, he said, with an accent of
tenderness,

“Mr. Desgranges!”

“How!” said the young man, moved and surprised; “he knew you by the
touch of your hand.”

“I do not need even that,” said the blind man; “when he passes me in the
street, I say to myself, ‘That is his step.’” And, seizing the hand
of Mr. Desgranges, he kissed it with ardour. “It was indeed you, Mr.
Desgranges, who prevented my falling--always you.”

“Why,” said the young man, “do you expose yourself to such accidents, by
dragging this cask?”

“One must attend to his business, sir,” replied he, gayly.

“Your business?”

“Undoubtedly,” added Mr. Desgranges. “James is our water-carrier. But I
shall scold him for going out without his wife to guide him.”

“My wife was gone away. I took the little girl. One must be a little
energetic, must he not? And, you see, I have done very well since I last
saw you, my dear Mr. Desgranges; and you have assisted me.”

“Come, James, now finish serving your customers, and then you can call
and see me. I am going home.”

“Thank you, sir. Good-by, sir; good-by, sir.”

And he started again, dragging his cask, while the child turned towards
the gentlemen her rosy and smiling face.

“Blind, and a water-carrier!” repeated the young man, as they walked
along.

“Ah! our James astonishes you, my young friend. Yes, it is one of those
miracles like that of a paralytic who walks. Should you like to know his
story?”

“Tell it to me.”

“I will do so. It does not abound in facts or dramatic incidents, but
it will interest you, I think, for it is the history of a soul, and of
a good soul it is--a man struggling against the night. You will see the
unfortunate man going step by step out of a bottomless abyss to begin
his life again--to create his soul anew. You will see how a blind man,
with a noble heart for a stay, makes his way even in this world.”

While they were conversing, they reached the house of Mr. Desgranges,
who began in this manner:--

“One morning, three years since, I was walking on a large dry plain,
which separates our village from that of Noiesemont, and which is all
covered with mill-stones just taken from the quarry. The process of
blowing the rocks was still going on. Suddenly a violent explosion was
heard. I looked. At a distance of four or five hundred paces, a gray
smoke, which seemed to come from a hole, rose from the ground. Stones
were then thrown up in the air, horrible cries were heard, and springing
from this hole appeared a man, who began to run across the plain as if
mad. He shook his arms, screamed, fell down, got up again, disappeared
in the great crevices of the plain, and appeared again. The distance and
the irregularity of his path prevented me from distinguishing anything
clearly; but, at the height of his head, in the place of his face, I saw
a great, red mark. In alarm, I approached him, while from the other side
of the plain, from Noiesemont, a troop of men and women were advancing,
crying aloud. I was the first to reach the poor creature. His face was
all one wound, and torrents of blood were streaming over his garments,
which were all in rags.

“Scarcely had I taken hold of him, when a woman, followed by twenty
peasants, approached, and threw herself before him.

“‘James, James, is it you? I did not know you, James.’

“The poor man, without answering, struggled furiously in our hands.

“‘Ah!’ cried the woman, suddenly, and with a heart-rending voice, ‘it is
he!’

“She had recognised a large silver pin, which fastened his shirt, which
was covered with blood.

“It was indeed he, her husband, the father of three children, a
poor labourer, who, in blasting a rock with powder, had received the
explosion in his face, and was blind, mutilated, perhaps mortally
wounded.

“He was carried home. I was obliged to go away the same day, on a
journey, and was absent a month. Before my departure, I sent him our
doctor, a man devoted to his profession as a country physician, and as
learned as a city physician. On my return--

“‘Ah! well, doctor,’ said I, ‘the blind man?’

“‘It is all over with him. His wounds are healed, his head is doing
well, he is only blind; but he will die; despair has seized him, and he
will kill himself. I can do nothing more for him, This is all,’ he said;
‘an internal inflammation is taking place. He must die.’

“I hastened to the poor man. I arrived. I shall never forget the sight.
He was seated on a wooden stool, beside a hearth on which there was no
fire, his eyes covered with a white bandage. On the floor an infant of
three months was sleeping; a little girl of four years old was playing
in the ashes; one, still older, was shivering opposite to her; and, in
front of the fireplace, seated on the disordered bed, her arms hanging
down, was the wife. What was left to be imagined in this spectacle was
more than met the eye. One felt that for several hours, perhaps, no word
had been spoken in this room. The wife was doing nothing, and seemed
to have no care to do anything. They were not merely unfortunate, they
seemed like condemned persons. At the sound of my footsteps they arose,
but without speaking.

“‘You are the blind man of the quarry?”

“‘Yes, sir.’

“‘I have come to see you.’

“‘Thank you, sir.’

“‘You met with a sad misfortune there.’

“‘Yes, sir.’

“His voice was cold, short, without any emotion. He expected nothing
from any one. I pronounced the words ‘assistance,’ ‘public compassion.’

“‘Assistance!’ cried his wife, suddenly, with a tone of despair; ‘they
ought to give it to us; they must help us; we have done nothing to bring
upon us this misfortune; they will not let my children die with hunger.’

“She asked for nothing--begged for nothing. She claimed help. This
imperative beggary touched me more than the common lamentations of
poverty, for it was the voice of despair; and I felt in my purse for
some pieces of silver.

“The man then, who had till now been silent, said, with a hollow tone,

“‘Your children must die, since I can no longer see.’

“There is a strange power in the human voice. My money fell back into my
purse. I was ashamed of the precarious assistance. I felt that here was
a call for something more than mere almsgiving--the charity of a day. I
soon formed my resolution.”

“But what could you do?” said the young man, to Mr. Desgranges.

“What could I do?” replied he, with animation. “Fifteen days after,
James was saved. A year after, he gained his own living, and might be
heard singing at his work.”

“Saved! working! singing! but how?”

“How! by very natural means. But wait, I think I hear him. I will make
him tell you his simple story. It will touch you more from his lips. It
will embarrass me less, and his cordial and ardent face will complete
the work.”

