you wouldn't mind that," he said as he laid the cowslips on the table,
their fair yellow faces shewing very fair in the sick room. Faith's
face was bright before, but it brightened still.

"They look lovely to me--tell Charlie and Rob I will thank them when I
can. I don't thank you, Reuben,"--she said turning from the flowers
to him.

"No, ma'am, I should hope not," he said, answering her smile
gratefully. "But that's not all, Miss Faith--for Ency Stephens sent you
one of her rosebuds,"--and Reuben took a little parcel carefully from
his pocket. "It's only wrapped up in brown paper, because I hadn't time
to go home for white. And she told me to tell you, Miss Faith," he
added, both eyes and cheek flushing--"that she prays every day for you
to get well and for Mr. Linden to come home."

The smile died on Faith's face and her eyes fell. "He ought to have
this," she said presently, with a little flush on her own cheek. "I
don't feel as if it should come to me. Reuben, does she want anything?"
It was very rare, even now, for Faith to speak directly to Reuben of
Mr. Linden, though she was ready enough to hear Reuben speak of him.

"No, ma'am, I think not," he said in answer to net question. "You
know--did you ever hear, Miss Faith?--that when Mr. Linden first went
there she was kept in the house the whole time,--nobody knew how to
take her out--or took the trouble; and Mr. Linden carried her half a
mile down the lane that very first day. And you can guess how he talked
to her, Miss Faith,--they said she looked like another child when she
came back. But is there anything I can do for you, ma'am, before I go
to the post-office?--it's almost time."

"If you'll fill that glass with water for me, Reuben--that I mayn't let
my sweet cowslips fade--that's all. They'll do me good all to-morrow."

Reuben went off, his place presently supplied by Mrs. Stoutenburgh; who
against all persuasion had insisted upon coming down to see Faith. And
then Faith was left to the calm companionship of her cowslips till
Reuben came back from the post-office.

He came up to Faith's chair, and taking out the letter broke the outer
seal, (a ceremony he generally performed in her presence) and was just
removing the envelope when the doctor came in for his evening visit.
The doctor saw a tableau,--Faith, the cowslips, and Reuben,--Mrs.
Derrick by the window he hardly saw, nor what the others were about.
But that he had interrupted something was clear--the very atmosphere
of the room was startled; and though Reuben's position hid both letter
and hands, it was certain the hands were busy. What was in them, and
what became of it, the doctor could not tell. Before he was fairly in
the room the letter had retreated to Reuben's pocket, and Reuben
stepped back and stood behind Faith's chair.

The doctor laid a hand on his shoulder with a "How do you do" as he
passed; and accosted Faith with all the free kindliness which his
office of physician permitted him to add to the friend. The doctor took
all his advantage; he did not take more; and not Faith herself could
see that there was any warmer feeling behind his pleasant and pleased
eye and smile. But it is true Faith was a simpleton. She did not see
that his pleasantness covered keen scrutiny. The scrutiny found nothing.

"How do you do?" he said.

"I don't suppose I need say a word to tell you," Faith answered
smiling. "I am well enough to enjoy cowslips."

The doctor's eye fell slightingly upon them, which was not wonderful.

"I think you must be very well!" he said with some trifle of addenda
from lip and eye. "You see you are mistaken. I shouldn't have known how
well, except from your words."

"You are mistaken now, Dr. Harrison," said Faith in the slow quiet
way in which she spoke to-day. "You think these are not splendid--but
they are bits of spring!"

"They are not Spring's best bits, I hope," said the doctor.

"What do you think of that?"

The doctor took the rosebud and looked at it.

"If I were to tell you what I think of it," he said with a sort of
grave candour, "you would dismiss me, and I should come here no more!"

"Reuben brought me that, Dr. Harrison, from the little lame girl you
sent the rosebush to, in the winter. I wish you knew how much good that
rosebush has done!"

"I sometimes wish," said the doctor, "that I had been born in a
cottage!"

"Why, in the world?"

"It would be so pleasant to have people come and bring me rosebushes!"

"Or cowslips?" said Faith. "Then you would have a taste for cowslips."

"But then the people might get sick," said the doctor, waiving the
"bits of spring;"--"so I am content. How are you to-day?" He took
Faith's hand and felt it, and looked at her. The result did not seem to
be unsatisfactory on the whole.

"You mustn't read too much in that book," said he, glancing over at it.

"Why not?"

"You must keep quiet."

"For how long?"

"It depends. There is a little enemy of fever hanging about your
skirts, that I will oppose with something else; but all you can oppose
to him is quietness."

Faith thought of the words--"The rock of my defence and my
refuse"--what quietness was like that of their giving; but she said
nothing to the doctor.

Dr. Harrison gave Mrs. Derrick her directions on various points; then
taking his old-fashioned stand on the rug, surveyed the easy-chair and
its occupant and Reuben still behind it.

"By the way, Mrs. Derrick," said he carelessly,--"I have heard a pretty
story of your friend Mr. Linden." He noticed, but only that Faith had
glanced at him and was to all appearance quietly looking down at her
cowslips.

"I dare say, doctor," said Mrs. Derrick placidly. "I've heard a great
many."

"Have you heard it?"

"Heard what?" said Mrs. Derrick. "It's an old pretty story that
everybody loves him."

"I heard this only the other day," said the doctor. "It's not of that
kind. But stories will be stories--and people will tell them."

How the colour flushed and paled in Reuben's cheek!--he stood resting
his hands lightly on the back of Faith's chair, looking down. The
colour on Faith's cheek did not change.

"Who told this?" said Mrs. Derrick.

"People that have known the family. They say, he has managed to run
through a very large property, and that he leaves his sister now to
live upon charity."

It was impossible to tell from the doctor's manner whether he put any
faith in his story himself. It was as much like delivering a report as
bringing a charge. It might have been either! He saw Reuben's colour
become fixed and very high, but though the doctor could almost have
sworn that there was a rush of hid tears under the boy's drooping
eyelids, yet the lines about the mouth took the curl of an
irrepressible smile. Mrs. Derrick picked up two stitches, made a
third--then answered.

"So that's what you call a pretty story! It was hardly worth
remembering to tell us, doctor,--you and I, and Reuben, and Faith, know
better." Now could not the doctor tell for the life of him, whether the
words were simply innocent, or--simply malicious! Mrs. Derrick was so
imperturbable there, at her knitting! Neither did the doctor much care.
It sounded to him just like Mrs. Derrick. He looked at Faith; and
remarked lightly that "he didn't know anything!"

Faith was very quiet; he could not see that her colour had risen more
than a little, and a little was not enough to judge by in her face. But
in an instant more after he had spoken, she looked full and gravely up
at him.

"Do you believe everything about everybody, Dr. Harrison?"

"On the contrary! I don't believe anything of anybody--Except you," he
added with a little smile.

"Do you believe such a story?"

Her steady soft eyes, which did not move from him, gave him an
uncomfortable feeling--perhaps of undefined remembrance. "I don't
believe it," he said returning her gaze. "I don't do anything with it.
Such things are said of everybody--and of almost everybody they are
true. I take them as they come. But about this particular case," he
said with one of his gentle looks, "I will do just what you say I must
do."

Faith smiled.

"I don't say you must do anything. I am sorry for you, Dr. Harrison."

"I am glad you are sorry!" he said sitting down by her. "And there is
reason enough; but what is this one?"

"You lose a great pleasure."

"What one?"--

"You don't know how to trust."

"Do I not?" said the doctor, looking at the rosebud still in his hand.
"Well--you shall teach me!" And springing up he bowed to Mrs. Derrick
and went off--rosebud and all.

Reuben stood still for about half a minute--then came round, and
silently gave Faith her letter.

"Reuben Taylor!"--said Faith, as he was going after the doctor. "You
have been standing so long--suppose you sit down for a minute?"

Whatever Reuben thought of the request, he said nothing, but obeyed
her, bringing a foot cushion to her chair and bestowing himself upon
it. Faith smiled at him as she spoke again, though there was an
unwonted fire in her owe eyes; and the blood came fast now to her face.

"Reuben, I wanted to ask you what all that colour is in your cheeks
for?"

Reuben hesitated--there seemed a stricture across his breast which made
speaking hard work; but at last he said frankly, though in none of the
clearest tones,

"Because I'm angry, Miss Faith--and hurt too."

Faith's next words fell like pearls--

"It isn't worth the while."

"No, Miss Faith," he answered without looking up.

"It's too much honour to something that doesn't deserve
it,--and--Reuben--it's too little to something that does."

"O no, ma'am! it's not that!" Reuben said, raising his eyes to her
face with the old earnest look. "But Miss Faith, there are some things
he can't bear to hear said--and said so," he added a little lower,
and looking down again. "And then--he's Dr. Harrison, and I'm only a
poor boy and mayn't answer him--and that fretted me; and it isn't the
first time, neither," Reuben said, as if he were making a clean breast
of it. "Oh Miss Faith! I'd rather have had him knock me down, than
speak such words!" Tears were getting the upper hand in the boy's voice.

"Dear Reuben," said Faith, very quietly, though her cheeks were two
carnations,--"what I am most sorry for is Dr. Harrison."

Reuben drew a long breath, with his "Yes, ma'am--I'm sorry for him too,
very often--when he talks about other things. But I don't believe even
you know just--just how false that was." Reuben spoke as if the words
choked him. "It's maybe never come in your way to know all he did here
for everybody, and--for me."

There was a quick pulsation at that instant from Faith's heart to the
hand that held her letter,--but she only said, "Tell me!"

"I couldn't begin to tell you all, ma'am," Reuben said, a smile coming
over his face now,--"nobody could but himself--and he wouldn't
remember. I couldn't even tell you all he's done for me; but one
thing"--Reuben's eyes and voice fell and he spoke very low. "You know,
Miss Faith, the rate of schooling here is fixed by the trustees. And
the first day I came father told me to say he didn't know that he could
find the money for more than one quarter, but he had so much all ready,
and he wanted me to have so much. I thought it would be hard to ask,
but it was so easy--of him," Reuben said with that same smile. "Mr.
Linden didn't say much about it--only yes--but then he spoke to father
(that very day we were at the shore Miss Faith) and told him I should
come all the time--for the pleasure of teaching me." (Reuben thought
the compliment went all to Mr. Linden, or he would not have told it.)
"But father wouldn't do that,--he said Mr. Linden should have the money
as fast as he could get it; and if he didn't take it I shouldn't come.
And it was paid all the year, regularly. But then, Miss Faith----"
there was a pause.

"What, Reuben?" she whispered.

"Then instead of keeping it for himself, he put it all in the bank for
me.--And I never knew it till I opened the letter he gave me when he
was going away."

The brightness of the hidden diamonds danced in Faith's face for a
minute--half hidden too, but it was there.

"Reuben," she whispered, as he was starting up to go,--"what we have to
do is to pray for Dr. Harrison."

"Miss Faith, how do people live who do not pray?"

"I don't know!"

But Faith's voice did not speak the thanksgiving which bounded in her
heart to Reuben's words. She sat back in her chair looking tired, with
her letter clasped fast in her hand. Reuben stepped forward and
arranged the fire softly--then giving her another wistful look he bowed
and went lightly out of the room. With gentle step Mrs. Derrick came up
to Faith, to kiss her and ask how she felt. Faith's eyelids unclosed.

"Very happy, mother,--and tired too. Don't you think I could have a
light presently?"

"This minute, pretty child. But lie down on the couch, Faith, and I'll
bring up the little table."

That was done, and then Faith read her letter, with first a rapid and
then a slow enjoyment of it, making every word and sentence do more
