
"Why I do not want anybody to carry me, Dr. Sandford."

"Don't you? I do. And I shall want two men to do it. Whom will you have?
I have arranged a mountain chair for you, Daisy."

"A chair!" said Daisy. How could that be? And then she saw in Dr.
Sandford's wagon, a chair to be sure; a common, light, cane-bottomed
arm-chair; with poles sticking out before and behind it very oddly. She
looked up at the doctor, and Nora demanded what that was?

"Something like the chairs they use in the mountains of Switzerland, to
carry ladies up and down."

"To carry me?" said Daisy.

"For that purpose. Now see whom you will have to do it."

Daisy and Nora ran away together to consult her father. The matter was
soon arranged. James the footman, and Michael the coachman, were to go
to carry baskets and help manage the boat; James being something of a
sailor. Now Logan and Sam were pressed into the service; the latter to
take James's business, as porter, and leave the latter free to be a
chair-bearer.

"I don't see how the boat is to carry all the people," Nora remarked.

"O yes," said Daisy, "it is a big boat; it will hold everybody, I guess;
and it goes with a sail, Nora. Won't that be nice? Papa knows how to
manage it."

"It will want a very large boat to take us all," Nora persisted. "I went
out with Marmaduke in a sail-boat once--he knows how to manage a
sail-boat too;--and I am sure it wouldn't have held half as many people
as we have got here. No, nor a quarter as many."

"O yes, but our boat is bigger, I suppose," said Daisy. "Don't you like
to go in a boat, Nora?"

"I like it if it don't lean over too far," said Nora. "I thought it was
going to turn over once or twice, when I was out with Marmaduke that
time. I was afraid."

"I am not afraid with papa," said Daisy. "I know he can manage it."

"Why so can Marmaduke manage it," said Nora; "and he said I needn't be
afraid; but I was."

The carriages took the whole party down to the shore in a few minutes.
There lay the sail-boat all ready, her sails shaken out; and James and
Sam, on board already, received basket after basket from the hands of
Logan and the coachman and stowed them away in what seemed to be a place
of ample accommodations. Daisy and Nora, hand in hand, stood on the
shore looking at all that was done, and with eager eyes. The summer
breeze just played lightly and rippled the water, on which the morning
sun made a warm glow, early in the day as it was.

"What could so many baskets be wanted for?" said Nora.

"Why, to carry all the things. You know there will be a great many
people to eat dinner at Silver Lake."

"Dinner?" said Nora; "do people eat dinner when they go to a pic-nic?"

"Why yes. What do you think they do?"

"I thought it was just a pic-nic."

[Illustration]

"What is that?" said Daisy curiously. But just then there was a stir;
the ladies and gentlemen were getting into the boat, and the children
had to be ready for their turn. It came; and Mr. Randolph handed one
after the other safe over the gunwale of the big sail-boat and placed
them happily beside each other in the middle space, where they could
have an excellent time for talking. But they wanted no talking at first.
When all were aboard and ready, the boat was cast loose from the shore
and her sail trimmed to catch the soft northerly air that came blowing
down the river. Slowly the sail caught the breeze--would it be strong
enough to take her? the children thought--slowly, very slowly, the boat
edged its way out from the shore--then the breeze filled the sail full,
took good hold, and began to push the little vessel with a sensible
motion out towards the river channel. Steady and sweet the motion was,
gathering speed. The water presently rippled under the boat's prow, and
she yielded gently a little to the pressure on the sail, tipped herself
gracefully a little over, and began to cleave her way through the
rippling water in good earnest. Then how the waves sparkled! how cheery
the movement was! how delicious the summer air over the water! although,
the sun was throwing down his beams with great power already and the,
day promised to be sultrily hot.

"It is going to be intense," said Mrs. Randolph.

"Melting!"--said Mrs. Gary.

"You will have enough of it before the end of the day--" remarked Mr.
Sandford. Mr. Sandford was a good-humoured looking gentleman, with a
sensible face and black whiskers; but he was a gentleman, and Daisy
approved of him. He was very unlike his brother. His wife was a very
plain person, in feature, and not very talkative; letting her husband do
that for her; but kindly and pleasant nevertheless; and Daisy approved
of her too.

"At what hour do you expect the day will end, practically?" inquired
Mrs. Randolph of her husband. He smiled.

"I should say--judging from present tokens--not till the sun gets well
down on his western way."

"First-rate!" said Preston aside. "We'll have a good time for fishing."

"But that will make it very late crossing the river, Mr. Randolph? will
it not?"

"It may."

"There is a moon," said Mrs. Sandford.

"Moon! I hope we are not to be beholden to the moon's good offices!"
exclaimed the other lady. "It is only ten o'clock now--not that. We
shall be tired to death of the woods before we have done with them."

"You must try fishing, aunt Felicia," said Preston.

"Yes--a good idea," remarked Mr. Sandford. "I do not know how the ladies
can get along without some sport--ha, ha! There is a boat on the
lake--isn't there?"

"They say so," Mr. Randolph returned. "I have not been there for a long
time."

"Then I shall take the charge of your entertainment, Mrs. Randolph," Mr.
Sandford went on. "I shall persuade you to put yourself under my
guidance, and let me initiate you into the mysteries of pickerel
catching."

"I do not think you can persuade me out of the shade--if once I get in
it again--" said the lady.

"Why mamma," said Ransom, "pickerel fishing is splendid!"

Mr. Randolph looked at Daisy. No heat nor shadow too much for her! With
one hand clasped in Nora's, her little face was a pattern of perfect
content; nay, it was full of delighted joy. Mr. Randolph thought he
could endure his portion of the heat.

"Nora," said Daisy, "isn't it nice?"

"It goes nicely now," said Nora.

"But isn't it pleasant?"

"Yes. It is a great deal pleasanter than in a little boat. This one is
good and large."

"Isn't the water pretty?"

"I like the green grass better," said Nora.

"O yes! but then I like this too. I like it very much. Nora, what did
you mean by a pic-nic?"

"A pic-nic?" said Nora.

"Yes; you said you thought people did not eat dinner, but it was a
pic-nic."

"Well, I thought they didn't."

"What did you mean by a pic-nic?"

"Why I meant just that. You know what a pic-nic is."

"We always have dinner when we go on a pic-nic," said Daisy.

"Then I don't think it is a pic-nic."

"What is it?"

"I don't know. Daisy, are you going to ride in that queer chair?"

"I suppose so. My ankle isn't quite strong yet, you know. Wasn't it nice
of Dr. Sandford to prepare it for me?"

"I don't know, I don't think he is nice," said Nora.

Which expression of opinion was so very startling to Daisy that it took
her some time to recover from it. She sought out the doctor with her eye
where he was sitting forward of the mast, somewhat hid from her by a
piece of the sail; she scanned his countenance, with its calm nobleness
of feature, and steadfast, reserved, beautiful blue eye. Doubtless, he
was not everything Daisy wished him; nevertheless to her he was very
"nice" indeed. Her eye came back satisfied.

At the other end of the boat the party were talkative and gay. Mr.
Randolph held the main sheet in his own hand; Mr. Sandford had the
rudder; neither of them had much to do; for the wind was gentle and
fair, and the boat kept her straight course for the opposite shore. The
river was wide however at this place; the other shore was an object in
view for a good while before they reached it. Slowly and steadily the
little skiff skimmed over; they got to the middle of the river; then the
trees before them on the other side, with the cleared fields in one or
two spots, began to shew in more distinct forms and colours. The sun was
very hot! So hot, that it seemed to kill the breeze. As they drew near
their place of disembarkation, the motion of the vessel grew slack; the
sail fluttered now and then; the propelling force just lasted till they
got to shore, and then nobody said anything more of any air felt to be
stirring.

"I think we had better stay on the water," said Mrs. Gary. "It is
positively stifling here."

"It will be better when we get in the woods," suggested Mr. Sandford.

"No,--begging your pardon," Mr. Randolph answered.

"No?--will it be worse, Mr. Randolph?" said his wife.

"I hope not--for I think you could broil a beefsteak here in another
hour; when the sun gets on the meridian."

"Then do let us move away from here at once! it is oppressive. I do not
know how we are going to walk, but I suppose we shall find out. We may
hope there will be a little freshness by the lake."

Mr. Stanfield's boat however had to be waited for a few minutes. It got
to shore just as Mr. Fish's skiff appeared in sight coasting down on the
same side, from behind a point. The whole party were soon together,
exchanging shakes of the hand and puffs of condolence on the state of
the atmosphere. There was presently a division of forces. All the boys,
Preston, Ransom, and Alexander Fish, compared notes and fishing tackle.
The ladies and gentlemen, with one or two elder girls, Frederica Fish
and Theresa Stanfield and Elo√Øse Gary, congregated into a moving mass of
muslins and parasols. While Daisy and Nora were joined by Ella
Stanfield; and a great constraint fell upon all three. Ella was a
comparative stranger; a nice looking child, thoughtful and old beyond
her years. She looked like gravity; Nora liked gayety; while Daisy was
most like the thing that bears her name. They stood like little pinks of
propriety, without saying anything to each other. This constraint was
soon broken up by the preparations for the march. On enquiry it was
found that there were two or three ways to the lake. One was short and
easy (in comparison) but very narrow; a mere footpath through the woods.
Another had a wider track; but it had also a rough footing of rocks and
stones, and was much longer; taking a circuit to reach the place.
Another still was only used by eager lovers of the picturesque, though
it was said to reward them.

As soon as all this was explained to the understanding of the company,
the larger division set off immediately for the easiest and quickest
road to the lake; no other recommendation was worth a moment's
considering. With quick disappearance one after another muslin dress and
gay parasol was lost within the edge of the woods which their chosen
path immediately entered. They vanished from the shore. Every one of
them was presently out of sight. Mr. Randolph had seen that Dr. Sandford
was putting Daisy into her travelling conveyance; and thinking no
attention of his own could be needful he had gone on in advance of the
party with Mrs. Stanfield. The very last of them, muslins and parasols
and all, was swallowed up in the enclosing woods, almost before Daisy
was established in her chair. Her bearers lifted it then to receive
instructions from Dr. Sandford as to their method of playing their part.
They were Logan and Sam; James was devoted to his own particular charge.

"Why where are Nora and Ella?" Daisy suddenly exclaimed.

"Everybody seems to have gone on," answered the doctor. "Except the
boys. Now Daisy, are you comfortable? is it all right?"

"It is nice, Dr. Sandford!"--But at the same time Daisy wondered much
and grieved not a little that her companions should have left her to go
alone. Was that kindness? or good manners?

"Did they know which way I was going?" she said.

"I fancy so," said the doctor; "they have done as everybody else
does--gone with the crowd. Now, you fellows, you know the way."

"Yes, sir."

"When you come to a house, remember, you must turn sharp to the right.
Boys, you must go with the chair as a body-guard."

"Why must we?" said Ransom.

"You would not have your sister go alone?"

"You are going that way."

"You are mistaken. I am not."

"She has got Logan and Sam to take care of her. Girls always have to be
taken care of!" exclaimed Ransom in disgust.

"I am astonished at your want of gallantry. Preston, I shall depend on
you to see that the chair is properly attended."

"Which way are you going, sir?"

"By myself--to see if I can get a shot at something."

Preston did not look delighted, Daisy saw, though he accepted the charge
