neither run, fight, nor compromise. While matters were in this interesting
and critical condition, Tom ventured to raise his head over the top of the
chimney to obtain a better view of the belligerents. Joe stood where he
had last seen him, and the soldier was standing within three feet of the
foot of the chimney.

"What ye going to do, Joe Burnap?" demanded the latter, after waiting a
reasonable time for the other to make up his mind.

"What am I gwine to do?" repeated Joe, vacantly, as he glanced to the
right and the left, apparently in the hope of obtaining some suggestion
that would enable him to decide the momentous question.

"You needn't look round, Joe; you've got to come or be shot. Just take
your choice between the two, and don't waste my time."

"I s'pose I can't help myself," replied Joe. "I'll tell ye what I'll do. I
want to fix up things about hum a little, and I'll jine ye down to the Gap
to-morrow."

"No you don't, Joe Burnap!" said the soldier, shaking his head.

"Then I'll jine ye to-night," suggested the strategist.

"My orders are not to return without you, and I shall obey them."

Mrs. Burnap, who had followed the soldier out of the house, stood behind
him wringing her hands in an agony of grief. She protested with all a
woman's eloquence against the proceedings of the soldier; but her tears
and her homely rhetoric were equally unavailing. While the parties were
confronting each other, the soldier dropped his piece, and listened to the
arguments of Joe and his wife. When he turned for a moment to listen to
the appeals of the woman, her husband improved the opportunity to commence
a retreat. He moved off steadily for a few paces, when the enemy
discovered the retrograde march, and again brought the gun to his
shoulder.

"None of that, Joe," said the soldier, sternly. "Now march back again, or
I'll shoot you;" and Tom heard the click of the hammer as he cocked the
piece. "I've fooled long enough with you, and we'll end this business
here. Come here, at once, or I'll put a bullet through your head."

"Don't shoot! Don't shoot! For mercy's sake don't shoot," cried Mrs.
Burnap.

"I'll give him one minute to obey the order; if he don't do it then, I'll
fire. That's all I've got to say."

Tom saw by the soldier's manner that he intended to execute his threat. He
saw him brace up his nerves, and otherwise prepare himself for the bloody
deed. But Tom did not think that Joe had the stubbornness or the courage,
whichever it might be called, to run the risk of dodging the bullet. He
foresaw, too, that, if Joe gave himself up, his hiding place would be
exposed, and the soldier would have two prisoners to conduct back to his
officer, instead of one. It was therefore high time for him to do
something for his own protection, if not for that of his host.

The necessity of defending himself, or of doing something to cover his
retreat in an emergency, had been anticipated by Tom, and he had made such
preparations as the circumstances would admit. His first suggestion was to
dart his bayonet down at the rebel soldier, as he had seen the fishermen
of Pinchbrook harpoon a horse mackerel; but the chances of hitting the
mark were too uncertain to permit him to risk the loss of his only weapon,
and he rejected the plan. He adopted the method, however, in a modified,
form, deciding to use the material of which the chimney was constructed,
instead of the bayonet. The stones being laid in clay instead of mortar,
were easily detached from the structure, and he had one in his hands ready
for operations.

"Come here, Joe Burnap, or you are a dead man," repeated the soldier, who
evidently had some scruples about depriving the infant Confederacy of an
able-bodied recruit.

Tom Somers, being unembarrassed by any such scruples, lifted himself up
from his hiding place, and hurled the stone upon the soldier, fully
expecting to hit him on the head, and dash out his brains. The best laid
calculations often miscarry, and Tom's did in part, for the missile,
instead of striking the soldier upon the head, hit him on the right arm.
The musket was discharged, either by the blow or by the act of its owner,
and fell out of his hands upon the ground.

Now, a stone as big as a man's head, does not fall from the height of
fifteen feet upon any vulnerable part of the human frame without
inflicting some injury; and in strict conformity with this doctrine of
probabilities, the stone which Tom hurled down upon the rebel, and which
struck him upon the right arm, entirely disabled that useful member. The
hero of this achievement was satisfied with the result, though it had not
realized his anticipations. Concluding that the time had arrived for an
effective charge, he leaped out of the chimney upon the roof of the house,
descended to the eaves, and then jumped down upon the ground.

The soldier, in panic and pain, had not yet recovered from the surprise
occasioned by this sudden and unexpected onslaught. Tom rushed up to him,
and secured the musket before he had time to regain his self-possession.

"Who are you?" demanded the soldier, holding up the injured arm with his
left hand.

"Your most obedient servant," replied Tom, facetiously, as he placed
himself in the attitude of "charge bayonets." "Have you any dangerous
weapons about your person?"

"Yes, I have," replied the soldier, resolutely, as he retreated a few
steps, and attempted to thrust his left hand into the breast pocket of his
coat.

"Hands down!" exclaimed Tom, pricking his arm with the bayonet attached to
the musket. "Here, Joe Burnap!"

"What d' yer want?" replied the proprietor of the house, who was as
completely "demoralized" by the scene as the rebel soldier himself.

"Put your hand into this man's pocket, and take out his pistol. If he
resists, I'll punch him with this," added Tom, demonstrating the movement
by a few vigorous thrusts with the bayonet.

With some hesitation Joe took a revolver from the pocket of the soldier,
and handed it to Tom.

"Examine all his pockets. Take out everything he has in them," added Tom,
cocking the revolver, and pointing it at the head of the prisoner.

Joe took from the pockets of the rebel a quantity of pistol cartridges, a
knife, some letters, and a wallet.

"Who's this fur?" asked Joe, as he proceeded to open the wallet, and take
therefrom a roll of Confederate "shin-plasters."

"Give it back to him."

"But this is money."

"Money!" sneered Tom. "A northern beggar wouldn't thank you for all he
could carry of it. Give it back to him, and every thing else except the
cartridges."

Joe reluctantly restored the wallet, the letters, and the knife, to the
pockets from which he had taken them. Tom then directed him to secure the
cartridge box of the soldier.

"You are my prisoner," said Tom; "but I believe in treating prisoners
well. You may go into the house, and if your arm is much hurt, Mrs. Burnap
may do what she can to help you."

The prisoner sullenly attended the woman into the house, and Tom followed
as far as the front door.

"Now, what am I gwine to do?" said Joe. "You've got me into a right smart
scrape."

"I thought I had got you out of one," replied Tom. "Do you intend to
remain here?"

"Sartin not, now. I must clear."

"So must I; and we have no time to spare. Get what you can to eat, and
come along."

In ten minutes more, Tom and Joe Burnap were travelling towards the
mountains.




CHAPTER XIX.

THROUGH THE GAP.


Joe Burnap was perfectly familiar with the country, and Tom readily
accepted him as a guide; and, as they had a common object in view, neither
had good cause for mistrusting the other. They walked, without stopping to
rest, till the sun set behind the mountains towards which they were
travelling.

"I reckon we needn't hurry now," said Joe, as he seated himself on a rock.

"I don't think there is any danger of their catching us," replied Tom, as
he seated himself beside his fellow-traveller. "Can you tell me where we
are?"

"I reckon I can. There ain't a foot of land in these yere parts that I
hain't had my foot on. I've toted plunder of all sorts through these woods
more'n ten thousand times."

"Well, where are we?" asked Tom, whose doubts in regard to the locality
had not yet been solved.

In the pressure of more exciting matters, he had not attempted to explain
why he did not come to Fairfax station while following the railroad.

"If we keep on a little while longer, I reckon we shall come to
Thoroughfare Gap," answered Joe.

"But where do you live? What town is your house in?" asked Tom, who had
never heard of Thoroughfare Gap before.

"Haymarket is the nearest town to my house."

"What railroad is that over there?" asked Tom, who was no nearer the
solution of the question than he had been in the beginning.

"That's the Manassas Gap Railroad, I reckon," replied Joe, who seemed to
be astonished at the ignorance of his companion.

"Just so," added Tom, who now, for the first time, comprehended where he
was.

When he left Sudley church, he walked at random till he came to the
railroad; but he had struck the Manassas Gap Railroad instead of the main
line, and it had led him away from the great body of the rebels, though it
also conducted him away from Washington, where he desired to go. He was
perplexed at the discovery, and at once began to debate the question
whether it was advisable for him to proceed any farther in this direction.

"I suppose you are a Union man--ain't you?" said Tom, after he had
considered his situation for some time.

Instead of answering this question, Joe Burnap raised his eyes from the
ground, and fixed his gaze intently upon Tom. He stared at him for a
moment in doubt and silence, and then resumed his former attitude.

"You don't want to fight for the south," added Tom; "so I suppose you
don't believe in the Southern Confederacy."

"I don't want to fight for nuther of 'em," replied Joe, after a moment of
further consideration. "If they'll only let me alone, I don't keer which
beats."

His position was certainly an independent one, and he appeared to be
entirely impartial. The newspapers on either side would not have disturbed
him. Patriotism--love of country--had not found a resting place in his
soul. Tom had not, from the beginning, entertained a very high respect for
the man; but now he despised him, and thought that a rebel was a gentleman
compared with such a character. How a man could live in the United States,
and not feel an interest in the stirring events which were transpiring
around him, was beyond his comprehension. In one word, he so thoroughly
despised Joe Burnap, that he resolved, at the first convenient
opportunity, to get rid of him, for he did not feel safe in the company of
such a person.

"Now which side do you fight fur?" asked Joe, after a long period of
silence.

"For the Union side," replied Tom, promptly.

"What are yer doin' here, then?"

"I was in the battle below, and was taken prisoner, got away, and I want
to get to Washington."

"I reckon this ain't the way to git thar," added Joe.

"I doubt whether I can get there any other way."

Just then, Tom would have given all the money he had in the world, and all
that the government owed him, for a good map of Virginia--or even for a
knowledge of geography which would have enabled him to find his way by the
safest route to Washington. But he had been a diligent scholar in school,
and had faithfully improved the limited opportunities which had been
afforded him. His mind could recall the map of Virginia which he had
studied in school, but the picture was too faint to be of much practical
benefit to him.

He had treasured up some information, derived from the newspapers, in
regard to the Manassas Gap Railroad. He knew that it passed through the
Blue Ridge, at the western base of which flowed the Shenandoah River: this
emptied into the Potomac, which would certainly conduct him to Washington.
In following these two rivers, he should have to describe nearly a circle,
which was not an encouraging fact to a boy on foot, with no resources, and
in an enemy's country.

If he returned by the way he came, the country was filled with rebel
soldiers, and he could hardly expect to pass through their lines without
being captured. Difficult and dangerous as the route by the Shenandoah
appeared, he decided to adopt it.

Joe Burnap proposed that they should have supper and opened the bag which
he had filled with such eatables as he could hastily procure on leaving
home. They ate a hearty meal, and then resumed their walk for another
hour.

"I reckon we'd better stop here," said Joe. "The Gap's only half a mile
from here, and it's too arly in the night to go through thar yet. Thar's
too many soldiers goin' that way."

"What time will you go through?" asked Tom.

"Not afore midnight."

"Then I'll turn in and take a nap. I didn't sleep any last night."

"I'm agreed," replied Joe, who seemed to be indifferent to every thing
while he could keep out of the rebel army.

Tom coiled up his body in the softest place he could find, and went to
sleep. Exhausted by fatigue and the want of rest, he did not wake for many
hours. He came to his senses with a start, and jumped upon his feet. For a
moment, he could not think where he was; but then came the recollection
that he was in the country of his enemies--a wanderer and a fugitive.
