"A bookstore."

"What is the name of your employer?"

"Baker."

"Baker's bookstore!" repeated Richard, turning to Fosdick. "That is
where our particular friend, Roswell Crawford, is employed."

"Yes," said Mark; "there's a boy there about sixteen or seventeen. I
believe that is his name."

"I am not sure whether his being there will make it pleasant to you.
Does he know that you are a friend of mine?"

"Yes," said Mark; "he inquired particularly about you, Mr. Hunter."

"He's very fond of me," said Dick; "I suppose he sent me his love."

"No," said Mark, smiling; "he didn't speak as if he loved you very
much."

"He doesn't like me very much. I am afraid when he gets to be president
I shan't stand much chance of an office. He didn't try to bully
you,--did he?"

"He said he could get me sent off if I wasn't careful to please him."

"That sounds like Roswell."

"He talked as if he was one of the firm," said Mark; "but when Mr.
Baker came in, he began to scold him for not dusting the books. After
that I didn't think so much of what he said."

"It's a way he has," said Fosdick. "He don't like me much either, as I
got a place that he was trying for."

"If he bullies you, just let me know," said Richard. "Perhaps I can
stop it."

"I am not afraid," said Mark. "Mr. Baker is there most of the time, and
he wouldn't dare to bully me before him."

Sunday morning came,--a day when the noisy streets were hushed, and the
hum of business was stilled. Richard Hunter and Fosdick still attended
the Sunday school, to which they had now belonged for over two years.
They were still members of Mr. Greyson's class, and were much better
informed in religious matters than formerly. Frequently--for they were
favorite scholars with Mr. Greyson--he invited them home to dine at
his handsome residence. Both boys were now perfectly self-possessed
on such occasions. They knew how to behave at the table with perfect
decorum, and no one would have judged from their dress, manners, or
conversation, that they had not always been accustomed to the same
style of living.

Mr. and Mrs. Greyson noticed with pleasure the great improvement in
their proteg√©s, and always welcomed them with kind hospitality. But
there was another member of the family who always looked forward with
pleasure to seeing them. This was Ida, now a young lady of thirteen,
who had from the first taken an especial fancy to Dick, as she always
called him.

"Well, Mark," said Richard Hunter, on Sunday morning, "wouldn't you
like to go to Sunday school with me?"

"Yes," said Mark. "Mother always wanted me to go to Sunday school, but
she was so poor that she could not dress me in suitable clothes."

"There is nothing to prevent your going now. We shall be ready in about
half an hour."

At the appointed time the three set out. The distance was not great,
the church being situated four blocks farther up town on Fifth Avenue.
They chanced to meet Mr. Greyson on the church steps.

"Good-morning, Richard. Good-morning, Henry," he said. Then, glancing
at Mark, "Who is your young friend?"

"His name is Mark Manton," said Richard. "He is my ward."

"Indeed! I had not thought of you in the character of a guardian," said
Mr. Greyson, smiling.

"I should like to have him enter one of the younger classes," said
Richard.

"Certainly, I will gladly find a place for him. Perhaps you can take
him in your class."

"In my class!" repeated Richard, in surprise.

"Yes, I thought I had mentioned to you that Mr. Benton was about to
leave the city, and is obliged to give up his class. I would like to
have you take it."

"But am I qualified to be a teacher?" asked Richard, who had never
before thought of being invited to take a class.

"I think you have excellent qualifications for such a position. It
speaks well for you, however, that you should feel a modest hesitation
on the subject."

"I think Fosdick would make a better teacher than I."

"Oh, I intend to draft him into the service also. I shall ask him to
take the next vacancy."

The class assigned to our friend Dick (we are sometimes tempted to
call him by his old, familiar name) consisted of boys of from ten to
eleven years of age. Among these Mark was placed. Although he had
never before attended a Sunday school, his mother, who was an excellent
woman, had given him considerable religious instruction, so that he was
about as well advanced as the rest of the class.

Richard easily adapted himself to the new situation in which he was
placed. He illustrated the lesson in a familiar and oftentimes quaint
manner, so that he easily commanded the attention of the boys, who were
surprised when the time came for the lesson to close.

"I am glad you are my teacher, Mr. Hunter," said one of the boys at the
close of the service.

"Thank you," said Richard, who felt gratified at the compliment. "It's
new business to me, but I hope I shall be able to interest you."

"Won't you come and dine with us?" asked Mr. Greyson, as they were
leaving the church.

Richard Hunter hesitated.

"I don't know if Mark can find his way home," he said with hesitation.

"Yes, I can, Mr. Hunter," said Mark. "Don't trouble yourself about me."

"But I mean to have him come too," said Mr. Greyson. "Our table is a
large one, as you know, and we can accommodate three as well as two."

"Do come, Dick," said Ida Greyson.

Richard was seldom able to resist a request preferred by Ida, and
surrendered at discretion. So, as usual, Fosdick walked on with Mr.
Greyson, this time with Mark beside him, while Richard walked with Ida.

"Who is that little boy, Dick?" asked the young lady.

"That's my ward, Miss Ida," said Richard.

"You don't mean to say you are his guardian, Dick?"

"Yes, I believe I am."

"Why," said the lively young lady, "I always thought guardians were
old, and cross, and bald-headed."

"I don't know but that description will suit me after a while," said
Dick. "My hair has been coming out lately."

"Has it, really?" said Ida, who took this seriously. "I hope you won't
be bald. I don't think you would look well."

"But I might wear a wig."

"I don't like wigs," said the young lady, decidedly. "If you were a
lady now, you might wear a cap. How funny you'd look in a cap!" and she
burst out into a peal of merry laughter.

"I think a cap would be more becoming to you," said Richard.

"Do you ever scold your ward?" asked Ida.

"No, he's a pretty good boy. He don't need it."

"Where did you get acquainted with him? Have you known him long?"

"He was taken sick at the door of our office one day. So I had him
carried to my boarding-place, and took care of him till he got well."

"That was very good of you," said Ida, approvingly. "What did he use to
do?"

"He was a match boy."

"Does he sell matches now?"

"No; he has got a place in a bookstore."

"What did you say his name was?"

"Mark."

"That's a pretty good name, but I don't like it so well as Dick."

"Thank you," said Richard. "I am glad you like my name."

At this moment they were passing the Fifth Avenue Hotel. Standing on
the steps were two acquaintances of ours, Roswell Crawford and Ralph
Graham. They had cigars in their mouths, and there was a swaggering
air about them, which was not likely to prepossess any sensible person
in their favor. They had not been to church, but had spent the morning
in sauntering about the city, finally bringing up at the Fifth Avenue
Hotel, where, posting themselves conspicuously on the steps, they
watched the people passing by on their way from church.

Richard Hunter bowed to Roswell, as it was his rule never to be found
wanting in politeness. Roswell was ill-mannered enough not to return
the salutation.

"Who is that, Roswell?" asked Ralph Graham.

"It's a boot-black," said Roswell, sneeringly.

"What do you mean? I am speaking of that nice-looking young fellow that
bowed to you just now."

"His name is Hunter. He used to be a boot-black, as I told you; but
he's got up in the world, and now he's putting on airs."

"He seems to have got into good company, at any rate. He is walking
with the daughter of Mr. Greyson, a rich merchant down town."

"He's got impudence enough for anything," said Roswell, with a feeling
of bitter envy which he could not conceal. "It really makes me sick to
see him strutting about as if he were a gentleman's son."

"Like you," suggested Ralph, slyly; for he had already been informed by
Roswell, on various occasions, that he was "a gentleman's son."

"Yes," said Roswell, "I'm a gentleman's son, if I'm not so lucky as
some people. Did you see that small boy in front?"

"Walking with Mr. Greyson?"

"Yes, I suppose so."

"What of him?"

"That's our errand boy."

"Is it?" asked Ralph, in some surprise. "He seems to be one of the
lucky kind too."

"He sold matches about the streets till a few weeks ago," said Roswell,
spitefully.

"He sold them to some purpose, it seems, for he's evidently going home
to dine with Mr. Greyson."

"Mr. Greyson seems to be very fond of low company. That's all I can
say."

"When you and I get to be as rich as he is, we can choose our own
company."

"I hope I shall choose better than he."

"Well, let's drop them," said Ralph, who was getting tired of the
subject. "I must be getting home to dinner."

"So must I."

"Come round to my room, after dinner, and we'll have another smoke."

"Yes, I'll come round. I suppose mother'll be wanting me to go to
church with her, but I've got tired of going to church."




CHAPTER XX.

THE MADISON CLUB.


Two days afterwards, when Roswell as usual met his friend Ralph, the
latter said, with an air of importance:--

"I've got news for you, Roswell."

"What is it?" inquired Roswell.

"You've been unanimously elected a member of our club."

"Your club?"

"Yes; didn't I ever mention it to you?"

"No."

"Well, I believe I didn't. You see I intended to propose your name as a
member, and not feeling certain whether you would be elected, I thought
I had better not mention it to you."

"What is the name of the club?" asked Roswell, eagerly.

"The Madison Club."

"What made you call it that?"

"Why, you see, there's one fellow in the club that lives on Madison
Avenue, and we thought that would be an aristocratic name, so we chose
