should have been utterly worthless and unreliable for weeks. Yet
Westerford could not understand this; nobody can, except one who has
been through my bitter experience. One sip would flash to the brain like
fire, and then, all fear, all care, all conscience would be gone, and
not one glass, but a dozen would be inevitable, and then you might have
to look for me in some of those dens to which the possessed of the devil
flee when the fit is on them, and where they rave and tear and cut
themselves with stones till the madness is worn out. This has happened
to me over and over, after long periods of self-denial and self-control
and illusive hope. It seems to me that my experience is like that of a
man whom some cruel fiend condemns to go through all the agonies of
drowning over and over again--the dark plunge, the mad struggle, the
suffocation, the horror, the agony, the clutch at the shore, the weary
clamber up steep rocks, the sense of relief, recovery, and hope, only to
be wrenched off and thrown back to struggle, and strangle, and sink
again."

He spoke with such a deep intensity of voice that I drew in my breath,
and a silence as of the grave fell between us.

"Harry," he said, after a pause, "you know we read in the Greek
tragedies of men and women whom the gods have smitten with unnatural and
guilty purposes. In which they were irresistibly impelled toward what
they abominated and shuddered at! Is it not strange that the Greek fable
should have a real counterpart in the midst of our modern life? That
young man in all the inexperience and thoughtlessness of youth should be
beguiled into just such a fatality; that there should be a possibility
that they could be blighted by just such a doom, and yet that song, and
poetry, and social illusion, and society customs should all be thrown
around courses which excite and develop this fatality! What opera is
complete without its drinking chorus? I remember when it used to be my
forte to sing drinking songs; so the world goes! Men triumph and rejoice
going to a doom to which death is a trifle. If I had fallen dead, the
first glass of wine I tasted, it would have been thought a horrible
thing; but it would have been better for my mother, better for me, than
to have lived as I did."

"Oh, no, no, Bolton! don't say so: you become morbid in dwelling on this
subject."

"No, Hal. I only know more of it than you. This curse has made life an
unspeakable burden, a doom instead of a privilege. It has disappointed
my friends, and subjected me to humiliations and agonies such that death
seems to me a refuge; and yet it was all in its beginning mere
thoughtlessness and ignorance. I was lost before I knew it."

"But you are not lost, and you shall not be!" I exclaimed, "you are good
for more than most men now, and you will come through this."

"Never! to be just as others are. I shall be a vessel with a crack in
it, always."

"Well, a vase of fine porcelain with a crack in it is better than
earthenware without," I said.

"If I had not disappointed myself and my friends so often," said Bolton,
"I might look on myself as sound and sane. But the mere sight and smell
of the wine at Westerford's dinner gave me a giddy sensation that
alarmed me; it showed that I was not yet out of danger, and it made me
resolve to strengthen my self by making you my keeper. You have the
advantage of perfectly healthy nerves that have come to manhood without
the strain of any false stimulus, and you can be strong for both of us."

"God grant it!" said I, earnestly.

"But I warn you that, if the curse comes upon me you are not to trust
me. I am a Christian and a man of honor in my sane moments, but let me
tell you one glass of wine would make me a liar on this subject. I
should lie, and intrigue, and deceive the very elect, to get at the
miserable completion of the aroused fury, and there are times when I am
so excited that I fear I may take that first irrevocable step; it is a
horror, a nightmare, a temptation of the devil,--for that there is a
devil, men with my experience know; but there is a kind of safety in
having a friend of a steady pulse with me who knows all. The mere fact
that you do know helps hold me firm."

"Bolton," said I, "the situation you offer to Caroline in the care of
the Ladies' Cabinet will of course oblige her to come to New York.
Shall you meet her and renew your acquaintance?"

"I do not desire to," he said.

There was a slight hesitancy and faltering of his voice as he spoke.

"Yet it can hardly be possible that you will not meet; you will have
arrangements to make with her."

"That is one of the uses, among others, of having you. All that relates
to her affairs will pass through you; and now, let us talk of the
magazine and its programme for the season. What is the reason, Hal, that
you waste your forces in short sketches? Why do you not boldly dash out
into a serial story? Come, now, I am resolved among other things on a
serial story by Harry Henderson."

"And I will recommend a taking title," cried Jim Fellows, who came in as
we were talking, and stood behind my chair. "Let us have

      HENDERSON'S HORROR; or, The Mystery
        of the Bloody Latch-Key.

There's a title to take with the reflecting public! The readers of
serials are generally girls from twelve to twenty, and they read them
with their back-hair down, lounging on the bed, just before a nap after
dinner, and there must be enough blood and thunder, and murder and
adultery and mystery in them to keep the dear creatures reading at least
half an hour."

"I think serial stories are about played out in our day," said I.

"Not a bit of it. There's sister Nell, don't read anything else. She is
regularly running on five serial stories, and among them all they keep
her nicely a-going; and she tells me that the case is the same with all
the girls in her set. The knowledge of the world and of human nature
that the pretty creatures get in this way is something quite astounding.
Nell is at present deeply interested in a fair lady who connives with
her chambermaid to pass off her illegitimate child upon her husband as
his own; and we have lying and false swearing, I say nothing of all
other kinds of interesting things on every page. Of course this is
written as a moral lesson, and interspersed with pious reflections to
teach girls as how they hadn't oughter do so and so. All this, you see,
has a refining effect upon the rising generation."

"But, really, Bolton, don't you think that it is treating our modern
society as children, to fall in with this extreme fashion of
story-telling? It seems so childish to need pictures and stories for
everything. Isn't your magazine strong enough to lead and form public
taste instead of following it?"

"Well, if I owned my magazine I would try it," said Bolton. "But, you
see, the Westerfords, while they give me carte blanche as to means to
run it, expect of course that it is to be run in the approved popular
grooves that the dear thoughtless ten million prefer. The people who
lounge on beds after dinner are our audience, and there must be nothing
wiser nor stronger than they can apprehend between sleeping and waking.
We talk to a blas√©, hurried, unreflecting, indolent generation, who
want emotion and don't care for reason. Something sharp and spicy,
something pungent and stinging--no matter what or whence. And now as
they want this sort of thing, why not give it to them? Are there no
other condiments for seasoning stories besides intrigues, lies, murders,
and adulteries? And if the young and unreflecting will read stories
shouldn't some of the thoughtful and reflecting make stories for them to
read?"

"Of course they should, Q. E. D.," said Jim Fellows, touching the gas
with a match, and sending a flare of light upon our conference. "But
come, now, behold the last novelty of the season," said he, tossing two
cards of invitation. "This is for us, as sons of the press and recording
angels, to be present at Wat Sydney's grand blow-out next Tuesday. All
the rank and fashion are to go. It is to be very select, and there are
people who would give their eye-teeth for these cards, and can't get
'em. How do ye say, Old Man of the Mountain, will you go?"

"No," said Bolton; "not my line."

"Well, at all events, Hal has got to go. I promised the fair Alice that
I'd bring him if I had to take him by the hair."

I had a great mind to decline. I thought in my heart it was not at all
the wisest thing for me to go; but then, Amare et sapere vix Deo--I
had never seen Sydney, and I had a restless desire to see him and Eva
together--and I thought of forty good reasons why I should go.




CHAPTER XXXII.

THE GAME OF CROQUET.


Now I advise all serious, sensible individuals who never intend to do
anything that is not exactly most reasonable and most prudent, and who
always do exactly as they intend, not to follow my steps on the present
occasion, for I am going to do exactly what is not to be recommended
to young gentlemen in my situation, and certainly what is not at all
prudent.

For if a young man finds himself without recall, hopelessly in love with
one whose smiles are all for another, his best way is to keep out of her
society, and in a course of engrossing business that will leave him as
little time to think of her as possible.

I had every advantage for pursuing this course, for I had a press of
writing upon me, finishing up a batch of literary job-work which I
wished to get fairly out of the way so that I might give my whole
energies to Bolton in our new enterprise. In fact, to go off
philandering to a croquet party up the North River was a sheer piece of
childish folly, and the only earthly reason I could really give for it
was the presence of a woman there that I had resolved to avoid. In fact
I felt that the thing was so altogether silly that I pretended to myself
that I was impregnably resolved against it, and sat myself down in
Bolton's room making abstracts from some of his books, knowing all the
while that Jim would seek me out there and have his moral fish-hook fast
in my coat collar, as in truth he did.

"Come, come, Hal," he said, bursting in, "I promised the divinest of her
sex to bring you along."

"Oh nonsense, Jim! it's out of the question," said I. "I've got to get
this article done."

"Oh, you be hanged with your article, come along! What's the use of a
fellow's shutting himself up with books? I tell you, Hal, if you're
going to write for folks you must see folks and folks must see you,
and you must be around and into and a part of all that's going on. Come
on! Why, you don't know the honor done you. Its a tip-top select party,
and all the handsomest girls and all the nobby fellows will be there,
and no end of fun. Sydney's place alone is worth going to see. Its the
crack place on the river; and then they say the engagement is going to
be declared, and everybody is wild to know whether it is or isn't to be,
and the girls are furbishing up fancy suits to croquet in. Miss Alice
treated me to a glimpse of hers as I met her on Tullegig's steps, and
its calculated to drive a fellow crazy, and so come now," said Jim,
pulling away my papers and laying hold of me, "let's go out and get some
gloves and proceed to make ourselves up. We have the press to represent,
and we must be nobby, so hang expense! here's for Jouvin's best, and let
to-morrow take care of itself."

Now, seconding all these temptations was that perverse inclination that
makes every man want to see a little more and taste a little more of
what he has had too much already. Moreover I wanted to see Eva and Wat
Sydney together. I wanted to be certain and satisfy myself with my own
eyes, not only that they were engaged but that she was in love with him.
If she be, said I to myself, she is certainly an exquisite coquette and
a dangerous woman for me to keep up an acquaintance with.

In thinking over as I had done since Mrs. Van Arsdel's motherly
conversation, all our intercourse and acquaintance with each other, her
conduct sometimes seemed to me to be that of a veritable "Lady Clara
Vere de Vere," bent on amusing herself, and diversifying the tedium of
fashionable life by exciting feelings which she had no thought of
returning. When I took this view of matters I felt angry and
contemptuous and resolved to show the fair lady that I could be as
indifferent as she. Sometimes I made myself supremely wretched by
supposing that it was by her desire that Mrs. Van Arsdel had held the
conversation with me, and that it was a sort of intimation that she had
perceived my feelings, and resolved to put a decided check upon them.
But of course nothing so straightforward and sensible as going to her
for an explanation of all this was to be thought of. In fact our
intercourse with one another ever since the memorable occasion I refer
to had been daily lessening, and now was generally limited to passing
the most ordinary common-places with each other. She had grown cold and
dry, almost haughty, and I was conscious of a most unnatural rigidity
and constraint. It seemed to me sometimes astonishing when I looked back
a little, to reflect how perfectly easy and free and unconstrained we
always had been up to a certain point, to find that now we met with so
little enjoyment, talked and said so little to any purpose. It was as if
some evil enchanter had touched us with his wand stiffening every nerve
of pleasure. To look forward to meeting her in society was no longer, as
it had been, to look forward to delightful hours; and yet for the life
of me I could not help going where this most unsatisfactory, tantalizing
intercourse was all I had to hope for.

But to-day, I said to myself, I would grasp the thorns of the situation
so firmly as to break them down and take a firm hold on reality. If,
indeed, her engagement were to-day to be declared, I would face the
music like a man, walk up to her and present my congratulations in due
form, and then the acquaintance would make a gallant finale in the glare
of wedding lamps and the fanfaronade of wedding festivities, and away to
fresh fields and pastures new.

In short, whatever a man is secretly inclined to do there are always a
hundred sensible incontrovertible reasons to be found for doing, and so
I found myself one of the gay and festive throng on board the steamer. A
party of well-dressed people floating up the North River of a bright
Spring day is about as ideal a picture of travel as can be desired. In
point of natural scenery the Rhine is nothing compared with the Hudson,
and our American steamboats certainly are as far ahead of any that ever
appeared on the Rhine as Aladdin's palace is ahead of an ordinary
dwelling. The most superb boat on the river had been retained for the
occasion, and a band of music added liveliness to the scene as we moved
off from the wharf in triumph, as gay, glittering, festive a company as
heart could wish.

Wat Sydney as host and entertainer was everywhere present, making
himself agreeable by the most devoted attentions to the comfort of the
bright band of tropical birds, fluttering in silks and feathers and
ribbons, whom he had charge of for the day. I was presented to him by
Jim Fellows, and had an opportunity to see that apart from his immense
wealth he had no very striking personal points to distinguish him from a
hundred other young men about him. His dress was scrupulously adjusted,
with a care and nicety which showed that he was by no means without
consideration of the personal impression he made. Every article was the
choicest and best that the most orthodox fashionable emporiums
pronounced the latest thing, or as Jim Fellows phrased it, decidedly
"nobby." He was of a medium height, with very light hair and eyes, and
the thin complexion which usually attends that style, and which, under
the kind of exposure incident to a man's life, generally tends to too
much redness of face.

Altogether, my first running commentary on the man as I shook hands with
him was, that if Eva were in love with him it was not for his beauty;
yet I could see glances falling on him on all sides from undeniably
handsome eyes that would have excused any man for having a favorable
conceit of his own personal presence.

Mr. Sydney was well accustomed to being the cynosure of female eyes, and
walked the deck with the assured step of a man certain of pleasing. A
rich good-humored young man who manifests himself daily in splendid
turn-outs, who rains down flowers and confectionery among his feminine
