Waldo had been lost, he indicated the direction in which they were
situated, for the high land on the south shore of the river intercepted
the view of them. Miss Liverage appeared to become more desperate in her
purpose, whatever it was as the day passed away; and the storm seemed to
increase her excitement. On the fourth day after her arrival, she
vibrated between her chamber and the parlor all the forenoon,
occasionally visiting the dining-room and the office. The landlord said
she was "as uneasy as a fish out of water;" and he carried books and
newspapers to her, but these did not seem to occupy her attention. She
only glanced at them, and it was plain that her mind wandered when she
attempted to read them. After dinner, on this eventful day her
desperation appeared to culminate in a resolve to do something; and for
the twentieth time since her arrival she sent for Leopold.

When he entered the parlor, where she was nervously walking across the
floor, she closed the door after him, and looked out at the windows
which opened on the piazza, apparently to assure herself that no one was
within hearing distance of her. She labored under more than her usual
excitement of manner, and the landlord's son was impressed with a belief
that something was about to happen. Miss Liverage had evidently made up
her mind to say something, and Leopold promptly made up his mind, also,
to hear what it was.

"I didn't come down here for nothing," said she, and then paused to
observe the effect of this startling revelation upon her auditor.

"I didn't suppose you did," replied Leopold, judging from the pause that
he was expected to say something, though he was not very deeply
impressed by the guest's announcement.

"Leopold, Harvey Barth said you were a very nice young man," she added.

"Then I suppose I am, for I think Mr. Barth was a man of good judgment,"
laughed Leopold.

"He told me you owed some money for your new boat."

"He told the truth at that time; but I don't owe anything now. I was
very lucky with the mackerel, and I have had plenty of jobs for the
boat, so that I have paid up all I owed."

"Then you have paid your debt," added Miss Liverage, apparently "headed
off" by the young man's reply.

"I don't owe a cent to anybody."

"I didn't know but you might want to make some money."

"I do; I am always ready to make a dollar, though I don't owe anybody
anything," replied Leopold, willing to encourage the woman, while he did
not desire to make anything out of her.

"Five hundred dollars is a good deal of money," continued Miss Liverage,
watching the countenance of the young man very closely.

Leopold did not dispute the remark, and with a nod he admitted the truth
of it.

"I suppose you would not object to making five hundred dollars,
Leopold."

"I don't believe I should, if I could make it honestly, fairly, and
above-board; but I wouldn't steal five hundred dollars for the sake of
having it."

"Of course not. I wouldn't, either," protested Miss Liverage. "I never
did anything which was not honest, fair, and above-board, and I never
mean to. Now, Leopold, I can put you in the way of making five hundred
dollars."

"Can you? I am sure I shall not object. I suppose the money would do me
as much good as it would anybody."

"I have no doubt it would. Now, can you keep a secret?" demanded the
woman, more excited than ever; so much so that her manner began to be
decidedly melo-dramatic.

"That depends on circumstances," answered Leopold, who was not yet quite
clear in his own mind whether or not the woman was crazy. "If it is to
cheat anybody out of a cent, even, I wouldn't keep a secret any more
than I would the itch, if I could get rid of it."

"Nonsense, Leopold! I am not going to cheat or wrong anybody. I wouldn't
do such a thing for all the money in the world."

"I can keep a secret that won't harm anybody," added the young man.

"Will you promise me solemnly not to tell any one, not even your father,
what I say to you?" asked Miss Liverage, in a low tone, and in a very
impressive manner.

"If the matter don't concern my father, I won't tell him of it, or
anybody else. But I don't want you to tell me anything that concerns any
person--that is, in a way to do any injury."

"It don't concern any living soul," interposed Miss Liverage,
impatiently. "I know where there is some money."

The last remark was whispered, after a glance at the door and all the
windows of the parlor.

"Where is it?" asked Leopold, now for the first time manifesting a real
interest in the conversation.

"In the ground."

"Buried?"

"Yes."

Miss Liverage was very much agitated for a few moments, for she had now
actually entered upon the business which had brought her to Rockhaven.
Of course this important revelation was in some manner to involve Harvey
Barth; but Leopold was not willing to believe that the sick man had
buried any considerable sum of money, unless his speech and his life
while at the hotel were both a lie.

"Will you promise to keep the secret?" demanded the woman, as soon as
she had overcome in a measure her agitation.

"On the condition I said, I will," replied Leopold. "But after you have
told me, if I find that anybody is to be wronged by my keeping still, I
shall tell all I know."

"I'm satisfied. I hope you don't think I came down here, all the way
from New York, to cheat or wrong anybody."

"I hope not. If you did, I can't do anything for you."

"You shall judge for yourself. It is just as Harvey Barth said: you are
a good young man, and you will be as honest by me as you mean to be by
other folks."

"Of course I will be."

"Your share of the money will be five hundred dollars. Shall you be
satisfied with this?"

"I think I shall be," laughed Leopold, to whom the amount seemed like a
fortune.

"You agree to take this as your share?"

"Yes; I agree to it."

"And to keep the secret?"

"On the conditions I named."

"I am satisfied with the conditions. If you and I don't get this money,
somebody else will, who has no more right to it than we have."

"But who owns the money?" asked Leopold, whose views of an honest policy
required him to settle this question first.

"Nobody."

"Nobody!" exclaimed the young man. "It must belong to somebody."

"No it don't."

"How can that be?"

"The owner is dead and gone."

"Then it belongs to his heirs."

"He has no heirs."

"Who is he, anyhow?"

"He isn't anybody now. Didn't I say he was dead and gone?" demanded Miss
Liverage, impatiently.

"Well, who was he, then?"

"I don't know."

"It's very strange," mused Leopold.

"I know it's strange. I am the only person living who knows anything
about this money. If I don't take it, somebody else will, or it will
stay in the ground till the end of the world," said the woman. "It's a
plain case; and I think the money belongs to me as much as it does to
anybody else."

"Where is it buried?"

Before she would answer this question, Miss Liverage satisfied herself
that Leopold understood the bargain they had made, and was ready to
abide by all its conditions. With the proviso he had before insisted
upon, the young man agreed to the arrangement.

"I don't know exactly where the money was buried," continued the owner
of the great secret.

"O, you don't!" exclaimed Leopold, rising from his chair, and bursting
into a laugh. "Then this is a 'wild goose chase.'"

"No, it isn't. But now you have agreed to the terms, I will tell you all
about it. Sit down; for I don't want to scream out what I have to say.
Will any one hear us?"

"No; I think not."

"Won't your father?"

"No, he has gone up to Squire Wormbury's."

Miss Liverage drew her chair up to the cheerful wood fire that blazed in
the Franklin stove, and Leopold seated himself in the corner nearly
opposite her, with his curiosity intensely excited by what he had
already heard.

"In the first place do you know whatever became of Harvey Barth's
diary?" Miss Liverage began.

"I haven't the least idea; but he said it was stolen from him, and he
was going to get it when he went to New York," replied Leopold, deeply
interested even in this matter.

"But he never found it, and I don't believe anybody stole it. I think it
is in this house now. Our first business is to find it."

"We couldn't find it in the time of it, and I don't believe we can now."

"We must find it, for that diary will tell us just where the money is
buried."

"You never will find the diary or the money."

"Don't be too fast. Harvey told me where the money was buried. It was
under the cliffs at High Rock," added Miss Liverage.

"The cliffs are about a mile long."

"The money was buried in the sand."

"The beach under High Rock is half a mile long, and it would be a
winter's job to dig it all over. But who hid the money there?"

"A man who was wrecked in the brig."

"Was it Harvey Barth?"

"No; the man was a passenger and called himself Wallbridge; but Harvey
thought this was not his real name."

"That was the name of the passenger as it was printed in the newspaper."

"Harvey wrote down all he knew about him in his diary. He buried his
money--twelve hundred dollars in gold--on the beach; and in the diary
the place is described. Harvey inquired about the passenger in Rockland;
but no one knew anything about him."

"Twelve hundred in gold," said Leopold, musingly.

"Yes; and I have agreed to give you nearly half of it."

"If we find it," added the young man, who considered the information
rather too indefinite for entire success.

"I think we can find it."

"Did Harvey Barth tell you just where the money was buried?"

"He said it was buried on the beach. He talked a great deal about it the
day before he died, and said, if he ever got well enough, he should go
and get it; and then he would pay me handsomely for all I had done for
him. I was a nurse in the hospital, you see, and was his only companion.
He felt very bad about the loss of his diary, and told me all about it.
He said he put it in the flue of the fireplace, because there was no
closet in the room. Now, if nobody stole it, the diary must be there
yet. I have looked into the flue, but I couldn't see anything of it; and
I have made up my mind that it dropped down somewhere."

"The room is directly over this parlor, and if it dropped into the
chimney, it must have come down into this fireplace," replied Leopold.
"I am sure nothing was ever seen of it."

They examined the flue of the Franklin stove, and Miss Liverage was
satisfied with the young man's statement in regard to its construction.

"Some one may have picked it up and put it away," suggested the nurse.

"There was a summer piece fastened into the front of this stove, which
was not taken down till I removed it to make the fire when you came. If
the diary had been there, I should have found it. But I will search the
whole house for it, though I am of Harvey Barth's opinion, that some one
stole the book. If any person saw him put it into the flue, as Harvey
thought the drummer did, he might have supposed it was something very
valuable. Why should he take so much pains to hide it, if it was not? If
the drummer did not take it himself, he may have told somebody else, who
did steal it. If he had left the diary on the table, nobody would have
touched it, I know. It was all because he hid it, that he lost it."

Miss Liverage was sure the diary was still in the house, and during that
and the next day, while the storm lasted, Leopold searched the hotel
from cellar to garret. He did not find the key to the hidden treasure of
High Rock. The nurse searched for herself, so far as she could do so
