
But Miss Dorcas, who had carried her in her arms, a heart-broken
wreck snatched from the waves of a defeated life, bore with her as
heroically as we ever can bear with another whose nature is wholly of
a different make and texture from our own.

In general, she made up her mind with a considerable share of good
sense as to what it was best for Betsey to do, and then made her do
it, by that power which a strong and steady nature exercises over a
weaker one.

Miss Dorcas had made up her mind that more society, and some little
change in her modes of life, would be a benefit to her sister; she
had taken a strong fancy to Eva, and really looked forward to her
evenings as something to give a new variety and interest in life.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Now, Jim," said Alice, in a monitory tone, "you know we all depend
on you to manage this thing just right to-night. You mustn't be too
lively and frighten the serious folks; but you must keep things
moving, just as you know how."

"Well, are you going to have 'our rector?'" said Jim.

"Certainly. Mr. St. John will be there."

"And of course, our little Angie," said Jim.

"Certainly. Angie, and Mamma, and Papa, and I, shall all be there,"
said Alice, with dignity. "Now, Jim!"

The exclamation was addressed not to anything which this young
gentleman had said, but to a certain wicked sparkle in his eye which
Alice thought predicted coming mischief.

"What's the matter now?" said Jim.

"I know just what you're thinking," said Alice; "and now, Jim, you
mustn't look that way to-night."

"Look what way!"

"Well, you mustn't in any way--look, sign, gesture or word--direct
anybody's attention to Mr. St. John and Angie. Of course there's
nothing there; it's all a fancy of your own--a very absurd one; but
I've known people made very uncomfortable by such absurd suggestions."

"Well, am I to wear green spectacles to keep my eyes from looking?"

"You are to do just right, Jim, and nobody knows how that is to
be done better than you do. You know that you have the gift of
entertaining, and there isn't a mortal creature that you can't please,
if you try; and you mustn't talk to those you like best to-night, but
bestow yourself wherever a hand is needed. You must entertain those
old ladies over the way, and get acquainted with Mr. St. John, and
talk to the pretty Quaker woman; in short, make yourself generally
useful."

"O. K.," said Jim. "I'll be on hand. I'll make love to all the old
ladies, and let the parson admonish me, as meek as Moses; and I'll
look right the other way, if I see him looking at Angie. Anything
more?"

"No, that'll do," said Alice, laughing. "Only do your best, and it
will be good enough."

       *       *       *       *       *

Eva was busy about her preparations, when Dr. Campbell came in to
borrow a book.

"Now, Dr. Campbell," said she, "you're just the man I wanted to see.
I must tell you that one grand reason why I want to be sure and
secure you for our evenings, and this one in particular, is I have
caught our rector and got his promise to come, and I want you to
study him critically, for I'm afraid he's in the way to get to heaven
long before we do, if he isn't looked after. He's not in the least
conscious of it, but he does need attention."

Dr. Campbell was a hale young man of twenty-five; blonde, vigorous,
high-strung, active, and self-confident, and as keen set after medical
and scientific facts as a race-horse for the goal. As a general thing,
he had no special fancy for clergymen; but a clergyman as a physical
study, a possible verification of some of his theories, was an object
of interest, and he readily promised Eva that he would spare no pains
in making Mr. St. John's acquaintance.

"Now, drolly enough," said Eva, "we're going to have a Quaker preacher
here. I went in to invite Ruth and her husband; and lo, they have got
a celebrated minister staying with them, one Sibyl Selwyn. She is as
lovely as an angel in a pressed crape cap and dove-colored gown; but
what Mr. St. John will think about her I don't know."

"Oh, Mrs. Henderson, there'll be trouble there, depend on it," said
Dr. Campbell. "He won't recognize her ordination, and very likely she
won't recognize his. You see, I was brought up among the Friends. I
know all about them. If your friend Sibyl should have a 'concern'
laid on her for your Mr. St. John, she would tell him some wholesome
truths."

"Dear me," said Eva. "I hope she won't have a 'concern' the very first
evening. It would be embarrassing."

"Oh, no; to tell the truth, these Quaker preachers are generally
delightful women," said Dr. Campbell. "I'm sure I ought to say so, for
my good aunt that brought me up was one of them, and I don't doubt
that Sibyl Selwyn will prove quite an addition to your circle."

Well, the evening came, and so did all the folks. But what they said
and did, must be told in another chapter.




CHAPTER XVI.

THE MINISTER'S VISIT.


Mr. St. John was sitting in his lonely study, contemplating with some
apprehension the possibilities of the evening.

Perhaps few women know how much of an ordeal general society is to
many men. Women are naturally social and gregarious, and have very
little experience of the kind of shyness that is the outer bark of
many manly natures, in which they fortify all the more sensitive part
of their being against the rude shocks of the world.

As we said, Mr. St. John's life had been that of a recluse and
scholar, up to the time of his ordination as a priest. He was, by
birth and education, a New England Puritan, with all those habits of
reticence and self-control which a New England education enforces.
His religious experiences, being those of reaction from a sterile and
severe system of intellectual dogmatism, still carried with them a
tinge of the precision and narrowness of his early life. His was a
nature like some of the streams of his native mountains, inclining to
cut for itself straight, deep, narrow currents; and all his religious
reading and thinking had run in one channel. As to social life, he
first began to find it among his inferiors; among those to whom he
came, not as a brother man, but as an authoritative teacher--a master,
divinely appointed, set apart from the ordinary ways of men. In his
r√¥le of priest he felt strong. In the belief of his divine and sacred
calling, he moved among the poor and ignorant with a conscious
superiority, as a being of a higher sphere. There was something in
this which was a protection to his natural diffidence; he seemed among
his parishioners to feel surrounded by a certain sacred atmosphere
that shielded him from criticism. But to mingle in society as man with
man, to lay aside the priest and be only the gentleman, appeared on
near approach a severe undertaking. As a priest at the altar he was
a privileged being, protected by a kind of divine aureole, like that
around a saint. In general society he was but a man, to make his way
only as other men; and, as a man, St. John distrusted and undervalued
himself. As he thought it over, he inly assented to the truth of what
Eva had so artfully stated--that this ordeal of society was indeed,
for him, the true test of self-sacrifice. Like many other men of
refined natures, he was nervously sensitive to personal influences.
The social sphere of those around him affected him, through sympathy,
almost as immediately as the rays of the sun impress the daguerreotype
plate; but he felt it his duty to subject himself to the ordeal the
more because he dreaded it. "After all," he said to himself, "what is
my faith worth, if I cannot carry it among men? Do I hold a lamp with
so little oil in it that the first wind will blow it out?"

It was with such thoughts as these that he started out on his usual
afternoon tour of visiting and ministration in one of the poorest
alleys of his neighborhood.

As he was making his way along, a little piping voice was heard at his
elbow:

"Mr. St. Don; Mr. St. Don."

He looked hastily down and around, to meet the gaze of a pair of dark
childish eyes looking forth from a thin, sharp little face. Gradually,
he recognized in the thin, barefoot child, the little girl whom he
had seen in Angie's class, leaning on her.

"What do you want, my child?"

"Mother's took bad, and Poll's gone to wash for her. They told me to
watch till you came round, and call you. Mother wants to see you."

"Well, show me the way," said Mr. St. John, affably, taking the thin,
skinny little hand.

The child took him under an alley-way, into a dark, back passage, up
one or two rickety staircases, into an attic, where lay a woman on a
poor bed in the corner.

The room was such a one as his work made only too familiar to
him--close, dark, bare of comforts, yet not without a certain
lingering air of neatness and self-respect. The linen of the bed was
clean, and the woman that lay there had marks of something refined and
decent in her worn face. She was burning with fever; evidently, hard
work and trouble had driven her to the breaking point.

"Well, my good woman, what can I do for you?" said Mr. St. John.

The woman roused from a feverish sleep and looked at him.

"Oh, sir, please send her here. She said she would come any time I
needed her, and I want her now."

"Who is she? Who do you mean?"

"Please, sir, she means my teacher," said the child, with a bright,
wise look in her thin little face. "It's Miss Angie. Mother wants her
to come and talk to father; father's getting bad again."

"He isn't a bad man," put in the woman, "except they get him to drink;
it's the liquor. God knows there never was a kinder man than John used
to be."

"Where is he? I will try to see him," said Mr. St. John.

"Oh, don't; it won't do any good. He hates ministers; he wouldn't hear
you; but Miss Angie he will hear; he promised her he wouldn't drink
any more, but Ben Jones and Jim Price have been at him and got him off
on a spree. O dear!"

At this, moment a feeble wail was heard from the basket cradle in the
corner, and the little girl jumped from the bed, and in an important,
motherly way, began to soothe an indignant baby, who put up his
stomach and roared loudly after the manner of his kind, astonished and
angry at not finding the instant solace and attention which his place
in creation demanded.

Mr. St. John looked on in a kind of silent helplessness, while the
little skinny creature lifted a child who seemed almost as large
as herself and proceeded to soothe and assuage his ill humor by
many inexplicable arts, till she finally quenched his cries in a
sucking-bottle, and peace was restored.

"The only person in the world that can do John any good," resumed the
woman, when she could be heard, "is Miss Angie. John would turn any
man, specially any minister, out of the house, that said a word
about his ways; but he likes to have Miss Angie come here. She has
been here Saturday afternoons and read stories to the children, and
taught them little songs, and John always listens, and she almost got
him to promise he would give up drinking; she has such pretty ways of
talking, a man can't get mad with her. What I want is, can't you tell
her John's gone, and ask her to come to me? He'll be gone two days
or more, and when he comes back he'll be sorry--he always is then;
and then if Miss Angie will talk to him; you see she's so pretty, and
dresses so pretty. John says she is the brightest, prettiest lady he
ever saw, and it sorter pleases him that she takes notice of us. John
always puts his best foot foremost when she is round. John's used to
being with gentlefolk," she said, with a sigh; "he knows a lady when
he sees her."

"Well, my good woman," said Mr. St. John, "I shall see Miss Angie this
evening, and you may be sure that I shall tell her all about this.
Meanwhile, how are you off? Do you need money now?"

"I am pretty well off, sir. He took all my last week's money when he
went, but Poll has gone to my wash-place to-day, and I told her to ask
for pay. I hope they'll send it."

"If they don't," said Mr. St. John, "here is something to keep things
going," and he slipped a bill into the woman's hand.

"Thank you, sir. When I get up, if you'll please give me some washing,
I'll make it square. I've been held good at getting up linen."

Poor woman! She had her little pride of independence, and her little
accomplishment--she could wash and iron! There she felt strong! Mr.
St. John allowed her the refuge, and let her consider the money as an
advance, not a charity.

He turned away, and went down the cracked and broken stairs with the
thought struggling in an undefined manner in his breast, how much
there was of pastoral work which transcended the power of man, and
required the finer intervention of woman. With all, there came a glow
of shy pleasure that there was a subject of intercommunication opened
between him and Angie, something definite to talk about; and to a
diffident man a definite subject is a mine of gold.




CHAPTER XVII.

OUR FIRST THURSDAY.


The Henderson's first "Evening" was a social success. The little
parlors were radiant with the blaze of the wood-fire, which gleamed
and flashed and made faces at itself in the tall, old-fashioned brass
andirons, and gave picturesque tints to the room.

Eva's tea-table was spread in one corner, dainty with its white
drapery, and with her pretty wedding-present of china upon it--not
china like Miss Dorcas Vanderheyden's, of the real old Chinese fabric,
but china fresh from the modern improvements of Paris, and so adorned
with violets and grasses and field flowers that it made a December
tea-table look like a meadow where one could pick bouquets. Every
separate tea-cup and saucer was an artist's study, and a topic for
conversation.

