CLARET CUP.

1 (quart) bottle of claret.

1 (pint) bottle of champagne.

½ pint best sherry.

2 lemons, sliced.

¼ pound loaf sugar dissolved in 1 cup cold water.

Let the sugar, water and sliced lemon steep together half an hour
before adding to the rest of the ingredients. Shake all well together
in a very large pitcher twenty or thirty times, and make thick with
pounded ice, when you are ready to use it.

There is no better receipt for the famous “claret cup” than this.


VERY FINE PORTEREE.

1 pint bottle best porter.

2 glasses pale sherry.

1 lemon peeled and sliced.

½ pint ice-water.

6 or 8 lumps of loaf sugar.

½ grated nutmeg.

Pounded ice.

This mixture has been used satisfactorily by invalids, for whom the
pure porter was too heavy, causing biliousness and heartburn.


GINGER CORDIAL.

2 table-spoonfuls ground ginger, fresh and strong.

1 lb. loaf sugar.

½ pint best whiskey.

1 quart red currants.

Juice of 1 lemon.

Crush the currants in a stone vessel with a wooden beetle, and strain
them through a clean, coarse cloth, over the sugar. Stir until the
sugar is dissolved; add the lemon, the whiskey, and the ginger. Put
it into a demijohn or a stone jug, and set upon the cellar-floor for
a week, shaking up vigorously every day. At the end of that time,
strain through a cloth and bottle. Seal and wire the corks, and lay the
bottles on their sides in a cool, dry place.

An excellent summer drink is made by putting two table-spoonfuls of
this mixture into a goblet of iced water. It is far safer for quenching
the thirst, when one is overheated, than plain ice-water or lemonade.


MILK-PUNCH. (Hot.)

1 quart milk, warm from the cow.

2 glasses best sherry wine.

4 table-spoonfuls powdered sugar.

4 eggs, the yolks only, beaten light.

Cinnamon and nutmeg to taste.

Bring the milk to the boiling point. Beat up the yolks and sugar
together; add the wine; pour into a pitcher, and mix with it, stirring
all the time, the boiling milk. Pour from one vessel to another six
times, spice, and serve as soon as it can be swallowed without scalding
the throat.

This is said to be an admirable remedy for a bad cold if taken in the
first stages, just before going to bed at night.


MULLED ALE.

3 eggs, the yolks only.

A pint of good ale.

2 table-spoonfuls loaf sugar.

A pinch of ginger, and same of nutmeg.

Heat the ale scalding hot, but do not let it quite boil. Take from the
fire and stir in the eggs beaten with the sugar, and the spice. Pour
from pitcher to pitcher, five or six times, until it froths, and drink
hot.


MULLED WINE.

2 eggs, beaten very light with the sugar.

1 table-spoonful white sugar.

2 full glasses white wine.

½ cup boiling water.

A little nutmeg.

Heat the water, add the wine; cover closely and bring almost to a boil.
Pour this carefully over the beaten egg and sugar; set in a vessel of
boiling water and stir constantly until it begins to thicken. Pour into
a silver goblet, grate the nutmeg on the top, and let the invalid drink
it as hot as it can be swallowed without suffering.


A SUMMER DRINK. (Very good.)

2 lbs. Catawba grapes.

3 table-spoonfuls loaf sugar.

1 cup of cold water.

Squeeze the grapes hard in a coarse cloth, when you have picked them
from the stems. Wring out every drop of juice; add the sugar, and when
this is dissolved, the water, surround with ice until very cold; put a
lump of ice into a pitcher, pour the mixture upon it, and drink at once.

You can add more sugar if you like, or if the grapes are not quite ripe.


RUM MILK-PUNCH.

1 cup milk, warm from the cow.

1 table-spoonful of best rum.

1 egg, whipped light with a little sugar.

A little nutmeg.

Pour the rum upon the egg-and-sugar; stir for a moment and add the
milk; strain and drink.

It is a useful stimulant for consumptives, and should be taken before
breakfast.


CLEAR PUNCH.

½ cup ice-water.

1 glass white wine (or very good whiskey).

White of 1 egg whipped stiff with the sugar.

1 table-spoonful of loaf sugar.

A sprig of mint.

Pounded ice.

Mix well together and give to the patient, ice-cold.


CURRANT AND RASPBERRY SHRUB.

4 quarts ripe currants.

3 quarts red raspberries.

4 lbs. loaf sugar.

1 quart best brandy.

Pound the fruit in a stone jar, or wide-mouthed crock, with a wooden
beetle. Squeeze out every drop of the juice; put this into a porcelain,
enamel, or very clean bell-metal kettle, and boil hard ten minutes.
Bring to the boil quickly, as slow heating and boiling has a tendency
to darken all acid syrups. Put in the sugar at the end of the ten
minutes, and boil up once to throw the scum to the top. Take it off;
skim, let it get perfectly cold, skim off all remaining impurities, add
the brandy and shake hard for five minutes. Bottle; seal the corks, and
lay the bottles on their sides in dry sawdust.

Put up in this way, “shrub” will keep several years, and be the better
for age. It is a refreshing and slightly medicinal drink, when mixed
with iced water.


STRAWBERRY SHRUB.

4 quarts of ripe strawberries.

The juice of 4 lemons.

4 lbs. of loaf sugar.

1 pint best brandy, or colorless whiskey.

Mash the berries and squeeze them through a bag. Add the strained
lemon-juice; bring quickly to a fast boil, and after it has boiled five
minutes, put in the sugar and cook five minutes more. Skim as it cools,
and, when quite cold, add the brandy. Be sure that your bottles are
perfectly clean. Rinse them out with soda-and-water; then, with boiling
water. The corks must be new. Soak them in cold water; drive into the
bottles; cut off even with the top; seal with bees-wax and rosin,
melted in equal quantities, and lay the bottles on their sides in dry
sawdust.

Strawberries, preserved in any way, do not keep so well as some other
fruits. Hence, more care must be taken in putting them up.


LEMON SHRUB.

Juice of 6 lemons, and grated peel of two.

Grated peel of 1 orange.

3 lbs. loaf sugar.

3 pints of cold water.

3 pints of brandy or white whiskey.

Steep the grated peel in the brandy for two days. Boil the
sugar-and-water to a thick syrup, and when it is cool, strain into it
the lemon-juice and the liquor. Shake up well for five minutes, and
bottle. Seal the bottles and lay them on their sides.


CURAÇOA.

Grated peel and the juice of 4 fine oranges.

1 lb. of rock-candy.

1 cup of cold water.

1 teaspoonful cinnamon.

½ teaspoonful nutmeg.

A pinch of cloves.

1 pint very fine brandy.

Break the candy to pieces in a mortar, or, by pounding it in a cloth,
cover with cold water and heat to a boil, by which time the candy
should be entirely dissolved. Add the orange-juice, boil up once and
take from the fire. When cold, skim, put in the spices, peel, and
brandy; put it into a stone jug, and let it stand for a fortnight in a
cool place. Shake every day, and at the end of that time strain through
flannel, and bottle.

This is an excellent flavoring for pudding sauces, custards, trifles,
etc. For tipsy Charlottes and like desserts, it is far superior to
brandy or wine.


NOYAU.

½ pound sweet almonds.

Juice of 3 lemons, and grated peel of one.

2 pounds loaf sugar.

3 teaspoonfuls extract of bitter-almonds.

2 table-spoonfuls clear honey.

1 pint best brandy.

1 table-spoonful orange-flower water.

Blanch and pound the almonds, mixing the orange-flower water with them
to prevent oiling. Add the sugar and brandy, and let these ingredients
lie together for two days, shaking the jug frequently. Put in the
lemon, honey and flavoring; shake hard, and leave in the jug a week
longer, shaking it every day.

Strain through very fine muslin, bottle and seal.

The flavor of this is delicious in custards, etc. As a beverage, it
must be mixed with ice-water.


ROSE SYRUP.

1½ pound of fresh rose-leaves.

