the bank. Yet I believed, with the utmost confidence, that there was
five or ten thousand more in the stock for me, and as long as things
were easy at the bank, I did not think of realizing.

Then I was sick for ten days, and was obliged to stay in the house,
but even while my brain was on fire with fever I went down town one
day. I dared not leave my deficit to be discovered by my substitute.
I compelled poor Cormorin to lend me the eight thousand again, on the
security of my Bustumups. They were worth nearly this sum in the
market by this time, and he did not object very strenuously.

As soon as I was able to get out, I hastened back to the bank, and
took my place at the counter. Cormorin had sold his stock at eighty.
Bustumups were quoted at fifty, with a prospect of a further advance.
My friend had made thirteen thousand dollars. When I had made him
whole, he instantly resigned his place, fearful, I think, of getting
into trouble through my agency. He went to New York, to go into
business there. I did not care. My stocks at fifty paid my debt, and
left me forty-five hundred surplus. I was excited over the prospect. I
should be a rich man in a few weeks.

But everything did not turn out just as I anticipated.




CHAPTER XIX.

A CRASH IN COPPERS.


I WAS worth forty-five hundred dollars while Bustumups were quoted at
fifty. Every day, while they hung at about this figure, I debated with
myself the policy of selling, paying my debt, and investing my surplus
in some other concern. Perhaps I should have done so, if I had known of
a company in which I could place entire confidence. I missed Cormorin
very much, for I needed his advice; and I had come to regard him as an
oracle in the matter of coppers.

It looked like madness to sacrifice a stock which might go up to eighty
or a hundred, as the Ballyhack had, and though my debt worried me, I
could not make up my mind to let it go. If I could put ten thousand
dollars in my pocket, my fortune would be made, for with this sum
I could operate on a large scale. There was no danger of another
examination of my cash at present, and I was secure. But Bustumups did
not advance as rapidly as I wished. They hung at about fifty. I was
told that parties were investigating the condition of the mine, and
that as soon as they reported, the stock would go up as rapidly as
Ballyhack had done. I was willing to wait patiently for a week or two,
while the stock about held its own. Its trifling fluctuations up and
down troubled me, but the parties who worked it convinced me that these
were only accidental changes.

Though I saw my uncle every day, he did not allude to his own villainy,
and I was prudent enough to wait until I was out of the woods before
I did so. In the course of a couple of weeks, when I had made my ten
thousand dollars, I intended to resign my position, and then I could
afford to express my mind very freely to Captain Halliard. With ten
thousand dollars in my exchequer, I could go into any business that
suited me, and make money enough to support me in a style becoming my
abilities.

I still had strong hopes that the fortune of Aunt Rachel would be mine.
She was now apparently rapidly regaining her health, and I determined
to improve my chances as soon as I could. On the following Saturday
afternoon I took Lilian down to Springhaven with me, and we both used
our best efforts to win her regard. I took her out to ride, I read to
her, and the old lady seemed as fond of me as when I was a boy. I was
her only nephew, and it had been often reported that I was to be her
heir, though on what authority I did not know. I invited her to spend
a week or a month at my house in Boston, and she promised to do so as
soon as she was able.

A rumor that the parties who were investigating the condition of the
mine intended to make a favorable report sent Bustumups to fifty-five,
and I was very happy. I was worth nearly six thousand dollars. At the
end of another week the stock went up to sixty, and the balance of
worldly wealth in my favor was seven thousand dollars. The game was
becoming intensely exciting. Another week or so would realize all my
hopes. I should be free and safe.

While every thing was in this cheerful condition Aunt Rachel sent for
me, and I hastened to Springhaven, for I could not afford to neglect
her summons. She was ready to go home with me, and she accompanied me
to my house in Needham street. The old lady was a little surprised to
find that I lived in elegant style, as she was pleased to express it;
but then she regarded the salary I received, which was double what her
minister had, as princely in itself. Simple as were her views of social
economy, she did not accuse me of extravagance. Lilian understood the
matter perfectly, and was all tenderness and devotion.

One morning, after she had been at our house three days, Aunt Rachel
asked me if I knew a certain Squire Townsend, a lawyer, whom the old
lady had been acquainted with in the early years of her life. I had
heard of him. He was an attorney of the old school, and I hoped she
intended to make her will while she was thus kindly disposed towards
me. She begged me to see the old gentleman, and ask him to call upon
her during the forenoon.

“Do you see much of Captain Halliard, Paley?” asked my aunt, as I was
going out.

“I see him nearly every day.”

“I wonder he has not been up to see me yet,” added the old lady.

I did not wonder. I had not taken the trouble to tell him that Aunt
Rachel was at my house.

“Do you wish to see him?” I asked.

“Not particularly. He has done considerable business for me.”

“I know it. He did some for you while you were sick.”

“Did he?”

“He made me pay the thousand dollars I borrowed of you.”

“What, Captain Halliard!” exclaimed the old lady.

“He did.”

“Why, I didn’t tell him to do that.”

“I know you didn’t, but he showed me a power of attorney from you, and
I couldn’t have helped myself if I had wished to do so; but I paid it,
and it’s of no consequence now.”

“I didn’t mean you should pay that money. I shouldn’t have cried if you
had never paid it. I’ll talk with Squire Townsend about it. Couldn’t
you take care of my property for me just as well as your uncle?”

“Well, I suppose I could,” I replied, rather indifferently.

“I never liked your uncle very well. He is too sharp for me. I’ll see
what can be done.”

“I wouldn’t say anything about meddling with Captain Halliard, at
present,” I suggested, for I was somewhat afraid of him myself.

“I’ll see about it; but I didn’t mean he should trouble you about that
money. He’d no business to do it, and I shall tell him so when I see
him.”

I did not intend she should see him at present. I went to the office
of Squire Townsend, on my way down town, and left a message for him
to call upon my aunt. I was fully persuaded in my own mind that she
intended to make a will, and that she had come up to Boston in order to
have the instrument drawn up by her old friend. Every thing looked rosy
to me, for the old lady would certainly leave me the larger portion, if
not the whole, of her worldly wealth.

When I went home in the afternoon I learned that Squire Townsend had
spent a couple of hours with Aunt Rachel, but Lilian had not heard a
word that passed between them. Then the squire had called a carriage,
and they had gone off together. I was not very anxious to know where
they had gone, though I concluded that it was only to the office of
her old friend for the purpose of having the will properly signed and
witnessed. Now, as always before, Aunt Rachel kept her own counsel. She
never told how much she was worth, or what she intended to do with her
property. She was true to her antecedents, and during the remainder of
her stay she never mentioned the nature of her business with Squire
Townsend, as she invariably called him. She said a good deal about the
worthy lawyer’s history, and told stories about him at school. She was
glad to meet him once more before she left the world, but she did not
hint that she had special business with him.

The old lady staid her week out, and then said she must go home. She
did not think the city agreed with her. She did not sleep as well
nights as at Springhaven. Both Lilian and I pressed her to remain
longer, and promised to do every thing we could to make her happy, but
she was resolute, and I attended her home, a week to a day from the
time she arrived.

I never saw her again.

During the week that Aunt Rachel was with me, Bustumups began to look a
little shaky. From sixty the stock went down to fifty-five in one day,
but it immediately rallied, and those who managed it assured me it was
only because money was a little tight, and a considerable portion of
the stock had been forced upon the market. I proposed to sell, as I had
promised myself that I would on the first appearance of a decline.

“Don’t do it,” said the operator. “Wait three days, and you can take
sixty, if not sixty-five, for your stock. If you crowd it upon the
market at once, you will drive it down, and cheat yourself out of
twelve hundred dollars.”

But it looks shaky,” I pleaded.

“The best stocks on the street go up and down by turns. Wait till day
after to-morrow, at least.”

I did wait, because I did not like to have twenty-five hundred dollars
taken out of my pocket at one swoop. Two days after, I was in a fever
of anxiety about my Bustumups. They had gone up and down under the
influence of various rumors, good and bad, and no one could foresee the
end. At noon Tom Flynn went out for his lunch.

“The coppers are in a bad way,” said he, taking his place at the
counter on his return.

“What is the matter with them?” I inquired, with my heart in my throat,
for my very reputation rested upon the prosperity of the coppers.

“Ballyhacks have dropped down from eighty to fifty,” added Tom.

“What?” I exclaimed.

“That’s what they say. Did you own any?”

“No, no; no Ballyhacks,” I replied, struggling to conceal my emotion.

I had not told Tom I was speculating in coppers, and I think he knew
nothing about it, though he might have heard something of the kind.

“Did you own any coppers?” he inquired, with a tone and look that
indicated the sympathy he felt for me.

“None of any consequence,” I replied.

I dared not talk with him about the matter lest I should expose my
emotion. With the stunning intelligence he had communicated to me on
my mind, it was simply impossible for me to discharge my duties in the
bank. I could hardly tell a hundred-dollar bill from a thousand. I told
the cashier that I was sick, and was fearful that I should faint again
if I did not get out in the air. He took my place, and I staggered out
into the street. There were people on the sidewalk, but I could not
see them. Every thing seemed to be without form or shape. I was in a
fearful agony of mind, and dreaded lest I should drop senseless upon
the pavement.

I went into a saloon and drank a glass of brandy. I sat down at one
of the little tables to gather up my shattered senses. Ruin stared
me in the face. If Ballyhacks had fallen from eighty to fifty, what
hope could there be for Bustumups? After all, the mischief might be
confined to this particular stock, and mine might be still on the top
of the wave. The brandy I had drank seemed to have no effect upon
me. I took another glass, and my courage began to rise a little. The
saloon was nearly filled with people, and there was a confused jabber
of tongues all around me. Men spoke to me, and called me by name. I
replied mechanically, but I could not have told a minute later who had
spoken to me.

“But they are a fraud,” said a gentleman, seating himself at the table
next to mine.

“Certainly they are,” replied the other. “The Ballyhack mine has
produced some copper; but they say there is not a particle of metal on
the Bustumup track—not an ounce! The managers of this affair ought to
be indicted and sent to the State Prison.”

“Merciful Heavens!” I ejaculated to myself, “I am ruined!”

“Ballyhack has gone down to forty within half an hour,” added one of
the gentlemen.

“I heard a man offer Bustumups just now for twenty, and people laughed
at him,” added the other. “I don’t believe they will bring ten.”

“Probably not. There is not a dollar of value in them. The thing is an
unmitigated swindle.”

The whole of the savage truth was poured into my ears. A moment later,
I heard some one say that the managers of the Bustumup Company had
found it convenient to disappear. I was almost a maniac. I cursed my
folly because I had not sold my stock when it began to look shaky. The
villains who had comforted me and made promises that I should sell at
sixty were simply designing knaves, who had fraudulently worked this
stock up to sixty, while there was not a penny of real value in it.

The first shock bore heavily upon me, but I soon recovered in some
measure from its effect. I went into the street, and inquired for
myself, in regard to the coppers. There were two or three substantial
companies which were actually producing metal and paying handsome
dividends. The other companies were swindles; and Bustumup was the most
egregious humbug of the whole. I tried to get an offer for my stock,
and found it would not bring a dollar a share. Indeed, it could not be
sold at any price. In a word, the five thousand dollars I had borrowed
from the bank was a total loss.

I will not attempt to describe the misery into which I was so suddenly
plunged. If I had sold my stock a week before, I might have paid my
debt and had five thousand dollars left. Now I was a defaulter in the
sum of eight thousand dollars. It was horrible to think of. There was
no possible way, that I could see, to escape the consequences. What
should I do?

I went back to the bank and told Mr. Heavyside that I was better. I
resumed my place at the counter, and did my work till the bank closed,
sustained by the brandy I had drank. I tried to devise some plan by
which I could conceal my deficit for a time. I could think of nothing
satisfactory. An examination of the affairs of the bank was sure to
betray me. I was tempted to commit suicide, as others have done under
the same pressure of guilt.

I thought of my wife, and my eyes filled with tears, as I pictured the
fall to which she would be subjected. It was ruin to her as well as to
me. What would she do, while I was thinking of her in my narrow cell
