"Now we can have Whiteface back, can't we, father?" asked Walter,
joyfully.

"Yes, Walter," said Mark Nelson, almost as excited as his son. "I will
go over the first thing in the morning."

"Can't we go over this evening?" asked Walter, impatiently.

"No, it is dark, and Whiteface is stalled for the night."

"You'll have seventy dollars left over, father, won't you?"

"Yes; and that will provide for my next interest. I feel grateful and
happy at Tom's success and his thoughtfulness."

Could Tom have seen the effect of his remittance it would have made his
heart glad, and he would have felt abundantly repaid for his labor and
self-denial.




CHAPTER XXVI.

SQUIRE HUDSON'S DISAPPOINTMENT.


If Whiteface was missed at her old home, she was scarcely less
appreciated by her new possessor. On the very morning succeeding the day
when Tom's remittance was received the squire remarked to his head
workman, "Whiteface is an excellent cow, Abner."

"Yes, squire, I calculate she's the best you've got."

"I don't know but she is, Abner," said the squire, complacently. "I
consider her worth at least fifty dollars."

"So she is, every cent of it."

"And she cost me only thirty," thought Squire Hudson, with a smile of
content.

He was a rich man, and abundantly able to pay his poor neighbor the full
value of the cow; but somehow it never occurred to him to do it. He was
not above taking an unfair advantage of a man who was unluckily in his
power. Of course the squire knew that Farmer Nelson had a right to
redeem the cow at the price agreed upon with interest; but he felt
pretty safe on this point. The farmer was not very likely to have thirty
dollars to spare, and as for a remittance from Tom the squire was pretty
sure none would be received.

"It'll be all the boy can do to take care of himself out there," he
reflected, "let alone sending money home. He may send ten dollars or so
some time; but it's very doubtful, very doubtful!"

Squire Hudson turned to go back to the house when he saw the man of whom
he had been thinking coming up the road. He stopped short, thinking the
farmer might wish to speak to him.

"Good-morning, Mr. Nelson," he said, pleasantly, for he was in
good-humor.

"Good-morning, squire."

"Your Whiteface has got to feel quite at home in my barn-yard."

"She is a good cow, Squire Hudson."

"Yes, tolerable, tolerable."

"She is worth more than the thirty dollars for which you took her."

"Well, I don't know about that. Cows are pretty cheap nowadays."

"I see how it is," thought the squire. "Nelson wants me to allow him
more for the cow; but a bargain is a bargain, and I shan't do it."

"I always valued her at a considerably higher price."

"No doubt, no doubt. You raised her yourself, didn't you?"

"Yes."

"That makes a difference, of course. You attach a sentimental value to
her; but that doesn't affect her real value. I really can't allow you
any more for her."

"I don't want you to, Squire Hudson."

The squire looked astonished.

"What is the man driving at?" he thought.

"She may not be worth any more to you, and so you won't mind my taking
her back."

"Taking her back!" ejaculated the squire.

"Certainly; it was agreed that I could redeem her at any time, by paying
you the thirty dollars and interest."

"Not after two months," said the squire, hastily.

"It is not two months. It was only six weeks yesterday. The fact is,
squire, I've come for Whiteface, and I've got the money for you."

"Have you heard from Tom?" asked the squire, with a blank look of
disappointment.

"Yes; I heard from him yesterday."

"And he sent you some money?"

"Yes; he reports that he is doing well."

"Did he send you thirty dollars?"

"Rather more than that," said Mark Nelson, not caring to gratify the
curiosity of his creditor.

"I think you had better keep your money, and leave Whiteface with me,"
said Squire Hudson, after a pause.

"I would rather not, squire. The fact is, Whiteface is a sort of pet at
home, and we all want her back."

Squire Hudson was disconcerted. He had not expected that Mr. Nelson
would be able to redeem the cow, and he was reluctant to give her up.
But there was no excuse for retaining her. His agreement stood in the
way.

"Neighbor Nelson," he said, after a pause, "I don't mind giving you five
dollars over and above what you owe me for Whiteface. Come, that's a
good offer."

Mark Nelson shook his head.

"She's worth more than that," he said. "But that's neither here nor
there. I raised the animal, and it was sorely against my will that I
parted with her six weeks ago. Now that I have the money to pay you I
want her back."

"I think you are standing in your own light, Mr. Nelson," said the
squire. "I have taken a fancy to the cow, and am willing to pay more for
her than she is worth. I will say ten dollars."

Mark Nelson shook his head.

"I'd rather have Whiteface than the money," he said.

"If she comes into my possession again," said Squire Hudson, "I shall
not be willing to grant you the privilege of redeeming her. It won't be
many months before another payment becomes due."

"I hope to be ready to meet it, squire," said the farmer, not appearing
at all anxious.

"He seems very independent," thought the squire, watching, moodily, the
cow driven away by her former owner. "He may sing another tune on
interest day. I wonder how much the boy sent home."

Had he known that Mr. Nelson had in his pocket enough money to pay the
whole of the next accruing interest, he would have felt more doubtful
about recovering the cow which he now coveted more than ever.

"Well, Abner, I've lost her," said the squire, hurrying to his
assistant; "but she'll be back here some day, mark my words!"

"I thought you bought her, squire," said Abner, in surprise.

"Well, not exactly. I took her for a debt; but Nelson had the right of
redeeming her, and he has done it. His boy sent him the money."

"That Tom Nelson is a smart boy," said Abner, who, though in the
squire's employ, was friendly to our hero.

"Well, so-so," remarked the squire, indifferently. "I helped him to go
to California; but I am not sure whether it was a wise step. I let my
feelings get the better of my judgment."

"Then it is the first time," was Abner's unspoken comment.

"It may turn out for the best," he said aloud.

"I doubt if I shall ever see my money again," said the squire; but he
did not seem to take it to heart, judging from his manner and tone.

"Didn't you have security for the loan?" asked Abner.

"Well, ye-es," answered the squire, slowly; "but not very good. The farm
was already mortgaged for its full value."

"The squire is getting benevolent," thought Abner, "or he wants me to
think so; but I'm inclined to think he has some object under it all.
What is it?"

A few weeks later Farmer Nelson's heart was gladdened by the receipt of
another remittance this time sent by John Miles, out of the profit of
the business in which Tom was his partner. The amount this time was
seventy-five dollars. It made him feel quite rich.

"Mary," he said, "we all need some new clothes, and I propose to use
this money for that purpose. Now I want you to consider how we can spend
it to the best advantage. To begin with, you must buy a new dress. You
have long needed one."

Mrs. Nelson demurred a little, but was forced to admit that the dress
was needed. So the purchases were made at once. It is wonderful how far
seventy-five dollars will go in an economical family of plain tastes. It
was soon apparent to the neighbors that the Nelsons were exhibiting
signs of prosperity.

"It must be Tom," they decided.

Efforts were made to ascertain just how much our hero had sent home; but
on this point the Nelsons would not speak definitely. They reported in
general terms that Tom was doing well.

Of course Squire Hudson was not ignorant of the apparent improvement in
the fortunes of his debtor. Strange to say, he seemed rather annoyed. He
was pleased, however, by the outlay for dress.

"They're getting extravagant, Abner," he said, cheerfully. "I thought
Mark Nelson was a man of more sense. Because his son has sent home a
little money, he must rig out the whole family in new clothes. 'A fool
and his money are soon parted.'"

"Mark Nelson is no fool," said Abner, stoutly.

"He is in this instance," said the squire, sharply. "However, I don't
object to it, if he likes to violate the rules of prudence. It strikes
me, however, that it would be well for him to pay up the money I
advanced for Tom's expenses, before buying new clothes wholesale."

Abner repeated this to Mr. Nelson.

The farmer answered quietly, "The squire is not wholly wrong. It is good
doctrine to pay your debts before you spend money for what you don't
need. In this case, however, we did need the clothes we bought. Now that
we are provided, I hope, before very long, if Tom is prospered, to pay
back the two hundred dollars the squire advanced for him."

"I hope you will, I'm sure," said Abner. "That's a smart boy of yours,
and I always said so."

"He is a good boy, and I am sure he will do what is right."

"He's a blamed sight better than the squire's boy. Sinclair is a
stuck-up jackanapes, and it would do me good to kick him."

"It might not do him any good."

"I am not sure about that; I think he needs it."




CHAPTER XXVII.

THE NEW DIGGINGS.


Meanwhile Tom and his party, pursuing their journey by easy stages, for
they sensibly determined not to overtask their strength, reached at last
the spot of which Russell had spoken. Ferguson and Tom soon found that
he had not exaggerated. The new diggings were certainly far richer than
those at River Bend. It was, in fact, the bed of a dead river upon which
Russell had stumbled without knowing it. My readers are probably aware
that in the beds of rivers or creeks the early miners found their first
harvest of gold, and, that, where practicable, these were mined by
turning the stream in the dry season, when the water was low. As it may
not be so well understood what is meant by a dead river, I quote a
passage from an article in the "Overland Monthly," as found in the pages
of the "Pacific Coast Mining Review," for the year 1878-79:--

"A dead river is one which formerly existed, but exists no longer. In
volcanic regions it sometimes happens that the liquid lava, seeking the
lowest ground, fills up the beds of the rivers which die and are
replaced by water-courses running in other channels and in different
directions. These dead streams are so few, and of so little importance
elsewhere, that, as yet, I believe, no class name has been given to
them; but in California they are among the chief source of its mineral
wealth, and among the most remarkable features of its geological
formation. They take us back to a remote era, before the time of Rome,
of Greece, or of Egypt; far back beyond the origin of history or
tradition, before our coast had taken its present shapes; before Shasta,
and Lassen, and Castle Peaks had poured out their lava floods; before
the Sacramento river had its birth; and while, if not before, the
mastodon, the elephant, the rhinoceros, the horse, the mammoth bull, the
tapir, and the bison lived in the land. They are indeed among the most
remarkable discoveries of the age, and among the greatest wonders of
geology. They deserve some common name, and we have to choose between
'extinct' and 'dead.' We speak of 'extinct volcanoes,' and of 'dead
languages,' and, as the latter is Saxon and short, we prefer it. They
have been called 'old channels;' but this name does not convey the
proper idea, since a channel is not necessarily a river, and an old
channel is not necessarily a dead one. A dead river is a channel
formerly occupied by a running stream, but now filled up with earthy or
rocky matter, and is not to be confounded with a channel that is open
and remains dry during the greater part of the year because of a lack of
