innocent in his sleep. Even Frank paused a moment to look at the round,
rosy face, the curly eyelashes, half-open mouth, and the peaceful
expression of a dreaming baby. “I must do it, or he won’t be ready for
breakfast,” said the Spartan brother, and down came the sponge, cold,
wet, and choky, as it was briskly rubbed to and fro regardless of every
obstacle.

“Come, I say! That’s not fair! Leave me alone!” sputtered Jack, hitting
out so vigorously that the sponge flew across the room, and Frank fell
back to laugh at the indignant sufferer.

“I promised to wake you, and you believe in keeping promises, so I’m
doing my best to get you up.”

“Well, you needn’t pour a quart of water down a fellow’s neck, and
rub his nose off, need you? I’m awake, so take your old sponge and go
along,” growled Jack, with one eye open and a mighty gape.

“See that you keep so, then, or I’ll come and give you another sort of a
rouser,” said Frank, retiring well-pleased with his success.

“I shall have one good stretch, if I like. It is strengthening to the
muscles, and I’m as stiff as a board with all that football yesterday,”
 murmured Jack, lying down for one delicious moment. He shut the open eye
to enjoy it thoroughly, and forgot the stretch altogether, for the bed
was warm, the pillow soft, and a half-finished dream still hung about
his drowsy brain. Who does not know the fatal charm of that stolen
moment--for once yield to it, and one is lost.

Jack was miles away “in the twinkling of a bedpost,” and the pleasing
dream seemed about to return, when a ruthless hand tore off the clothes,
swept him out of bed, and he really did awake to find himself standing
in the middle of his bath-pan with both windows open, and Frank about to
pour a pail of water over him.

“Hold on! Yah, how cold the water is! Why, I thought I was up;” and,
hopping out, Jack rubbed his eyes and looked about with such a genuine
surprise that Frank put down the pail, feeling that the deluge would not
be needed this time.

“You are now, and I’ll see that you keep so,” he said, as he stripped
the bed and carried off the pillows.

“I don’t care. What a jolly day!” and Jack took a little promenade to
finish the rousing process.

“You’d better hurry up, or you won’t get your chores done before
breakfast. No time for a ‘go as you please’ now,” said Frank; and both
boys laughed, for it was an old joke of theirs, and rather funny.

Going up to bed one night expecting to find Jack asleep, Frank
discovered him tramping round and round the room airily attired in
a towel, and so dizzy with his brisk revolutions that as his brother
looked he tumbled over and lay panting like a fallen gladiator.

“What on earth are you about?”

“Playing Rowell. Walking for the belt, and I’ve got it too,” laughed
Jack, pointing to an old gilt chandelier chain hanging on the bedpost.

“You little noodle, you’d better revolve into bed before you lose your
head entirely. I never saw such a fellow for taking himself off his
legs.”

“Well, if I didn’t exercise, do you suppose I should be able to do
that--or that?” cried Jack, turning a somersault and striking a fine
attitude as he came up, flattering himself that he was the model of a
youthful athlete.

“You look more like a clothes-pin than a Hercules,” was the crushing
reply of this unsympathetic brother, and Jack meekly retired with a bad
headache.

“I don’t do such silly things now: I’m as broad across the shoulders as
you are, and twice as strong on my pins, thanks to my gymnastics. Bet
you a cent I’ll be dressed first, though you have got the start,”
 said Jack, knowing that Frank always had a protracted wrestle with his
collar-buttons, which gave his adversary a great advantage over him.

“Done!” answered Frank, and at it they went. A wild scramble was heard
in Jack’s room, and a steady tramp in the other as Frank worked away at
the stiff collar and the unaccommodating button till every finger ached.
A clashing of boots followed, while Jack whistled “Polly Hopkins,” and
Frank declaimed in his deepest voice,

“Arma virumque cano, Trojae qui primus ab oris Italiam, fato profugus,
Laviniaque venit litora.”

Hair-brushes came next, and here Frank got ahead, for Jack’s thick crop
would stand straight up on the crown, and only a good wetting and a
steady brush would make it lie down.

“Play away, No. 2,” called out Frank as he put on his vest, while Jack
was still at it with a pair of the stiffest brushes procurable for
money.

“Hold hard, No. 11, and don’t forget your teeth,” answered Jack, who had
done his.

Frank took a hasty rub and whisked on his coat, while Jack was picking
up the various treasures which had flown out of his pockets as he caught
up his roundabout.

“Ready! I’ll trouble you for a cent, sonny;” and Frank held out his hand
as he appeared equipped for the day.

“You haven’t hung up your night-gown, nor aired the bed, nor opened
the windows. That’s part of the dressing; mother said so. I’ve got you
there, for you did all that for me, except this,” and Jack threw his
gown over a chair with a triumphant flourish as Frank turned back to
leave his room in the order which they had been taught was one of the
signs of a good bringing-up in boys as well as girls.

“Ready! I’ll trouble you for a cent, old man;” and Jack held out his
hand, with a chuckle.

He got the money and a good clap beside; then they retired to the shed
to black their boots, after which Frank filled the woodboxes and Jack
split kindlings, till the daily allowance was ready. Both went at their
lessons for half an hour, Jack scowling over his algebra in the sofa
corner, while Frank, with his elbows on and his legs round the little
stand which held his books, seemed to be having a wrestling-match with
Herodotus.

When the bell rang they were glad to drop the lessons and fall upon
their breakfast with the appetite of wolves, especially Jack, who
sequestered oatmeal and milk with such rapidity that one would have
thought he had a leathern bag hidden somewhere to slip it into, like his
famous namesake when he breakfasted with the giant.

“I declare I don’t see what he does with it! He really ought not to
‘gobble’ so, mother,” said Frank, who was eating with great deliberation
and propriety.

“Never you mind, old quiddle. I’m so hungry I could tuck away a bushel,”
 answered Jack, emptying a glass of milk and holding out his plate for
more mush, regardless of his white moustache.

“Temperance in all things is wise, in speech as well as eating and
drinking--remember that, boys,” said Mamma from behind the urn.

“That reminds me! We promised to do the ‘Observer’ this week, and here
it is Tuesday and I haven’t done a thing: have you?” asked Frank.

“Never thought of it. We must look up some bits at noon instead of
playing. Dare say Jill has got some: she always saves all she finds for
me.”

“I have one or two good items, and can do any copying there may be. But
I think if you undertake the paper you should give some time and labor
to make it good,” said Mamma, who was used to this state of affairs,
and often edited the little sheet read every week at the Lodge. The boys
seldom missed going, but the busy lady was often unable to be there, so
helped with the paper as her share of the labor.

“Yes, we ought, but somehow we don’t seem to get up much steam about it
lately. If more people belonged, and we could have a grand time now and
then, it would be jolly;” and Jack sighed at the lack of interest felt
by outsiders in the loyal little Lodge which went on year after year
kept up by the faithful few.

“I remember when in this very town we used to have a Cold Water Army,
and in the summer turn out with processions, banners, and bands of music
to march about, and end with a picnic, songs, and speeches in some grove
or hall. Nearly all the children belonged to it, and the parents also,
and we had fine times here twenty-five or thirty years ago.”

“It didn’t do much good, seems to me, for people still drink, and we
haven’t a decent hotel in the place,” said Frank, as his mother sat
looking out of the window as if she saw again the pleasant sight of old
and young working together against the great enemy of home peace and
safety.

“Oh yes, it did, my dear; for to this day many of those children are
true to their pledge. One little girl was, I am sure, and now has two
big boys to fight for the reform she has upheld all her life. The
town is better than it was in those days, and if we each do our part
faithfully, it will improve yet more. Every boy and girl who joins is
one gained, perhaps, and your example is the best temperance lecture you
can give. Hold fast, and don’t mind if it isn’t ‘jolly’: it is right,
and that should be enough for us.”

Mamma spoke warmly, for she heartily believed in young people’s guarding
against this dangerous vice before it became a temptation, and hoped
her boys would never break the pledge they had taken; for, young as they
were, they were old enough to see its worth, feel its wisdom, and pride
themselves on the promise which was fast growing into a principle.
Jack’s face brightened as he listened, and Frank said, with the steady
look which made his face manly,--

“It shall be. Now I’ll tell you what I was going to keep as a surprise
till to-night, for I wanted to have my secret as well as other folks.
Ed and I went up to see Bob, Sunday, and he said he’d join the Lodge, if
they’d have him. I’m going to propose him to-night.”

“Good! good!” cried Jack, joyfully, and Mrs. Minot clapped her hands,
for every new member was rejoiced over by the good people, who were not
discouraged by ridicule, indifference, or opposition.

“We’ve got him now, for no one will object, and it is just the thing for
him. He wants to belong somewhere, he says, and he’ll enjoy the fun, and
the good things will help him, and we will look after him. The Captain
was so pleased, and you ought to have seen Ed’s face when Bob said, ‘I’m
ready, if you’ll have me.’”

Frank’s own face was beaming, and Jack forgot to “gobble,” he was so
interested in the new convert, while Mamma said, as she threw down her
napkin and took up the newspaper,--

“We must not forget our ‘Observer,’ but have a good one tonight in honor
of the occasion. There may be something here. Come home early at noon,
and I’ll help you get your paper ready.”

“I’ll be here, but if you want Frank, you’d better tell him not to
dawdle over Annette’s gate half an hour,” began Jack, who could not
resist teasing his dignified brother about one of the few foolish things
he was fond of doing.

“Do you want your nose pulled?” demanded Frank, who never would stand
joking on that tender point from his brother.

“No, I don’t; and if I did, you couldn’t do it;” with which taunt he was
off and Frank after him, having made a futile dive at the impertinent
little nose which was turned up at him and his sweetheart.

“Boys, boys, not through the parlor!” implored Mamma, resigned to
skirmishes, but trembling for her piano legs as the four stout boots
pranced about the table and then went thundering down the hall, through
the kitchen where the fat cook cheered them on, and Mary, the maid,
tried to head off Frank as Jack rushed out into the garden. But the
pursuer ducked under her arm and gave chase with all speed. Then there
was a glorious race all over the place; for both were good runners, and,
being as full of spring vigor as frisky calves, they did astonishing
things in the way of leaping fences, dodging round corners, and making
good time down the wide walks.

But Jack’s leg was not quite strong yet, and he felt that his round nose
was in danger of a vengeful tweak as his breath began to give out and
Frank’s long arms drew nearer and nearer to the threatened feature. Just
when he was about to give up and meet his fate like a man, old Bunny,
who had been much excited by the race, came scampering across the path
with such a droll skip into the air and shake of the hind legs that
Frank had to dodge to avoid stepping on him, and to laugh in spite of
himself. This momentary check gave Jack a chance to bolt up the back
stairs and take refuge in the Bird Room, from the window of which Jill
had been watching the race with great interest.

No romping was allowed there, so a truce was made by locking little
fingers, and both sat down to get their breath.

“I am to go on the piazza, for an hour, by and by, Doctor said. Would
you mind carrying me down before you go to school, you do it so nicely,
I’m not a bit afraid,” said Jill, as eager for the little change as if
it had been a long and varied journey.

“Yes, indeed! Come on, Princess,” answered Jack, glad to see her so well
and happy.

The boys made an arm-chair, and away she went, for a pleasant day
downstairs. She thanked Frank with a posy for his buttonhole, well
knowing that it would soon pass into other hands, and he departed to
join Annette. Having told Jill about Bob, and set her to work on the
“Observer,” Jack kissed his mother, and went whistling down the street,
a gay little bachelor, with a nod and smile for all he met, and no
turned-up hat or jaunty turban bobbing along beside him to delay his
steps or trouble his peace of mind.

At noon they worked on their paper, which was a collection of items,
cut from other papers, concerning temperance, a few anecdotes, a bit of
poetry, a story, and, if possible, an original article by the editor.
Many hands make light work, and nothing remained but a little copying,
which Jill promised to do before night. So the boys had time for a game
of football after school in the afternoon, which they much enjoyed. As
they sat resting on the posts, Gus said,--

“Uncle Fred says he will give us a hay-cart ride to-night, as it is
moony, and after it you are all to come to our house and have games.

“Can’t do it,” answered Frank, sadly.

“Lodge,” groaned Jack, for both considered a drive in the cart, where
they all sat in a merry bunch among the hay, one of the joys of life,
and much regretted that a prior engagement would prevent their sharing
in it.

“That’s a pity! I forgot it was Tuesday, and can’t put it off, as I’ve
asked all the rest. Give up your old Lodge and come along,” said Gus,
who had not joined yet.

“We might for once, perhaps, but I don’t like to”--began Jack,
hesitating.

“I won’t. Who’s to propose Bob if we don’t? I want to go awfully; but
I wouldn’t disappoint Bob for a good deal, now he is willing to come.”
 And Frank sprang off his post as if anxious to flee temptation, for it
was very pleasant to go singing, up hill and down dale, in the spring
moonlight, with--well, the fellows of his set.

“Nor Ed, I forgot that. No, we can’t go. We want to be Good Templars,
and we mustn’t shirk,” added Jack, following his brother.
