half frozen.


RASPBERRY OR STRAWBERRY ICE-CREAM. 

    1 quart ripe sweet berries.
    1 lb. sugar.
    1 quart fresh cream.

Scatter half the sugar over the berries and let them stand three hours.
Press and mash them, and strain them through a thin muslin bag. Add
the rest of the sugar, and when dissolved beat in the cream little by
little. Freeze rapidly, opening the freezer (if it is not a patent one)
several times to beat and stir.


Or,

You may have a pint of whole berries, unsugared, ready to stir in when
the cream is frozen to the consistency of stiff mush. In this case add
a cup more sugar to the quart of crushed berries.


FROZEN CUSTARD WITH THE FRUIT FROZEN IN. 

    1 quart milk.
    1 quart cream.
    6 eggs, and three cups of sugar beaten up with the yolks.
    1 pint fresh peaches, cut up small, or fresh ripe berries.

Heat the quart of milk almost to boiling, and add gradually to the
beaten yolks and sugar. Whip in the frothed whites, return to the
custard-kettle, and stir until it is a thick, soft custard. Let it get
perfectly cold, beat in the cream and freeze. If you let it freeze
itself, stir in the fruit after the second beating; if you turn the
freezer, when the custard is like congealed mush.


TUTTI FRUTTI ICE-CREAM. 

    1 pint of milk.
    1 quart of cream.
    Yolks of 5 eggs—beaten light with the sugar.
    3 cups of sugar.
    1 lemon—juice and grated peel.
    1 glass of pale Sherry, and ½ lb. crystallized fruits, chopped.

Heat the milk almost to boiling; pour by degrees over the eggs and
sugar, beating all together well. Return to the fire, and boil ten
minutes, or until set into a good custard. When cold, beat in the
cream, and half freeze before you stir in half a pound of crystallized
fruit—peaches, apricots, cherries, limes, etc., chopped very fine. Beat
in with these the lemon and wine; cover again, and freeze hard.

In all fruit ice-creams the beating of the custard should be very hard
and thorough, if you would have them smooth.


LEMON ICE. 

    6 lemons—juice of all, and grated peel of three.
    1 large sweet orange—juice and rind.
    1 pint of water.
    1 pint of sugar.

Squeeze out every drop of juice, and steep in it the rind of orange
and lemons one hour. Strain, squeezing the bag dry; mix in the sugar,
and then the water. Stir until dissolved, and freeze by turning in a
freezer—opening three times to beat all up together.


ORANGE ICE. 

    6 oranges—juice of all, and grated peel of three.
    2 lemons—the juice only.
    1 pint of sugar dissolved in 1 pint of water.

Prepare and freeze as you would lemon ice.


PINEAPPLE ICE.

    1 juicy ripe pineapple—peeled and cut small.
    Juice and grated peel of 1 lemon.
    1 pint of sugar.
    1 pint water, or a little less.

Strew the sugar over the pineapple and let it stand an hour. Mash all
up together, and strain out the syrup through a hair-sieve. Add the
water and freeze.


CHERRY ICE.

    1 quart cherries, with half the stones pounded in a Wedgewood mortar.
    2 lemons—the juice only.
    1 pint of water, in which dissolve 1 pint of sugar.
    1 glass of fine brandy.

Squeeze out the bruised cherries and stones, in a bag over the sugar;
add the water, then the brandy, and freeze.

It will require a longer time to freeze than other ices, on account of
the brandy.


CURRANT AND RASPBERRY ICE (Fine.)

    1 quart red currants.
    1 pint raspberries—red or white.
    1 pint of water.
    1½ pint of sugar.

Squeeze out the juice; mix in the sugar and water, and freeze.


STRAWBERRY OR RASPBERRY ICE.

    1 quart berries. Extract the juice and strain.
    1 pint sugar—dissolved in the juice.
    1 lemon—juice only.
    ½ pint of water.




RIPE FRUIT FOR DESSERT.


ORANGES

May be put on whole in fruit-baskets, or the skin be cut in eighths
half way down, separated from the fruit and curled inward, showing half
the orange white, the other yellow. Or, pass a sharp knife lightly
around the fruit, midway between the stem and blossom end, cutting
through the rind only. Slip the smooth curved handle of a teaspoon
carefully between the peel and body of the orange, and gently work it
all around until both upper and lower halves are free, except at stem
and blossom. Turn the rind, without tearing it, inside out, making a
white cup at each end—the round white fruit between them.


SALADE D’ORANGE.

Pare and slice large sweet oranges; sprinkle powdered sugar thickly
over each slice, and pour a couple of glasses of wine on the top.
Sprinkle powdered sugar over all, and serve at once, or the fruit will
lose its freshness.

You may omit the wine if you like.

Do not let any fruit intended to be eaten fresh for dessert lie in the
sugar longer than is absolutely necessary. It extracts the flavor and
withers the pulp.


AMBROSIA.

    8 fine sweet oranges, peeled and sliced.
    ½ grated cocoanut.
    ½ cup powdered sugar.

Arrange the orange in a glass dish, scatter the grated cocoanut thickly
over it, sprinkle this lightly with sugar, and cover with another layer
of orange. Fill up the dish in this order, having cocoanut and sugar
for the top layer. Serve at once.


APPLES.

Wash and polish with a clean towel, and pile in a china fruit-basket,
with an eye to agreeable variety of color.


PEACHES AND PEARS.

Pick out the finest, handling as little as may be, and pile upon a
salver or flat dish, with bits of ice between them, and ornament with
peach leaves or fennel sprigs.

One of the prettiest dishes of fruit I ever saw upon a dessert-table
was an open silver basket, wide at the top, heaped with rich red
peaches and yellow Bartlett pears, interspersed with feathery bunches
of green, which few of those who admired it knew for carrot-tops.
Wild white clematis wreathed the handle and showed here and there among
the fruit, while scarlet and white verbenas nestled amid the green.

Send around powdered sugar with the fruit, as many like to dip peaches
and pears in it after paring and quartering them.


STRAWBERRIES, RASPBERRIES, AND BLACKBERRIES.

Never wash strawberries or raspberries that are intended to be eaten as
fresh fruit. If they are so gritty as to require this process, keep
them off the table. You will certainly ruin the flavor beyond repair
if you wash them, and as certainly induce instant fermentation and
endanger the coats of the eaters’ stomachs, if, after profaning the
exquisite delicacy of the fruit to this extent, you complete the evil
work by covering them with sugar, and leaving them to leak their lives
sourly away for one or two hours.

Put them on the table in glass dishes, piling them high and lightly,
send around powdered sugar with them and cream, that the guests may
help themselves. It is not economical perhaps, but it is a healthful
and pleasant style of serving them—I had almost said the only decent
one.

“But I don’t know who picked them!” cries Mrs. Fussy.

No, my dear madam! nor do you know who makes the baker’s bread, or
confectioner’s cakes, creams, jellies, salads, etc. Nor, for that
matter, how the flour is manufactured out of which you conjure your
dainty biscuit and pies. I was so foolish as to go into a flour-mill
once, and having seen a burly negro, naked to the waist, with his
trousers rolled up to his knees, stand in a bank of “fine family
flour,” a foot deep in the lowest part, on a July day, shovelling it
into barrels for the market, I rushed into the outer air a sicker and a
wiser woman.

I know GOD made strawberries. “Doubtless,” says Bishop Butler, “HE
could have made a better berry, but HE never did!” The picker’s light
touch cannot mar flavor or beauty, nor, were her fingers filthy as a
chimney-sweep’s, could the delicate fruit suffer from them as from your
barbarous baptism. You would like to know who picked them. I should
inquire instead, “Who washed them, and in what?” I recollect seeing a
housekeeper, who was afflicted with your inquiring turn of mind, wash
strawberries in a wash-hand basin!


CURRANTS AND RASPBERRIES.

Pick the currants from the stems, and mix with an equal quantity of
raspberries. Put into a glass bowl, and eat with powdered sugar.


FROSTED CURRANTS.

Pick fine even bunches, and dip them, one at a time, into a mixture
of frothed white of egg, and a very little cold water. Drain them
until nearly dry, and roll in pulverized sugar. Repeat the dip in the
sugar once or twice, and lay them upon white paper to dry. They make a
beautiful garnish for jellies or charlottes, and look well heaped in a
dish by themselves or with other fruit.

Plums and grapes are very nice frosted in the same way.



PRESERVES AND FRUIT JELLIES.

Use none but porcelain, or good bell-metal kettles for preserves and
jellies. If the latter, clean thoroughly just before you put in the
syrup or fruit. Scour with sand, then set it over the fire, with a
cupful of vinegar and a large handful of salt in it. Let this come to a
boil, and scour the whole of the inside of the kettle with it. Do not
let your preserves or anything else stand one moment in it after it is
withdrawn from the fire; fill the emptied kettle instantly with water
and wash it perfectly clean, although you may mean to return the syrup
to it again in five minutes. By observing these precautions, preserves
and pickles made in bell-metal may be rendered as good and wholesome as
if the frailer porcelain be used.

Use only fine sugar for nice preserves. Moist or dark sugar cannot be
made to produce the same effect as dry white.

Do not hurry any needful step in the process of preserving. Prepare
your fruit with care, weigh accurately, and allow time enough to do
your work well. Put up the preserves in small jars in preference to
large, and, when once made, keep them in a cool, dark closet that
is perfectly dry. Keep jellies in small stone china jars, or glass
tumblers closely covered. You can procure at most china and glass
stores, or house-furnishing establishments, metal covers with elastic
rims for these, which can be used from year to year.

Cover jellies and jams with tissue paper, double and wet with brandy,
pressed closely to the conserve before you put on the lid, or paste on
the thick paper. Examine your shelves frequently and narrowly for a few
weeks to see if your preserves are keeping well. If there is the least
sign of fermentation, boil them over, adding more sugar.

If jellies are not so firm after six or eight hours as you would have
them, set them in the sun, with bits of window glass over them to
keep out the dust and insects. Remove these at night and wipe off the
moisture collected on the under sides. Repeat this every day until the
jelly shrinks into firmness, filling up one cup from another as need
requires. This method is far preferable to boiling down, which both
injures the flavor and darkens the jelly.


PRESERVED PEACHES. 

Weigh the fruit after it is pared and the stones extracted, and allow
a pound of sugar to every one of peaches. Crack one-quarter of the
stones, extract the kernels, break them to pieces and boil in just
enough water to cover them, until soft, when set aside to steep in
a covered vessel. Put a layer of sugar at the bottom of the kettle,
then one of fruit, and so on until you have used up all of both; set
it where it will warm slowly until the sugar is melted and the fruit
hot through. Then strain the kernel-water and add it. Boil steadily
