He looked hard at her immovable face, with its fallen eyes, and then
went out of the room. He never quarrelled with his mother, because
his anger, like her own, was dumb, and silenced him as it mounted. Her
misgivings had stung him deeply, and at the bottom of his indolence and
indifference was a fiery pride, not easily kindled, but unquenchable.
He flung the harness upon his old unkempt horse, and tackled him to the
mud-encrusted buggy, for whose shabbiness he had never cared before.
He was tempted to go back into the house, and change his uncouth Canada
homespun coat for the broadcloth frock which he wore when he went to
Boston; but he scornfully resisted it, and drove off in his accustomed
figure.

His mother’s last words repeated themselves to him, and in that
dialogue, in which he continued to dramatize their different feelings,
he kept replying, “Well, the way to find out whether she cares is to ask
her.”




X.

During her convalescence Mrs. Maynard had the time and inclination to
give Grace some good advice. She said that she had thought a great deal
about it throughout her sickness, and she had come to the conclusion
that Grace was throwing away her life.

“You’re not fit to be a doctor, Grace,” she said. “You’re too nervous,
and you’re too conscientious. It is n’t merely your want of experience.
No matter how much experience you had, if you saw a case going wrong in
your hands, you’d want to call in some one else to set it right. Do you
suppose Dr. Mulbridge would have given me up to another doctor because
he was afraid he couldn’t cure me? No, indeed! He’d have let me die
first, and I should n’t have blamed him. Of course I know what pressure
I brought to bear upon you, but you had no business to mind me. You
oughtn’t to have minded my talk any more than the buzzing of a mosquito,
and no real doctor would. If he wants to be a success, he must be
hard-hearted; as hard-hearted as”--she paused for a comparison, and
failing any other added--“as all possessed.” To the like large-minded
and impartial effect, she, ran on at great length. “No, Grace,” she
concluded, “what you want to do is to get married. You would be a good
wife, and you would be a good mother. The only trouble is that I don’t
know any man worthy of you, or half worthy. No, I don’t!”

Now that her recovery was assured, Mrs. Maynard was very forgiving and
sweet and kind with every one. The ladies who came in to talk with her
said that she was a changed creature; she gave them all the best advice,
and she had absolutely no shame whatever for the inconsistency involved
by her reconciliation with her husband. She rather flaunted the
happiness of her reunion in the face of the public, and she vouchsafed
an explanation to no one. There had never been anything definite in her
charges against him, even to Grace, and her tacit withdrawal of them
succeeded perfectly well. The ladies, after some cynical tittering,
forgot them, and rejoiced in the spectacle of conjugal harmony afforded
them: women are generous creatures, and there is hardly any offence
which they are not willing another woman should forgive her husband,
when once they have said that they do not see how she could ever forgive
him.

Mrs. Maynard’s silence seemed insufficient to none but Mrs. Breen and
her own husband. The former vigorously denounced its want of logic to
Grace as all but criminal, though she had no objection to Mr. Maynard.
He, in fact, treated her with a filial respect which went far to efface
her preconceptions; and he did what he could to retrieve himself from
the disgrace of a separation in Grace’s eyes. Perhaps he thought that
the late situation was known to her alone, when he casually suggested,
one day, that Mrs. Maynard was peculiar.

“Yes,” said Grace mercifully; “but she has been out of health so long.
That makes a great difference. She’s going to be better now.”

“Oh, it’s going to come out all right in the end,” he said, with his
unbuoyant hopefulness, “and I reckon I’ve got to help it along. Why, I
suppose every man’s a trial at times, doctor?”

“I dare say. I know that every woman is,” said the girl.

“Is that so? Well, may be you’re partly right. But you don’t suppose but
what a man generally begins it, do you? There was Adam, you know. He did
n’t pull the apple; but he fell off into that sleep, and woke up
with one of his ribs dislocated, and that’s what really commenced the
trouble. If it had n’t been for Adam, there would n’t have been any
woman, you know; and you could n’t blame her for what happened after she
got going?” There was no gleam of insinuation in his melancholy eye, and
Grace listened without quite knowing what to make of it all. “And then
I suppose he was n’t punctual at meals, and stood round talking politics
at night, when he ought to have been at home with his family?”

“Who?” asked Grace.

“Adam,” replied Mr. Maynard lifelessly. “Well, they got along pretty
well outside,” he continued. “Some of the children didn’t turn out just
what you might have expected; but raising children is mighty uncertain
business. Yes, they got along.” He ended his parable with a sort of
weary sigh, as if oppressed by experience. Grace looked at his slovenly
figure, his smoky complexion, and the shaggy outline made by his
untrimmed hair and beard, and she wondered how Louise could marry him;
but she liked him, and she was willing to accept for all reason the
cause of unhappiness at which he further hinted. “You see, doctor, an
incompatibility is a pretty hard thing to manage. You can’t forgive it
like a real grievance. You have to try other things, and find out that
there are worse things, and then you come back to it and stand it. We’re
talking Wyoming and cattle range, now, and Mrs. Maynard is all for the
new deal; it’s going to make us healthy, wealthy, and wise. Well, I
suppose the air will be good for her, out there. You doctors are sending
lots of your patients our way, now.” The gravity with which he always
assumed that Grace was a physician in full and regular practice would
have had its edge of satire, coming from another; but from him, if it
was ironical, it was also caressing, and she did not resent it. “I’ve
had some talk with your colleague, here, Dr. Mulbridge, and he seems to
think it will be the best thing for her. I suppose you agree with him?”

“Oh, yes,” said Grace, “his opinion would be of great value. It wouldn’t
be at all essential that I should agree with him:’

“Well, I don’t know about that,” said Maynard. “I reckon he thinks a
good deal of your agreeing with him. I’ve been talking with him about
settling out our way. We’ve got a magnificent country, and there’s bound
to be plenty of sickness there, sooner or later. Why, doctor, it would
be a good opening for you! It ‘s just the place for you. You ‘re off
here in a corner, in New England, and you have n’t got any sort of
scope; but at Cheyenne you’d have the whole field to yourself; there is
n’t another lady doctor in Cheyenne. Now, you come out with us. Bring
your mother with you, and grow up with the country. Your mother
would like it. There’s enough moral obliquity in Cheyenne to keep her
conscience in a state of healthful activity all the time. Yes, you’d get
along out there.”

Grace laughed, and shook her head. It was part of the joke which life
seemed to be with Mr. Maynard that the inhabitants of New England were
all eager to escape from their native section, and that they ought to be
pitied and abetted in this desire. As soon as his wife’s convalescence
released him from constant attendance upon her, he began an inspection
of the region from the compassionate point of view; the small, frugal
husbandry appealed to his commiseration, and he professed to have found
the use of canvas caps upon the haycocks intolerably pathetic. “Why,
I’m told,” he said, “that they have to blanket the apple-trees while the
fruit is setting; and they kill off our Colorado bugs by turning them
loose, one at a time, on the potato-patches: the bug starves to death
in forty-eight hours. But you’ve got plenty of schoolhouses, doctor; it
does beat all, about the schoolhouses. And it’s an awful pity that there
are no children to go to school in them. Why, of course the people go
West as fast as they can, but they ought to be helped; the Government
ought to do something. They’re good people; make first-rate citizens
when you get them waked up, out there. But they ought all to be got
away, and let somebody run New England’ as a summer resort. It’s pretty,
and it’s cool and pleasant, and the fishing is excellent; milk, eggs,
and all kinds of berries and historical associations on the premises;
and it could be made very attractive three months of the year; but my
goodness! you oughtn’t to ask anybody to live here. You come out with
us, doctor, and see that country, and you’ll know what I mean.”

His boasts were always uttered with a wan, lack-lustre irony, as if
he were burlesquing the conventional Western brag and enjoying the
mystifications of his listener, whose feeble sense of humor often failed
to seize his intention, and to whom any depreciation of New England was
naturally unintelligible. She had not come to her final liking for him
without a season of serious misgiving, but after that she rested
in peace upon what every one knowing him felt to be his essential
neighborliness. Her wonder had then come to be how he could marry
Louise, when they sat together on the seaward piazza, and he poured out
his easy talk, unwearied and unwearying, while, with one long, lank leg
crossed upon the other, he swung his unblacked, thin-soled boot to and
fro.

“Well, he was this kind of a fellow: When we were in Switzerland, he was
always climbing some mountain or other. They could n’t have hired me to
climb one of their mountains if they’d given me all their scenery, and
thrown their goitres in. I used to tell him that the side of a house was
good enough for me. But nothing but the tallest mountains would do him;
and one day when he was up there on the comb of the roof somewhere, tied
with a rope round his waist to the guide and a Frenchman, the guide’s
foot slipped, and he commenced going down. The Frenchman was just going
to cut the rope and let the guide play it alone; but he knocked the
knife out of his hand with his long-handled axe, and when the jerk came
he was on the other side of the comb, where he could brace himself, and
brought them both up standing. Well, he’s got muscles like bunches of
steel wire. Did n’t he ever tell you about it?”

“No,” said Grace sadly.

“Well, somebody ought to expose Libby. I don’t suppose I should ever
have known about it myself, if I hadn’t happened to see the guide’s
friends and relations crying over him next day as if he was the guide’s
funeral. Hello! There’s the doctor.” He unlimbered his lank legs, and
rose with an effect of opening his person like a pocket-knife. “As I
understand it, this is an unprofessional visit, and the doctor is
here among us as a guest. I don’t know exactly what to do under the
circumstances, whether we ought to talk about Mrs. Maynard’s health or
the opera; but I reckon if we show our good intentions it will come out
all right in the end.”

He went forward to meet the doctor, who came up to shake hands with
Grace, and then followed him in-doors to see Mrs. Maynard. Grace
remained in her place, and she was still sitting there when Dr.
Mulbridge returned without him. He came directly to her, and said, “I
want to speak with you, Miss Breen. Can I see you alone?”

“Is--is Mrs. Maynard worse?” she asked, rising in a little trepidation.

“No; it has nothing to do with her. She’s practically well now; I
can remand the case to you. I wish to see you--about yourself.” She
hesitated at this peculiar summons, but some pressure was upon her to
obey Dr. Mulbridge, as there was upon most people where he wished to
obey him. “I want to talk with you,” he added, “about what you are going
to do,--about your future. Will you come?”

“Oh, yes,” she answered; and she suffered him to lead the way down from
the piazza, and out upon one of the sandy avenues toward the woods, in
which it presently lost itself. “But there will be very little to talk
about,” she continued, as they moved away, “if you confine yourself to
my future. I have none.”

“I don’t see how you’ve got rid of it,” he rejoined. “You’ve got a
future as much as you have a past, and there’s this advantage,--that you
can do something with your future.”

“Do you think so?” she asked, with a little bitterness. “That has n’t
been my experience.”

“It’s been mine,” he said, “and you can make it yours. Come, I want
to talk with you about your future, because I have been thinking very
seriously about my own. I want to ask your advice and to give you mine.
I’ll commence by asking yours. What do you think of me as a physician? I
know you are able to judge.”

She was flattered, in spite of herself. There were long arrears of cool
indifference to her own claims in that direction, which she might very
well have resented; but she did not. There was that flattery in his
question which the junior in any vocation feels in the appeal of his
senior; and there was the flattery which any woman feels in a man’s
recourse to her judgment. Still, she contrived to parry it with a little
thrust. “I don’t suppose the opinion of a mere homoeopathist can be of
any value to a regular practitioner.”

He laughed. “You have been a regular practitioner yourself for the last
three weeks. What do you think of my management of the case?”

“I have never abandoned my principles,” she began.

“Oh, I know all about that? What do you think of me as a doctor?” he
persisted.

“Of course I admire you. Why do you ask me that?”

“Because I wished to know. And because I wished to ask you something
else. You have been brought up in a city, and I have always lived here
in the country, except the two years I was out with the army. Do you
think I should succeed if I pulled up here, and settled in Boston?”

“I have not lived in Boston,” she answered. “My opinion wouldn’t be
worth much on that point.”

“Yes, it would. You know city people, and what they are. I have seen a
good deal of them in my practice at the hotels about here, and some of
the ladies--when they happened to feel more comfortable--have advised
me to come to Boston.” His derision seemed to throw contempt on all
her sex; but he turned to her, and asked again earnestly, “What do you
think? Some of the profession know me there. When I left the school,
some of the faculty urged me to try my chance in the city.”

She waited a moment before she answered. “You know that I must respect
your skill, and I believe that you could succeed anywhere. I judge
your fitness by my own deficiency. The first time I saw you with Mrs.
Maynard, I saw that you had everything that I hadn’t. I saw that I was
a failure, and why, and that it would be foolish for me to keep up the
struggle.”

“Do you mean that you have given it up?” he demanded, with a triumph in
which there was no sympathy.

“It has given me up. I never liked it,--I told you that before,--and I
never took it up from any ambitious motive. It seemed a shame for me to
be of no use in the world; and I hoped that I might do something in a
way that seemed natural for women. And I don’t give up because I’m
unfit as a woman. I might be a man, and still be impulsive and timid and
nervous, and everything that I thought I was not.”

“Yes, you might be all that, and be a man; but you’d be an exceptional
man, and I don’t think you’re an exceptional woman. If you’ve failed, it
is n’t your temperament that’s to blame.”

“I think it is. The wrong is somewhere in me individually. I know it
is.”

Dr. Mulbridge, walking beside her, with his hands clasped behind him,
threw up his head and laughed. “Well, have it your own way, Miss Breen.
Only I don’t agree with you. Why should you wish to spare your sex at
your own expense? But that’s the way with some ladies, I’ve noticed.
They approve of what women attempt because women attempt it, and they
believe the attempt reflects honor on them. It’s tremendous to think
what men could accomplish for their sex, if they only hung together as
women do. But they can’t. They haven’t the generosity.”

“I think you don’t understand me,” said Grace, with a severity that
amused him. “I wished to regard myself, in taking up this profession,
entirely as I believed a man would have regarded himself.”

“And were you able to do it?”

