in charge of affairs, and become his accusers. Even at this distance we
can read the account with little patience, and should have none at all
if the account were not edited by Smith himself. His revenge was in his
good fortune in setting his own story afloat in the current of history.
The first narrative of these events, published by Smith in his Oxford
tract of 1612, was considerably remodeled and changed in his “General
Historie” of 1624. As we have said before, he had a progressive memory,
and his opponents ought to be thankful that the pungent Captain did not
live to work the story over a third time.

It is no doubt true, however, that but for the accident to our hero, he
would have continued to rule till the arrival of Gates and Somers with
the new commissions; as he himself says, “but had that unhappy blast not
happened, he would quickly have qualified the heat of those humors and
factions, had the ships but once left them and us to our fortunes; and
have made that provision from among the salvages, as we neither feared
Spaniard, Salvage, nor famine: nor would have left Virginia nor our
lawful authority, but at as dear a price as we had bought it, and paid
for it.”

He doubtless would have fought it out against all comers; and who
shall say that he does not merit the glowing eulogy on himself which he
inserts in his General History? “What shall I say but this, we left him,
that in all his proceedings made justice his first guide, and experience
his second, ever hating baseness, sloth, pride, and indignity, more than
any dangers; that upon no danger would send them where he would not lead
them himself; that would never see us want what he either had or could
by any means get us; that would rather want than borrow; or starve than
not pay; that loved action more than words, and hated falsehood and
covetousness worse than death; whose adventures were our lives, and
whose loss our deaths.”

A handsomer thing never was said of another man than Smith could say of
himself, but he believed it, as also did many of his comrades, we must
suppose. He suffered detraction enough, but he suffered also abundant
eulogy both in verse and prose. Among his eulogists, of course, is not
the factious Captain Ratcliffe. In the English Colonial State papers,
edited by Mr. Noel Sainsbury, is a note, dated Jamestown, October 4,
1609, from Captain “John Radclyffe comenly called,” to the Earl of
Salisbury, which contains this remark upon Smith’s departure after the
arrival of the last supply: “They heard that all the Council were dead
but Capt. [John] Smith, President, who reigned sole Governor, and is now
sent home to answer some misdemeanor.”

Captain Archer also regards this matter in a different light from that
in which Smith represents it. In a letter from Jamestown, written in
August, he says:

“In as much as the President [Smith], to strengthen his authority,
accorded with the variances and gave not any due respect to many worthy
gentlemen that were in our ships, wherefore they generally, with my
consent, chose Master West, my Lord De La Ware’s brother, their Governor
or President de bene esse, in the absence of Sir Thomas Gates, or if
he be miscarried by sea, then to continue till we heard news from our
counsell in England. This choice of him they made not to disturb the old
President during his term, but as his authority expired, then to take
upon him the sole government, with such assistants of the captains or
discreet persons as the colony afforded.

“Perhaps you shall have it blamed as a mutinie by such as retaine old
malice, but Master West, Master Piercie, and all the respected gentlemen
of worth in Virginia, can and will testify otherwise upon their oaths.
For the King’s patent we ratified, but refused to be governed by the
President--that is, after his time was expired and only subjected
ourselves to Master West, whom we labor to have next President.”


It is clear from this statement that the attempt was made to supersede
Smith even before his time expired, and without any authority (since the
new commissions were still with Gates and Somers in Bermuda), for
the reason that Smith did not pay proper respect to the newly arrived
“gentlemen.” Smith was no doubt dictatorial and offensive, and from his
point of view he was the only man who understood Virginia, and knew how
successfully to conduct the affairs of the colony. If this assumption
were true it would be none the less disagreeable to the new-comers.

At the time of Smith’s deposition the colony was in prosperous
condition. The “General Historie” says that he left them “with three
ships, seven boats, commodities ready to trade, the harvest newly
gathered, ten weeks’ provision in store, four hundred ninety and
odd persons, twenty-four pieces of ordnance, three hundred muskets,
snaphances and fire-locks, shot, powder, and match sufficient, curats,
pikes, swords, and morrios, more than men; the Salvages, their language
and habitations well known to a hundred well-trained and expert
soldiers; nets for fishing; tools of all kinds to work; apparel to
supply our wants; six mules and a horse; five or six hundred swine; as
many hens and chickens; some goats; some sheep; what was brought or bred
there remained.” Jamestown was also strongly palisaded and contained
some fifty or sixty houses; besides there were five or six other forts
and plantations, “not so sumptuous as our succerers expected, they were
better than they provided any for us.”

These expectations might well be disappointed if they were founded upon
the pictures of forts and fortifications in Virginia and in the Somers
Islands, which appeared in De Bry and in the “General Historie,” where
they appear as massive stone structures with all the finish and elegance
of the European military science of the day.

Notwithstanding these ample provisions for the colony, Smith had small
expectation that it would thrive without him. “They regarding nothing,”
 he says, “but from hand to mouth, did consume what we had, took care for
nothing but to perfect some colorable complaint against Captain Smith.”

Nor was the composition of the colony such as to beget high hopes of it.
There was but one carpenter, and three others that desired to learn, two
blacksmiths, ten sailors; those called laborers were for the most part
footmen, brought over to wait upon the adventurers, who did not know
what a day’s work was--all the real laborers were the Dutchmen and Poles
and some dozen others. “For all the rest were poor gentlemen, tradesmen,
serving men, libertines, and such like, ten times more fit to spoil a
commonwealth than either begin one or help to maintain one. For when
neither the fear of God, nor the law, nor shame, nor displeasure of
their friends could rule them here, there is small hope ever to bring
one in twenty of them to be good there.” Some of them proved more
industrious than was expected; “but ten good workmen would have done
more substantial work in a day than ten of them in a week.”

The disreputable character of the majority of these colonists is
abundantly proved by other contemporary testimony. In the letter of the
Governor and Council of Virginia to the London Company, dated Jamestown,
July 7, 1610, signed by Lord De La Ware, Thomas Gates, George Percy,
Ferd. Wenman, and William Strachey, and probably composed by Strachey,
after speaking of the bountiful capacity of the country, the writer
exclaims: “Only let me truly acknowledge there are not one hundred or
two of deboisht hands, dropt forth by year after year, with penury and
leysure, ill provided for before they come, and worse governed when they
are here, men of such distempered bodies and infected minds, whom no
examples daily before their eyes, either of goodness or punishment,
can deterr from their habituall impieties, or terrifie from a shameful
death, that must be the carpenters and workmen in this so glorious a
building.”

The chapter in the “General Historie” relating to Smith’s last days in
Virginia was transferred from the narrative in the appendix to Smith’s
“Map of Virginia,” Oxford, 1612, but much changed in the transfer. In
the “General Historie” Smith says very little about the nature of the
charges against him. In the original narrative signed by Richard Pots
and edited by Smith, there are more details of the charges. One omitted
passage is this: “Now all those Smith had either whipped or punished,
or in any way disgraced, had free power and liberty to say or sweare
anything, and from a whole armful of their examinations this was
concluded.”

Another omitted passage relates to the charge, to which reference is
made in the “General Historie,” that Smith proposed to marry Pocahontas:

“Some propheticall spirit calculated he had the salvages in such
subjection, he would have made himself a king by marrying Pocahuntas,
Powhatan’s daughter. It is true she was the very nonpareil of his
kingdom, and at most not past thirteen or fourteen years of age. Very
oft she came to our fort with what she could get for Capt. Smith, that
ever loved and used all the country well, but her especially he ever
much respected, and she so well requited it, that when her father
intended to have surprised him, she by stealth in the dark night came
through the wild woods and told him of it. But her marriage could in
no way have entitled him by any right to the kingdom, nor was it ever
suspected he had such a thought, or more regarded her or any of them
than in honest reason and discretion he might. If he would he might have
married her, or have done what he listed. For there were none that could
have hindered his determination.”


It is fair, in passing, to remark that the above allusion to the night
visit of Pocahontas to Smith in this tract of 1612 helps to confirm
the story, which does not appear in the previous narration of Smith’s
encounter with Powhatan at Werowocomoco in the same tract, but is
celebrated in the “General Historie.” It is also hinted plainly enough
that Smith might have taken the girl to wife, Indian fashion.




XIV. THE COLONY WITHOUT SMITH

It was necessary to follow for a time the fortune of the Virginia
colony after the departure of Captain Smith. Of its disasters and speedy
decline there is no more doubt than there is of the opinion of Smith
that these were owing to his absence. The savages, we read in his
narration, no sooner knew he was gone than they all revolted and spoiled
and murdered all they encountered.

The day before Captain Smith sailed, Captain Davis arrived in a small
pinnace with sixteen men. These, with a company from the fort under
Captain Ratcliffe, were sent down to Point Comfort. Captain West and
Captain Martin, having lost their boats and half their men among the
savages at the Falls, returned to Jamestown. The colony now lived upon
what Smith had provided, “and now they had presidents with all their
appurtenances.” President Percy was so sick he could neither go nor
stand. Provisions getting short, West and Ratcliffe went abroad to
trade, and Ratcliffe and twenty-eight of his men were slain by an ambush
of Powhatan’s, as before related in the narrative of Henry Spelman.
Powhatan cut off their boats, and refused to trade, so that Captain West
set sail for England. What ensued cannot be more vividly told than in
the “General Historie”:

“Now we all found the losse of Capt. Smith, yea his greatest maligners
could now curse his losse; as for corne provision and contribution from
the salvages, we had nothing but mortall wounds, with clubs and
arrowes; as for our hogs, hens, goats, sheep, horse, or what lived,
our commanders, officers and salvages daily consumed them, some small
proportions sometimes we tasted, till all was devoured; then swords,
arms, pieces or anything was traded with the salvages, whose cruell
fingers were so oft imbrued in our blouds, that what by their crueltie,
our Governor’s indiscretion, and the losse of our ships, of five hundred
within six months after Capt. Smith’s departure, there remained not past
sixty men, women and children, most miserable and poore creatures;
and those were preserved for the most part, by roots, herbes, acorns,
walnuts, berries, now and then a little fish; they that had starch in
these extremities made no small use of it, yea, even the very skinnes
of our horses. Nay, so great was our famine, that a salvage we slew and
buried, the poorer sort took him up again and eat him, and so did divers
one another boyled, and stewed with roots and herbs. And one amongst the
rest did kill his wife, poudered her and had eaten part of her before it
was knowne, for which he was executed, as he well deserved; now whether
she was better roasted, boyled, or carbonaded, I know not, but of such a
dish as powdered wife I never heard of. This was that time, which still
to this day we called the starving time; it were too vile to say and
scarce to be believed what we endured; but the occasion was our owne,
for want of providence, industrie and government, and not the barreness
and defect of the country as is generally supposed.”

This playful allusion to powdered wife, and speculation as to how she
was best cooked, is the first instance we have been able to find of what
is called “American humor,” and Captain Smith has the honor of being the
first of the “American humorists” who have handled subjects of this kind
with such pleasing gayety.

It is to be noticed that this horrible story of cannibalism and
wife-eating appears in Smith’s “General Historie” of 1624, without a
word of contradiction or explanation, although the company as early as
1610 had taken pains to get at the facts, and Smith must have seen their
“Declaration,” which supposes the story was started by enemies of the
colony. Some reported they saw it, some that Captain Smith said so, and
some that one Beadle, the lieutenant of Captain Davis, did relate it. In
“A True Declaration of the State of the Colonie in Virginia,” published
by the advice and direction of the Council of Virginia, London, 1610, we
read:

“But to clear all doubt, Sir Thomas Yates thus relateth the tragedie:

“There was one of the company who mortally hated his wife, and therefore
secretly killed her, then cut her in pieces and hid her in divers parts
of his house: when the woman was missing, the man suspected, his house
searched, and parts of her mangled body were discovered, to excuse
himself he said that his wife died, that he hid her to satisfie his
hunger, and that he fed daily upon her. Upon this his house was again
searched, when they found a good quantitie of meale, oatmeale, beanes
and pease. Hee therefore was arraigned, confessed the murder, and was
burned for his horrible villainy.”

This same “True Declaration,” which singularly enough does not mention
the name of Captain Smith, who was so prominent an actor in Virginia
during the period to which it relates, confirms all that Smith said
as to the character of the colonists, especially the new supply which
landed in the eight vessels with Ratcliffe and Archer. “Every
man overvalueing his own strength would be a commander; every man
underprizing another’s value, denied to be commanded.” They were
negligent and improvident. “Every man sharked for his present bootie,
but was altogether careless of succeeding penurie.” To idleness and
faction was joined treason. About thirty “unhallowed creatures,” in the
winter of 1610, some five months before the arrival of Captain Gates,
seized upon the ship Swallow, which had been prepared to trade with the
Indians, and having obtained corn conspired together and made a league
to become pirates, dreaming of mountains of gold and happy robberies. By
this desertion they weakened the colony, which waited for their return
with the provisions, and they made implacable enemies of the Indians by
their violence. “These are that scum of men,” which, after roving the
seas and failing in their piracy, joined themselves to other pirates
they found on the sea, or returned to England, bound by a mutual oath to
discredit the land, and swore they were drawn away by famine. “These are
they that roared at the tragicall historie of the man eating up his dead
wife in Virginia”--“scandalous reports of a viperous generation.”

If further evidence were wanting, we have it in “The New Life of
Virginia,” published by authority of the Council, London, 1612. This is
the second part of the “Nova Britannia,” published in London, 1609. Both
are prefaced by an epistle to Sir Thomas Smith, one of the Council and
treasurer, signed “R. I.” Neither document contains any allusion to
Captain John Smith, or the part he played in Virginia. The “New Life of
Virginia,” after speaking of the tempest which drove Sir Thomas Gates
on Bermuda, and the landing of the eight ships at Jamestown, says:
“By which means the body of the plantation was now augmented with such
numbers of irregular persons that it soon became as so many members
without a head, who as they were bad and evil affected for the most part
before they went hence; so now being landed and wanting restraint, they
displayed their condition in all kinds of looseness, those chief and
wisest guides among them (whereof there were not many) did nothing but
bitterly contend who should be first to command the rest, the common
sort, as is ever seen in such cases grew factious and disordered out
of measure, in so much as the poor colony seemed (like the Colledge of
English fugitives in Rome) as a hostile camp within itself; in which
distemper that envious man stept in, sowing plentiful tares in the
hearts of all, which grew to such speedy confusion, that in few months
ambition, sloth and idleness had devoured the fruit of former labours,
planting and sowing were clean given over, the houses decayed, the
church fell to ruin, the store was spent, the cattle consumed, our
people starved, and the Indians by wrongs and injuries made our
enemies.... As for those wicked Impes that put themselves a shipboard,
not knowing otherwise how to live in England; or those ungratious sons
that daily vexed their fathers hearts at home, and were therefore thrust
