
Footnote 24:

  An allusion to the pirated editions of his works.

Footnote 25:

  At Les Jardies.




                              CHAPTER V.

                              THE THINKER.

“Un écrivain doit se regarder comme un instituteur des hommes.”—BONALD.

Balzac, to borrow a Hindu expression, was “an artificer who built like
a giant and finished like a jeweler.” The groundwork of the “Comédie
Humaine” was grandly conceived and admirably executed; and though a few
of the balconies of its superb superstructure are incomplete, yet as,
happily, masterpieces are ever eternally young, it shows no signs of
decay, and there is little danger of its falling in ruins.

For the decoration of this work, Balzac brought a subtle analysis of
men, women, and things, and adorned it all with brilliant ideas and
profound reflections, of which the saddest were dug from his own
sufferings, and not, as a great writer has said, from the hearts of his
mistresses.

As everything that he wrote is more or less worthy of attention, a
complete collection of his theories and teachings would be as
impossible, as an arrangement of Emerson’s best thoughts, and in any
event would ill befit the unpretentious character of this treatise. For
his elaborate monographs on religion, morality, society, politics,
science, and art, the reader must turn to the complete edition of his
writings; for in these pages the attempt will be made to render only a
handful of unsorted aphorisms and reflections, taken at random, of
which the majority will be found to touch merely upon every-day topics,
and that in the lightest possible vein.

With this brief explanation, for which your indulgence is requested,
the crier gives way to the thinker.


A woman is to her husband that which her husband has made her.

It is still a question, both in politics and marriage, whether empires
are overthrown and happiness destroyed through over-confidence or
through too great severity.

A husband risks nothing in affecting to believe his wife, and in
patiently holding his tongue. Of all things, silence worries a woman
most.

It is, perhaps, only those who believe in God who do good in secret.

Statesmen, thinkers, men who have commanded armies,—in a word, those
who are really great,—are natural and unaffected, and their simplicity
places one at once on an equality with them.

Comprehension is equality.

Discussion weakens all things.

Genius is intuition.

The most striking effects of art are but rough counterfeits of nature.

To the despair of man, he can do nothing, either for good or for evil,
but that which is imperfect. His every work, be it intellectual or
physical, is stamped with the mark of destruction.

Avarice begins where poverty ends.

Dignity is but the screen of pride; from behind it we rage at our ease.

There are certain rich organizations, on whom the extremes of happiness
and misery produce a soporific effect.

The most natural sentiments are those which are acknowledged with the
greatest repugnance.

The first requisite of revenge is dissimulation. An avowed hatred is
powerless.

It is in the nature of women to prove the impossible by the possible,
and to destroy facts with presentiments.

Power does not consist in striking hard and often, but in striking with
justice.

To stroll about the streets is in itself a science; it is the
gastronomy of the eye.

Nowadays, to be hopelessly in love, or to be wearied of life,
constitutes social position.

Love is immense, but it is not infinite, while science has limitless
depths.

Prosperity brings with it an intoxication, which inferior natures never
resist.

It is but the heart that does not age.

The graces of manner and conversation are gifts of nature, or the fruit
of an education begun at the cradle.

As soon as a misfortune occurs, some friend or other is always ready to
tell us, and to run a dagger into our hearts, while expecting us to
admire the handle.

It is frequently at the very moment when men most despair of their
future that their fortune begins.

To talk of love is to make love.

A married woman is a slave who needs a throne.

The grandeur of desires is in proportion to the breadth of the
imagination.

A husband who leaves nothing to be desired is lost.

There is no greater incentive to life than the conviction that our
death would bring happiness to others.

Where there is no self-respect solitude is hateful.

A lover has all the virtues and all the defects that a husband has not.

The more one judges the less one loves.

Chance is the great romancer; to be prolific one has but to study it.

Grief as well as pleasure has its initiation.

Apart from the comedian, the prince, and the cardinal, there is a man
at once prince and comedian,—a man robed in magnificent vestments. I
speak of the poet, who appears to do nothing, yet who reigns above
humanity when he has known how to depict it.

Woman’s virtue is perhaps a question of temperament.

To live by the pen is a labor which galley-slaves would refuse; they
would prefer death. To live by the pen consists in creating,—creating
to-day, to-morrow, forever, ... or to appear to, and the appearance
costs as much as the reality.

I have never seen a badly dressed woman who was agreeable and
good-humored.

A woman’s instinct is equivalent to the perspicacity of the wise.

In France, a witticism is to be heard on the scaffold as well as at the
barricades, and some Frenchman or other will, I am sure, joke at the
general sessions of the last judgment.

All soldiers look alike.

In love, chance is the providence of women.

Literature and politics are to women to-day that which religion was to
them formerly,—the last asylum of their pretensions.

True sentiments are magnetic.

Misfortune creates in certain natures a vast desert, which reëchoes
with the voice of God.

It is from the shock of characters, and not from conflict of ideas,
that antipathies are born.

When intelligent men begin to explain their dispositions or give the
key to their hearts they are most assuredly drunk.

There are but few moral wounds which solitude cannot cure.

When a woman is no longer jealous of her husband the end is come; she
no longer loves him. Conjugal affection expires in her last quarrel.

A woman who is guided by her head, and not by her heart, is a terrible
companion: she has all the defects of a passionate woman, with none of
her good qualities; she is without mercy, without love, without virtue,
without sex.

The revelation of chastity in man is inexpressibly radiant.

Misery is a tonic to some; to others it is a dissolvent.

A woman who has a lover becomes very indulgent.

Power is clement, it is open to conviction, it is just and undisturbed;
but the anger engendered by weakness is pitiless.

Monomanias are not contagious; but where the insanity lurks in constant
discussions and in the manner in which things in general are regarded,
then it may become so.

One of the misfortunes to which great minds are subjected is that they
are forced to understand all things,—vices as well as virtues.

Beauty is like nobility: it cannot be acquired.

Nothing good is to be expected of those who acknowledge their faults,
repent, and then sin again. The truly great acknowledge their faults to
no one, but they punish themselves accordingly.

Do not fear to make enemies,—unfortunate is he who has none; but try
to give no cause for ridicule, and avoid the appearance of evil.

There is as much mud in the upper ranks of society as in the lower, but
in the former it is gilded.

The most superb vengeance is the disdain of one at hand.

Laws are not always so cruel as are the usages of the world.

Historians are privileged liars, who lend their pen to popular beliefs
in the same manner that our newspapers express but the sentiments of
their readers.

A lover is a herald who proclaims a woman’s merit, beauty, or wit. What
does a husband proclaim?

A woman’s real physiognomy does not begin until she is thirty. Up to
that age, the painter finds in her face but pink and white, and a
repetition of the uniform and depthless smiles of love and youth.

Science consists in imitating nature.

Through a peculiar mental contraction, women see only the defects in a
man of talent, and in a fool but his good qualities.

Love may be heard in the voice before it is seen in the eyes.

The heart of a woman of twenty-five is as little like that of a girl of
eighteen as the heart of a woman of forty is like that of a woman of
thirty: each age creates a new woman.

Love has its escutcheon.

Man clings to life in proportion to its infamy: it is then a
protestation, a vengeance of every moment.

Glory is the deification of egotism.

He who foresees a bright future marches through the miseries of
existence like an innocent man led to the scaffold. He knows not shame.

The slow execution of works of genius demands either a ready fortune or
a cynical indifference to poverty.

No man can flatter himself that he knows a woman and makes her happy
until he sees her continually at his feet.

The Orientals sequestrate their women. A woman who loves should
sequestrate herself.

A cornice is the sweetest, the most submissive, the most indulgent
confidant that a woman can find when she does not dare to look her
interlocutor in the face. The cornice of a boudoir is an institution.
It is a confessional minus the priest.

True love appears in but one of two ways: either at first sight, which
is doubtless an effect of second sight; or else in the gradual fusion
of two natures, which is the realization of Plato’s androgyne.

A mother’s heart is an abyss in whose depths forgiveness is always to
be found.

The practice of religion sometimes causes a mental ophthalmia.

Life is made up of varied accidents, of alternating griefs and joys.
Dante’s Paradise, that changeless blue and sublime expression of the
ideal, is to be found but in the soul; and to demand it from the
actualities of existence is a luxury against which nature hourly
protests.

It is despair, not hope, which gives the real measure of our ambitions.
We give ourselves up in secret to the beautiful poems of hope, but
grief stands before us, unveiled.

The most ordinary and respectable of men will, when with others, try to
appear the rake.

Human justice is, I think, the development of the thought which floats
through space.

Through an inexplicable phenomenon, there are many who have hope, but
are lacking in faith. Hope is the flower of desire; faith is the fruit
of certainty.

A petty work engenders pride, while modesty is born of great
achievements.

The problem of eternal beatitude is one whose solution is known but to
God. Here below, poets bore their readers to death with their pictures
