"Yes?" said Mr. Juxon interrogatively. "Do you wish to speak to me?"

"The gentleman's come on business, sir. In point of fact, sir, it's the
case we was speakin' of lately."

The squire knew very well what was the matter. Indeed, he had wondered
that the detective had not arrived sooner. That did not make it any
easier to receive him, however; on the contrary, if he had come on the
previous day matters would have been much simpler.

"Very well, Gall," answered Mr. Juxon. "I am much obliged to you for
bringing Mr.--" he paused and looked at the man in plain clothes.

"Booley, sir," said the detective.

"Thank you--yes--for bringing Mr. Booley so far. You may go home, Gall.
If we need your services we will send to your house."

"It struck me, sir," remarked Gall with a bland smile, "as perhaps I
might be of use--prefeshnal in fact, sir."

"I will send for you," said the detective, shortly. The manners of the
rural constabulary had long ceased to amuse him.

Gall departed rather reluctantly, but to make up for being left out of
the confidential interview which was to follow, he passed his thumb round
his belt and thrust out his portly chest as he marched down the avenue.
He subsequently spoke very roughly to a little boy who was driving an old
sheep to the butcher's at the other end of the village.

Mr. Juxon and the detective turned back and walked slowly towards the
Hall.

"Will you be good enough to state exactly what the business is," said the
squire, well knowing that it was best to go straight to the point.

"You are Mr. Juxon, I believe?" inquired Mr. Booley looking at his
companion sharply. The squire nodded. "Very good, Mr. Juxon," continued
the official. "I am after a man called Walter Goddard. Do you know
anything about him? His wife, Mrs. Mary Goddard, lives in this village."

"Walter Goddard is at this moment in my house," said the squire calmly.
"I know all about him. He lay in wait for me at this very spot last night
and attacked me. My dog pulled him down."

The detective was somewhat surprised at the intelligence, and at the cool
manner in which his companion conveyed it.

"I am very glad to hear that. In that case I will take him at once."

"I fear that is impossible," answered the squire. "The man is raving in
the delirium of a brain fever. Meanwhile I shall be glad if you will stay
in the house, until he is well enough to be moved. The doctor will be
here at ten o'clock, and he will give you the details of the case better
than I can. It would be quite impossible to take him away at present."

"May I ask," inquired Mr. Booley severely, "why you did not inform the
local police?"

"Because it would have been useless. If he had escaped after attacking
me, I should have done so. But since I caught him, and found him to be
very ill--utterly unable to move, I proposed to take charge of him
myself. Mrs. Goddard is a friend of mine, and of the vicar, who knows her
story perfectly well. To publish the story in the village would be to do
her a great injury. Mrs. Ambrose, the vicar's wife, who is also
acquainted with the circumstances, is at this moment taking care of the
sick man. I presume that my promise--I am a retired officer of the
Navy--and the promise of Mr. Ambrose, the vicar, are sufficient
guarantee--"

"Oh, there is no question of guarantee," said Mr. Booley. "I assure you,
Mr. Juxon, I have no doubt whatever that you have acted for the best.
Can you tell me how long Goddard has been in the neighbourhood?"

The squire told the detective what he knew, taking care not to implicate
Mrs. Goddard, even adding with considerable boldness, for he was not
positively certain of the statement, that neither she nor any one else
had known where the man was hiding. Mr. Booley being sure that Goddard
could not escape him, saw that he could claim the reward offered for the
capture of the convict. He asked whether he might see him.

"That is doubtful," said the squire. "When I left him just now he was
quite unconscious, but he has lucid moments. To frighten him at such a
time might kill him outright."

"It is very easy for me to say that I am another medical man," remarked
Mr. Booley. "Perhaps I might say it in any case, just to keep the
servants quiet. I would like to see Mrs. Goddard, too."

"That is another matter. She is very nervous. I am going to her house,
now, and probably she will come back to the Hall with me. I might perhaps
tell her that you are here, but I think it would be likely to shock her
very much."

"Well, well, we will see about it," answered Mr. Booley. They reached the
house and the squire ushered the detective into the study, begging him to
wait for his return.

It was a new complication, though it had seemed possible enough. But the
position was not pleasant. To feel that there was a detective in the
house waiting to carry off Goddard, so soon as he should be well enough
to be moved, was about as disagreeable as anything well could be. The
longer the squire thought of it, the more impossible and at the same time
unnecessary it seemed to be to inform Mrs. Goddard of Booley's arrival.
He hastened down the park, feeling that no time must be lost in bringing
her to her husband's bedside.

He found her waiting for him, and was struck by the calmness she
displayed. To tell the truth the violence of her emotions had been wholly
expended on the previous night and the reaction had brought an intense
melancholy quiet, which almost frightened Mr. Juxon. The habit of bearing
great anxiety had not been wholly forgotten, for the lesson had been well
learned during those terrible days of her husband's trial, and it was as
though his sudden return had revived in her the custom of silent
suffering. She hardly spoke, but listened quietly to Mr. Juxon's account
of what had happened.

"You are not hurt?" she asked, almost incredulously. Her eyes rested on
her friend's face with a wistful look.

"No, I assure you, not in the least," he said. "But your poor husband is
very ill--very ill indeed."

"Tell me," said she quietly, "is he dead? Are you trying to break it to
me?"

"No--no indeed. He is alive--he may even recover. But that is very
uncertain. It might be best to wait until the doctor has been again. I
will come back and fetch you--"

"Oh, no, I will go at once. I would like to walk. It will do me good."

So the two set out without further words upon their errand. Mr. Juxon had
purposely omitted to speak of Mr. Booley's arrival. It would be easy, he
thought, to prevent them from meeting in the great house.

"Do you know," said Mary Goddard, as they walked together, "it is very
hard to wish that he may recover--" she stopped short.

"Very hard," answered the squire. "His life must be one of misery, if he
lives."

"Of course you would send him back?" she asked nervously.

"My dear friend, there is no other course open to me. Your own safety
requires it."

"God knows--you would only be doing right," she said and was silent
again. She knew, though the squire did not, what fate awaited Walter
Goddard if he were given up to justice. She knew that he had taken life
and must pay the penalty. Yet she was very calm; her senses were all
dulled and yet her thoughts seemed to be consecutive and rational. She
realised fully that the case of life and death was ill balanced; death
had it which ever course events might take, and she could not save her
husband. She thought of it calmly and calmly hoped that he might die now,
in his bed, with her by his side. It was a better fate.

"You say that the doctor thinks he must have been ill some time?" she
asked after a time.

"Yes--he was quite sure of it," answered the squire.

"Perhaps that was why he spoke so roughly to me," she said in a low
voice, as though speaking to herself.

The tears came into the squire's eyes for sheer pity. Even in this utmost
extremity the unhappy woman tried to account for her husband's rude and
cruel speech. Mr. Juxon did not answer but looked away. They passed the
spot where the scuffle had occurred on the previous night, but still he
said nothing, fearing to disturb her by making his story seem too vividly
real.

"Where is he?" she asked as they reached the Hall, looking up at the
windows.

"On the other side."

They went in and mounted the stairs towards the sick man's chamber. Mr.
Juxon went in, leaving Mrs. Goddard outside for a moment. She could
hear that hideous rattling monotonous moan, and she trembled from head to
foot. Presently Mr. and Mrs. Ambrose came out, looking very grave and
passed by her with a look of sympathy.

"Will you come in?" said the squire in a low voice.

Mrs. Goddard entered the room quickly. On seeing her husband, she uttered
a low cry and laid her hand upon Mr. Juxon's arm. For some seconds she
stood thus, quite motionless, gazing with intense and sympathetic
interest at the sick man's face. Then she went to his side and laid her
hand upon his burning forehead and looked into his eyes.

"Walter! Walter!" she cried. "Don't you know me? Oh, why does he groan
like that? Is he suffering?" she asked turning to Mr. Juxon.

"No--I do not think he suffers much. He is quite unconscious. He is
talking all the time but cannot pronounce the words."

The squire stood at a distance looking on, noting the womanly
thoughtfulness Mrs. Goddard displayed as she smoothed her husband's
pillow and tried to settle his head more comfortably upon the bags of
ice; and all the while she never took her eyes from Goddard's face, as
though she were fascinated by her own sorrow and his suffering. She moved
about the bed with that instinctive understanding of sickness which
belongs to delicate women, but her glance never strayed to Mr. Juxon; she
seemed forced by a mysterious magnetism to look at Walter and only at
him.

"Has he been long like this?" she asked.

"Ever since last night. He called you once--he said, 'Mary Goddard, let
me in!' And then he said something else--he said--I cannot remember what
he said." Mr. Juxon checked himself, remembering the words John had
heard, and of which he only half understood the import. But Mrs. Goddard
hardly noticed his reply.

"Will you leave me alone with him?" she said presently. "There is a bell
in the room--I could ring if anything--happened," she added with mournful
hesitation.

"Certainly," answered the squire. "Only, I beg of you my dear friend--do
not distress yourself needlessly--"

"Needlessly!" she repeated with a sorrowful smile. "It is all I can do
for him--to watch by his side. He will not live--he will not live, I am
sure."

The squire inwardly prayed that she might be right, and left her alone
with the sick man. Who, he thought, was better fitted, who had a stronger
right to be at his bedside at such a time? If only he might die! For if
he lived, how much more terrible would the separation be, when Booley the
detective came to conduct him back to his prison! In truth, it would be
more terrible even than Mr. Juxon imagined.

Meanwhile he must go and see to the rest of the household. He must speak
to John Short; he must see Mr. and Mrs. Ambrose, and he must take
precautions against any of them seeing Mr. Booley. This was, he thought,
very important, and he resolved to speak with the latter first. John was
probably asleep, worn out with the watching of the night.

Mr. Booley sat in the squire's study where he had been left almost an
hour earlier. He had installed himself in a comfortable corner by the
fire and was reading the morning paper which he had found unopened upon
the table. He seemed thoroughly at home as he sat there, a pair of
glasses upon his nose and his feet stretched out towards the flame upon
the hearth.

"Thank you, I am doing very well, Mr. Juxon," he said as the squire
entered.

"Oh--I am very glad," answered Mr. Juxon politely. The information was
wholly voluntary as he had not asked any question concerning the
detective's comfort.

"And how is the patient?" inquired Mr. Booley. "Do you think there is any
chance of removing him this afternoon?"

"This afternoon?" repeated the squire, in some astonishment. "The man is
very ill. It may be weeks before he can be removed."

"Oh!" ejaculated the other. "I was not aware of that. I cannot possibly
stay so long. To-morrow, at the latest, he will have to go."

"But, my dear sir," argued Mr. Juxon, "the thing is quite impossible. The
doctor can testify to that--"

"We are apt to be our own doctors in these cases," said Mr. Booley,
calmly. "At all events he can be taken as far as the county gaol."

"Upon my word, it would be murder to think of it--a man in a brain fever,
in a delirium, to be taken over jolting roads--dear me! It is not to be
thought of!"

Mr. Booley smiled benignly, for the first time since the squire had made
his acquaintance.

"You seem to forget, Mr. Juxon, that my time is very valuable," he
observed.

"Yes--no doubt--but the man's life, Mr. Booley, is valuable too."

"Hardly, I should say," returned the detective coolly. "But since you are
so very pressing, I will ask to see the man at once. I can soon tell you
whether he will die on the road or not. I have had considerable
experience in that line."

"You shall see him, as soon as the doctor comes," replied the squire,
shocked at the man's indifference and hardness.

"It certainly cannot hurt him to see me, if he is still unconscious or
raving," objected Mr. Booley.

"He might have a lucid moment just when you are there--the fright would
very likely kill him."

"That would decide the question of moving him," answered Booley, taking
his glasses from his nose, laying down the paper and rising to his feet.
"There is clearly some reason why you object to my seeing him now. I
would not like to insist, Mr. Juxon, but you must please remember that it
may be my duty to do so."

