
He went to the door and tried it, but it was firmly locked, and it was
quite useless to try to get out.

Meanwhile, Joe and his wife were conversing downstairs.

"Joe," said the woman, "I hope I'll get rid of that brat soon. She's a
heap of trouble."

"We shall be well paid," said Joe.

"Who's to pay us?" asked the woman.

"Brown. He's the man that's got charge of the job. She's got a rich
father, who'll shell out liberal to get her back."

"Did he pay you anything in advance?"

"I squeezed five dollars out of him."

"Where is it, Joe?"

"Don't you wish you knew, old woman?" said Joe, with a grin. "I can take
care of it."

"Half of it belongs to me."

"How do you make that out?"

"Haven't I the care of the child? It don't trouble you."

"It's all right, old lady. You won't be forgotten."

"How much more is Brown to pay you?" asked the woman, appearing
dissatisfied.

"Forty-five dollars."

The woman's eyes sparkled. To her this seemed a vast sum of money.

"And how much am I to have?"

"What do you want money for?" demanded Joe, impatiently.

"I do want it, and that's enough."

"Well, I can't say yet, old lady, but maybe you'll get ten dollars."

"Altogether?"

"Of course. Ain't that enough?"

"No, it isn't. We ought to divide even."

"Pooh, you're a woman. You don't need money."

An unpleasant look came over the woman's face, but she said nothing.

"Come, old woman, I've got something that'll put you into good humor.
See here!"

Joe produced from an out-of-the-way corner a suspicious-looking jug.

"Do you know what's in this?"

"What is it?" asked the woman, looking interested.

"Whisky. Get some boiling water, and I'll make you some punch. We'll
make a night of it."

His wife brightened up. Evidently she did not belong to the Temperance
Society, any more than her husband. She moved about the room with
alacrity, and, assisted by her husband, brewed a punch which was of
considerable strength. Then they put it on the table, and set about
enjoying themselves.

"Here's your health, ol' woman!" said Joe, and he tried to sing a stave
of an old drinking-song.

Together they caroused till a late hour, and then fell into a drunken
sleep, which lasted till a late hour in the morning.

About seven o'clock the little girl woke up, and, as is usual with
children, wished to be dressed at once.

"Aunt," Bob heard her say, "I want to be dressed."

But no one came at her call.

After a little waiting, she got out of bed and went downstairs, but
returned in a minute or two, crying.

Bob called through the partition.

"What's the matter, little girl?"

"There's nobody to dress me. Are you the boy that came yesterday?"

"Yes. Where is the woman that put you to bed?"

"She's downstairs--she and the man. They're lying on the floor. I can't
wake them up."

An idea came to Bob.

"Come to our door, little girl, and see if you can draw back the bolt.
We are fastened in."

"Will you take me to my papa?"

"Yes; I will try to."

The child came to the door, and, following Bob's directions, with some
difficulty slipped back the bolt.

"Clip," said Bob, in a tone of triumph, "We're free. Now do as I tell
you, and we'll get away, and reach St. Louis ahead of the boat."




CHAPTER XXXIII.

A LUCKY ESCAPE.


"Now," said Bob to the little girl, as they descended the steep and
narrow staircase, "will you do as I tell you?"

"Yes," answered the child, placing her hand confidingly in his.

"Then make as little noise as possible. We don't want them to wake up.
If they do they will prevent your going away."

"Will you take me back to my papa, certain sure?"

"Yes."

"Oh, I am so glad."

"Clip," said Bob, warningly, "mind you remain perfectly quiet. We must
go through the room where the man and woman are sleeping. Any little
noise might wake them up."

"Don't be afeared for me, Massa Bob," said Clip.

The staircase led into the main room below, so that, as Bob said, it
was necessary to pass through it.

Entering the room on tip-toe, they witnessed a reassuring, but
disgusting spectacle. Joe Springer was stretched out on the floor on his
back, breathing heavily; while his wife, seated in a chair, rested her
head on the kitchen table. She, too, seemed to be in a drunken stupor.

The little girl regarded the woman nervously, remembering the harsh
treatment she had received from her.

There was one more ordeal, and one more danger to run. The outer door
was locked, but the key was in the lock. There was a creaking sound as
Bob turned it. But he opened the door successfully, and once more they
breathed freely in the clear air of morning. As the door opened they
heard a muttered sound from Joe Springer. It sounded like "more whisky!"
He was probably dreaming of his potations of the previous night.

Bob hurried along his two companions till they had reached a point some
half a mile distant from the place of their imprisonment. Then he
thought it best to question the little girl.



"What is your name?" he asked, gently.

"Don't you know my name?" asked the child, in surprise. "My name is
Maud."

"What is your other name?"

"Pearson--my name is Maud Lilian Pearson."

"Just as I thought, Clip," said Bob, triumphantly. "This is the little
girl that was stolen from her parents in St. Louis."

"Yes; my papa lives in St. Louis. Will you take me to him?"

"Yes, Maud. Only be a good little girl, and do as I tell you."

"And you won't let that ugly woman take me away?"

"No; we will hide you away from her. Did she treat you badly?"

"Yes; she shook me, and said she would whip me. She said she was my
aunt; but it isn't true."

"Who brought you to her?"

Maud thereupon described the man whom we know as Brown, the abler one
of the confederates who had stolen the ferry-boat.

"I wonder whether our boat is gone?" said Bob.

"Mebbe we can see from the hill," suggested Clip.

There was a small elevation near by. Bob ascended it, and looked towards
the point where his boat had been tied up. There was no sign of it. It
had disappeared. Though still early, Brown and Minton, fearing
interference, had cut loose about four o'clock, and were, by this time,
several miles on their way to the great city.

"It's gone, Clip," said Bob, sadly.

"Never mind, Massa Bob, we'll catch 'em," answered Clip, energetically.

"Yes, if there is any boat starts down the river to-day."

This, however, was something which he was not sure of. Moreover, he felt
that the sooner he got away from Joe Springer and his estimable wife,
the better. But where could he take refuge? Not at the hotel, for
Springer would find him out and reclaim the little girl. While he was
considering, in his perplexity, what course to pursue, he fell in with
two boys, who appeared to be about fifteen years of age. They regarded
Bob and his party with curiosity.

Bob eyed the boys closely, and decided that they could be depended upon.
They seemed to be just the friends he was in search of. He introduced
himself, and learned that their names were John Sheehan and Edward
Bovee.

"Can you tell me, boys, when the next steamer will start for St. Louis?"

"Yes," answered John; "there is one at seven o'clock to-morrow morning."

"That is the earliest?"

"Yes," said John.

"Do you know of any private house where we can stay till that time? I am
willing to pay a fair price."

"You can come to our house," said Edward Bovee. "I am sure my mother
will take you in. But you won't get as good meals as at the hotel."

"I don't mind that. I shall be glad to stay at your house. Could we go
there to breakfast?"

"Yes; follow me, and I will lead the way."

Edward Bovee led the way to a neat cottage, where his mother, a
pleasant-looking lady, welcomed them, and readily undertook to keep them
till the boat started for St. Louis. Bob, feeling the necessity of
concealment, took Mrs. Bovee into his confidence, and readily secured
the co-operation of the good lady, who took a motherly interest in
little Maud.

Now that the children have found a safe retreat, we will return to Joe
Springer and his interesting wife.

About half an hour after their young prisoners had escaped, Mrs.
Springer raised her head from the table, and looked about her in a
bewildered way. The bright sunshine entering at the window revealed to
her that she had spent the night in a drunken stupor, even if Joe's
prostrate form had not been a visible reminder. She went to her husband,
and shook him roughly.

"Get up, Joe!" she said. "It's morning."

He opened his eyes, and looked around him with stupefaction.

"What's up, old woman?" he asked.

"I am, and you ought to be," she answered, sharply.

"Where's the whisky?"

"You've had enough. Now get up and hustle round, if you want some
breakfast. I'll go up and dress the little girl."

Mrs. Springer went upstairs, but came down again two steps at a time, in
a state of high excitement.

"Joe," said she, quickly, "the little gal's gone!"

"What?"

"The little gal's gone! Run out and see if you can't catch her. If we
lose her, we lose fifty dollars!"

"Are the boys all right?"

"Yes; the door is bolted. They couldn't get out."

This was true. Bob had taken the precaution to lock the door, after
leaving the room. For this reason, it was half an hour later before Joe
discovered that all his prisoners had escaped. Then, as might have been
expected, there was a wild scene of recrimination, ending in a fight, in
which Mrs. Springer did her part, for she was by no means a weak or
delicate lady, but a woman without fear, who believed in the right of
self-defense. The worthy pair instituted a search throughout the
village, but failed to discover any trace of the lost children. The next
morning, however, Joe Springer got up unusually early, for him, and
strolled to the steamboat-landing. The boat was already out in the
