
"I've had something preying on my mind, uncle, and as I am going away,
and might never see you again, I can't bear it any longer. I made you
believe I was afraid to fight that Italian adventurer. I had to get out
of it on some pretext or other, and maybe I chose badly, being taken
unawares, but no honorable person could consent to meet him in the
field, knowing what I knew about him."

"Indeed? What was that?"

"Count Luigi is a confessed assassin."

"Incredible!"

"It's perfectly true. Wilson detected it in his hand, by palmistry, and
charged him with it, and cornered him up so close that he had to
confess; but both twins begged us on their knees to keep the secret, and
swore they would lead straight lives here; and it was all so pitiful
that we gave our word of honor never to expose them while they kept that
promise. You would have done it yourself, uncle."

"You are right, my boy; I would. A man's secret is still his own
property, and sacred, when it has been surprised out of him like that.
You did well, and I am proud of you." Then he added mournfully, "But I
wish I could have been saved the shame of meeting an assassin on the
field of honor."

"It couldn't be helped, uncle. If I had known you were going to
challenge him I should have felt obliged to sacrifice my pledged word in
order to stop it, but Wilson couldn't be expected to do otherwise than
keep silent."

"Oh, no; Wilson did right, and is in no way to blame. Tom, Tom, you have
lifted a heavy load from my heart; I was stung to the very soul when I
seemed to have discovered that I had a coward in my family."

"You may imagine what it cost me to assume such a part, uncle."

"Oh, I know it, poor boy, I know it. And I can understand how much it
has cost you to remain under that unjust stigma to this time. But it is
all right now, and no harm is done. You have restored my comfort of
mind, and with it your own; and both of us had suffered enough."

The old man sat awhile plunged in thought; then he looked up with a
satisfied light in his eye, and said: "That this assassin should have
put the affront upon me of letting me meet him on the field of honor as
if he were a gentleman is a matter which I will presently settle--but
not now. I will not shoot him until after election. I see a way to ruin
them both before; I will attend to that first. Neither of them shall be
elected, that I promise. You are sure that the fact that he is an
assassin has not got abroad?"

"Perfectly certain of it, sir."

"It will be a good card. I will fling a hint at it from the stump on the
polling-day. It will sweep the ground from under both of them."

"There's not a doubt of it. It will finish them."

"That and outside work among the voters will, to a certainty. I want you
to come down here by and by and work privately among the rag-tag and
bobtail. You shall spend money among them; I will furnish it."

Another point scored against the detested twins! Really it was a great
day for Tom. He was encouraged to chance a parting shot, now, at the
same target, and did it.

"You know that wonderful Indian knife that the twins have been making
such a to-do about? Well, there's no track or trace of it yet; so the
town is beginning to sneer and gossip and laugh. Half the people believe
they never had any such knife, the other half believe they had it and
have got it still. I've heard twenty people talking like that to-day."

Yes, Tom's blemishless week had restored him to the favor of his aunt
and uncle.

His mother was satisfied with him, too. Privately, she believed she was
coming to love him, but she did not say so. She told him to go along to
St. Louis, now, and she would get ready and follow. Then she smashed her
whisky bottle and said--

"Dah now! I's a-gwyne to make you walk as straight as a string,
Chambers, en so I's bown' you ain't gwyne to git no bad example out o'
yo' mammy. I tole you you couldn't go into no bad comp'ny. Well, you's
gwyne into my comp'ny, en I's gwyne to fill de bill. Now, den, trot
along, trot along!"

Tom went aboard one of the big transient boats that night with his heavy
satchel of miscellaneous plunder, and slept the sleep of the unjust,
which is serener and sounder than the other kind, as we know by the
hanging-eve history of a million rascals. But when he got up in the
morning, luck was against him again: A brother-thief had robbed him
while he slept, and gone ashore at some intermediate landing.




CHAPTER XVI.

Sold Down the River.

If you pick up a starving dog and make him prosperous, he will not bite
you. This is the principal difference between a dog and a
man.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.

We know all about the habits of the ant, we know all about the habits of
the bee, but we know nothing at all about the habits of the oyster. It
seems almost certain that we have been choosing the wrong time for
studying the oyster.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.

When Roxana arrived, she found her son in such despair and misery that
her heart was touched and her motherhood rose up strong in her. He was
ruined past hope, now; his destruction would be immediate and sure, and
he would be an outcast and friendless. That was reason enough for a
mother to love a child; so she loved him, and told him so. It made him
wince, secretly--for she was a "nigger." That he was one himself was far
from reconciling him to that despised race.

Roxana poured out endearments upon him, to which he responded
uncomfortably, but as well as he could. And she tried to comfort him,
but that was not possible. These intimacies quickly became horrible to
him, and within the hour he began to try to get up courage enough to
tell her so, and require that they be discontinued or very considerably
modified. But he was afraid of her; and besides, there came a lull, now,
for she had begun to think. She was trying to invent a saving plan.
Finally she started up, and said she had found a way out. Tom was almost
suffocated by the joy of this sudden good news. Roxana said:

"Here is de plan, en she'll win, sure. I's a nigger, en nobody ain't
gwyne to doubt it dat hears me talk. I's wuth six hund'd dollahs. Take
en sell me, en pay off dese gamblers."

Tom was dazed. He was not sure he had heard aright. He was dumb for a
moment; then he said:

"Do you mean that you would be sold into slavery to save me?"

"Ain't you my chile? En does you know anything dat a mother won't do for
her chile? Day ain't nothin' a white mother won't do for her chile. Who
made 'em so? De Lord done it. En who made de niggers? De Lord made 'em.
In de inside, mothers is all de same. De good Lord he made 'em so. I's
gwyne to be sole into slavery, en in a year you's gwyne to buy yo' ole
mammy free ag'in. I'll show you how. Dat's de plan."

Tom's hopes began to rise, and his spirits along with them. He said--

"It's lovely of you, mammy--it's just--"

"Say it ag'in! En keep on sayin' it! It's all de pay a body kin want in
dis worl', en it's mo' den enough. Laws bless you, honey, when I's
slavin' aroun', en dey 'buses me, if I knows you's a-sayin' dat, 'way
off yonder somers, it'll heal up all de sore places, en I kin stan'
'em."

"I do say it again, mammy, and I'll keep on saying it, too. But how am I
going to sell you? You're free, you know."

"Much diff'rence dat make! White folks ain't partic'lar. De law kin sell
me now if dey tell me to leave de State in six months en I don't go. You
draw up a paper--bill o' sale--en put it 'way off yonder, down in de
middle o' Kaintuck somers, en sign some names to it, en say you'll sell
me cheap 'ca'se you's hard up; you'll find you ain't gwyne to have no
trouble. You take me up de country a piece, en sell me on a farm; dem
people ain't gwyne to ask no questions if I's a bargain."

Tom forged a bill of sale and sold his mother to an Arkansas
cotton-planter for a trifle over six hundred dollars. He did not want to
commit this treachery, but luck threw the man in his way, and this saved
him the necessity of going up country to hunt up a purchaser, with the
added risk of having to answer a lot of questions, whereas this planter
was so pleased with Roxy that he asked next to none at all. Besides, the
planter insisted that Roxy wouldn't know where she was, at first, and
that by the time she found out she would already have become contented.
And Tom argued with himself that it was an immense advantage for Roxy to
have a master who was so pleased with her, as this planter manifestly
was. In almost no time his flowing reasonings carried him to the point
of even half believing he was doing Roxy a splendid surreptitious
service in selling her "down the river." And then he kept diligently
saying to himself all the time: "It's for only a year. In a year I buy
her free again; she'll keep that in mind, and it'll reconcile her." Yes;
the little deception could do no harm, and everything would come out
right and pleasant in the end, any way. By agreement, the conversation
in Roxy's presence was all about the man's "upcountry" farm, and how
pleasant a place it was, and how happy the slaves were there; so poor
Roxy was entirely deceived; and easily, for she was not dreaming that
her own son could be guilty of treason to a mother who, in voluntarily
going into slavery--slavery of any kind, mild or severe, or of any
duration, brief or long--was making a sacrifice for him compared with
which death would have been a poor and commonplace one. She lavished
tears and loving caresses upon him privately, and then went away with
her owner--went away broken-hearted, and yet proud of what she was
doing, and glad it was in her power to do it.

Tom squared his accounts, and resolved to keep to the very letter of his
reform, and never to put that will in jeopardy again. He had three
hundred dollars left. According to his mother's plan, he was to put that
safely away, and add her half of his pension to it monthly. In one year
this fund would buy her free again.

For a whole week he was not able to sleep well, so much the villainy
which he had played upon his trusting mother preyed upon his rag of a
conscience; but after that he began to get comfortable again, and was
presently able to sleep like any other miscreant.

The boat bore Roxy away from St. Louis at four in the afternoon, and she
stood on the lower guard abaft the paddle-box and watched Tom through a
blur of tears until he melted into the throng of people and disappeared;
then she looked no more, but sat there on a coil of cable crying till
far into the night. When she went to her foul steerage-bunk at last,
between the clashing engines, it was not to sleep, but only to wait for
the morning, and, waiting, grieve.

It had been imagined that she "would not know," and would think she was
traveling up stream. She! Why, she had been steamboating for years. At
dawn she got up and went listlessly and sat down on the cable-coil
again. She passed many a snag whose "break" could have told her a thing
to break her heart, for it showed a current moving in the same direction
that the boat was going; but her thoughts were elsewhere, and she did
not notice. But at last the roar of a bigger and nearer break than usual
brought her out of her torpor, and she looked up, and her practised eye
fell upon that telltale rush of water. For one moment her petrified gaze
fixed itself there. Then her head dropped upon her breast, and she
said--

"Oh, de good Lord God have mercy on po' sinful me--I's sole down de
river!"




CHAPTER XVII.

The Judge Utters Dire Prophecy.

Even popularity can be overdone. In Rome, along at first, you are full
of regrets that Michelangelo died; but by and by you only regret that
you didn't see him do it.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.

July 4. Statistics show that we lose more fools on this day than in all
the other days of the year put together. This proves, by the number left
in stock, that one Fourth of July per year is now inadequate, the
country has grown so.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.

The summer weeks dragged by, and then the political campaign
opened--opened in pretty warm fashion, and waxed hotter and hotter
daily. The twins threw themselves into it with their whole heart, for
their self-love was engaged. Their popularity, so general at first, had
suffered afterward; mainly because they had been too popular, and so a
natural reaction had followed. Besides, it had been diligently whispered
around that it was curious--indeed, very curious--that that wonderful
knife of theirs did not turn up--if it was so valuable, or if it had
ever existed. And with the whisperings went chucklings and nudgings and
winks, and such things have an effect. The twins considered that success
in the election would reinstate them, and that defeat would work them
irreparable damage. Therefore they worked hard, but not harder than
Judge Driscoll and Tom worked against them in the closing days of the
canvas. Tom's conduct had remained so letter-perfect during two whole
months, now, that his uncle not only trusted him with money with which
to persuade voters, but trusted him to go and get it himself out of the
safe in the private sitting-room.

The closing speech of the campaign was made by Judge Driscoll, and he
made it against both of the foreigners. It was disastrously effective.
He poured out rivers of ridicule upon them, and forced the big
mass-meeting to laugh and applaud. He scoffed at them as adventurers,
mountebanks, side-show riff-raff, dime museum freaks; he assailed their
showy titles with measureless derision; he said they were back-alley
barbers disguised as nobilities, peanut peddlers masquerading as
gentlemen, organ-grinders bereft of their brother monkey. At last he
stopped and stood still. He waited until the place had become absolutely
silent and expectant, then he delivered his deadliest shot; delivered it
with ice-cold seriousness and deliberation, with a significant emphasis
upon the closing words: he said that he believed that the reward offered
for the lost knife was humbug and buncombe, and that its owner would
know where to find it whenever he should have occasion to assassinate
somebody.

Then he stepped from the stand, leaving a startled and impressive hush
behind him instead of the customary explosion of cheers and party cries.

The strange remark flew far and wide over the town and made an
extraordinary sensation. Everybody was asking, "What could he mean by
that?" And everybody went on asking that question, but in vain; for the
Judge only said he knew what he was talking about, and stopped there;
Tom said he hadn't any idea what his uncle meant, and Wilson, whenever
he was asked what he thought it meant, parried the question by asking
the questioner what he thought it meant.

Wilson was elected, the twins were defeated--crushed, in fact, and left
forlorn and substantially friendless. Tom went back to St. Louis happy.

Dawson's Landing had a week of repose, now, and it needed it. But it was
in an expectant state, for the air was full of rumors of a new duel.
Judge Driscoll's election labors had prostrated him, but it was said
that as soon as he was well enough to entertain a challenge he would get
one from Count Luigi.

The brothers withdrew entirely from society, and nursed their
humiliation in privacy. They avoided the people, and went out for
exercise only late at night, when the streets were deserted.
