"Yes--he told you that, perhaps--but it was as if a man put poisoned
meat before a starving beast, and said 'do not eat,' but never raised
his hand to take the meat away. And if he told you that you should not
marry, it was because he hoped you would; for of all men living or dead,
Hugh Ockram was the falsest man that ever told a cowardly lie, and the
cruelest that ever hurt a weak woman, and the worst that ever loved a
sin."

"But Gabriel and I love each other," said Evelyn very sadly.

Nurse Macdonald's old eyes looked far away, at sights seen long ago, and
that rose in the grey winter air amid the mists of an ancient youth.

"If you love, you can die together," she said, very slowly. "Why should
you live, if it is true? I am a hundred years old. What has life given
me? The beginning is fire; the end is a heap of ashes; and between the
end and the beginning lies all the pain of the world. Let me sleep,
since I cannot die."

Then the old woman's eyes closed again, and her head sank a little lower
upon her breast.

So Evelyn went away and left her asleep, with the cat asleep on the bag
footstool; and the young girl tried to forget Nurse Macdonald's words,
but she could not, for she heard them over and over again in the wind,
and behind her on the stairs. And as she grew sick with fear of the
frightful unknown evil to which her soul was bound, she felt a bodily
something pressing her, and pushing her, and forcing her on, and from
the other side she felt the threads that drew her mysteriously: and when
she shut her eyes, she saw in the chapel behind the altar, the low iron
door through which she must pass to go to the thing.

And as she lay awake at night, she drew the sheet over her face, lest
she should see shadows on the wall beckoning to her; and the sound of
her own warm breath made whisperings in her ears, while she held the
mattress with her hands, to keep from getting up and going to the
chapel. It would have been easier if there had not been a way thither
through the library, by a door which was never locked. It would be
fearfully easy to take her candle and go softly through the sleeping
house. And the key of the vault lay under the altar behind a stone that
turned. She knew the little secret. She could go alone and see.

But when she thought of it, she felt her hair rise on her head, and
first she shivered so that the bed shook, and then the horror went
through her in a cold thrill that was agony again, like myriads of icy
needles boring into her nerves.




CHAPTER IV


The old clock in Nurse Macdonald's tower struck midnight. From her room
she could hear the creaking chains and weights in their box in the
corner of the staircase, and overhead the jarring of the rusty lever
that lifted the hammer. She had heard it all her life. It struck eleven
strokes clearly, and then came the twelfth, with a dull half stroke, as
though the hammer were too weary to go on, and had fallen asleep against
the bell.

The old cat got up from the bag footstool and stretched itself, and
Nurse Macdonald opened her ancient eyes and looked slowly round the
room by the dim light of the night lamp. She touched the cat with her
crutch-stick, and it lay down upon her feet. She drank a few drops from
her cup and went to sleep again.

But downstairs Sir Gabriel sat straight up as the clock struck, for he
had dreamed a fearful dream of horror, and his heart stood still, till
he awoke at its stopping, and it beat again furiously with his breath,
like a wild thing set free. No Ockram had ever known fear waking, but
sometimes it came to Sir Gabriel in his sleep.

He pressed his hands to his temples as he sat up in bed, and his hands
were icy cold, but his head was hot. The dream faded far, and in its
place there came the master thought that racked his life; with the
thought also came the sick twisting of his lips in the dark that would
have been a smile. Far off, Evelyn Warburton dreamed that the dead smile
was on her mouth, and awoke, starting with a little moan, her face in
her hands, shivering.

But Sir Gabriel struck a light and got up and began to walk up and down
his great room. It was midnight, and he had barely slept an hour, and in
the north of Ireland the winter nights are long.

"I shall go mad," he said to himself, holding his forehead. He knew that
it was true. For weeks and months the possession of the thing had grown
upon him like a disease, till he could think of nothing without thinking
first of that. And now all at once it outgrew his strength, and he knew
that he must be its instrument or lose his mind--that he must do the
deed he hated and feared, if he could fear anything, or that something
would snap in his brain and divide him from life while he was yet alive.
He took the candlestick in his hand, the old-fashioned heavy candlestick
that had always been used by the head of the house. He did not think of
dressing, but went as he was, in his silk night clothes and his
slippers, and he opened the door. Everything was very still in the great
old house. He shut the door behind him and walked noiselessly on the
carpet through the long corridor. A cool breeze blew over his shoulder
and blew the flame of his candle straight out from him. Instinctively he
stopped and looked round, but all was still, and the upright flame
burned steadily. He walked on, and instantly a strong draught was behind
him, almost extinguishing the light. It seemed to blow him on his way,
ceasing whenever he turned, coming again when he went on--invisible,
icy.

Down the great staircase to the echoing hall he went, seeing nothing but
the flaring flame of the candle standing away from him over the
guttering wax, while the cold wind blew over his shoulder and through
his hair. On he passed through the open door into the library, dark with
old books and carved bookcases; on through the door in the shelves, with
painted shelves on it, and the imitated backs of books, so that one
needed to know where to find it--and it shut itself after him with a
soft click. He entered the low-arched passage, and though the door was
shut behind him and fitted tightly in its frame, still the cold breeze
blew the flame forward as he walked. And he was not afraid; but his face
was very pale, and his eyes were wide and bright, looking before him,
seeing already in the dark air the picture of the thing beyond. But in
the chapel he stood still, his hand on the little turning stone tablet
in the back of the stone altar. On the tablet were engraved words:
"Clavis sepulchri Clarissimorum Dominorum De Ockram"--("the key to the
vault of the most illustrious lords of Ockram"). Sir Gabriel paused and
listened. He fancied that he heard a sound far off in the great house
where all had been so still, but it did not come again. Yet he waited at
the last, and looked at the low iron door. Beyond it, down the long
descent, lay his father uncoffined, six months dead, corrupt, terrible
in his clinging shroud. The strangely preserving air of the vault could
not yet have done its work completely. But on the thing's ghastly
features, with their half-dried, open eyes, there would still be the
frightful smile with which the man had died--the smile that haunted----

As the thought crossed Sir Gabriel's mind, he felt his lips writhing,
and he struck his own mouth in wrath with the back of his hand so
fiercely that a drop of blood ran down his chin, and another, and more,
falling back in the gloom upon the chapel pavement. But still his
bruised lips twisted themselves. He turned the tablet by the simple
secret. It needed no safer fastening, for had each Ockram been coffined
in pure gold, and had the door been open wide, there was not a man in
Tyrone brave enough to go down to that place, saving Gabriel Ockram
himself, with his angel's face and his thin, white hands, and his sad
unflinching eyes. He took the great old key and set it into the lock of
the iron door; and the heavy, rattling noise echoed down the descent
beyond like footsteps, as if a watcher had stood behind the iron and
were running away within, with heavy dead feet. And though he was
standing still, the cool wind was from behind him, and blew the flame of
the candle against the iron panel. He turned the key.

Sir Gabriel saw that his candle was short. There were new ones on the
altar, with long candlesticks, and he lit one, and left his own burning
on the floor. As he set it down on the pavement his lip began to bleed
again, and another drop fell upon the stones.

He drew the iron door open and pushed it back against the chapel wall,
so that it should not shut of itself, while he was within; and the
horrible draught of the sepulchre came up out of the depths in his face,
foul and dark. He went in, but though the fetid air met him, yet the
flame of the tall candle was blown straight from him against the wind
while he walked down the easy incline with steady steps, his loose
slippers slapping the pavement as he trod.

He shaded the candle with his hand, and his fingers seemed to be made of
wax and blood as the light shone through them. And in spite of him the
unearthly draught forced the flame forward, till it was blue over the
black wick, and it seemed as if it must go out. But he went straight on,
with shining eyes.

The downward passage was wide, and he could not always see the walls by
the struggling light, but he knew when he was in the place of death by
the larger, drearier echo of his steps in the greater space, and by the
sensation of a distant blank wall. He stood still, almost enclosing the
flame of the candle in the hollow of his hand. He could see a little,
for his eyes were growing used to the gloom. Shadowy forms were outlined
in the dimness, where the biers of the Ockrams stood crowded together,
side by side, each with its straight, shrouded corpse, strangely
preserved by the dry air, like the empty shell that the locust sheds in
summer. And a few steps before him he saw clearly the dark shape of
headless Sir Vernon's iron coffin, and he knew that nearest to it lay
the thing he sought.

He was as brave as any of those dead men had been, and they were his
fathers, and he knew that sooner or later he should lie there himself,
beside Sir Hugh, slowly drying to a parchment shell. But he was still
alive, and he closed his eyes a moment, and three great drops stood on
his forehead.

Then he looked again, and by the whiteness of the winding-sheet he knew
his father's corpse, for all the others were brown with age; and,
moreover, the flame of the candle was blown toward it. He made four
steps till he reached it, and suddenly the light burned straight and
high, shedding a dazzling yellow glare upon the fine linen that was all
white, save over the face, and where the joined hands were laid on the
breast. And at those places ugly stains had spread, darkened with
outlines of the features and of the tight-clasped fingers. There was a
frightful stench of drying death.

As Sir Gabriel looked down, something stirred behind him, softly at
first, then more noisily, and something fell to the stone floor with a
dull thud and rolled up to his feet; he started back and saw a withered
head lying almost face upward on the pavement, grinning at him. He felt
the cold sweat standing on his face, and his heart beat painfully.

For the first time in all his life that evil thing which men call fear
was getting hold of him, checking his heart-strings as a cruel driver
checks a quivering horse, clawing at his backbone with icy hands,
lifting his hair with freezing breath, climbing up and gathering in his
midriff with leaden weight.

Yet presently he bit his lip and bent down, holding the candle in one
hand, to lift the shroud back from the head of the corpse with the
other. Slowly he lifted it. Then it clove to the half-dried skin of the
face, and his hand shook as if some one had struck him on the elbow, but
half in fear and half in anger at himself, he pulled it, so that it came
away with a little ripping sound. He caught his breath as he held it,
not yet throwing it back, and not yet looking. The horror was working in
him, and he felt that old Vernon Ockram was standing up in his iron
coffin, headless, yet watching him with the stump of his severed neck.

While he held his breath he felt the dead smile twisting his lips. In
sudden wrath at his own misery, he tossed the death-stained linen
backward, and looked at last. He ground his teeth lest he should shriek
aloud.

There it was, the thing that haunted him, that haunted Evelyn Warburton,
that was like a blight on all that came near him.

The dead face was blotched with dark stains, and the thin, grey hair was
matted about the discoloured forehead. The sunken lids were half open,
and the candle light gleamed on something foul where the toad eyes had
lived.

But yet the dead thing smiled, as it had smiled in life; the ghastly
lips were parted and drawn wide and tight upon the wolfish teeth,
cursing still, and still defying hell to do its worst--defying, cursing,
and always and for ever smiling alone in the dark.

Sir Gabriel opened the winding-sheet where the hands were, and the
blackened, withered fingers were closed upon something stained and
mottled. Shivering from head to foot, but fighting like a man in agony
for his life, he tried to take the package from the dead man's hold. But
as he pulled at it the claw-like fingers seemed to close more tightly,
and when he pulled harder the shrunken hands and arms rose from the
corpse with a horrible look of life following his motion--then as he
wrenched the sealed packet loose at last, the hands fell back into their
place still folded.

He set down the candle on the edge of the bier to break the seals from
the stout paper. And, kneeling on one knee, to get a better light, he
read what was within, written long ago in Sir Hugh's queer hand.

He was no longer afraid.

He read how Sir Hugh had written it all down that it might perchance be
a witness of evil and of his hatred; how he had loved Evelyn Warburton,
his wife's sister; and how his wife had died of a broken heart with his
curse upon her, and how Warburton and he had fought side by side in
Afghanistan, and Warburton had fallen; but Ockram had brought his
comrade's wife back a full year later, and little Evelyn, her child, had
been born in Ockram Hall. And next, how he had wearied of the mother,
and she had died like her sister with his curse on her. And then, how
Evelyn had been brought up as his niece, and how he had trusted that his
son Gabriel and his daughter, innocent and unknowing, might love and
marry, and the souls of the women he had betrayed might suffer another
anguish before eternity was out. And, last of all, he hoped that some
day, when nothing could be undone, the two might find his writing and
live on, not daring to tell the truth for their children's sake and the
world's word, man and wife.

This he read, kneeling beside the corpse in the north vault, by the
light of the altar candle; and when he had read it all, he thanked God
aloud that he had found the secret in time. But when he rose to his feet
and looked down at the dead face it was changed, and the smile was gone
from it for ever, and the jaw had fallen a little, and the tired, dead
lips were relaxed. And then there was a breath behind him and close to
him, not cold like that which had blown the flame of the candle as he
came, but warm and human. He turned suddenly.

There she stood, all in white, with her shadowy golden hair--for she had
risen from her bed and had followed him noiselessly, and had found him
reading, and had herself read over his shoulder. He started violently
when he saw her, for his nerves were unstrung--and then he cried out her
name in the still place of death:

"Evelyn!"

"My brother!" she answered softly and tenderly, putting out both hands
to meet his.




THE SCREAMING SKULL


I have often heard it scream. No, I am not nervous, I am not
imaginative, and I never believed in ghosts, unless that thing is one.
Whatever it is, it hates me almost as much as it hated Luke Pratt, and
it screams at me.

If I were you, I would never tell ugly stories about ingenious ways of
killing people, for you never can tell but that some one at the table
may be tired of his or her nearest and dearest. I have always blamed
