outer door with his walking-stick. Dolly began to talk as soon as they
came in, selecting a subject which had nothing to do with planchette.
For the unconscious knowledge which, of late years, she seemed to
possess, regarding the thoughts in her mother's mind, troubled them
both.

"Commodore, I have something to tell you. It is for you especially, for
I have long known your secret attachment! From my window, I can see that
field behind the Mackintosh house. Imagine my beholding Maud Muriel
opening the gate this afternoon, crossing to the big bush in the centre,
seating herself behind it, taking a long clay pipe from her pocket,
filling it, lighting it, and smoking it!"

"No!" exclaimed Etheridge, breaking into a resounding laugh. "Could she
make it go?"

"Not very well, I think; I took my opera-glass and watched her. Her
face, as she puffed away, was exactly as solemn as it is when she models
her deadly busts."

"Ho, ho, ho!" roared Etheridge again. "Ladies, excuse me. I have always
thought that girl might be a genius if she could only get drunk!
Perhaps the pipe is a beginning."

While he was saying this, Horace Chase was ushered in. A moment later
there came another ring, and the Rev. Mr. Hill appeared, followed by
Achilles Larue.

"Why, I have a party!" said Mrs. Franklin, smiling, as she welcomed the
last comer.

"Yes, His Grand, it is a party," said Ruth. "Now you may know, since
they are here, and you cannot stop it. I invited them all myself, late
this afternoon; and it is a molasses-candy-pulling; Dolly and I have
arranged it. We did not tell you beforehand, because we knew you would
say it was sticky."

"Sticky it is," replied Mrs. Franklin.

"Vilely sticky!" added Etheridge, emphatically.

"And then we knew, also, that you would say that you could not get up a
supper in so short a time," Ruth went on. "But Zoe has had her sister to
help her, and ever so many nice things are all ready; chicken salad, for
instance; and--listen, His Grand--a long row of macaroon custards, each
cup with three macaroons dissolved in madeira!" And then she intoned
the family chant, Dolly joining in from her easy-chair:

    "Mother Franklin thinks,
     That General Jackson,
     Jared the Sixth,
     Macaroon custards,
     And Bishop Carew,
     Are per-fec-tion!"

"What does she mean by that?" said Chase to Miss Billy.

"Oh, it is only one of their jokes; they have so many! Dear Mrs.
Franklin was brought up by her father to admire General Jackson, and
Dolly and Ruth pretend that she thinks he is still at the White House.
And Jared the Sixth means her son, you know. And they say she is fond of
macaroon custards; that is, fondish," added Miss Billy, getting in the
"ish" with inward satisfaction. "And she is much attached to Bishop
Carew. But, for that matter, so are we all."

"A Roman Catholic?" inquired Chase.

"He is our bishop--the Episcopal Bishop of North Carolina," answered
Miss Breeze, surprised.

"Oh! I didn't know. I'm a Baptist myself. Or at least my parents were,"
explained Chase.

The kitchen of L'Hommedieu was large and low, with the beams showing
overhead; it had a huge fireplace with an iron crane. This evening a pot
dangled from the crane; it held the boiling molasses, and Zoe, brilliant
in a new scarlet turban in honor of the occasion, was stirring the syrup
with a long-handled spoon. One of the easy-chairs had been brought from
the parlor for Dolly. Malachi Hill seated himself beside her; he seemed
uneasy; he kept his hat in his hand. "I did not know that Mr. Chase was
to be here, Miss Dolly, or I would not have come," he said to his
companion, in an undertone. "I can't think what to make of myself--I'm
becoming a regular cormorant! Strange to say, instead of being satisfied
with all he has given to the Mission, I want more. I keep thinking of
all the good he might do in these mountains if he only knew the facts,
and I have fairly to hold myself in when he is present, to keep from
flattering him and getting further help. Yes, it's as bad as that!
Clergymen, you know, are always accused of paying court to rich men, or
rather to liberal men. For the first time in my life I understand the
danger! It's a dreadful temptation--it is indeed. I really think, Miss
Dolly, that I had better go."

"No, you needn't; I'll see to you," answered Dolly. "If I notice you
edging up too near him, I'll give a loud ahem. Stay and amuse yourself;
you know you like it."

And Malachi Hill did like it. In his mission-work he was tirelessly
energetic, self-sacrificing, devoted; on the other hand, he was as fond
of merrymaking as a boy. He pulled the candy with glee, but also with
eager industry, covering platter after platter with his braided sticks.
His only rival in diligence was Chase, who also showed great energy.
Dolly pulled; Mrs. Franklin pulled; even Etheridge helped. Ruth did not
accomplish much, for she stopped too often; but when she did work she
drew out the fragrant strands to a greater length than any one else
attempted, and she made wheels of it, and silhouettes of all the
company, including Mr. Trone. Miss Billy had begun with much interest;
then, seeing that Larue had done nothing beyond arranging the platters
and plates in mathematical order on the table, she stopped, slipped out,
and went up-stairs to wash her hands. When she returned, fortune favored
her; the only vacant seat was one near him, and, after a short
hesitation, she took it. Larue did not speak; he was looking at Ruth,
who was now pulling candy with Horace Chase, drawing out the golden rope
to a yard's length, and throwing the end back to him gayly.

Finally, when not even the painstaking young missionary could scrape
another drop from the exhausted pot, Dolly, taking her violin, played a
waltz. The uncarpeted floor was tempting, and after all the sticky hands
had been washed, the dancing began--Ruth with Chase, Etheridge with Miss
Billy; then Etheridge with Mrs. Franklin, while Miss Billy returned
quickly to her precious chair.

"But these dances do not compare with the old ones," said Mrs. Franklin,
when they had paused to let Dolly rest. "There was the mazurka; and the
varsovienne--how pretty that was! La-la-la, la, la!" And humming the
tune, she took a step or two lightly. Etheridge, who knew the
varsovienne, joined her.

"Go on," said Ruth. "I'll whistle it for you." And sitting on the edge
of a table she whistled the tune, while the two dancers circled round
the kitchen, looking extremely well together.

"Whistling girls, you know," said Chase, warningly.

He had joined Ruth, and was watching her as she performed her part. She
kept on, undisturbed by his jests, bending her head a little to the
right and to the left in time with the music; her whistling was as clear
as a flute.

"And then there was the heel-and-toe polka. Surely you remember that,
commodore," pursued Mrs. Franklin, with inward malice.

For the heel-and-toe was a very ancient memory. It was considered old
when she herself had seen it as a child.

"Never heard of it in my life," answered Etheridge. "Hum--ha."

"Oh, I know the heel-and-toe," cried Ruth. "I learned it from mother
ages ago, just for fun. Are you rested, Dolly? Play it, please, and
mother and I will show them."

Dolly began, and then Mrs. Franklin and Ruth, tall, slender mother, and
tall, slender daughter, each with one arm round the other's waist, and
the remaining arm held curved above the head, danced down the long room
together, taking the steps of the queer Polish dance with charming grace
and precision.

"Oh, dear Mrs. Franklin, so young and cheerful! So pleasant to see
her, is it not? So lovely! Don't you think so? And dancing is so
interesting in so many ways! Though, of course, there are other
amusements equally to be desired," murmured Miss Billy, incoherently, to
Larue.

"Now we will have a quadrille, and I will improvise the figures," said
Ruth. "Mother and the commodore; Miss Billy and Mr. Larue; Mr. Chase
with me; and we will take turns in making the fourth couple."

"Unfortunately, I don't dance," observed Larue.

"Spoil-sport!" said Ruth, annihilatingly.

"You got it that time," remarked Chase, condolingly, to the other man.

"Miss Ruth, I can take the senator's place, if you like," said Malachi
Hill, springing up, good-naturedly.

Since the termination of the candy-pulling, he had been sitting
contentedly beside Dolly, watching her play, and regaling himself
meanwhile with a stick of the fresh compound, its end carefully
enveloped in a holder of paper.

"Excellent," said Ruth. "Please take Miss Billy, then."

Poor Miss Billy, obliged to dance with a misguided clergyman! This time
there was not the excuse of the Mission; it was a real dance. He already
smoked; the next step certainly would be cards and horse-racing! While
she was taking her place, Rinda ushered in a new guest.

"Maud Muriel--how lucky!" exclaimed Ruth. "You are the very person we
need, for we are trying to get up a quadrille, and have not enough
persons. I know you like to dance?"

"Yes, I like it very much--for hygienic reasons principally," responded
the new-comer.

"Please take my place, then," Ruth went on. "This is Mr. Chase, Miss
Maud Mackintosh. Now we will see if our generic geologist and
sensational senator will refuse to dance with me." And sinking
suddenly on her knees before Larue, Ruth extended her hands in petition.

"What is all that she called him, Miss Maud?" inquired Chase, laughing.

"Miss Mackintosh," said his partner, correctively. "They are only
alliterative adjectives, Mr. Chase, rather indiscriminately applied.
Ruth is apt to be indiscriminate."

Larue had risen, and Ruth triumphantly led him to his place. He knew
that she was laughing at him; in fact, as he went through the figures
calmly, his partner mimicked him to his face. But he was indifferent
alike to her laughter and her mimicry; what he was noticing was her
beauty. If he had been speaking of her, he would have called her
"prettyish"; but as he was only thinking, he allowed himself to note the
charm of her eyes for the moment, the color in her cheeks and lips. For
he was sure that it was only for the moment. "The coloring is
evanescent," was his mental criticism. "Her beauty will not last. For
she is handsome only when she is happy, and happiness for her means
doing exactly as she pleases, and having her own way unchecked. No woman
can do that forever. By the time she is thirty she may be absolutely
plain."

Maud Muriel had laid aside her hat and jacket. She possessed a wealth of
beautiful red hair, whose thick mass was combed so tightly back from her
forehead that it made her wink; her much-exposed countenance was not at
all handsome, though her hazel eyes were large, calm, and clear. She was
a spinster of thirty-six--tall and thin, with large bones. And from her
hair to her heels she was abnormally, extraordinarily straight. She
danced with much vigor, scrutinizing Chase, and talking to him in the
intervals between the figures. These intervals, however, were short, for
Ruth improvised with rapidity. Finally she kept them all flying round in
a circle so long that Mrs. Franklin, breathless, signalled that she must
pause.

"Now we are all hungry," said Ruth. "Zoe, see to the coffee. And, Rinda,
you may make ready here. We won't go to the dining-room, His Grand; it's
much more fun in the kitchen."

Various inviting dishes were soon arrayed upon a table. And then Ruth,
to pass away the time until the coffee should be ready, began to sing.
All the Franklins sang; Miss Billy had a sweet soprano, Maud Muriel a
resonant contralto, and Malachi Hill a tenor of power; Etheridge, when
he chose, could add bass notes.

    "Hark, the merry merry Christ-Church bells,
             One, two, three, four, five, six;
     They sound so strong, so wondrous sweet,
     And they troll so merrily, merrily."

Horace Chase took no part in the catch song; he sat looking at the
others. It was the Franklin family who held his attention--the mother
singing with light-hearted animation; Dolly playing her part on her
violin, and singing it also; and Ruth, who, with her hands clasped
behind her head, was carolling like a bird. To Chase's mind it seemed
odd that a woman so old as Mrs. Franklin, a woman with silver hair and
grown-up children, should like to dance and sing. Dolly was certainly a
very "live" invalid! And Ruth--well, Ruth was enchanting. Horace Chase's
nature was always touched by beauty; he was open to its influences, it
had been so from boyhood. What he admired was not regularity of feature,
but simply the seductive sweetness of womanhood. And, young as she was,
Ruth Franklin's face was full of this charm. He looked at her again as
she sat singing the chorus:

    "Hark, the first and second bell,
     Ring every day at four and ten"--

Then his gaze wandered round the kitchen. From part of the wall the
plastering was gone; it had fallen, and had never been replaced. The
housewives whom he had hitherto known, so he said to himself, would have
preferred to have their walls repaired, and spend less, if necessary,
upon dinners. Suppers, too! (Here he noted the rich array on the kitchen
table.)

This array was completed presently by the arrival of the coffee, which
filled the room with its fragrant aroma, and the supper was consumed
amid much merriment. When the clock struck twelve, Maud Muriel rose. "I
must be going," she said. "Wilhelmina, I came for you; that is what
brought me. When I learned at the hotel that you were here, I followed
for the purpose of seeing you home."

"Allow me the pleasure of accompanying you both," said Chase.

"That is not necessary; I always see to Wilhelmina," answered Miss
Mackintosh, as she put on her hat.

"Yes; she is so kind," murmured Miss Billy. But Miss Billy in her heart
believed that in some way or other Achilles Larue would yet be her
escort (though he never had been that, or anything else, in all the
years of their acquaintance). He was still in the house, and so was she;
something might happen!

What happened was that Larue took leave of Mrs. Franklin, and went off
alone.

Then Billy said to herself: "On the whole, I'm glad he didn't suggest
it. For it is only five minutes' walk to the hotel, and if he had gone
with me it would have counted as a call, and then he needn't have done
anything more for a long time. So I'm glad he did not come. Very."

"Maud Muriel," demanded Dolly, "why select a clay pipe?"

"Oh, did you see me?" inquired Miss Mackintosh, composedly. "I use a
clay pipe, Dolly, because it is cleaner; I can always have a new one.
