her, and then presented the Altrurian. She bowed very civilly to me, but
with a touch of severity, such as country people find necessary for the
assertion of their self-respect with strangers. I thought it very pretty,
and instantly saw that I could work it into some picture of character; and
I was not at all sorry that she made a difference in favor of the
Altrurian.

“Mother will be so glad to see you,” she said to him, and, “Won’t you come
right in?” she added to us all.

We followed her and found ourselves in a large, low, sunny room on
the southeast corner of the house, which had no doubt once been the
living-room, but which was now given up to the bedridden invalid; a door
opened into the kitchen behind, where the table was already laid for the
midday meal, with the plates turned down in the country fashion, and some
netting drawn over the dishes to keep the flies away.

Mrs. Makely bustled up to the bedside with her energetic, patronizing
cheerfulness. “Ah, Mrs. Camp, I am glad to see you looking so well this
morning. I’ve been meaning to run over for several days past, but I
couldn’t find a moment till this morning, and I knew you didn’t object to
Sunday visits.” She took the invalid’s hand in hers, and, with the air of
showing how little she felt any inequality between them, she leaned over
and kissed her, where Mrs. Camp sat propped against her pillows. She had a
large, nobly moulded face of rather masculine contour, and at the same
time the most motherly look in the world. Mrs. Makely bubbled and babbled
on, and every one waited patiently till she had done, and turned and said,
toward the Altrurian: “I have ventured to bring my friend, Mr. Homos, with
me. He is from Altruria.” Then she turned to me and said: “Mr. Twelvemough
you know already through his delightful books”; but, although she paid me
this perfunctory compliment it was perfectly apparent to me that in the
esteem of this disingenuous woman the distinguished stranger was a far
more important person than the distinguished author. Whether Mrs. Camp
read my perception of this fact in my face or not I cannot say, but she
was evidently determined that I should not feel a difference in her. She
held out her hand to me first, and said that I never could know how many
heavy hours I had helped to lighten for her, and then she turned to the
Altrurian and took his hand. “Oh!” she said, with a long, deep-drawn sigh,
as if that were the supreme moment of her life. “And are you really from
Altruria? It seems too good to be true!” Her devout look and her earnest
tone gave the commonplace words a quality that did not inhere in them, but
Mrs. Makely took them on their surface.

“Yes, doesn’t it?” she made haste to interpose, before the Altrurian could
say anything. “That is just the way we all feel about it, Mrs. Camp. I
assure you, if it were not for the accounts in the papers and the talk
about it everywhere, I couldn’t believe there was any such place as
Altruria; and if it were not for Mr. Twelvemough here--who has to keep all
his inventions for his novels, as a mere matter of business routine--I
might really suspect him and Mr. Homos of--well, working us, as my
husband calls it.”

The Altrurian smiled politely, but vaguely, as if he had not quite caught
her meaning, and I made answer for both: “I am sure, Mrs. Makely, if you
could understand my peculiar state of mind about Mr. Homos, you would
never believe that I was in collusion with him. I find him quite as
incredible as you do. There are moments when he seems so entirely
subjective with me that I feel as if he were no more definite or tangible
than a bad conscience.”

“Exactly!” said Mrs. Makely, and she laughed out her delight in my
illustration.

The Altrurian must have perceived that we were joking, though the Camps
all remained soberly silent. “I hope it isn’t so bad as that,” he said,
“though I have noticed that I seem to affect you all with a kind of
misgiving. I don’t know just what it is; but, if I could remove it, I
should be very glad to do so.”

Mrs. Makely very promptly seized her chance: “Well, then, in the first
place, my husband and I were talking it over last night after we left you,
and that was one of the things that kept us awake; it turned into money
afterward. It isn’t so much that a whole continent, as big as Australia,
remained undiscovered till within such a very few years, as it is the
condition of things among you: this sort of all living for one another,
and not each one for himself. My husband says that is simply moonshine;
such a thing never was and never can be; it is opposed to human nature,
and would take away incentive and all motive for exertion and advancement
and enterprise. I don’t know what he didn’t say against it; but one
thing, he says it’s perfectly un-American.” The Altrurian remained silent,
gravely smiling, and Mrs. Makely added, with her most engaging little
manner: “I hope you won’t feel hurt, personally or patriotically, by what
I’ve repeated to you. I know my husband is awfully Philistine, though he
is such a good fellow, and I don’t, by any means, agree with him on all
those points; but I would like to know what you think of them. The
trouble is, Mrs. Camp,” she said, turning to the invalid, “that Mr. Homos
is so dreadfully reticent about his own country, and I am so curious to
hear of it at first hands, that I consider it justifiable to use any means
to make him open up about it.”

“There is no offence,” the Altrurian answered for himself, “in what Mr.
Makely says, though, from the Altrurian point of view, there is a good
deal of error.

“Does it seem so strange to you,” he asked, addressing himself to Mrs.
Camp, “that people should found a civilization on the idea of living for
one another instead of each for himself?”

“No indeed!” she answered. “Poor people have always had to live that way,
or they could not have lived at all.”

“That was what I understood your porter to say last night,” said the
Altrurian to me. He added, to the company generally: “I suppose that even
in America there are more poor people than there are rich people?”

“Well, I don’t know about that,” I said. “I suppose there are more people
independently rich than there are people independently poor.”

“We will let that formulation of it stand. If it is true, I do not see why
the Altrurian system should be considered so very un-American. Then, as to
whether there is or ever was really a practical altruism, a civic
expression of it, I think it cannot be denied that among the first
Christians, those who immediately followed Christ, and might be supposed
to be directly influenced by His life, there was an altruism practised as
radical as that which we have organized into a national polity and a
working economy in Altruria.”

“Ah, but you know,” said Mrs. Makely, with the air of advancing a point
not to be put aside, “they had to drop that. It was a dead failure. They
found that they couldn’t make it go at all among cultivated people, and
that, if Christianity was to advance, they would have to give up all that
crankish kind of idolatry of the mere letter. At any rate,” she went on,
with the satisfaction we all feel in getting an opponent into close
quarters, “you must confess that there is a much greater play of
individuality here.”

Before the Altrurian could reply, young Camp said: “If you want to see
American individuality, the real, simon-pure article, you ought to go down
to one of our big factory towns and look at the mill-hands coming home in
droves after a day’s work, young girls and old women, boys and men, all
fluffed over with cotton, and so dead tired that they can hardly walk.
They come shambling along with all the individuality of a flock of sheep.”

“Some,” said Mrs. Makely, heroically, as if she were one of these, “must
be sacrificed. Of course, some are not so individual as others. A great
deal depends upon temperament.”

“A great deal more depends upon capital,” said Camp, with an offensive
laugh. “If you have capital in America, you can have individuality; if you
haven’t, you can’t.”

His sister, who had not taken part in the talk before, said, demurely: “It
seems to me you’ve got a good deal of individuality, Reub, and you haven’t
got a great deal of capital, either,” and the two young people laughed
together.

Mrs. Makely was one of those fatuous women whose eagerness to make a point
excludes the consideration even of their own advantage. “I’m sure,” she
said, as if speaking for the upper classes, “we haven’t got any
individuality at all. We are as like as so many peas or pins. In fact, you
have to be so in society. If you keep asserting your own individuality too
much, people avoid you. It’s very vulgar and the greatest bore.”

“Then you don’t find individuality so desirable, after all,” said the
Altrurian.

“I perfectly detest it!” cried the lady, and evidently she had not the
least notion where she was in the argument. “For my part, I’m never happy
except when I’ve forgotten myself and the whole individual bother.”

Her declaration seemed somehow to close the incident, and we were all
silent a moment, which I employed in looking about the room, and taking in
with my literary sense the simplicity and even bareness of its furnishing.
There was the bed where the invalid lay, and near the head a table with a
pile of books and a kerosene-lamp on it, and I decided that she was a good
deal wakeful, and that she read by that lamp when she could not sleep at
night. Then there were the hard chairs we sat on, and some home-made
hooked rugs, in rounds and ovals, scattered about the clean floor; there
was a small melodeon pushed against the wall; the windows had paper
shades, and I recalled that I had not seen any blinds on the outside of
the house. Over the head of the bed hung a cavalryman’s sword, with its
belt--the sword that Mrs. Makely had spoken of. It struck me as a room
where a great many things might have happened, and I said: “You can’t
think, Mrs. Camp, how glad I am to see the inside of your house. It seems
to me so typical.”

A pleased intelligence showed itself in her face, and she answered: “Yes,
it is a real old-fashioned farmhouse. We have never taken boarders, and so
we have kept it as it was built pretty much, and only made such changes in
it as we needed or wanted for ourselves.”

“It’s a pity,” I went on, following up what I thought a fortunate lead,
“that we city people see so little of the farming life when we come into
the country. I have been here now for several seasons, and this is the
first time I have been inside a farmer’s house.”

“Is it possible!” cried the Altrurian, with an air of utter astonishment;
and, when I found the fact appeared so singular to him, I began to be
rather proud of its singularity.

“Yes, I suppose that most city people come and go, year after year, in the
country, and never make any sort of acquaintance with the people who live
there the year round. We keep to ourselves in the hotels, or, if we go out
at all, it is to make a call upon some city cottager, and so we do not get
out of the vicious circle of our own over-intimacy with ourselves and our
ignorance of others.”

“And you regard that as a great misfortune?” asked the Altrurian.

“Why, it’s inevitable. There is nothing to bring us together, unless it’s
some happy accident, like the present. But we don’t have a traveler from
Altruria to exploit every day, and so we have no business to come into
people’s houses.”

“You would have been welcome in ours long ago, Mr. Twelvemough,” said Mrs.
Camp.

“But, excuse me,” said the Altrurian, “what you say really seems dreadful
to me. Why, it is as if you were not the same race or kind of men!”

“Yes,” I answered. “It has sometimes seemed to me as if our big hotel
there were a ship anchored off some strange coast. The inhabitants come
out with supplies, and carry on their barter with the ship’s steward, and
we sometimes see them over the side, but we never speak to them or have
anything to do with them. We sail away at the close of the season, and
that is the end of it till next summer.”

The Altrurian turned to Mrs. Camp. “And how do you look at it? How does it
seem to you?”

“I don’t believe we have thought about it very much; but, now that Mr.
Twelvemough has spoken of it, I can see that it does look that way. And it
seems very strange, doesn’t it, for we are all the same people, and have
the same language and religion and country--the country that my husband
fought for and, I suppose I may say, died for; he was never the same man
after the war. It does appear as if we had some interests in common, and
might find it out if we ever came together.”

“It’s a great advantage, the city people going into the country so much as
they do now,” said Mrs. Makely. “They bring five million dollars into the
State of New Hampshire, alone, every summer.”

She looked round for the general approval which this fact merited, and
young Camp said: “And it shows how worthless the natives are, that they
can’t make both ends meet, with all that money, but have to give up their
farms and go West, after all. I suppose you think it comes from wanting
buggies and pianos.”

“Well, it certainly comes from something,” said Mrs. Makely, with the
courage of her convictions.

She was evidently not going to be put down by that sour young fellow, and
I was glad of it, though I must say I thought the thing she left to rankle
in his mind from our former meeting had not been said in very good taste.
I thought, too, that she would not fare best in any encounter of wits with
him, and I rather trembled for the result. I said, to relieve the strained
situation: “I wish there was some way of our knowing each other better.
I’m sure there’s a great deal of good-will on both sides.”

“No, there isn’t,” said Camp, “or at least I can answer for our side that
there isn’t. You come into the country to get as much for your money as
you can, and we mean to let you have as little as we can. That’s the whole
story, and if Mr. Homos believes anything different, he’s very much
mistaken.”

“I hadn’t formed any conclusion in regard to the matter, which is quite
new to me,” said the Altrurian, mildly. “But why is there no basis of
mutual kindness between you?”

“Because it’s like everything else with us; it’s a question of supply and
demand, and there is no room for any mutual kindness in a question of that
kind. Even if there were, there is another thing that would kill it. The
summer folks, as we call them, look down on the natives, as they call us,
and we know it.”

“Now, Mr. Camp, I am sure that you cannot say I look down on the
natives,” said Mrs. Makely, with an air of argument.

The young fellow laughed. “Oh yes, you do,” he said, not unamiably, and he
added, “and you’ve got the right to. We’re not fit to associate with you,
and you know it, and we know it. You’ve got more money, and you’ve got
nicer clothes, and you’ve got prettier manners. You talk about things that
most natives never heard of, and you care for things they never saw. I
know it’s the custom to pretend differently, but I’m not going to pretend
differently.”

I recalled what my friend the banker said about throwing away cant, and I
asked myself if I were in the presence of some such free spirit again. I
did not see how young Camp could afford it; but then I reflected that he
had really nothing to lose by it, for he did not expect to make anything
out of us; Mrs. Makely would probably not give up his sister as seamstress
if the girl continued to work so well and so cheaply as she said.

“Suppose,” he went on, “that some old native took you at your word, and
came to call upon you at the hotel, with his wife, just as one of the city
cottagers would do if he wanted to make your acquaintance?”

“I should be perfectly delighted,” said Mrs. Makely, “and I should receive
them with the greatest possible cordiality.”

“The same kind of cordiality that you would show to the cottagers?”

“I suppose that I should feel that I had more in common with the
cottagers. We should be interested in the same things, and we should
probably know the same people and have more to talk about--”

“You would both belong to the same class, and that tells the whole story.
If you were out West, and the owner of one of those big twenty-thousand-acre
farms called on you with his wife, would you act toward them as you
would toward our natives? You wouldn’t. You would all be rich people
