
"What shall be done?" asked Tony.

"Let them come on," replied Fred. "We can't get rid of them now."

"I don't want to fight with them," added Frank.

The Thunderbolt was approaching them, not very rapidly, it was true;
but a few minutes would involve them in a quarrel, which Frank and a
large majority of the club were very anxious to avoid. Tim Bunker was
standing up in the stern-sheets of his boat, watching them with
malignant interest.

"Hurrah! they are aground!" cried Tim, as soon as he understood the
nature of the calamity which had befallen the Zephyr. "We have them
now; they can't run away, the cowardly long faces!"

"Come aft, some of you," said Frank, when he heard these threatening
words. "The water is deep enough under the stern. We have only run into
a mud-bank."

On the starboard side of the boat there was plenty of water, and if
they could move her back a rod they could easily escape.

The boys obeyed the order of the coxswain; but the Zephyr had been
forced so deeply into the mud that her bow still stuck fast.

"Half a dozen of you set your oars in the mud, and push!" continued
Frank, highly excited by the danger that menaced them.

But it was of no use, they could not start her.

"They are upon us," said Tony.

"What shall we do?" asked Frank, sadly perplexed.

"We must fight," said Fred.

"No; I am not willing to do that."

"Shall we sit here and let them pound us as much as they have a mind
to?" demanded Fred. "But you are coxswain, Frank; and I, for one, shall
do just what you say."

"So shall I!" said another.

"And I!"

And so they all said.

Frank was more and more embarrassed as the circumstances multiplied the
difficulties around him. He was charged with the direction of the whole
club, and the responsibility of his position rested heavily upon his
mind. He had been taught at the fireside of his pious home to avoid a
quarrel at almost any sacrifice; and he was painfully conscious that
the indiscreet words of Fred Harper had provoked the anger of the
Bunkers. Poor fellow! What could he do? He was not willing to order
them to fight, even in self-defence; and he knew that their foes would
whip them severely if they did not. The Thunderbolt was within a few
rods of them, and five minutes more would decide the question.

"We are in a bad fix!" said Charles nervously. "What are you going to
do, Frank?"

"Tony, take your boat-hook, and see how deep the water is on the
mud-bank."

"Only about a foot," replied Tony, as he obeyed the order.

"Is the mud deep?"

"Not very," replied Tony, pushing the boat-hook down.

"I want two volunteers," said Frank hurriedly.

"I!" cried Tony.

"I!" repeated half a dozen others.

"Tony and Fred, roll up your trousers, and jump into the water. You can
easily push her off."

"Agreed!" cried the two volunteers, as they hastened to execute the
order.

"Six of you take your oars; back her as they push; the other four stay
in the stern-sheets to settle her down aft."

"Ay, ay!" exclaimed the boys.

"Now for it! Stern all! Give way!"

The effect was instantly perceived; the boat was moved back about a
foot.

"Once more, all together!" said Frank.

Another effort backed her about two feet more, and the case began to
look hopeful.

"Again, quick! they are upon us! Leap in, Tony and Fred, when she is
free."

"Heave again!" said Tony.

Their exertions were now crowned with entire success, and the Zephyr
darted back into deep water; but an unfortunate occurrence rendered all
their labor futile. As the boat slid off the mud-bank, Tony and Fred,
in their attempt to spring on board, embarrassed each other's
movements, so that the former lost his hold, and remained standing in
the mud and water.

At this instant the Thunderbolt reached the spot; and Tim steered
directly for poor Tony, whose situation he discovered the moment the
Zephyr was free.

"Hit him!" screamed Tim. "Pound him with yer oars! Drownd him!"

Frank's blood seemed to freeze in his veins, as he perceived the
imminent peril of his friend. He knew the Bunkers would not spare him,
and that his life was even in danger.

Fortunately the Thunderbolt grounded, or Tony would inevitably have
been borne under her bottom. Tim seized an oar, and with the ferocity
of a madman sprang forward to execute his vengeance on the helpless
boy.

"Let him alone!" shouted Frank with frantic earnestness. "Up oars! Let
fall! Give way!"

Frank was fully roused, and his orders were delivered with rapidity and
energy. Seizing the tiller-ropes, he steered the boat as she gathered
headway, so that her sharp bow struck the Thunderbolt on her broadside,
staving in her gunwale, and upsetting her.

The Bunkers thought this was rather sharp practice, as they floundered
about in the water. They had not given Frank Sedley credit for half so
much determination. They had never seen anything in him that indicated
"grit" before. He was a peaceable boy, always avoiding a quarrel; but
when the very life of his friend was in peril, he was found to be as
bold and courageous as the best of them.

The bow of the Zephyr was swung round so that Tony could get in.
Washing off the mud from his legs, he adjusted his trousers.

In the meantime the Bunkers had righted their boat, and resumed their
places. The bath they had had quite cooled their belligerent heat;
though, if it had not, Frank had taken the precaution to back the
Zephyr out of their reach.

"You'll catch it for this!" exclaimed Tim Bunker, as his crew were
bailing out the Thunderbolt with their hats.

"I am sorry for what has happened, Tim," replied Frank, "but I could
not help it."

"Couldn't help it, yer----" I will not soil the pages of my book by
writing the expression that Tim made use of. "Yes, yer could help it.
What d'yer run inter me for?"

"You threatened to drown Tony, and if your boat had not got aground you
would have run him down."

"That I would, long face! If ever I catch either of yer, I will lick
yer within an inch of yer life--mind that!"

"I am sorry for it, Tim."

"Yer lie, yer ain't!"

"It was all my fault, Tim," interposed Fred; "and I will pay for the
damage done your boat."

"I guess yer better."

"How much will you take, and call it square?"

"Dollar and a half," growled Tim, glancing at the fractured gunwale.

Fred had not so much money with him, but the sum was immediately raised
in the club.

"Now, Tim, we will forgive and forget; what do you say?" asked Fred.

"I don't want nothin' on yer; give me the money, and I don't care what
yer do."

Frank ordered the crew to pull up to the Thunderbolt, and Fred handed
Tim the money.

"I'll pay yer for this; see 'f I don't," said the unforgiving Bunker as
the Zephyr backed away.




CHAPTER XV

CENTRE ISLAND


Frank Sedley was very much disturbed by the events of the forenoon. His
conscience assured him, however, that he had done nothing wrong. He had
not tried to provoke a quarrel with the Bunkers, and the unpleasant
occurrences of the past hour were wholly owing to their misfortune in
getting aground. He would not have been justified, he felt, in leaving
Tony at the mercy of his relentless foes.

Fred Harper had done wrong in replying to the taunt of Tim, and this
would make a case for the decision of their Director.

"We must keep away from them hereafter," said he, as the Zephyr came
about, and the crew gave way again.

"That will be the best way," added Tony.

"So I think," said Charles; "we shall be all the time getting into
scrapes if we go near them."

"We can go near them without meddling," interposed Fred Harper.

"But, Fred, you remember what made all the fuss."

"It was my fault, I know."

"I don't want to be hard with you while I am coxswain; but if any
member says or does anything while we are on the lake to get us into a
scrape, I shall consider it my duty to land him immediately at the
boat-house. What do you say to that?"

No boy spoke for a moment; but at last Tony said,--

"That would be perfectly fair."

"I want to have it understood," continued Frank. "My father will not
let us come out alone again if we are likely to have such a time as
this has been."

"Why need you tell him anything about it, Frank?" asked Charles.

"Because it is right that he should know it. Suppose we should conceal
it, and then he should find it out?"

"That would only make a bad matter worse," replied Tony.

"For one, I am satisfied to have any fellow that tries to get us into a
scrape put ashore," said Fred Harper.

"So am I," added Tony.

All the rest of the club expressed themselves willing to comply with
this arrangement.

"Now, be careful, all of you," continued Frank, "and we shall have no
more trouble."

"But while the Bunkers are on the lake, we can't help meeting them,"
said Sam Harper.

"We need not say anything to them."

"But that would not be civil."

"We can answer them kindly if they say anything to us," replied Phil
Barker.

"They won't forget the smash-up," suggested Mark Leman.

"We can easily keep out of their way," added Fred.

"Where are you going now, Frank?" asked Charles Hardy.

"Isn't it almost twelve?" inquired the coxswain.

"Half-past eleven," returned Fred Harper, who carried a watch. "You
said you had a plan, Frank."

"I was thinking of asking Mrs. Weston and Mary to take a sail with us."

"Good!" replied half a dozen voices.

"We will take them over to the island."

The proposition was agreed to, and Frank steered the boat into the
little cove near the widow Weston's cottage.

"Tony and Charles shall be a committee to go and invite them," said
Frank, as the bow of the Zephyr touched the land.

The two jumped ashore to discharge the duty assigned them.

"Where's the Thunderbolt?" asked Fred, rising from his seat.

"There she goes over to the north shore."

"Putting in to repair damages."

"Where do you suppose Tim got the money to buy that boat with?" asked
Fred, looking seriously at Frank.

