
“Oh, didn’t she! Just wait! you’ll hear from her yet. There’s the
whistle. The train’ll be here in three minutes. Let us group ourselves
gracefully under Peele the First.”

They went into the large white drawing-room, whose old-fashioned
woodwork was as it had been nearly three hundred years ago, even to the
heavy shutters over the small-paned windows. The ceiling was fretted
with floral designs, executed in papier mâché, surrounding a bas
relief of “our well beloved Whyte Peele,” who had received the grant of
these many acres from James the First. All the woodwork was painted
white, and carved. The furniture, modern, but of colonial design, was
upholstered in pale pink and blue.

Beyond a side hall was a long dining-room panelled to the ceiling in
oak, and hung on all sides with dead and living Peeles. The carved oaken
table was spread with the light unsubstantial feast of the modern time.
Adjoining the dining-room were two small reception-rooms looking upon
the terrace at the back of the rambling old house. In the middle of this
hall, under the carved twisted stair, was a round enclosure whose door
opened upon a well, from whence a secret passage led to the river.

Mrs. Peele swept across the hall from the dining-room, and raising her
lorgnette, considered Patience.

“You look very well,” she said, coldly. “Don’t get nervous, please; it
is the one thing for which people have no toleration. Where is Beverly?”

“He has gone for a drive. You know he does not like entertainments.”
Patience’s nerves were muttering, and her mother-in-law’s admonition was
not of the nature of balm.

Mrs. Peele raised her brows. “It is odd that a bride should have so
little influence over her husband,” she remarked; and Patience was now
in that equable frame of mind which carries one through the severe
ordeals of life.

How she did live through that ordeal of introduction to some five
hundred people she never knew. Fortunately, all but the neighbours
arrived on the special train which had been sent for them, and there was
little for her to do but smile and bend her head as Mrs. Peele named her
new daughter-in-law to her guests.

And whatever might be that exalted dame’s private opinion of her son’s
choice, whatever methods she might employ in untrammelled domestic hours
to make her disapproval felt, to the world she assumed her habitual air
of being supremely content with all that pertained to the house of
Peele. Had Patience been the daughter of a belted earl she could not
have been presented to New York with a haughtier pride, a calmer
assumption that New York must embrace with gratitude and enthusiasm this
opportunity to meet the daughter-in-law of the Gardiner Peeles.

Her manner gave Patience confidence after a time. Her own pride had
already conquered diffidence; and trying as the long ordeal was, she
thrilled a little at the sudden realisation of half-formed ambitions.
There was no taint of the snob in her; some echo-voice of other
generations lifted itself out of the inherited impressions which had
moulded her brain cells, and protested against its descendant ranking
below the first of the land.

Many of the guests were politely indifferent to the honour provided for
them; the girls stared at her in a manner calculated to upset any
débutante’s equilibrium; but the gracious kindness of others and the
languid admiration of the men kept her in poise.

The neighbours arrived shortly after the train, and it was an hour
before the greater part of the company had dispersed over the grounds,
and Patience could sit down. Mrs. Peele remained in the drawing-room
with some eight or ten people, and as Hal and May had both disappeared,
Patience stayed with her mother-in-law, not knowing where to go.

She thought the girls very forbidding with their pert noses and keen
eyes, although she admired their luminous skin and splendid grooming,
striking even in the airy attire of spring. The older women looked as if
they would patronise her did Mrs. Peele withdraw her protecting wing,
and one man, passing the window, inserted a monocle and regarded her
deliberately. Suddenly Patience experienced a sensation of profound
loneliness. No force in life is surer of touch than the subtle play of
spirit on spirit, and Patience read that these people did not like her
and never would, that they recognised the alien who would regard their
world spectacularly, never acquire their comic seriousness.

“Are you fond of golf, Mrs. Peele?” asked one girl, languidly.

“I never have played golf.”

The girl raised her brows. “Really! Are you fond of tennis?”

“I have never played tennis.” Patience repressed a smile as the girl
looked frankly shocked. Still the guest was evidently determined to be
amiable.

“I hope you don’t think it frivolous?”

“Oh, no, I should like to learn all those things very much.”

“Well, Miss Peele can teach you. She is awfully clever at all those
things. Don’t you think Miss Mairs looks like Mary Anderson?”

“Mary Anderson?”

“Yes, the actress, you know.”

“I have never seen her.”

The girl was visibly embarrassed. Another, who looked as if harbouring a
grin in her straight little mouth, came to the rescue.

“Oh, I do think Mr. Peele is so good-looking,” she exclaimed, with a
fine show of animation. “We all think you are to be congratulated.”

Patience smiled at the frank rudeness of this remark, and said nothing.

“You know Amy Murray was wild about him. She’s not here to-day, I
notice. We did think it too bad that he wouldn’t go out. Some of the
girls have met him here, but I never have. They say he is awfully
fascinating.”

“Oh, yes, he is fascinating,” said Patience.

“What have you been doing with yourself if you have never learned to
golf nor play tennis?” asked another girl, insolently. She was a tall
girl, with a wooden face, a tight mouth, and an “air.”

“Oh, I read, mostly,” said Patience, with an extremely bored air.

The mother of the third girl turned swiftly and smiled at the bride, a
humorous smile in which there was some pity. Patience had observed her
before. She was a tall woman with a slender figure of extreme elegance.
Her dark bright face was little older than her daughter’s. Her ease of
manner was so great that it was almost self-conscious.

“Oh, say!” she exclaimed, “don’t think we’re all like that. The girls
don’t have much time to read—that’s true—but after they settle down
they do, really. Hal reads French novels—the little reprobate!—We read
French novels too, but a lot else besides. Oh, really! Outsiders—the
people that only know society through the newspapers, don’t you
know?—misjudge us terribly, really. Some of the brightest women of the
world are in New York society—why shouldn’t they be? And if the girls
don’t study it’s their own fault; they certainly have every opportunity
under the sun. I was made to study. My father was old-fashioned, and had
no nonsense about him. I always say I was educated beyond my brains, but
I’d rather have it that way than the other. Now, I assure you I read
everything. I have a standing order on the other side with an English
and a French book-seller, to send me every book the minute it attracts
attention—”

“Oh, you’re real intellectual, you are,” drawled Hal’s mocking voice.

The lady turned with a start and a little flush.

“Oh, Hal!” she cried gaily, “how you do take the starch out of one.”

“You’ve got enough to stock a laundry, so you needn’t worry. I’ve come
to rescue my fair sister-in-law before you talk her to death. Come,
Patience.”

Patience arose with alacrity, and followed her out of the house.

“Don’t you like her?” she asked.

“Oh, immensely. She’s as bright as a woman can be who has so little time
to think about it. She’s a tall and majestic pillar of Society, you
know, and she carries it—the intellect, not the pillar—round like a
chip on her shoulder. That makes me weary at times. I’ve heard her talk
for an hour without stopping. The only thing that makes me forgive her
is her slang. We have a match occasionally.”

“Her daughter doesn’t look as if she used slang.”

“Oh, she doesn’t. She’s no earthly use whatever. Are you enjoying
yourself?”

“Not particularly. But it’s a lovely scene.”

The lawns, and knolls, and woods were kaleidoscopic with fashionettes in
gay attire, shifting continually. There were not men enough to mar the
brilliant effect. The music of birds soared above the chatter of girls,
the sound of wood and brass. The river flashed away into the distance, a
silver girdle about Earth’s green gown.

“Yes, very pret,” said Hal. “But come, I’m going to introduce you to my
latest.”

“You didn’t tell me that you had a latest.”

“I’ve only met him a few times—he’s from Boston. I expect I forgot
about him.”

They were walking over the lawns toward the Tea House, a long low rustic
building which stood on the edge of the slope. A hubbub of voices
floated through the windows, peals of laughter, affected shrieks.

“A lot of my intimates are there,” said Hal. “I’ve managed to get them
together. May is doing the hostess act with her accustomed grace and
charm, and I’m taking a half hour off.”

They went round to the front of the house and entered. It was an airy
structure of polished maple. Little tables, each with a delicate
tea-service, were scattered about with artistic irregularity; round the
wall ran a divan, luxurious, but not too low for whaleboned forms. On
this the girls were stiffly lounging. The men were more at their ease.
All were smoking, the girls daintily, but firmly.

“Hal! Hal! sweet Queen Hal!” cried one of the young men, rising to his
feet. “I’ve been keeping this place—directly in the middle—for you.
See, it shall be a throne.” He piled three cushions atop, and with
exaggerated homage led her forward amidst the ejaculatory applause of
the others.

“Isn’t Norry too witty?” said one girl to Patience, as she made room for
her, “and so original! Whoever else would have thought of such a
thing?—although Hal ought to be a queen, don’t you think so? We just
rave about her. Do you smoke? try my kind.”

Patience, thankful that at last she could do something like these
people, accepted the cigarette. During her three months’ trip she had
not smoked, as Beverly thought it shocking.

“Mr. Wynne,” cried Hal, suddenly, “come over here and talk to my
sister-in-law. Patience, this is the young man from Boston, famous as
the only New Englander whose ancestors did not come over on the ‘May
Flower.’”

A man with a smooth serious face rose from his cushions and came
forward.

“Awfully good-looking,” murmured the girl who had proffered the
cigarette, “and wonderfully smart, considering he’s not a New Yorker.
It’s too bad he’s so beastly poor, for he’s terribly épris with Hal.”

The young man, who had paused a moment to speak with Hal, inserted
himself as best he could between Patience and her new acquaintance.

“I am glad you are here,” murmured the bride. “You do not look quite at
home, and I am not, either.”

He smiled with instant sympathy. “Oh, I don’t care very much for
society, and I don’t like to see women smoke. It’s an absurd prejudice
to have in these progressive days, but I can’t help it.”

“You mean you don’t like to see Miss Peele smoke,” said Patience,
mischievously.

He flushed, then laughed. “Well, perhaps that is it. They are all
charming, these girls, but there is something about Miss Peele that
distinguishes her. Did you ever notice it?”

“Oh, yes. She is herself, and these others are twelve for a dozen.”

“That is it.” He glanced about at the girls in their bright gowns, which
clung to their tiny waists and hips, their narrow chests and modest
busts, with the wrinkleless perfection that has made the modern milliner
the god he is. Their polished skin and brilliant shallow eyes, their
elegant sexless forms, their haughty poise and supercilious air, laid
aside among themselves but always in reserve, their consciousness of
caste, were the several parts of a unique and homogeneous effect, which,
Patience confided to Mr. Wynne, must mark out the New York girl in
whatever wilds she trod.

“Oh, it does,” he said. “The New York girl is sui generis, and so
thoroughly artificial a product that it seems incredible she can exist
through another generation. I will venture to predict that the species
will be extinct in three, and that American women of a larger and more
human type will gradually be drawn into New York, and found a new race,
so to speak. Why, it seems to me that the children of these women must
be pigmies—imagine one of those girls being the mother of a man. It is
well that New York is not America.”

Involuntarily Patience’s eyes wandered to Hal. Her waist was as small,
her figure as unwomanly as the others.

“It is true,” said Wynne, answering her thought; “but she is so charming
that one is quite willing she should do nothing further for the human
race.”

Patience burst into a light laugh.

“What’s the matter?” asked Wynne.

“It suddenly struck me—the almost comical difference between these
girls and the ‘Y’s,’ and the ‘King’s Daughters.’ It does not seem
possible that such types can exist within ten miles of each other. I
should explain that I have passed the last three years in a country
town.”

“It is odd how religion holds its own in those small places. It is
opera, theatre, balls, Browning societies, everything to those people
shut out of the manifold distractions of cities. Religion seems to be
the one excitement of the restricted life. Human nature demands some
sort of emotional outlet—”

“What on earth are you two talking about?” cried the girl on the other
side. “Will you have another cigarette, Mrs. Beverly?—that is what we
shall all call you, you know. Mr. Wynne, please talk to me a while.
Isn’t this Tea House too sweet?”

“It is more,—it is angelic,” said Wynne, gravely.

“Oh! you’re guying!” Even her voice pouted. “Oh! please shake those
