"To go after that ball."

"It's Cameron's business. I ordered him to go after it."

"And I order him not to go for it," said Jasper, resolutely, but without
excitement.

Thorne answered with an oath.

"I've a great mind to send you for it," he exclaimed, his small eyes
glaring at his opponent.

"It's one thing to order, and another to secure obedience," said Jasper.

"Your turn will come," growled Thorne, "but just at present I've got
Cameron's case to dispose of. Cameron, go for that ball!"

The little boy started, but his purpose was interrupted. Jasper Kent
hurried forward and placed his hand kindly on his shoulder.

"Don't go, Cameron," he said. "I'll protect you."

Cameron stopped, but looked apprehensively at Thorne. He evidently
doubted the power of his young protector.

Thorne was now thoroughly exasperated. His authority was openly defied.
He rushed at Jasper, intending to overwhelm him by the suddenness and
momentum of his attack. But Jasper was prepared for him. He turned
swiftly aside and planted a blow on Thorne's right ear which sent him
staggering to the earth.

The bully was astonished, but rallied. Almost foaming at the mouth with
rage, he sprang to his feet and renewed the attack. He attempted to
throw his arms round the waist of Jasper and throw him. Had his tactics
been successful, probably Jasper would have been borne to the earth by
the superior weight of his opponent. But here, again, he was prepared.
He stepped back and received Thorne with a blow on his breast, so firmly
planted that he staggered again.

By this time he had lost all control of himself and was thoroughly under
the dominion of passion. He "pitched into" Jasper, trying to get in a
blow wherever he could, and in so doing exposed himself to the skilful
blows of his slighter foe, who had some knowledge of boxing, while
Thorne had none whatever.

Finally Thorne was stretched on his back, not immediately to rise.

"Have you had enough?" asked Jasper, bending over him.

"I'll kill you!" shrieked Thorne.

"Wail till you are able," said Jasper.

Thorne struggled to rise. Jasper held him down forcibly.

"You will stay there till you promise to let Cameron alone," he said.

"I won't promise!"

"Then you'll stay where you are."

But at that moment a small boy came across the field from the school.

"Thorne is wanted," he said. "There's a lady to see him."

"You can rise, then," said Jasper.

Thorne rose sullenly, and without a word strode toward the large, square
building, with an extended wing, which was used for the boarding-school.

Little Cameron seized Jasper's hand and kissed it.

"How brave you are!" he said. "How much I thank you!"

"Oh, it's nothing," said Jasper, modestly. "You just send for me when
you're in trouble, Cameron. I won't let him hurt you."




CHAPTER II.

STRANGE NEWS.


Entering the house, Thorne reported at the doctor's study. His flushed
appearance attracted the teacher's attention.

"What's the matter, Thorne?" he asked.

"The new boy pitched into me and I licked him," said Thorne.

But his sullen manner was so unlike that of a victor that the doctor
shrewdly suspected that his statement was not wholly correct.

"What was the quarrel about?" he asked.

"We were playing ball," said Thorne, evasively.

"I will inquire into it. At present you are wanted in the parlor."

So Thorne left the presence of the principal and entered the opposite
room. A lady, seated on a sofa, arose quickly, and advanced to meet him.
She kissed the boy's cheek, to which he submitted without manifesting
any responsive feeling.

"How long it is since I saw you, Nicholas, my dear boy!" she said.

"It's only about six months," said Nicholas, stolidly.

"And are not six months long for a mother to be separated from her only
child?" said the lady, tenderly.

"It doesn't seem so long," said Nicholas.

The lady looked pained, but she proceeded:

"How you have grown!"

"Yes, I've grown," said Nicholas, showing a little pleasure now. "I
think I shall be a large man."

"Like your father. And how are you improving in your studies, Nicholas?"

"Oh! I'm doing well enough," said the boy, indifferently, for Nicholas
Thorne's taste for study was very moderate. "Did you bring me any money,
mother?"

"You have your regular allowance, Nicholas."

"It isn't enough. What's a dollar a week?"

"It is a good deal for me to pay," said his mother. "Remember, I have to
pay your school bills, and my means are but small."

"A dollar a week is very small for a boy of my age," grumbled Thorne.
"Why, some of the little boys get more; and there's that new boy, Jasper
Kent, gets five dollars, so they say."

The lady betrayed strong interest at the sound of his name.

"I forgot," she said. "So Jasper Kent has arrived, has he?"

"What, mother, do you know him?" demanded Thorne, surprised in turn.

"Yea, I know him. What do you think of him?"

"Think of him? I hate him!" said Thorne, fiercely.

"Why?"

"He tries to bully me."

"And you permit it? Why, you are larger than he."

"Yes, but he knows how to fight."

"How do you know?"

"I had a fight with him this morning," said Nicholas.

"Did he come off best?" asked the lady.

"No," answered Nicholas, with hesitation. "That is, we were only half
through the fight when a boy ran up and said you had come. So we had to
stop."

"Humph! That is strange," said the lady, in a low voice, more to herself
than to her son, "this sudden antagonism."

"What do you know about Kent?" demanded Nicholas, his curiosity aroused.

"Perhaps I may as well tell you," said his mother, thoughtfully, "but I
wish you to keep the matter secret from him."

"You won't catch me telling him anything, except that he is a
scoundrel!" muttered Nicholas.

"Then sit down by me, and I will tell you much that you do not know, but
ought now to hear. Is the door shut?"

"Yes."

"Go and see. It is important that no one should overhear us."

Nicholas complied with her request.

"It's shut fast enough," he said. "Now what have you got to tell me?"

"To begin with, do you know where I get the money I pay for your
schooling and clothes?"

"My father left you some money, didn't he?"

"He left me a small property which rents for two hundred dollars a
year."

"You pay three hundred a year for me, don't you?"

"For your school bills, yes. Besides, I give you an allowance and buy
your clothes."

"How do you do it?" asked Nicholas, in surprise. "Have you sold the
house?"

"No. If I should do that, there would soon be nothing left. That was the
problem I had to solve three years ago, when your father died."

"What did you do?"

"I felt that the property must not be touched, save the income. I saw
that it was necessary for me to exert myself, or I should be unable to
educate you as I desired. I had a good education, and I determined to
avail myself of it. I therefore went to a teacher's agency in New York
and set forth my desire to obtain the position of governess in some
family in the country."

"You a governess!"

"Why not? It was the only way I could think of that would yield me an
income. After waiting a few weeks I succeeded. A wealthy gentleman,
living in a country town of moderate size, saw my testimonials, was
pleased with them, and engaged me to superintend the education of an
orphan niece resident in his family. He offered me a fair
salary--enough, added to the rent which I received from the property
left me by your father, to justify me in putting you at this
boarding-school. That was three years ago."

"Why didn't you tell me all this before, mother?"

"It would have done no good. I preferred that you should think of me as
possessing an independent property. I felt that it would enable you the
better to hold up your head among your school-fellows, as they could
know nothing of your antecedents."

"Does Dr. Benton know this?" asked Nicholas, quickly.

"No; he only knows that I am a widow, He supposes that I have sufficient
means."

"I am glad of that."

"Would it make any difference with him?"

"I don't know. Any way, I'd rather he wouldn't know it."

Nicholas Thorne sat by his mother's side thoughtful. He was disappointed
to think that his mother's means were so limited, since it curtailed his
future expectations. The thought of that mother working patiently to
defray his expenses at school made comparatively little impression. He
was essentially selfish, and, so long as his wants were provided for, he
cared little who labored for him.

"You don't ask the name of the man who employs me," said his mother.

Nicholas looked up.

"I suppose it is nobody I ever heard of," he said.

"No, you never heard of him, but you know some one connected with him."

"What do you mean?" asked the boy, his curiosity aroused.

"The gentleman who employs me is father of one of your schoolmates."

"Father of one of my school-mates?"

"Yes."

"Who is it? Why don't you tell me, mother?"

"You have spoken of him to me this morning. It is Jasper Kent."

"You work for Jasper Kent's father!" exclaimed Nicholas in unbounded
astonishment. "Does he know it?"

"Yes, he knows that I am, or have been, governess in his father's
family. But he knows nothing of my connection with you."

"If he knew, he'd taunt me with my mother's being obliged to work for a
living," said Thorne.

"I don't think he would. At any rate, the time is coming very soon when
he will have no advantage over you."

"How do you make that out, mother?"

"Listen, and keep secret what I tell you. Next week I become his
father's wife."

"You marry Jasper Kent's father!"

"Yes; I shall be Jasper's step-mother."

"Is old Kent rich?" asked Nicholas, eagerly.

His mother nodded.

"Yes, he is rich; that is, for the country. He is in poor health, too,"
she added, significantly.
