was thinking of her dead mother, whom she had loved.  He hesitated,
choosing his words, for he hated preaching, and yet it seemed to him
that Sylvia mourned too long.

"I was very fond of your mother, too, my dear," he said gently, after a
time.  "She was like a real sister to us.  I wish I could have gone
instead, and left her to you."

"You?"  Sylvia’s voice startled him; she was suddenly pale, and the old
print shook in her hands.  "Oh, no!" she cried half passionately.  "Not
you--not you!"

The colonel was surprised for a moment. Then he was grateful, for he
felt that she was very fond of him.  He thought of the woman he loved,
and that he might have had such a daughter as Sylvia, but with other
eyes.

"I am glad you are fond of me," he said. "You are very good to me, and I
know I am a tiresome old man."

At that word, one beat of the girl’s heart sent resentful blood to her
face.

"You are not old at all!" she cried.  "And you could not be tiresome if
you tried!  And I am not good to you, as you call it!"

The girl’s young anger made him think of summer lightning, and of the
sudden flashing of new steel drawn silently and swiftly from the sheath
into the sunshine.

"Goodness may be a matter of opinion, my dear," said he.  "But age is a
matter of fact. I was fifty-three years old on my last birthday."

"Oh, what do years matter?"  Sylvia rose quickly and turned from him,
going towards the window.

The colonel watched her perfectly graceful movements.  She wore grey,
with a small black band at her throat, and the soft light clung to the
lovely outline of her figure and to her brown hair.  He thought again of
the daughter that might have been born to him, and even of a daughter’s
daughter.  It seemed to him that his own years might be a greater matter
than Sylvia would admit.  Yet, as their descending mists veiled hope’s
height, he was often glad that there should not be as many more as there
had been.  He said nothing, and there was a dream in his eyes.

"You are always saying that you are old. Why?"  Sylvia’s voice came from
the window, but she did not turn.  "It is not kind," she said, still
more softly.

"Not kind?"  He did not understand.

"It is not kind to me.  It is as though I did not care.  Besides, it is
not true!"

Just then the conviction had come back to her voice, stronger than ever,
strengthening the tone just when it was breaking.  She had never spoken
to him in this way.  He called her.

"Sylvia!  Will you come here, my dear?"  She came, and he took her fresh
young hands. "What is it?  Has anything happened?  Are you unhappy?
Tell me."

At his question the violet eyes slowly filled, and she just bent her
head once or twice, as though assenting.

"You are unhappy?"  He repeated his question, and again she nodded
sadly.

"But happy, too,--often."

There was not room for happiness and sorrow together in her full eyes.
The tear fell, and gladness took its place at his touch.  But he looked,
and remembered other hands, and began to know the truth.  Love’s
unforgotten spirit came, wafting a breath of older days.

He looked, and wondered whom the girl had chosen, and was glad for her
happiness while he grew anxious for its life.  She was so young that she
must have chosen lately and quickly. In a rush of inward questioning his
mind ran back through the long journey they had made together, and
answers came in many faces of men that glided before him.  One of them
stopped him and held his thought, as a fleeting memory will.  A young
officer of her father’s flagship, lean, brown, bright-eyed, with a
strong mouth and a rare smile.  Sylvia had often talked with him, and
the boy’s bright eyes used to watch her from the distance when he was
not beside her.  Quiet of speech he was, and resolute, bred in the keen
air of a northern sea, of the few from among whom fate may choose the
one.  That was the man.

The colonel spoke, then, as though he had said much, glad and willing to
take the girl’s conclusion.

"I know who it is," he said, as if all had been explained.  "I am glad,
very glad."

His hands pressed hers more tightly, for he was a man of heart, and
because his own life had failed strangely, he knew how happy she must
be, having all he had not.  But the violet eyes grew wide and dark and
surprised, and the faint colour came and went.

"Do you really, really know at last?" she asked, very low.

"Yes, dear, I know," he said, for he had the sure conviction out of his
sympathy for the child.

"And you are glad?  Even as I am?"

"Indeed I am!  I love you with all my heart, my dear."

She looked at him a moment longer, and then her sight grew faint, and
her face hid itself against his coat.

"Say it!  Say it again!" she repeated, and her white fingers closed
tightly upon his sleeve. "I have waited so long to hear you say it!"

An uneasy and half-distressed look came to his face instantly, as he
looked down at the brown hair.

"What?" he asked.  "What have you waited to hear me say?"

"That--the words you said just now."  Her face still hidden, she
hesitated.

"What did I say?  That I loved you, my dear?"

She nodded silently, against his coat.

"That I have always loved you, Sylvia dear," he said, while a wondering
fear stole through him.

"You never told me.  And I did not dare tell you--how could I?  But now
you understand.  You know that the years mean nothing, after all, and
that there is still sand in the hourglass, and you and I shall reach the
end of the road together--"

"Sylvia!"  His voice rang sharply and painfully as he interrupted her.

He was a little pale, and his grey eyes were less steady than usual, for
he could not be mistaken any longer.  He had faced many dangers bravely,
but the girl frightened him, clinging to his sleeve, and talking of her
half-childish love for him.  Then came the shock to his honour, for it
seemed as though it must somehow have been his fault.

She looked up and saw his face, but could not understand it, though she
had a prevision of evil, and the stealing sickness of disappointment
made her faint.

"I did not know what you meant, my child," he said, growing more pale,
and very gently pushing her back a little.  "I was thinking of young
Knox.  I thought you loved him.  I was so sure that he was the man."

She drew back, now, of her own will, staring.

"Knox?  Mr. Knox?"  She repeated the name, hardly hearing her own words,
half stunned by her mistake.  "But you said--you said you loved me--"

"As your father does," said Colonel Wimpole, very gravely.  "Your father
and I are just of the same age.  We were boys together.  You know it, my
dear."

She was a mere child, and he made her feel that she was.  Her hands
covered her face in an instant as she fled, and before the door had
closed behind her, the colonel heard the first quick sob.

He had risen to his feet, and stood still, looking at the door.  When he
was alone, he might have smiled, as some men might have done, not at
Sylvia, indeed, though at the absurdity of the situation.  But his face
was sad, and he quietly sat down again by the table, and began to think
of what had happened.

Sylvia was very foolish, he said to himself, as he tried to impose upon
his mind what he thought should have been his conviction.  Yet he was
deeply and truly touched by her half-childish love, and its innocence
seemed pathetic to him, while he was hurt for her pain, and most of all
for her overwhelming confusion.

At the same time came memories and visions, and his head sank forward a
little as he sat in his chair by the table.  The vision of hope was
growing daily more dim, but the remembrance of the past was as undying
as what has been is beyond recall.

Sylvia would wake from her girlish dream, and, in the fulness of young
womanhood, would love a man of her own years.  The colonel knew that.
She would see that he was going in under the gateway of old age, while
she was on the threshold of youth’s morning.  A few days, or a few
months, or, at most, a few years more, and she must see that he was an
old man.  That was certain.

He sighed, not for Sylvia, but because age is that deadly sickness of
which hope must perish at last.  Time is a prince of narrow possessions,
absolute where he reigns at all, cruel upon his people, and relentless;
for, beyond his scanty principality, he is nothing, and his name is not
known in the empire of eternity.  Therefore while he rules he raises the
dark standard of death, taking tribute of life, and giving back a slow
poison in return.

Colonel Wimpole was growing old, and, though the woman he still loved
was not young, she was far younger than he, and he must soon seem an old
man even in her eyes.  And then there would not be much hope left.
Sadly he wondered what Sylvia saw in him which that other woman, who had
known him long, seemed to have never quite seen.  But such questioning
could find no satisfaction.

He might have remained absorbed in his reflexions for a long time had he
been left alone, but the door opened behind him, and he knew by the
steady and precise way in which it was opened and shut that his sister
had entered the room.

"Richard," she said, "I am surprised."  Then she stood still and waited.

Miss Wimpole was older than her brother, and was an exaggeration of him
in petticoats. Her genuine admiration for him was curiously tempered by
the fact that, when they had been children, she, as the elder, had kept
him out of mischief, occasionally by force, often by authority, but
never by persuasion.  When in pinafores the colonel had been fond of
sweets.  Miss Wimpole considered that he owed his excellent health to
her heroic determination to save him from destruction by jam.  Since
those days she had been obliged to yield to him on other points, but the
memory of victory in the matter of preserves still made her manner
authoritative.

She was very like him, being tall, thin, and not ungraceful, though as
oddly precise in her movements and gestures as she was rigid in her
beliefs, faithful in her affections, and just in her judgments.  She had
loved a man who had been killed in the civil war, and, being what she
was, she had never so much as considered the possibility of marrying any
one else.  She was much occupied in good works and did much good, but
she was so terribly accurate about it as to make Sylvia say that she was
like a public charity that had been brought up in good society.

The colonel rose as she spoke.

"What is the matter?" he asked.  "Why are you surprised?"

"What have you been saying to Sylvia, Richard?" enquired Miss Wimpole,
not moving.

It would have been hard to hit upon a question more certain to embarrass
the colonel.  He felt the difficulty of his position so keenly that, old
as he was, a faint colour rose in his cheeks. No answer occurred to him,
and he hesitated.

"She has locked herself up in her room," continued Miss Wimpole, with
searching severity, "and she is crying as though her heart would break.
I heard her sobbing as I passed the door, and she would not let me in."

"I am very sorry," said the colonel, gravely.

"You do not seem much concerned," retorted his sister.  "I insist upon
knowing what is the matter."

"Girls often cry," observed Colonel Wimpole, who felt obliged to say
something, though he did not at all know what to say.

"Sylvia does not often cry, Richard, and you know it.  You must have
said something very unkind to her."

"I hope not," answered the colonel, evasively.

"Then why is she sobbing there, all by herself? I should like you to
answer that question."

"I am very sorry that I cannot.  When she is herself again you had
better ask her."

Colonel Wimpole thought this good diplomacy. Since he meant not to tell
his sister the truth, and was incapable of inventing a falsehood, he saw
no means of escape except by referring Miss Wimpole directly to Sylvia.

"Richard," said the maiden lady, impressively, "I am surprised at you."
And she turned away rather stiffly.  "I thought you had more confidence
in me," she added, as she reached the door.

But Colonel Wimpole made no further answer, for he saw that she had
accepted his silence, which was all he wanted.  When he was quite sure
that she was in her own room, he went and got his hat and stick and
slipped quietly out of the hotel.




                               CHAPTER II


Colonel Wimpole did not like Lucerne, and as he strolled along the shady
side of the street, he unconsciously looked up at the sky or down at the
pavement rather than at the houses and the people.  He disliked the
tourists, the buildings, the distant scenery and the climate, and could
give a reason for each separate aversion. Excepting the old tower, which
was very much like a great many other old towers, he maintained that the
buildings were either flat and dull, or most modernly pretentious.  The
tourists were tourists, and that alone condemned them beyond redemption.
The climate was detestable, and he was sure that every one must think
so.  As for the scenery, with its prim lake, its tiresome snow
mountains, and its toy trees, he said that it was little better than a
perpetual chromolithograph, though at sunset it occasionally rose to the
dignity of a transparent ’landscape’ lamp-shade.  The colonel’s views of
places were not wholly without prejudice.  Being a very just man, where
men and women were concerned, he allowed himself to be as unfair as he
chose about inanimate things, from snow mountains to objects of art.

