CHAPTER VII.

ON THE ROAD.

Nothing could have pleased Ernest better than to travel with the
companionship of Luke Robbins. He felt that he should be safe with the
sturdy hunter, who was strong, resolute, and reliable.

True, he was not a man who had succeeded, as men reckon success. He
had lived comfortably, but it had never occurred to him to lay up
money, nor indeed had he had any opportunity to do so. He mentioned
this as an objection to the trip which he had himself proposed.

"My lad," he said, "I am afraid I can't go with you, after all."

"Why not, Luke?"

"Because you're rich, compared with me."

"I have but a hundred dollars."

"And I well, lad, I'm ashamed to say so, but I have only fifteen."

"We'll share and share alike, Luke."

"No, lad. Luke Robbins is too proud to live upon a boy. I reckon I'd
better stay at home."

"But I want you to go and take care of me, Luke. How can I travel
alone?"

Luke brightened up.

"That puts a different face on it, Ernest. If you think you need me,
I'll go."

"I do need you."

"Then go I will; but one thing is understood--I won't take any of your
money."

"There won't be any trouble on that score, Luke."

So the two prepared for their trip. Ernest, with Luke's help,
purchased an outfit, and on the morning of the third day the two
started out together, neither having a very definite idea where they
were going except that their course was westward.

Luke knew very little of the States and Territories that lay between
Oak Forks and the Pacific coast. Ernest, whose education was decidedly
superior to his companion's, was able to give him some information. So
they plodded on, making slow progress, but enjoying the unconventional
life, and the scenery on the way.

They were in no hurry. They stopped to hunt and fish, and when the
weather was unfavorable they stayed overnight at some wayside cabin.
When the nights were fine they camped out, and enjoyed a sound rest
under the open canopy of heaven.

Part of their way led through woods and over prairies, but here and
there they came to a thriving village. There was little occasion to
spend money, but still they were compelled to use some.

One day--it was some weeks from the time when they started--Luke
turned to Ernest with a sober face.

"Ernest," he said, "I think you'll have to leave me at the next
poor-house."

"Why, Luke?"

"Because my money is nearly all gone. I started with fifteen dollars.
Now I have but one."

"But I have plenty left."

"That doesn't help me."

"I want to share it with you, Luke."

"Don't you remember what I said when we set out, lad?"

"What was it?"

"That I would not touch a dollar of your money."

"Then do you mean to leave me alone, Luke?" pleaded Ernest
reproachfully.

"You are a boy and I am a man. I'm forty years old, Ernest. Is it
right that I should live on a boy less than half my age?"

Ernest looked at him in perplexity.

"Is there no way of getting more money?" he asked.

"If we were in California now, and at the mines, I might make shift to
fill my purse; but there are no mines hereabouts."

"Let us keep on, and something may turn up."

When this conversation took place they were approaching Emmonsville, a
thriving town in Nebraska. As they walked through the principal
street, it was clear that something had happened which had created
general excitement. Groups of people were talking earnestly, and their
faces wore a perturbed and anxious look.

"What's the matter?" asked Luke, addressing a well-to-do appearing
man.

"Haven't you heard of the bank robbery over at Lee's Falls?"

"No."

"Two men, fully armed, rode up to the door, and, dismounting, entered
the bank. One stepped up to the window of the paying teller, and
covering him with his revolver, demanded five thousand dollars. At the
same time the other stood in the doorway, also with a loaded
revolver."

"Why didn't the teller shoot him down?" asked Luke.

"My friend, bank officers are not provided with loaded revolvers when
on duty. Besides, the ruffian had the drop on him."

"Well?" asked Luke.

"What could the teller do? Life is more than money, and he had no
alternative. The fellow got the money."

"Did he get away with it?"

"Yes; they both mounted their horses and rode off, no one daring to
interfere. Each held his revolver in readiness to shoot the first man
that barred his way."

"Where did you say this happened?"

"At Lee's Falls."

"Is it near at hand?"

"It is fifteen miles away."

"But why should that robbery create excitement here?"

"Because we have a bank here, and we are expecting a visit from the
same parties."

"Who are they?"

"They are supposed to be the Fox brothers, two of the most notorious
criminals in the West. Numberless stories are told of their bold
robberies, both from individuals and from banks."

"How long have these fellows been preying upon the community?"

"We have heard of them hereabouts for three years. It is said they
came from Missouri."

"Is there no one brave enough or bold enough to interfere with them?"

"More than one has tried it, but no one has succeeded. Twice they were
captured by a posse of men, but in each case they broke jail before it
was time for the trial.

"It seems to me you haven't many men of spirit in Nebraska."

"Perhaps you think you would be a match for them," said the citizen in
a sarcastic tone.

Luke Robbins smiled and handled his revolver in a significant way.

"If you think you can kill or capture them, stranger, there's a chance
to make a good sum of money."

"How is that?"

"A thousand dollars is offered for either, dead or alive."

"A thousand dollars!" repeated Luke, his face glowing with excitement.
"Is that straight?"

"It will be paid cheerfully. You can bet on that."

"Who offers it?"

"The Governor of the State."

Luke Robbins became thoughtful and remained silent.

"Did you hear that, lad?" he asked, when he and Ernest were alone.

"Yes, Luke."

"A thousand dollars would do us a great deal of good."

"That is true, Luke, but it would be as much as your life is worth to
hunt the rascals."

"Don't try to make a coward of me, Ernest."

"I couldn't do that, Luke. I only want you to be prudent."

"Listen, lad. I want that thousand dollars, and I'm going to make a
try for it. Come along with me."

"Where are you going?"

"To the bank. I'm going to have a talk with the officers, and then
I'll decide what to do."




CHAPTER VIII.

THE QUAKER DETECTIVE.

At the Emmonsville bank they were on their guard. The expectation of a
visit from the Fox brothers caused anxiety and apprehension. The evil
reputation of these men, and their desperate character, made them
formidable.

When Luke Robbins entered the place he was regarded with suspicion.
His hunting-costume was not unlike that of a bandit. But the fact that
he had a young companion tended to disarm suspicion. No one could
suspect Ernest of complicity with outlaws, and the Fox brothers had
never been known to carry a boy with them.

Luke was unused to banks. So far as he knew, he had never entered one
before. He looked around him in uncertainty, and finally approached
the window of the receiving teller.

"Are you the boss of this institution?" he asked.

The teller smiled.

"No," he said. "Perhaps you want to see the president?"

"I guess he's the man."

"If you will give me a hint of the nature of your business, I will
speak to him."

"I hear you're expectin' a visit from the Fox brothers."

"Have you anything to do with them?" asked the teller with some
suspicion.

"I want to have something to do with them," returned Luke.

"I don't understand you."

"Then I'll tell you what I mean. I hear there's a big reward out for
their capture."

"A thousand dollars."

"I want that thousand dollars, and I want it bad."

"I shall be very glad if you become entitled to it. Any one who will
rid the State of either of these notorious outlaws will richly deserve
it."

"That's the business I came about. Now can I see the president, if
that's what you call him?"

"Wait a minute and I will find out."

The teller went to an inner room, and returned with a stout,
gray-headed man of about fifty.

He looked curiously at Luke through the window. Then, as if reassured,
he smiled.

"I understand you want to see me," he said.

"Yes."

"About the Fox brothers?"

"You're right there, squire."

"Go to the last door and I will admit you."

Luke Robbins did as directed, and soon found himself in the office of
the president of the bank.

"You are anxious to secure the reward offered for the capture of these
outlaws, I believe."

"That's straight."

"Why do you come to me, then?"

"Because a man told me you expected a visit from them."

"That is not quite exact. I don't expect a visit, but I am afraid they
may take it into their heads to call here."
