hardly waked up.”

He reined them in a little and glanced at his watch. “It’s just
eleven,” he said, “I think there’d be time,” and he turned to her
with a smile. “Would you like to have an adventure?” he asked.

“I generally do,” replied the girl. “What is it?”

“I was thinking of a drive,” said the other; “one that we could just
about take and return by lunch-time; it is about ten miles from
here.”

“What is it?” asked Helen.

“I have just bought a country place near here,” said Mr. Harrison.
“I thought perhaps you would like to see it.”

“My aunt spoke of it,” Helen answered; “the Eversons’ old home.”

“Yes,” said the other; “you know it, then?”

“I only saw it once in my life, when I was a very little girl,”
 Helen replied, “and so I have only a dim recollection of its
magnificence; the old man who lived there never saw any company.”

“It had to be sold because he failed in business,” said Mr.
Harrison. “Would you like to drive over?”

“Very much,” said Helen, and a minute later, when they came to a
fork in the road, they took the one which led them to “Fairview,” as
the place was called.

“I think it a tremendously fine property myself,” said Mr. Harrison;
“I made up my mind to have it the first time I saw it. I haven’t
seen anything around here to equal it, and I hope to make a real
English country-seat out of it. I’ll tell you about what I want to
do when we get there, and you can give me your advice; a man never
has good taste, you know.”

“I should like to see it,” answered Helen, smiling; “I have a
passion for fixing up things.”

“We had an exciting time at the sale,” went on Mr. Harrison
reminiscently. “You know Mr. Everson’s family wanted to keep the
place themselves, and the three or four branches of the family had
clubbed together to buy it; when the bidding got near the end, there
was no one left but the family and myself.”

“And you got it?” said Helen. “How cruel!”

“The strongest wins,” laughed the other. “I had made up my mind to
have it. The Eversons are a very aristocratic family, aren’t they?”

“Yes,” said Helen, “very, indeed; they have lived in this part of
the country since the Revolution.” As Mr. Harrison went on to tell
her the story of the sale she found herself vividly reminded of what
her aunt had told her of the difference between having a good deal
of money and all the money one wanted. Perhaps, also, her companion
was not without some such vaguely felt purpose in the telling. At
any rate, the girl was trembling inwardly more and more at the
prospect which was unfolding itself before her; as excitement always
acted upon her as a stimulant, she was at her very best during the
rest of the drive. She and her companion were conversing very
merrily indeed when Fairview was reached.

The very beginning of the place was imposing, for there was a high
wall along the roadway for perhaps a quarter of a mile, and then two
massive iron gates set in great stone pillars; they were opened by
the gate-keeper in response to Mr. Harrison’s call. Once inside the
two had a drive of some distance through what had once been a
handsome park, though it was a semi-wilderness then. The road
ascended somewhat all the way, until the end of the forest was
reached, and the first view of the house was gained; Helen could
scarcely restrain a cry of pleasure as she saw it, for it was really
a magnificent old mansion, built of weather-beaten gray stone, and
standing upon a high plateau, surrounded by a lawn and shaded by
half a dozen great oaks; below it the lawn sloped in a broad
terrace, and in the valley thus formed gleamed a little trout-pond,
set off at the back by a thickly-wooded hillside.

“Isn’t it splendid!” the girl exclaimed, gazing about her.

“I thought it was rather good,” said Mr. Harrison, deprecatingly.
“It can be made much finer, of course.”

“When you take your last year’s hay crop from the lawn, for one
thing,” laughed she. “But I had no idea there was anything so
beautiful near our little Oakdale. Just look at that tremendous
entrance!”

“It’s all built in royal style,” said Mr. Harrison. “The family must
have been wealthy in the old days.”

“Probably slave-dealers, or something of that kind,” observed Helen.
“Is the house all furnished inside?”

“Yes,” said the other, “but I expect to do most of it over. Wouldn’t
you like to look?” He asked the question as he saw the gate-keeper
coming up the road, presumably with the keys.

The girl gazed about her dubiously; she would have liked to go in,
except that she was certain it would be improper. Helen had never
had much respect for the proprieties, however, being accustomed to
rely upon her own opinions of things; and in the present case,
besides, she reflected that no one would ever know anything about
it.

“We’d not have time to do more than glance around,” continued the
other, “but we might do that, if you like.”

“Yes,” said Helen, after a moment more of hesitation, “I think I
should.”

Her heart was beating very fast as the two ascended the great stone
steps and as the door opened before them; her mind could not but be
filled with the overwhelming thought that all that she saw might be
hers if she really wanted it. The mere imagining of Mr. Harrison’s
wealth had been enough to make her thrill and burn, so it was to be
expected that the actual presence of some of it would not fail of
its effect. It is to be observed that the great Temptation took
place upon a high mountain, where the kingdoms of the earth could
really be seen; and Helen as she gazed around had the further
knowledge that the broad landscape and palatial house, which to her
were almost too splendid to be real, were after all but a slight
trifle to her companion.

The girl entered the great hallway, with its huge fireplace and its
winding stairway, and then strolled through the parlors of the vast
house; Helen had in all its fullness the woman’s passion for
spending money for beautiful things, and it had been her chief woe
in all her travels that the furniture and pictures and tapestry
which she gazed at with such keen delight must be forever beyond her
thoughts. Just at present her fancy was turned loose and madly
reveling in these memories, while always above her wildest flights
was the intoxicating certainty that there was no reason why they
should not all be possible. She could not but recollect with a
wondering smile that only yesterday she had been happy at the
thought of arranging one dingy little parlor in her country
parsonage, and had been trying to persuade her father to the
extravagance of re-covering two chairs.

It would have been hard for Helen to keep her emotions from Mr.
Harrison, and he must have guessed the reason why she was so flushed
and excited. They were standing just then in the center of the great
dining-room, with its massive furniture of black mahogany, and she
was saying that it ought to be papered in dark red, and was
conjuring up the effect to herself. “Something rich, you know, to
set off the furniture,” she explained.

“And you must take that dreadful portrait from over the mantel,” she
added, laughing. (It was a picture of a Revolutionary warrior, on
horseback and in full uniform, the coloring looking like faded
oilcloth.)

“I had thought of that myself,” said Mr. Harrison. “It’s the founder
of the Eversons; there’s a picture gallery in a hall back of here,
with two whole rows of ancestors in it.”

“Why don’t you adopt them?” asked Helen mischievously.

“One can buy all the ancestors one wants to, nowadays,” laughed Mr.
Harrison. “I thought I’d make something more interesting out of it.
I’m not much of a judge of art, you know, but I thought if I ever
went abroad I’d buy up some of the great paintings that one reads
about--some of the old masters, you know.”

“I’m afraid you’d find very few of them for sale,” said Helen,
smiling.

“I’m not accustomed to fail in buying things that I want,” was the
other’s reply. “Are you fond of pictures?”

“Very much indeed,” answered the girl. As a matter of fact, the mere
mention of the subject opened a new kingdom to her, for she could
not count the number of times she had sat before beautiful pictures
and almost wept at the thought that she could never own one that was
really worth looking at. “I brought home a few myself,” she said to
her companion,--“just engravings, you know, half a dozen that I
thought would please me; I mean to hang them around my music-room.”

“Tell me about it,” said Mr. Harrison. “I have been thinking of
fixing up such a place myself, you know. I thought of extending the
house on the side that has the fine view of the valley, and making
part a piazza, and part a conservatory or music-room.”

“It could be both!” exclaimed the girl, eagerly. “That would be the
very thing; there ought not to be anything in a music-room, you
know, except the piano and just a few chairs, and the rest all
flowers. The pictures ought all to be appropriate--pictures of
nature, of things that dance and are beautiful; oh, I could lose
myself in such a room as that!” and Helen ran on, completely carried
away by the fancy, and forgetting even Mr. Harrison for a moment.

“I have often dreamed of such a place,” she said, “where everything
would be sympathetic; it’s a pity that one can’t have a piano taken
out into the fields, the way I remember reading that Haydn used to
do with his harpsichord. If I were a violinist, that’s the way I’d
do all my playing, because then one would not need to be afraid to
open his eyes; oh, it would be fine--”

Helen stopped; she was at the height of her excitement just then;
and the climax came a moment afterwards. “Miss Davis,” asked the
man, “would you really like to arrange such a music-room?”

The tone of his voice was so different that the girl comprehended
instantly; it was this moment to which she had been rushing with so
much exultation; but when it came her heart almost stopped beating,
and she gave a choking gasp.

“Would you really like it?” asked Mr. Harrison again, bending
towards her earnestly.

“Why, certainly,” said Helen, making one blind and desperate effort
to dodge the issue. “I’ll tell you everything that is necessary.”

“That is not what I mean, Miss Davis!”

“Not?” echoed Helen, and she tried to look at him with her frank,
open eyes; but when she saw his burning look, she could not; she
dropped her eyes and turned scarlet.

“Miss Davis,” went on the man rapidly, “I have been waiting for a
chance to tell you this. Let me tell you now!”

Helen gazed wildly about her once, as if she would have fled; then
she stood with her arms lying helplessly at her sides, trembling in
every nerve.

“There is very little pleasure that one can get from such beautiful
things alone, Miss Davis, and especially when he is as dulled by the
world as myself. I thought that some day I might be able to share
them with some one who could enjoy them more than I, but I never
knew who that person was until last night. I know that I have not
much else to offer you, except what wealth and position I have
gained; and when I think of all your accomplishments, and all that
you have to place you so far beyond me, I almost fear to offer
myself to you. But I can only give what I have--my humble admiration
of your beauty and your powers; and the promise to worship you, to
give the rest of my life to seeing that you have everything in the
world that you want. I will put all that I own at your command, and
get as much more as I can, with no thought but of your happiness.”

Mr. Harrison could not have chosen words more fitted to win the
trembling girl beside him; that, he should recognize as well as she
did her superiority to him, removed half of his deficiency in her
eyes.

“Miss Davis,” the other went on, “I cannot know how you will feel
toward such a promise, but I cannot but feel that what I possess
could give you opportunities of much happiness. You should have all
the beauty about you that you wished, for there is nothing in the
world too beautiful for you; and you should have every luxury that
money can buy, to save you from all care. If this house seemed too
small for you, you should have another wherever you desired it, and
be mistress of it, and of everything in it; and if you cared for a
social career, you should have everything to help you, and it would
be my one happiness to see your triumph. I would give a thousand
times what I own to have you for my wife.”

So the man continued, pleading his cause, until at last he stopped,
waiting anxiously for a sign from the girl; he saw that she was
agitated, for her breast was heaving, and her forehead flushed, but
he could not tell the reason. “Perhaps, Miss Davis,” he said,
humbly, “you will scorn such things as I have to offer you; tell me,
is it that?”

Helen answered him, in a faint voice, “It is not that, Mr. Harrison;
it is,--it is,--”

“What, Miss Davis?”

“It has been but a day! I have had no time to know you--to love
you.”

And Helen stopped, afraid at the words she herself was using; for
she knew that for the first time in her life she had stooped to a
sham and a lie. Her whole soul was ablaze with longing just then,
with longing for the power and the happiness which this man held out
to her; and she meant to take him, she had no longer a thought of
resistance. It was all the world which offered itself to her, and
she meant to clasp it to her--to lose herself quite utterly and
forget herself in it, and she was already drunk with the thought.
Therefore she could not but shudder as she heard the word “love”
 upon her lips, and knew that she had used it because she wished to
make a show of hesitation.

“I did not need but one day, Miss Davis,” went on the other
pleadingly, “to know that I loved you--to know that I no longer set
any value on the things that I had struggled all my life to win; for
you are perfect, Miss Davis. You are so far beyond me that I have
scarcely the courage to ask you what I do. But I must ask you, and
know my fate.”

He stopped again and gazed at her; and Helen looked at him wildly,
and then turned away once more, trembling. She wished that he would
only continue still longer, for the word was upon her lips, and yet
it was horror for her to utter it, because she felt she ought not to
yield so soon,--because she wanted some delay; she sought for some
word that would be an evasion, that would make him urge her more
strongly; she wished to be wooed and made to surrender, and yet she
