
"I 'm not so sure of it," muttered Avery, staring about.  "I don't
understand.  Did I have another tooth out--after all that--happened?"

"I should hope not.  I must say you make as much fuss over this one
molar as a child or a clergyman," answered the dentist brusquely.  "We
regard those as our most troublesome classes."

"Did you give me chloroform?"

"I don't give chloroform."

"Gas, then?"

"Why, certainly, I gave gas."

"Did I ask for it?"

"Yes.  You asked for it.  Even if you had n't--You don't bear pain, you
know, Avery, with that composure"--

"Armstrong?  Say, Armstrong.  When you went over to the club with me"--

The dentist twisted his mustache.

--"was Romer's yacht lying out in the river then?  I seem to remember
that you did n't want me to take that trip.  And you did n't know it
would blow a gale, either.  And you did n't know that she"--

"Get up, Avery, and walk about the room.  You come to slowly."

"And when the wreck got into the papers--she could n't bear that....
She was so ill when I left her ...  Armstrong!  Was it you kept me here
in this blanked chair while my wife was dying?"

Dr. Armstrong laughed aloud.  Avery sprang towards him.  He had a muddy
intention of seizing the dentist by the throat.  But a thought occurred
to him which held him back.  Now, as his consciousness clarified, he
saw brilliant and beautiful light throbbing about him; he seemed to
float in it, as if he were poised in mid-heaven.  A scintillation in
his brain shot into glory, and broke as it fell into a thousand rays
and jets of joy.

"Do you mean to tell me I never went on that accursed cruise--with a
fool gun--to murder ducks ... and left my wife dangerously sick?  Do
you mean that Jean ... is n't ...  Say, Armstrong, you would n't make
game of a man in a position like mine, if you knew...  Armstrong!"
piteously, "my wife is n't living--is she, Armstrong?"

"She was, the last I heard," replied the dentist, sterilizing his
instruments with a cool and scientific attention.  "That was when you
sat down in this chair to have your tooth out."


As Avery dashed by him the dentist put out a detaining hand.

"Wait a second, Avery.  I don't consider you quite fit to go yet.
Here--wait a minute!"

But the horses of Aurora, flying and flaming through the morning skies,
could not have held the man back.  A madman--delirious with joy--he
swept through the hall and flung the door open.  Dr. Armstrong ran
after him to give him his hat, but Avery paid no attention to the
dentist.

Bareheaded, fleet-footed, with quivering lip, with shining eye, he fled
down the street.  Like the hurricane that had never sunk the Dream, he
swept past the club.  He saw the fellows through the window; their
cigars gleamed in their mouths and in their hands; they looked to him
like marionettes moving on a mimic stage; he felt as if he would like
to kick them over, and see if they would rattle as they rolled.  As he
rushed, hatless, past the Church of the Happy Saints, an officer on
night duty recognized the lawyer, and touched his helmet in surprise,
but did not follow the disordered figure--Mr. Avery was not a drinking
man.  He was allowed to pursue his eccentricity undisturbed.  He met
one or two men he knew, and they said, "Hilloa, Avery!"  But he did not
answer them.  He ran on in the rain; his heart sang:--

"I did n't do it--I never did it!  I did not treat her so.  I was
not that fellow.  Oh, thank God, I was not that brute!"  He hurried on
till he lost his breath; then collected himself, and came up more
quietly to his own door.

He felt for his latch-key, and was relieved to find it in his pocket,
as usual; the impression that it lay off the Shoals somewhere at the
bottom had not entirely vanished yet.  He opened the door and closed it
softly.  The hall gas was burning.  Otherwise the house was dark.  It
was perfectly still.  The silence somewhat checked his mood, and the
violence of his haste abated; with it abated an indefinable measure of
his happiness.  He raised his hand to take off his hat; then found that
he had not worn any.  It occurred to him that he had better not waken
Jean too abruptly--it might hurt her: he was going to be very
thoughtful of Jean.  She must not be startled.  He went upstairs
quietly.

In the upper hall he paused.  Pink, in the nursery, was grinding her
teeth in her sleep.  The baby was not restless, and Molly was sleeping
heavily.  From his wife's room there came no sound.

Jean almost always waked when he came home late, if indeed she had
slept at all before she heard his step.  But this was not inevitable.
Sometimes he did not arouse her.  And he remembered that to-night she
had been feeble, and had not got to sleep as early as usual.  As he
stood uncertain before her door the clock on the mantel struck eleven.

He passed on, and into his own room.  He wondered if he ought to
undress and go to bed without disturbing her.  But he could not bring
himself to do this.  He was still too much agitated; and the necessity
of keeping quiet did not tend to calm him.  He turned up his gas, and
the light rose warmly.  Then he saw that the door into his wife's room
was partly open.  "Jean!" he said softly.  She did not answer him.
Sometimes, if she were sleepy, or exhausted, she did not incline to
talk when he came home.

"Jean?" he repeated, "are you awake, my darling?  I want to speak to
you....  I must speak to you," added the husband impetuously, when
Jean did not reply.

He pushed the door wide and went in.  The only light in the room came
from the night candle, which was burning dimly.  It was a blue candle,
and it had a certain ghastly look to him, as he stood gazing across the
little table at the bed.

"After all," he thought, "I suppose I ought not to wake her--just
because I 've got all that to tell her."

He stood, undecided what to do.

Jean was lying on the bed in her lace-frilled nightdress, with her
bright hair braided in long braids, as she wore it for the night.
Something in her attitude and expression startled him.  So she had
lain--so she had looked--  His temples throbbed suddenly.  The blood
froze at his heart.

"Jean!" he cried loudly.  "Dear Jean!"

But Jean did not reply.  He sprang to her, and tore open the nightdress
at her throat; he crushed at her hands; they were quite cold.  He put
his ear to her heart; he could not hear it beat.  Jean lay in her
loveliness, with gentle, half-open eyes, and a desolate little smile on
her sweet lips, as she might have looked when she called him and asked
him to come back and kiss her good-night.  And he had not come.  One of
her hands clasped the cord of the electric bell.  But no one had heard
Jean's bell.

Now, the truth smote the man like the hammer of Thor.  His wandering
spirit--gone; who knew how? who knew where? while the brain drifted
into an√¶sthesia--had sought out and clutched to itself the terrible
fact.  At the instant when this perception reached his consciousness
there came with it the familiar delusion of his vision.

"Jean cannot be dead.  There must be some mistake."

He dashed to the window, opened it wide, and raised her towards the
air.  The sleeping maid, aroused and terrified, rushed to his help.  In
his agony he noticed that the children were both crying--Pink like a
lady, and the boy like a little wild beast.  Pink began to wail:
"Mummer Dee!  Mummer Dee!"

Jean did not stir.

He dispatched the servants madly--one to the telephone, one for
stimulants; while he rubbed his wife's hands and feet, and tried to get
brandy between her lips in the futile fashion of the inexperienced.  He
could not stimulate any signs of life, and he dared not leave her.
Molly reported, sobbing, that Dr. Thorne was not at home, but that Mrs.
Thorne had bade her call the nearest doctor; she had rung up the one at
the corner, and he was coming.

The nearest doctor came, and he lost no time about it.  He was a
stranger, and young.  Avery looked stupidly at his inexperienced face.
The physician stooped and put his ear to Jean's heart.  He went through
the form of feeling the pulse, and busied himself in various uncertain
ways about her.  In a short time he rose, and stood looking at the
carpet.  He did not meet the husband's eye.

"You can keep on stimulating if you like," he said.  "Perhaps you would
feel better.  But in my opinion it is of no use."

"For God's sake, man, are n't you going to do something?" demanded
the husband in a voice which the nearest doctor had occasion to
remember.

"In my opinion the patient is dead," persisted the stranger.  He turned
and took up his hat.  "I will do anything you like, of course, sir," he
added politely.  "But life is extinct."

Avery made no reply, and the strange physician went uncomfortably away.
Avery stared after him with bloodshot eyes.  He now held his wife, half
sitting, against his own warm body; he had a confused idea that he
could will her alive, or love her alive; that if he could make her
understand how it all was, she could not die.  She loved him too
much.  But Jean's gray face fell upon his breast like stiffening clay.
Her pulse was imperceptible.  He turned piteously to the Irish girl.

"Molly!  Can't you think of anything more we can do for her?"

At this moment a carriage dashed to the door, and came to a violent
stop.

"Mother of God!" cried Molly.  "Here is Dr. Thorne!"

With a resounding noise Esmerald Thorne flung back the opening front
door.  With his hat on his head he cleared the stairs.  Molly stood
wringing her hands on the threshold of Mrs. Avery's room.  He hurled
the girl away as if she had been a wrong prescription left by a
blundering rival.  His blazing eye concentrated itself on the patient
like a burning-glass.  That which had been Jean Avery, half reclining,
held against her husband's heart, lay unresponsive.  One arm with its
slender hand hung over the edge of the bed, straight down.

"Change the position!" cried Dr. Thorne loudly.  "Put her head
down--so--flat--perfectly horizontal.  Now get out of my way--the whole
of you."

He knelt beside the bed, and with great gentleness, curiously at
contrast with his imperious and one might have called it angry manner,
put his ear to Jean's heart.

"It's dead she is.  The other doctor do be sayin' so," sobbed Molly,
who found it perplexing that Mr. Avery did not speak, and felt that the
courtesies of the distressing occasion devolved upon herself.  Dr.
Thorne held up an imperious finger.  In the stillness which obeyed him
the clock on the mantel ticked obtrusively, like the rhythm of life in
a vital organism.

At the instant when he reached her side, Dr. Thorne had laid Jean's
hanging hand gently upon the bed, warming it and covering it as he did
so.  But he had paid no attention to it otherwise till now, when he was
seen to put his fingers on the wrist.  It occurred to Avery that the
physician did this rather to satisfy or to sustain hope in the family
than from any definite end which he himself hoped to attain by it.  The
husband managed to articulate.

"Is there any pulse?"

"No."

"Does her heart beat?"

Dr. Thorne made no reply.  He was putting a colorless, odorless liquid
between her lips.  His expression of indignation deepened.  One might
have said that he was in a rage with death.  His first impulse to
express that emotion noisily had passed.  He issued his orders with
perfect quiet and consummate self-possession, but the family fled
before them like leaves before the wind.  Stimulants, hot water, hot
stones, fell into the doctor's hands.  He took control of the
despairing household as a great general takes command of a terrible
retreat.  Stern, uncompromising, rigid, he flung his whole being
against the fate which had snatched his old patient beyond his rescue.
His face was almost as white as Jean's.

"There sits the man as fights with death!" cried Molly, in
uncontrollable excitement.  She and the cook fell on their knees.
Pink, in her nightdress, stole in, and leaned against the door; the
child was too frightened to cry.  The baby had gone to sleep.  The
house grew ominously still.  The mantel clock struck the half-hour.  It
was now half-past eleven.  Avery glanced at the physician's face, and
buried his own in his hands.

The doctor rose, and stood frowning.  He seemed to hesitate for the
first time since he had been in the room.

"Is there no heart-beat yet?  Can't you detect anything?" asked Avery
again.  He could not help it.  Dr. Thorne looked at him; the physician
seemed to treat the question as he would an insult.

"When I have anything to say, I 'll say it," he answered roughly.  He
stood pondering.

"A glass!" he called peremptorily.  Molly handed him a tumbler.  He
pushed it away.

"I said a glass!  A mirror!"

Some one handed him Jean's little silver toilet hand-glass.  The
physician held it to her lips, and laid it down.  After a moment's
irresolution he took it up, and bending over the body put it to the
woman's lips again, and studied it intently for some moments.  Avery
asked no questions this time, nor did he dare glance at the glass.

"How long," demanded Dr. Thorne suddenly, "has she been like this?"

"I found her so when I came in.  It was then eleven o'clock."

"How long had she been alone?"

"I went out at twenty minutes past ten.  I went to have a tooth
extracted.  That was forty minutes."

"Did she speak to you when you went out?"

"Yes--she spoke to me."

"What did she say?"

Marshall Avery made no reply.

"Were there any symptoms of this heart-failure then?  Out with it!--No.
Never mind.  It's evident enough."
