flashlight or two?

He met, poor Densher, these enquiries as he could, listening with
interest, yet with discomfort; wincing in particular, dry journalist as
he was, to find it seemingly supposed of him that he had put his
pen--oh his "pen!"--at the service of private distinction. The ear of
society?--they were talking, or almost, as if he had publicly
paragraphed a modest young lady. They dreamt dreams, in truth, he
appeared to perceive, that fairly waked him up, and he settled
himself in his place both to resist his embarrassment and to catch the
full revelation. His embarrassment came naturally from the fact that if
he could claim no credit for Miss Theale's success, so neither could he
gracefully insist on his not having been concerned with her. What
touched him most nearly was that the occasion took on somehow the air
of a commemorative banquet, a feast to celebrate a brilliant if brief
career. There was of course more said about the heroine than if she
hadn't been absent, and he found himself rather stupefied at the range
of Milly's triumph. Mrs. Lowder had wonders to tell of it; the two
wearers of the waistcoat, either with sincerity or with hypocrisy,
professed in the matter an equal expertness; and Densher at last seemed
to know himself in presence of a social "case." It was Mrs. Stringham,
obviously, whose testimony would have been most invoked hadn't she
been, as her friend's representative, rather confined to the function
of inhaling the incense; so that Kate, who treated her beautifully,
smiling at her, cheering and consoling her across the table, appeared
benevolently both to speak and to interpret for her. Kate spoke as if
she wouldn't perhaps understand their way of appreciating Milly, but
would let them none the less, in justice to their good will, express it
in their coarser fashion. Densher himself wasn't unconscious in respect
to this of a certain broad brotherhood with Mrs. Stringham; wondering
indeed, while he followed the talk, how it might move American nerves.
He had only heard of them before, but in his recent tour he had caught
them in the remarkable fact, and there was now a moment or two when it
came to him that he had perhaps--and not in the way of an escape--taken
a lesson from them. They quivered, clearly, they hummed and drummed,
they leaped and bounded in Mrs. Stringham's typical organism--this lady
striking him as before all things excited, as, in the native phrase,
keyed-up, to a perception of more elements in the occasion than he was
himself able to count. She was accessible to sides of it, he imagined,
that were as yet obscure to him; for, though she unmistakeably rejoiced
and soared, he none the less saw her at moments as even more agitated
than pleasure required. It was a state of emotion in her that could
scarce represent simply an impatience to report at home. Her little dry
New England brightness--he had "sampled" all the shades of the American
complexity, if complexity it were--had its actual reasons for finding
relief most in silence; so that before the subject was changed he
perceived (with surprise at the others) that they had given her enough
of it. He had quite had enough of it himself by the time he was asked
if it were true that their friend had really not made in her own
country the mark she had chalked so large in London. It was Mrs. Lowder
herself who addressed him that enquiry; while he scarce knew if he were
the more impressed with her launching it under Mrs. Stringham's nose or
with her hope that he would allow to London the honour of discovery.
The less expansive of the white waistcoats propounded the theory that
they saw in London--for all that was said--much further than in the
States: it wouldn't be the first time, he urged, that they had taught
the Americans to appreciate (especially when it was funny) some native
product. He didn't mean that Miss Theale was funny--though she was
weird, and this was precisely her magic; but it might very well be that
New York, in having her to show, hadn't been aware of its luck. There
were plenty of people who were nothing over there and yet were
awfully taken up in England; just as--to make the balance right, thank
goodness--they sometimes sent out beauties and celebrities who left the
Briton cold. The Briton's temperature in truth wasn't to be
calculated--a formulation of the matter that was not reached, however,
without producing in Mrs. Stringham a final feverish sally. She
announced that if the point of view for a proper admiration of her
young friend had seemed to fail a little in New York, there was no
manner of doubt of her having carried Boston by storm. It pointed the
moral that Boston, for the finer taste, left New York nowhere; and the
good lady, as the exponent of this doctrine--which she set forth at a
certain length--made, obviously, to Densher's mind, her nearest
approach to supplying the weirdness in which Milly's absence had left
them deficient. She made it indeed effective for him by suddenly
addressing him. "You know nothing, sir--but not the least little
bit--about my friend."

He hadn't pretended he did, but there was a purity of reproach in Mrs.
Stringham's face and tone, a purity charged apparently with solemn
meanings; so that for a little, small as had been his claim, he
couldn't but feel that she exaggerated. He wondered what she did mean,
but while doing so he defended himself. "I certainly don't know
enormously much--beyond her having been most kind to me, in New York,
as a poor bewildered and newly landed alien, and my having tremendously
appreciated it." To which he added, he scarce knew why, what had an
immediate success. "Remember, Mrs. Stringham, that you weren't then
present."

"Ah there you are!" said Kate with much gay expression, though what it
expressed he failed at the time to make out.

"You weren't present then, dearest," Mrs. Lowder richly concurred.
"You don't know," she continued with mellow gaiety, "how far things may
have gone."

It made the little woman, he could see, really lose her head. She had
more things in that head than any of them in any other; unless perhaps
it were Kate, whom he felt as indirectly watching him during this
foolish passage, though it pleased him--and because of the
foolishness--not to meet her eyes. He met Mrs. Stringham's, which
affected him: with her he could on occasion clear it up--a sense
produced by the mute communion between them and really the beginning,
as the event was to show, of something extraordinary. It was even
already a little the effect of this communion that Mrs. Stringham
perceptibly faltered in her retort to Mrs. Lowder's joke. "Oh it's
precisely my point that Mr. Densher can't have had vast
opportunities." And then she smiled at him. "I wasn't away, you know,
long."

It made everything, in the oddest way in the world, immediately right
for him. "And I wasn't there long, either." He positively saw with it
that nothing for him, so far as she was concerned, would again be
wrong. "She's beautiful, but I don't say she's easy to know."

"Ah she's a thousand and one things!" replied the good lady, as if now
to keep well with him.

He asked nothing better. "She was off with you to these parts before I
knew it. I myself was off too--away off to wonderful parts, where I had
endlessly more to see."

"But you didn't forget her!" Aunt Maud interposed with almost menacing
archness.

"No, of course I didn't forget her. One doesn't forget such charming
impressions. But I never," he lucidly maintained, "chattered to others
about her."

"She'll thank you for that, sir," said Mrs. Stringham with a flushed
firmness.

"Yet doesn't silence in such a case," Aunt Maud blandly enquired, "very
often quite prove the depth of the impression?"

He would have been amused, hadn't he been slightly displeased, at all
they seemed desirous to fasten on him. "Well, the impression was as
deep as you like. But I really want Miss Theale to know," he pursued
for Mrs. Stringham, "that I don't figure by any consent of my own as an
authority about her."

Kate came to his assistance--if assistance it was--before their friend
had had time to meet this charge. "You're right about her not being
easy to know. One sees her with intensity--sees her more than one
sees almost any one; but then one discovers that that isn't knowing her
and that one may know better a person whom one doesn't 'see,' as I say,
half so much."

The discrimination was interesting, but it brought them back to the
fact of her success; and it was at that comparatively gross
circumstance, now so fully placed before them, that Milly's anxious
companion sat and looked--looked very much as some spectator in an
old-time circus might have watched the oddity of a Christian maiden, in
the arena, mildly, caressingly, martyred. It was the nosing and
fumbling not of lions and tigers but of domestic animals let loose as
for the joke. Even the joke made Mrs. Stringham uneasy, and her mute
communion with Densher, to which we have alluded, was more and more
determined by it. He wondered afterwards if Kate had made this out;
though it was not indeed till much later on that he found himself, in
thought, dividing the things she might have been conscious of from the
things she must have missed. If she actually missed, at any rate, Mrs.
Stringham's discomfort, that but showed how her own idea held her. Her
own idea was, by insisting on the fact of the girl's prominence as a
feature of the season's end, to keep Densher in relation, for the rest
of them, both to present and to past. "It's everything that has
happened since that makes you naturally a little shy about her. You
don't know what has happened since, but we do; we've seen it and
followed it; we've a little been of it." The great thing for him, at
this, as Kate gave it, was in fact quite irresistibly that the case
was a real one--the kind of thing that, when one's patience was shorter
than one's curiosity, one had vaguely taken for possible in London, but
in which one had never been even to this small extent concerned. The
little American's sudden social adventure, her happy and, no doubt,
harmless flourish, had probably been favoured by several accidents, but
it had been favoured above all by the simple spring-board of the scene,
by one of those common caprices of the numberless foolish flock,
gregarious movements as inscrutable as ocean-currents. The huddled herd
had drifted to her blindly--it might as blindly have drifted away.
There had been of course a signal, but the great reason was probably
the absence at the moment of a larger lion. The bigger beast would come
and the smaller would then incontinently vanish. It was at all events
characteristic, and what was of the essence of it was grist to his
scribbling mill, matter for his journalising hand. That hand already,
in intention, played over it, the "motive," as a sign of the season, a
feature of the time, of the purely expeditious and rough-and-tumble
nature of the social boom. The boom as in itself required--that would
be the note; the subject of the process a comparatively minor question.
Anything was boomable enough when nothing else was more so: the author
of the "rotten" book, the beauty who was no beauty, the heiress who was
only that, the stranger who was for the most part saved from being
inconveniently strange but by being inconveniently familiar, the
American whose Americanism had been long desperately discounted, the
creature in fine as to whom spangles or spots of any sufficiently
marked and exhibited sort could be loudly enough predicated.

So he judged at least, within his limits, and the idea that what he had
thus caught in the fact was the trick of fashion and the tone of
society went so far as to make him take up again his sense of
independence. He had supposed himself civilised; but if this was
civilisation--! One could smoke one's pipe outside when twaddle was
within. He had rather avoided, as we have remarked, Kate's eyes, but
there came a moment when he would fairly have liked to put it, across
the table, to her: "I say, light of my life, is this the great
world?" There came another, it must be added--and doubtless as a result
of something that, over the cloth, did hang between them--when she
struck him as having quite answered: "Dear no--for what do you take me?
Not the least little bit: only a poor silly, though quite harmless,
imitation." What she might have passed for saying, however, was
practically merged in what she did say, for she came overtly to his
aid, very much as if guessing some of his thoughts. She enunciated, to
relieve his bewilderment, the obvious truth that you couldn't leave
London for three months at that time of the year and come back to find
your friends just where they were. As they had of course been jigging
away they might well be so red in the face that you wouldn't know them.
She reconciled in fine his disclaimer about Milly with that honour of
having discovered her which it was vain for him modestly to shirk. He
had unearthed her, but it was they, all of them together, who had
developed her. She was always a charmer, one of the greatest ever seen,
but she wasn't the person he had "backed."

Densher was to feel sure afterwards that Kate had had in these
pleasantries no conscious, above all no insolent purpose of making
light of poor Susan Shepherd's property in their young friend--which
property, by such remarks, was very much pushed to the wall; but he was
also to know that Mrs. Stringham had secretly resented them, Mrs.
Stringham holding the opinion, of which he was ultimately to have a
glimpse, that all the Kate Croys in Christendom were but dust for the
feet of her Milly. That, it was true, would be what she must reveal
only when driven to her last entrenchments and well cornered in her
passion--the rare passion of friendship, the sole passion of her little
life save the one other, more imperturbably cerebral, that she
entertained for the art of Guy de Maupassant. She slipped in the
observation that her Milly was incapable of change, was just exactly,
on the contrary, the same Milly; but this made little difference in the
drift of Kate's contention. She was perfectly kind to Susie: it was as
if she positively knew her as handicapped for any disagreement by
feeling that she, Kate, had "type," and by being committed to
admiration of type. Kate had occasion subsequently--she found it
somehow--to mention to our young man Milly's having spoken to her of
this view on the good lady's part. She would like--Milly had had it
from her--to put Kate Croy in a book and see what she could so do with
her. "Chop me up fine or serve me whole"--it was a way of being got at
that Kate professed she dreaded. It would be Mrs. Stringham's, however,
she understood, because Mrs. Stringham, oddly, felt that with such
stuff as the strange English girl was made of, stuff that (in spite of
Maud Manningham, who was full of sentiment) she had never known, there
was none other to be employed. These things were of later evidence, yet
Densher might even then have felt them in the air. They were
practically in it already when Kate, waiving the question of her
friend's chemical change, wound up with the comparatively
unobjectionable proposition that he must now, having missed so much,
take them all up, on trust, further on. He met it peacefully, a little
perhaps as an example to Mrs. Stringham--"Oh as far on as you like!"
This even had its effect: Mrs. Stringham appropriated as much of it as
might be meant for herself. The nice thing about her was that she could
measure how much; so that by the time dinner was over they had really
covered ground.


IV

The younger of the other men, it afterwards appeared, was most in his
element at the piano; so that they had coffee and comic songs
upstairs--the gentlemen, temporarily relinquished, submitting easily in
this interest to Mrs. Lowder's parting injunction not to sit too tight.
Our especial young man sat tighter when restored to the drawing-room;
he made it out perfectly with Kate that they might, off and on,
foregather without offence. He had perhaps stronger needs in this
general respect than she; but she had better names for the scant risks
to which she consented. It was the blessing of a big house that
intervals were large and, of an August night, that windows were open;
whereby, at a given moment, on the wide balcony, with the songs
sufficiently sung, Aunt Maud could hold her little court more freshly.
Densher and Kate, during these moments, occupied side by side a small
sofa--a luxury formulated by the latter as the proof, under criticism,
of their remarkably good conscience. "To seem not to know each
other--once you're here--would be," the girl said, "to overdo it"; and
she arranged it charmingly that they must have some passage to put
Aunt Maud off the scent. She would be wondering otherwise what in the
world they found their account in. For Densher, none the less, the
profit of snatched moments, snatched contacts, was partial and poor;
there were in particular at present more things in his mind than he
could bring out while watching the windows. It was true, on the other
hand, that she suddenly met most of them--and more than he could see on
the spot--by coming out for him with a reference to Milly that was not
in the key of those made at dinner. "She's not a bit right, you know. I
mean in health. Just see her to-night. I mean it looks grave. For you
she would have come, you know, if it had been at all possible."

He took this in such patience as he could muster. "What in the world's
the matter with her?"

But Kate continued without saying. "Unless indeed your being here has
been just a reason for her funking it."

"What in the world's the matter with her?" Densher asked again.

"Why just what I've told you--that she likes you so much."

"Then why should she deny herself the joy of meeting me?"

