That gave Mrs. Van Dorn a secret gratification. She was jealous of two
people who had come into Helen Grant's life, this man and Mrs. Dayton.

"Yes; he will be sorry, I know. But then he could not be my teacher, as
he was last year. And, oh, how proud he will be that I passed so
splendidly."

"And I shall be glad when you attain to other heights. I really think
you will not need any urging. But don't go too deep in the abstruse
subjects, and don't let anyone spoil your fashion of reading, for I may
want you to read to me in the years to come."

"I shall be glad to do anything for you," the girl replied with deep
feeling. "I wish I might spend years and years with you to repay all
this generosity and kindliness. Oh, why do you go away?"

She flushed with an eagerness, a glow of excitement that gave her a
frank, bewitching sweetness.

Why did she go? Mrs. Van Dorn had gone over the ground by herself. She
had been tempted to settle herself for life, but did she want to help
tone down the crudeness of the untrained nature, to prune the
enthusiasms, to find little faults here and there? She would rather
someone else would do the gardening, and she have the bloom in its first
sweetness. While she was away Helen would idealize her still more, and
be prepared to give her just the same girl-worship, but with more
discrimination. She would think of nothing but the benefits. She would
see none of the whims and queernesses that Clara Gage had grown
accustomed to. She would not note her growing old every day. And then
she had a longing for a change.

"Well, I had planned to spend the winter in the south of France. It is
supposed to be better to have an entire change every few years. I spent
one winter there. I had not been quite up to the mark, and it improved
me wonderfully. Then, I have made most of my arrangements."

"But you will come back?" beseechingly. "I may not stay the whole two
years. You think you will feel quite satisfied to go to Aldred House?
You will be among strangers, but girls soon get acquainted. Of course, I
could board you here, and have you go to the High School, but it would
not be as well, and it would not make the sort of girl out of you that I
should like as well, for two excellent reasons," smiling a little. "What
is it?" as a grave expression touched Helen's face.

"You have the right to decide. I know I should like best to go away, but
perhaps it will make some trouble for you. I think my aunt----"

"I shall have a talk with Mr. Mulford when he comes in on Saturday. A
man is generally master of his house. And I will see how the plan
appears to Mrs. Dayton. She is a very sensible person."

She had a talk with Mrs. Dayton that very evening. She would give Helen
her two years' schooling, and then she would be old enough and capable
of deciding what she would like to do for the future. If she should
prefer to take up teaching, that kind of training would be necessary
afterward. She had some fine capabilities, and it would be a pity not to
make the best of them.

So Mrs. Van Dorn very clearly defined her own position in the matter,
without betraying her full intentions.

"If she doesn't get spoiled," commented the listener with an odd smile.
"It is a very generous proffer, and I believe Helen is capable of
appreciating it to the full. It would be a hard thing for her to remain
here and work her way through school, though I had a plan for easing it
up somewhat. She is above the ordinary run of girls, though I didn't
think of that so much when I asked her to come here. The qualities that
decided me then were her cheerfulness and her readiness. I do not
believe her aunt half appreciates her."

"She is of a little different kind," returned Mrs. Van Dorn. That lady
possessed much cynical enlightenment as to the kinds. "There is a deal
of talk about goodness in this world, and even an east wind may be good
for something, but it isn't pleasant. You find an immense deal of
narrowness in these old country places. Saturday when Mr. Mulford comes
I want to have a talk with him."

Mrs. Dayton was really glad that the first explanation was not to come
from her.

Miss Gage arrived the next day at noon. She was a quiet,
sensible-looking girl, who might have posed for a very attractive one,
if she had known how to make the best of herself. She had a fine clear
complexion, quite regular features, an abundance of soft, light brown
hair, and a slim, graceful figure. But she had begun life weighting
herself up with care, and made many little things a matter of conscience
that were merely matters of choice. She was honest to a fault, obliging,
and with that rare gift of being serviceable. At first Mrs. Van Dorn had
been much pleased with her, but she was too proud to accept many favors,
and her heart was centered in her own family; perhaps selfishly so.

Helen seemed released from almost every duty, and was glad to devote her
time to Mrs. Dayton.

"I should like to know what Mr. Warfield will think of the plan,"
commented the lady.

"Oh, he will hold up both hands for me to go," laughed Helen. "Everybody
will, but Aunt Jane."

The boarders were all out Saturday afternoon; a party had gone
picnicking to a pretty, shady nook on the Piqua River, where a little
decline and a bed of rock made a dainty waterfall. So Mrs. Van Dorn and
Mr. Mulford had the end of the porch to themselves.

She stated her plan in a very straightforward manner. For two years she
would send Helen to school, assuming all the expense. After that the
girl might take her choice as to what she would like to follow, and she
would be willing to assist her in any pursuit for which she was best
fitted.

Mr. Mulford gave a long whistle, and stared at Mrs. Van Dorn. There was
something so amusing in his surprise that she could hardly refrain from
smiling.

"Well, I swow! You must think a mighty sight of her, ma'am, to be
willing to spend that money out and out, when she could get her
schoolin' right here for nothin'."

"I think of her capabilities. She is ambitious, and can fill an
excellent place in the world."

"She's a smart girl in everything, but the book learnin' she takes from
her father. Mother's missed her quick handy ways about the house, and
I'm afraid she won't agree to givin' her up. And back there, ma'am, I
used a word not strictly orthodox, and I'm a deacon of the church. But I
was so took aback."

Mrs. Van Dorn nodded her pardon. "You see," she said quietly, "that it
isn't quite as if she had been given to you. Her father might have
returned and taken her. Then, when a child is fourteen she is allowed to
choose her guardians. I shall stand in that capacity for the next two
years. I shall arrange matters with my legal man in New York, so that,
even if anything should happen to me she would have her two years at
school. People lose their wits, sometimes."

"I don't believe you will lose yours. You're wonderfully well kept," he
said with blunt admiration. "Well, I d'know as we could do anything if
we wanted to. Mother's had other plans for her, but the child didn't
fall in with them. She was mighty glad to come over here. There isn't
much Mulford about her," with an abrupt sort of laugh. "We never just
got along with her father, but he was a good enough sort of man. We've
tried to do by Helen as one of our own, and Mother would now. But I
can't think it would be quite right to stand in the child's way."

"No, it would not," decisively. "She has her life to live, and you can't
do that for her. She has some fine natural gifts which it would be a sin
to traverse. I will have my lawyer draw up an agreement that you will
not interfere during the next two years----"

"But are we not to see her?" he interrupted, quite aghast at the
prospect.

"Yes; you may visit her, and she can spend her vacations at home, and
write as often as she has time. I should change my opinion of her if she
was glad to go away, and forget you altogether. I am sure, then, I could
not trust her gratitude to me," she said decisively.

"No, ma'am, that you couldn't," he subjoined earnestly. "Helen isn't
that kind, I'm sure. And we wouldn't like to have her go out of our
lives altogether."

"I should not desire her to."

"But, ma'am, after she's had all this fine living and everything, I'm
afraid we'll seem very common. You don't think she'd better go to
school here, and keep nearer her own folks?"

"Well, the other plan seems best to me. But after she has tried it a
year, if she doesn't like it she shall be at liberty to come back to
Hope."

"That's fair, I'm sure. Thank you, ma'am. And I don't just know what to
say, only that I think it's mighty generous of you, though she's welcome
to my home and all I have. I've never grudged her a penny."

"I am sure of that. Will you explain the matter to your wife? The
agreement will come next week. And at the last I shall take her to New
York to be fitted out with clothes. If there is any point you do not
quite understand I shall be very willing to explain."

He rose in a dazed kind of fashion, and made an awkward bow, then went
round to the kitchen end, where Helen had been sorting over
blackberries.

"Oh, my child," he cried with a new tenderness. "I can't bear to think
of your going away!"

Helen gave a long, sighing breath, then smiled.

"Miss Gage is to be taken to Europe, and her folks are willing," she
subjoined.

"And this place isn't so far away. You can write and come home in
vacation."

Then he would consent. She felt relieved that there was to be no
argument.

"What do you think Aunt Jane will say?" she inquired, clasping his arm.

"Well, she'll be mighty set against it. I'll have a hard row to hoe when
I go home. There'll be weeds of last year and year before," laughing
brusquely. "I wish the old lady had to tackle her."

"But I don't. Aunt Jane says a good many things at first that she
doesn't mean. It's the wrong side of something full of seams and knots,
but when you get it turned out it is ever so much smoother."

"You're right. You're just right. You've quick sight in a good many
things, Helen, and I should hate awfully to have you spoiled, and get so
grand you'd look down on us. Mother aint much for book learnin', and
Jen's as smart as a steel trap, if she is ours. Oh, and there's the
wedding. Why I don't see how we can do without you," and he looked
really alarmed.

"Perhaps I won't have to go so soon." Somehow she was almost afraid she
wouldn't go at all. It was one of the happenings that seemed too good to
be true, too wonderful for her.

"Well, I must get along. Mother'll wonder what kept me."

"And, oh, Uncle Jason, don't ever feel afraid that I shall forget you,
and all your goodness."

Helen flung her arms around his neck and kissed his rough cheek
tenderly.

"No, my girl, no. I should hope not. We'll hear soon, I suppose. And you
will come over."

"Yes." Helen felt a little conscience smitten. She could go over and
spend Sunday, but he did not ask it, and she did not proffer. She could
imagine the time there would be, and oh, she would so much rather be out
of it.

Mrs. Van Dorn said he was much more amenable to reason than she had
feared. She explained about the agreement, and her plans to go the last
of next week. Helen was transfixed with amazement.

Monday afternoon Mr. Warfield made his appearance. Miss Gage had gone
out with Mrs. Van Dorn. Helen was very glad to have Mrs. Dayton explain
the proposal, and point out its advantages.

"I don't like it," he exclaimed brusquely. "And you didn't take the
examination?"

"Oh, yes, I did, and it was splendid! I'll show you the papers. But why
don't you like it?" apprehensively.

"If you are going to teach in a public school, the discipline and
advantages of the public school education are immeasurably the best. I
don't like boarding schools except for the high up people who care most
for accomplishments. And I have been thinking it over, and had a plan to
propose to Mrs. Dayton."

"My schooldays seem a great perplexity all around," said Helen with a
dubious sort of laugh.

"I do suppose Helen could have worked her way through. I had decided to
give her a home, or her other expenses if a pleasant home offered. I
would much rather not have her put on the level of a domestic. We may
have some very fine theories on this subject, but Helen would have many
snubs to endure. And if she resolves to learn what is useful, she will
learn it as well there."

"But the experience will be so different. And two years will fit her
for just nothing at all. Every year more real education is demanded. I
am studying up for a college degree myself."

"Oh, dear!" Helen sighed lugubriously.

"Then, here, I should have had an oversight of your studies, and kept
you up to the mark."

"I am resolved I won't fall below anywhere," she replied resolutely; yet
there were tears in her eyes.

"But you don't know what the standard will be."

"Don't be discouraging, Mr. Warfield. Helen, go and get your papers,"
interposed Mrs. Dayton.

"Is that old body going to have Helen trained for a lady's maid?" Mr.
Warfield asked in an imperious manner; his lips touched with a bit of
scorn.

"You don't do her justice. At the end of two years Helen will be free to
choose her future course. She will be only sixteen then."

"And spoiled utterly. Full of airs and graces. She is too fine a girl to
be made a sort of puppet. There wasn't a girl in my class equal to her,
and some had had much better advantages. I should not want her to go on
living with the Mulfords."

Helen returned bright and eager, proud of her success as she handed him
her examination papers. But Mr. Warfield would not be reconciled to the
boarding school plan, and when he saw Mrs. Van Dorn step out of the
carriage in her fine attire, he felt that he hated her; that she was an
officious old body.
