He thought to himself that she must resemble her dead mother, because
the man whom the cavalry had caught in the creek was a coarse-boned,
red-headed ruffian, quite impossible to reconcile as the father of this
dark-haired, dark-eyed, young forest creature, with her purely-molded
limbs and figure and sensitive fashion of speaking. He turned to her
curiously:

"So you have not always lived here on the mountain."

"No, not always."

"I suppose you spent a whole year away from home at boarding-school," he
suggested with patronizing politeness.

"Yes, six years at Edgewood," she said in a low voice.

"What?" he exclaimed, repeating the name of the most fashionable
Southern institute for young ladies. "Why, I had a sister
there--Margaret Kent. Were you there? And did you ever--er--see my
sister?"

"I knew her," said the Special Messenger absently.

He was very silent for a while, thinking to himself.

"It must have been her mother; that measly old man we caught in the
creek is 'poor white' all through." And, munching thoughtfully again on
his soggy corncake, he pondered over the strange fate of this
fascinating young girl, fashioned to slay the hearts of Southern
chivalry--so young, so sweet, so soft of voice and manner, condemned to
live life through alone in this shaggy solitude--fated, doubtless, to
mate with some loose, lank, shambling, hawk-eyed rustic of the
peaks--doomed to bear sickly children, and to fade and dry and wither in
the full springtide of her youth and loveliness.

"It's too bad," he said fretfully, unconscious that he spoke aloud,
unaware, too, that she had risen and was moving idly, with bent head,
among the weeds of the truck garden--edging nearer, nearer, to a dark,
round object about the size of a small apple, which had rolled into a
furrow where the ground was all cut up by the wheel tracks of artillery
and hoofs of heavy horses.

There was scarcely a chance that she could pick it up unobserved; her
ragged skirts covered it; she bent forward as though to tie her shoe,
but a sentinel was watching her, so she straightened up carelessly and
stood, hands on her hips, dragging one foot idly to and fro, until she
had covered the small, round object with sand and gravel.

That object was a loaded French hand grenade, fitted with percussion
primer; and it lay last at the end of a long row of similar grenades
along the shaded side of the house.

The sentry in the bushes had been watching her; and now he came out
along the edge of the laurel tangle, apparently to warn her away, but
seeing a staff officer so near her he halted, satisfied that authority
had been responsible for her movements. Besides, he had not noticed that
a grenade was missing; neither had the major, who now rose and sauntered
toward her, balancing his field glasses in one hand.

"There's ammunition under these bushes," he said pleasantly; "don't go
any nearer, please. Those grenades might explode if anyone stumbled
over them. They're bad things to handle."

"Will there be a battle here?" she asked, recoiling from the deadly
little bombs.

The Major said, stroking the down on his short upper lip:

"There will probably be a skirmish. I do not dare let you leave this
spot till the first shot is fired. But as soon as you hear it you had
better run as fast as you can"--he pointed with his field glasses--"to
that little ridge over there, and lie down behind the rocks on the other
side. Do you understand?"

"Yes--I think so."

"And you'll lie there very still until it is--over?"

"I understand. May I go immediately and hide there?"

"Not yet," he said gently.

"Why?"

"Because your father is a Union man.... And you are Union, too, are you
not?"

"Yes," she said, smiling; "are you afraid of me?"

A slight flush stained his smooth, sunburnt skin; then he laughed.

"A little afraid," he admitted; "I find you dangerous, but not in the
way you mean. I--I do not mean to offend you----"

But she smiled audaciously at him, looking prettier than ever; and his
heart gave a surprised little jump at her unsuspected capabilities.

"Why are you afraid of me?" she asked, looking at him with her engaging
little smile. In her eyes a bewitching brightness sparkled, partly
veiled by the long lashes; and she laughed again, poised there in the
sunshine, hands on her hips, delicately provoking his reply.

And, crossing the chasm which her coquetry had already bridged, he paid
her the quick, reckless, boyish compliment she invited--a little
flowery, perhaps, possibly a trifle stilted, but very Southern; and she
shrugged like a spoiled court beauty, nose uptilted, and swept him with
a glance from half-closed lids, almost insolent.

The sentry in the holly and laurel thicket stared hard at them both. And
he saw his major break off a snowy Cherokee rose and, bending at his
slim, sashed waist, present the blossom with the courtly air inbred
through many generations; and he saw a ragged mountaineer girl accept it
with all the dainty and fastidious mockery of a coquette of the golden
age, and fasten it where her faded bodice edged the creamy skin of her
breast.

What the young major said to her after that, bending nearer and nearer,
the sentry could not hear, for the major's voice was very low, and the
slow, smiling reply was lower still.

But the major straightened as though he had been shot through and
through, and bowed and walked away among the weeds toward a group of
officers under the trees, who were steadily watching the pass through
their leveled field glasses.

Once the major turned around to look back: once she turned on the
threshold. Her cheeks were pinker; her eyes sparkled.

The emotions of the Special Messenger were very genuine and rather
easily excited.

But when she had closed the door, and leaned wearily against it, the
color soon faded from her face and the sparkle died out in her dark
eyes. Pale, alert, intelligent, she stood there minute after minute,
searching the single room with anxious, purposeless eyes; then, driven
into restless motion by the torturing tension of anxiety, she paced the
loose boards like a tigress, up and down, head lowered, hands clasped
against her mouth, worrying the fingers with the edge of her teeth.

Outside, through the dirty window glass, she could see sentries in the
bushes, all looking steadily in the same direction; groups of officers
under the trees still focused their glasses on the pass. By and by she
saw some riflemen in butternut jeans climb into trees, rifles slung
across their backs, and disappear far up in the foliage, still climbing.

Toward five o'clock, as she was eating the bacon and hoe cakes which she
had found in the hut, two infantry officers opened the door, stared at
her, then, without ceremony, drew a rough ladder from the corner, set
it outside, and the older officer climbed to the roof.

She heard him call down to the lieutenant below:

"No use; I can't see any better up here.... They ought to set a signal
man on that rock, yonder!"

Other officers came over; one or two spoke respectfully to her, but she
did not answer. Finally they all cleared out; and she dragged a bench to
the back door, which swung open a little way, and, alert against
surprise, very cautiously drew from the inner pocket her linen contour
map and studied it, glancing every second or two out through the crack
in the door.

Nobody disturbed her; with hesitating forefinger she traced out what
pretended to be a path dominating the northern entrance of the pass,
counted the watercourses and gullies crossing the ascent, tried to fix
the elevations in her mind.

As long as she dared she studied the soiled map, but, presently, a quick
shadow fell across the threshold, and she thrust the map into the
concealed pocket and sprang to open the door.

"Coming military events cast foreboding shadows," she said, somewhat
breathless.

"Am I a foreboding and military event?" asked the youthful major,
laughing. "What do I threaten, please?"

"Single combat," she said demurely, smiling at him under half-veiled
lids. And the same little thrill passed through him again, and the quick
color rose to his smooth, sunburnt face.

"I was ready to beat a retreat on sight," he said; "now I surrender."

"I make no prisoners," she replied in airy disdain.

"You give no quarter?"

"None.... Why did you come back?"

"You said I might."

"Did I? I had quite forgotten what I had said to you. When are you going
to let me go?"

His face fell and he looked up at her, troubled.

"I'm afraid you don't understand," he said. "We dare not send you away
under escort now, because horses' feet make a noise, and some prowling
Yankee vidette may be at this very moment hanging about the pass----"

"Oh," she said, "you prefer to let me remain here and be shot?"

He said, reddening: "At the first volley you are to go with an escort
across the ridge. I told you that, didn't I?"

But she remained scornful, mute and obstinate, pretty head bent,
twisting the folds of her faded skirt.

"Do you think I would let you remain here if there were any danger?" he
asked in a lower voice.

"How long am I to be kept here?" she asked pettishly.

"Until the Yankees come through--and I can't tell you when that will be,
because I don't know myself."

"Are they in the pass?"

"We don't know. Everybody is beginning to be worried. We can't see very
far into that ravine----"

"Then why don't you go where you can see?" she said with a shrug.

"Where?" he asked, surprised.

"Didn't you know that there is a path above the pass?"

"A path!"

"Certainly. I can show you if you wish. You ought to be able to see to
the north end of the pass--if I am not mistaken----"

"Wait a moment!" he said excitedly. "I want you to take me there--just a
second, to speak to those officers--I'm coming back immediately----"

And he started on a run across the ravaged garden, holding his sabre
close, midway, by the scabbard.

That was her chance. Picking up her faded sunbonnet, she stepped from
the threshold, swinging it carelessly by one string. The sentries were
looking after the major; she dropped her sunbonnet, stooped to recover
it, and straightened up, the hidden hand grenade slipping from the crown
of the bonnet into her bodice between her breasts.

A thousand eyes seemed watching her as, a trifle pale, she strolled on
aimlessly, swinging the recovered sunbonnet; she listened, shivering,
for the stern challenge to halt, the breathless shout of accusation, the
pursuing trample of heavy boots. And at last, quaking in every limb, she
ventured to lift her eyes. Nobody seemed to be looking her way; the
artillery pickets were still watching the pass; the group of officers
posted under the trees still focused their glasses in that direction;
the young major was already returning across the garden toward her.



A sharp throb of hope set her pulses bounding--she had, safe in her
bosom, the means of warning her own people now; all she needed was a
safe-conduct from that knoll, and here it was coming, brought by this
eager, boyish officer, hastening so blithely toward her, his long, dark
shadow clinging like death to his spurred heels as he ran.

Would she guide him to some spot where it was possible to see the whole
length of the pass?

She nodded, not trusting herself to speak, and turned, he at her side,
into the woods.

If her map was not betraying her once more the path must follow the
edges of the pass, high up among those rocks and trees somewhere. There
was only one way of finding it--to climb upward to the overhanging
ledges.

Raising her eyes toward the leafy heights, it seemed to her incredible
that any path could lead along that wall of rock, which leaned outward
over the ravine.

But somehow she must mount there; somehow she must manage to remain
there unmolested, ready, the moment a single Union vidette cantered
into the pass, to hurl her explosive messenger into the depths below--a
startling but unmistakable signal to the blue column advancing so
unsuspiciously into that defile of hell.

As they climbed upward together through the holly-scrub she remembered
that she must not slip, for the iron weight in her bosom would endure no
rough caress from rock or earth.

How heavy it was--how hot and rough, chafing her body--this little iron
sphere, with a dozen deaths sealed up inside!

Toiling upward, planting her roughly shod feet with fearful precision,
she tried to imagine what it would be like if the tiny bomb in her bosom
exploded--tried to picture her terrified soul tearing skyward out of
bodily annihilation.

"It is curious," she thought with a slight shudder, "how afraid I always
am--how deeply, deeply afraid of death. God knows why I go on."

The boy beside her found the ascent difficult; spur and sabre impeded
him; once he lurched heavily against her, and his quick, stammered
apology was cut short by the dreadful pallor of her face, for she was
