prove satisfactory I'll give you eight dollars at the end of three
months, and ten dollars at the end of the first year."

"Thank you, very much."

"You can go to work at once." Mr. Garwell touched a push-button on his
desk, and a clerk appeared. "Wilson, this is the new clerk, Nat Nason.
You can show him his duties. And tell those others that are waiting that
the position is filled."

"Yes, sir."

"Wait a minute, Nason. Wilson, you can go."

The clerk disappeared, closing the door behind him.

"I just wished to say a word about what you did for me the other day."

"Oh, that's all right."

"Here is a five-dollar bill for a reward."

"But I don't want any reward, Mr. Garwell. It was nice of you to give me
the position."

"Didn't you just own up that you were short of funds?"

"Yes, sir, but----"

"That's all right. Take the money. And now let me tell you something as
a friend."

"Yes, sir."

"I like my clerks to look neat and clean at all times. It pays to look
that way. Never come down to the office with a dirty collar, or with
dirty shoes."

"I'll remember that."

"I don't ask you to dress in the topmost style, or be a dude. But keep
yourself neat and clean."

"I will, sir."

"Then that is all. If anything doesn't go right in the office don't
hesitate to let me know."




CHAPTER XV

ABNER AND THE WIDOW GUFF


It was with a light heart that Nat went to work for Mr. John Garwell. He
felt that his employer was a man to be trusted, and one who would do the
best he could for those under him.

"It was a lucky thing for me that I took that walk on the Brooklyn
Bridge," he reasoned. "Perhaps I shouldn't have gotten the job
otherwise."

The clerk, Wilson, proved kind and considerate, and under him our hero
learned rapidly.

"Didn't I tell you that you'd strike luck," said Dick. "Now, all you've
got to do is to nurse that job carefully, and you'll be at the top of
the firm some day."

"Well, I am going to nurse it as carefully as I can," laughed Nat.

When our hero had time he went to the police headquarters to see if
anything had been learned of Nick Smithers.

"Nothing yet," said the officer in charge. "But I think he'll be run
down sooner or later."

"I'd like to run him down myself."

"I've no doubt you would."

Nat had been working for Mr. Garwell about a week when he received
another letter from Sam Price. Sam wrote, in part, as follows:

     "Since I sent my last letter, there have been great changes at your
     uncle's farm. He has discharged the housekeeper, and some say he is
     courting the Widow Guff. For all I know they'll be married pretty
     soon. More than that, I heard somebody say that he was thinking of
     coming to New York to look for you."

Nat read this communication with close attention. He knew the Widow Guff
as a person who took boarders in the town where he had sold his cow. She
had three children, and had the reputation of being a rather tart and
self-willed woman.

"I shouldn't think Uncle Abner would want to marry that widow," thought
Nat. "Wonder what put it into his head? And what put it into his head to
come to New York to look for me? I'd rather he would keep his distance."

Nat did not know that for the past few months the Widow Guff had had a
hard time of it with a number of her boarders, and could scarcely make
both ends meet, yet such was a fact.

One day the widow called on a friend, and from this friend learned that
Abner Balberry had discharged his housekeeper, and was keeping house by
himself.

"It's a shame for him to be all alone," thought the widow. "And with
that nephew of his away, too! Some good woman ought to be keeping house
for him."

The widow had long had her eye on Abner Balberry, whom she knew fairly
well. She knew Abner was well-to-do, and keeping a boarding house seemed
of a sudden a great burden to her.

"Wish I could make Abner propose," she said to herself. "He just ought
to have a wife."

So the widow kept on thinking, and by and by her face brightened. She
had an idea, which she resolved to put into execution the very first
opportunity.

"Fred," said she to her son, a tall gawk of a boy, "I want you to go to
Mr. Abner Balberry's house, and ask him if he will stop in and see me
the first time he comes to town."

"Wot do yer want, ma?" drawled Fred.

"Never mind, Fred. Just ask him to call. Say I'd like a little advice
from him."

Fred shuffled off on his errand, and found Nat's uncle down in the
henhouse, searching for eggs.

"Ma wants you to come and see her," said the youth.

"Wants me to come an' see her?" queried Nat's uncle.

"Yep."

"What for?"

"Dunno. Said she'd like some advice."

"All right; I'll come," said Abner.

That afternoon, after milking, he arrayed himself in his best, and drove
over to the widow's boarding house. He was glad to make the visit, for
since discharging his housekeeper he had found life on the farm rather
lonely.

The widow greeted him warmly, and asked him into her parlor, closing the
doors, so that nobody might interrupt them. She seemed somewhat
embarrassed.

"Fred told me that you would like to see me," commenced Nat's uncle.

"Yes, Abner, I do; but I'm afraid you'll think it strange of me--at
least of what I have to say to you."

"Oh, that's all right, Lucy; you know you kin trust me," he replied.

"Suppose,"--the widow cast down her eyes,--"mind, I am only supposing a
case--suppose a person should find a pot full of gold pieces in an old
well, would the law have a right to touch it, or would it belong to the
finder?"

At the mention of a pot of gold, Abner Balberry became exceedingly
interested. As we know, he was very miserly, and he realized that a pot
of gold would be worth a good deal of money.

"A pot of gold, Lucy," he said. "Why, unquestionably, the law would have
nothing to do with it."

"Could the one who had owned the house years before, or lived in the
place, come forward and claim it?"

"No, Lucy; I think not."

"Thank you, very much, Abner, for your advice. The--er--question just
came into my--er--mind, and I wanted to satisfy myself; that's all."

"Certainly, widow, certainly," answered Nat's uncle. He wanted to ask
some questions, but did not dare.

"Now you are here, you must take supper with me," went on the Widow
Guff.

"Thank you, Lucy, you are very kind----"

"I know you haven't any housekeeper any more, and nobody to cook for
you. Yes, stay by all means."

The widow was a fairly good cook, and Nat's uncle ate with a relish all
that was offered to him, ending with a piece of berry pie which was
particularly fine. He spent a social hour after the meal, and then drove
home in a thoughtful mood.

"Is it possible that the widow really found a pot of gold in the well?"
he thought. "She didn't really say so, but it was mighty odd for her to
ask me such questions. I'll have to look into this a bit." And then he
got to thinking that the widow was not such a bad-looking woman after
all, and a wife with a pot of gold would be a very nice thing to
possess.

About a week later Abner Balberry had occasion to go to town, to draw a
little money from the bank, with which to pay for a cow he had
purchased. He was passing the widow's home when she came out on the
piazza and nodded to him.

"Good-morning," she said.

"Good-morning," he returned, and stopped for a chat. During the course
of the conversation he mentioned his errand, and she said she was going
to the bank too. He asked her to ride to the institution, and she
accepted the invitation. When they arrived there he told her he would
wait until she was through. Then he went around to a side window of the
bank, where he might hear what took place.

The widow tripped up to the window.

"Can you give me change for a ten-dollar gold piece?" she asked.

"With pleasure, Mrs. Guff," was the answer, and the change for the gold
piece was immediately forthcoming.

"By the way," went on the widow, "the bank is in quite a flourishing
condition, is it not?"

"We are doing finely, yes."

"And you receive deposits, do you not?"

"Of course."

"Do you receive as high as--as five thousand dollars?"

"No," answered the cashier, in some surprise. "Three thousand dollars
from one depositor is our limit. Do you know of anybody who----"

"It's of no consequence," interrupted the widow, hurriedly. "I only
asked out of curiosity. How much interest do you pay?"

"Four per cent. on the first thousand and three per cent. on the
remainder."

"Thank you, and much obliged for the change. Good-morning," and the
Widow Guff tripped out lightly and hurried up the street.

Abner Balberry had overheard every word and his face was a study as he
went into the bank to draw what he wanted, thirty dollars.

"Jest had the Widow Guff here, didn't you?" he said, lightly.

"Yes, Mr. Balberry." The cashier paused. "Do you know if anybody has
left her money lately?" he continued.

"Not that I know on? Why?"

"Oh, she was asking what rate of interest we paid, and if we took as
high as five thousand dollars."

"I see. Well, I don't know nothin' about it," and Abner Balberry
pocketed his money and his bank book, and walked out after the widow.

If he had been in deep thought before he was more so now. Was it
possible that the widow had found five thousand dollars?

"She changed a ten-dollar piece," he reasoned. "I reckon I kin see
through a millstone when there's a hole through it. Tell ye what, a
widder with five thousand in gold ain't to be sneezed at! I wonder if
anybody else knows o' this? Hope they don't!"

That evening the farmer sat up till late, thinking the situation over.
He did not wish for a wife so much, but he did wish to get his hands on
that pot of gold.

"If I want her I'll have to propose before some other feller hears o'
this," he told himself.

The farmer made it his business to go to town two days later, and drove
past the widow's house very slowly. She saw him from a window, and
nodded and smiled.

This was encouraging, and on returning from his errand, he tied up in
front of the place, and rang the bell.

"Oh, Abner, I am delighted to see you!" said the widow, on coming to the
door. "Come in."

"Thank you, Lucy," he answered, and entered the parlor.

"It was so good of you to come," she simpered. "I wanted somebody to
talk to."

"Anything special?" he asked, curiously.

"I have received notice to leave this house. I guess Mr. Haskell, the
