respectabilities, even in the privacy of their clubs--the people's ears
were getting terribly sharp these days! But among the real giants of
business you might have thought yourself in a society of
revolutionists; they would tear up the mountain tops and hurl them at
each other. When one of these old war-horses once got started, he would
tell tales of deviltry to appall the soul of the hardiest muck-rake
man. It was always the other fellow, of course; but then, if you pinned
your man down, and if he thought that he could trust you--he would
acknowledge that he had sometimes fought the enemy with the enemy's own
weapons!

But of course one must understand that all this radicalism was for
conversational purposes only. The Major, for instance, never had the
slightest idea of doing anything about all the evils of which he told;
when it came to action, he proposed to do just what he had done all his
life--to sit tight on his own little pile. And the Millionaires' was an
excellent place to learn to do it!

"See that old money-bags over there in the corner," said the Major.
"He's a man you want to fix in your mind--old Henry S. Grimes. Have you
heard of him?"

"Vaguely," said the other.

"He's Laura Hegan's uncle. She'll have his money also some day--but
Lord, how he does hold on to it meantime! It's quite tragic, if you
come to know him--he's frightened at his own shadow. He goes in for
slum tenements, and I guess he evicts more people in a month than you
could crowd into this building!"

Montague looked at the solitary figure at the table, a man with a
wizened-up little face like a weasel's, and a big napkin tied around
his neck. "That's so as to save his shirt-front for to-morrow," the
Major explained. "He's really only about sixty, but you'd think he was
eighty. Three times every day he sits here and eats a bowl of graham
crackers and milk, and then goes out and sits rigid in an arm-chair for
an hour. That's the regimen his doctors have put him on--angels and
ministers of grace defend us!"

The old gentleman paused, and a chuckle shook his scarlet jowls. "Only
think!" he said--"they tried to do that to me! But no, sir--when Bob
Venable has to eat graham crackers and milk, he'll put in arsenic
instead of sugar! That's the way with many a one of these rich fellows,
though--you picture him living in Capuan luxury, when, as a matter of
fact, he's a man with a torpid liver and a weak stomach, who is put to
bed at ten o'clock with a hot-water bag and a flannel night-cap!"

The two had got up and were strolling toward the smoking-room; when
suddenly at one side a door opened, and a group of men came out. At the
head of them was an extraordinary figure, a big powerful body with a
grim face. "Hello!" said the Major. "All the big bugs are here
to-night. There must be a governors' meeting."

"Who is that?" asked his companion; and he answered, "That? Why, that's
Dan Waterman."

Dan Waterman! Montague stared harder than ever, and now he identified
the face with the pictures he had seen. Waterman, the Colossus of
finance, the Croesus of copper and gold! How many trusts had Waterman
organized! And how many puns had been made upon that name of his!

"Who are the other men?" Montague asked.

"Oh, they're just little millionaires," was the reply.

The "little millionaires" were following as a kind of body-guard; one
of them, who was short and pudgy, was half running, to keep up with
Waterman's heavy stride. When they came to the coat-room, they crowded
the attendants away, and one helped the great man on with his coat, and
another held his hat, and another his stick, and two others tried to
talk to him. And Waterman stolidly buttoned his coat, and then seized
his hat and stick, and without a word to anyone, bolted through the
door.

It was one of the funniest sights that Montague had ever seen in his
life, and he laughed all the way into the smoking-room. And, when Major
Venable had settled himself in a big chair and bitten off the end of a
cigar and lighted it, what floodgates of reminiscence were opened!

For Dan Waterman was one of the Major's own generation, and he knew all
his life and his habits. Just as Montague had seen him there, so he had
been always; swift, imperious, terrible, trampling over all opposition;
the most powerful men in the city quailed before the glare of his eyes.
In the old days Wall Street had reeled in the shock of the conflicts
between him and his most powerful rival.

And the Major went on to tell about Waterman's rival, and his life. He
had been the city's traction-king, old Wyman had been made by him. He
was the prince among political financiers; he had ruled the Democratic
party in state and nation. He would give a quarter of a million at a
time to the boss of Tammany Hall, and spend a million in a single
campaign; on "dough-day," when the district leaders came to get the
election funds, there would be a table forty feet long completely
covered with hundred-dollar bills. He would have been the richest man
in America, save that he spent his money as fast as he got it. He had
had the most famous racing-stable in America; and a house on Fifth
Avenue that was said to be the finest Italian palace in the world. Over
three millions had been spent in decorating it; all the ceilings had
been brought intact from palaces abroad, which he had bought and
demolished! The Major told a story to show how such a man lost all
sense of the value of money; he had once been sitting at lunch with
him, when the editor of one of his newspapers had come in and remarked,
"I told you we would need eight thousand dollars, and the check you
send is for ten." "I know it," was the smiling answer--"but somehow I
thought eight seemed harder to write than ten!"

"Old Waterman's quite a spender, too, when it comes to that," the Major
went on. "He told me once that it cost him five thousand dollars a day
for his ordinary expenses. And that doesn't include a million-dollar
yacht, nor even the expenses of it.

"And think of another man I know of who spent a million dollars for a
granite pier, so that he could land and see his mistress!--It's a fact,
as sure as God made me! She was a well-known society woman, but she was
poor, and he didn't dare to make her rich for fear of the scandal. So
she had to live in a miserable fifty-thousand-dollar villa; and when
other people's children would sneer at her children because they lived
in a fifty-thousand-dollar villa, the answer would be, 'But you haven't
got any pier!' And if you don't believe that--"

But here suddenly the Major turned, and observed a boy who had brought
him some cigars, and who was now standing near by, pretending to
straighten out some newspapers upon the table. "Here, sir!" cried the
Major, "what do you mean--listening to what I'm saying! Out of the room
with you now, you rascal!"




CHAPTER XIII


Another week-end came, and with it an invitation from the Lester Todds
to visit them at their country place in New Jersey. Montague was buried
in his books, but his brother routed him out with strenuous protests.
His case be damned--was he going to ruin his career for one case? At
all hazards, he must meet people--"people who counted." And the Todds
were such, a big money crowd, and a power in the insurance world; if
Montague were going to be an insurance lawyer, he could not possibly
decline their invitation. Freddie Vandam would be a guest--and Montague
smiled at the tidings that Betty Wyman would be there also. He had
observed that his brother's week-end visits always happened at places
where Betty was, and where Betty's granddaddy was not.

So Montague's man packed his grips, and Alice's maid her trunks; and
they rode with a private-car party to a remote Jersey suburb, and were
whirled in an auto up a broad shell road to a palace upon the top of a
mountain. Here lived the haughty Lester Todds, and scattered about on
the neighbouring hills, a set of the ultra-wealthy who had withdrawn to
this seclusion. They were exceedingly "classy"; they affected to regard
all the Society of the city with scorn, and had their own
all-the-year-round diversions--an open-air horse show in summer, and in
the fall fox-hunting in fancy uniforms.

The Lester Todds themselves were ardent pursuers of all varieties of
game, and in various clubs and private preserves they followed the
seasons, from Florida and North Carolina to Ontario, with occasional
side trips to Norway, and New Brunswick, and British Columbia. Here at
home they had a whole mountain of virgin forest, carefully preserved;
and in the Renaissance palace at the summit-which they carelessly
referred to as a "lodge"--you would find such articles de vertu as a
ten-thousand-dollar table with a set of two-thousand-dollar chairs, and
quite ordinary-looking rugs at ten and twenty thousand dollars
each.--All these prices you might ascertain without any difficulty at
all, because there were many newspaper articles describing the house to
be read in an album in the hall. On Saturday afternoons Mrs. Todd
welcomed the neighbours in a pastel grey reception-gown, the front of
which contained a peacock embroidered in silk, with jewels in every
feather, and a diamond solitaire for an eye; and in the evening there
was a dance, and she appeared in a gown with several hundred diamonds
sewn upon it, and received her guests upon a rug set with jewels to
match.

All together, Montague judged this the "fastest" set he had yet
encountered; they ate more and drank more and intrigued more openly. He
had been slowly acquiring the special lingo of Society, but these
people had so much more slang that he felt all lost again. A young lady
who was gossiping to him about those present remarked that a certain
youth was a "spasm"; and then, seeing the look of perplexity upon his
face, she laughed, "I don't believe you know what I mean!" Montague
replied that he had ventured to infer that she did not like him.

And then there was Mrs. Harper, who came from Chicago by way of London.
Ten years ago Mrs. Harper had overwhelmed New York with the millions
brought from her great department-store; and had then moved on, sighing
for new worlds to conquer. When she had left Chicago, her grammar had
been unexceptionable; but since she had been in England, she said "you
ain't" and dropped all her g's; and when Montague brought down a bird
at long range, she exclaimed, condescendingly, "Why, you're quite a dab
at it!" He sat in the front seat of an automobile, and heard the great
lady behind him referring to the sturdy Jersey farmers, whose ancestors
had fought the British and Hessians all over the state, as "your
peasantry."

It was an extraordinary privilege to have Mrs. Harper for a guest; "at
home" she moved about in state recalling that of Queen Victoria, with
flags and bunting on the way, and crowds of school children cheering.
She kept up half a dozen establishments, and had a hundred thousand
acres of game preserves in Scotland. She made a speciality of
collecting jewels which had belonged to the romantic and picturesque
queens of history. She appeared at the dance in a breastplate of
diamonds covering the entire front of her bodice, so that she was
literally clothed in light; and with her was her English friend, Mrs.
Percy, who had accompanied her in her triumph through the courts and
camps of Europe, and displayed a famous lorgnette-chain, containing one
specimen of every rare and beautiful jewel known. Mrs. Percy wore a
gown of cloth of gold tissue, covered with a fortune in Venetian lace,
and made a tremendous sensation--until the rumour spread that it was a
rehash of the costume which Mrs. Harper had worn at the Duchess of
London's ball. The Chicago lady herself never by any chance appeared in
the same costume twice.

Alice had a grand time at the Todds'; all the men fell in love with
her--one in particular, a young chap named Fayette, quite threw himself
at her feet. He was wealthy, but unfortunately he had made his money by
eloping with a rich girl (who was one of the present party), and so,
from a practical point of view, his attentions were not desirable for
Alice.

Montague was left with the task of finding these things out for
himself, for his brother devoted himself exclusively to Betty Wyman.
The way these two disappeared between meals was a jest of the whole
company; so that when they were on their way home, Montague felt called
upon to make paternal inquiries.

"We're as much engaged as we dare to be," Oliver answered him.

"And when do you expect to marry her?"

"God knows," said he, "I don't. The old man wouldn't give her a cent."

"And you couldn't support her?"

"I? Good heavens, Allan--do you suppose Betty would consent to be poor?"

"Have you asked her?" inquired Montague.

"I don't want to ask her, thank you! I've not the least desire to live
in a hovel with a girl who's been brought up in a palace."

"Then what do you expect to do?"

"Well, Betty has a rich aunt in a lunatic asylum. And then I'm making
money, you know--and the old boy will have to relent in the end. And
we're having a very good time in the meanwhile, you know."

"You can't be very much in love," said Montague--to which his brother
replied cheerfully that they were as much in love as they felt like
being.

This was on the train Monday morning. Oliver observed that his brother
relapsed into a brown study, and remarked, "I suppose you're going back
now to bury yourself in your books. You've got to give me one evening
this week for a dinner that's important."

"Where's that?" asked the other.

"Oh, it's a long story," said Oliver. "I'll explain it to you some
time. But first we must have an understanding about next week, also--I
suppose you've not overlooked the fact that it's Christmas week. And
you won't be permitted to do any work then."

"But that's impossible!" exclaimed the other.

"Nothing else is possible," said Oliver, firmly. "I've made an
engagement for you with the Eldridge Devons up the Hudson--"

"For the whole week?"

"The whole week. And it'll be the most important thing you've done.
Mrs. Winnie's going to take us all in her car, and you will make no end
of indispensable acquaintances."

"Oliver, I don't see how in the world I can do it!" the other protested
in dismay, and went on for several minutes arguing and explaining what
he had to do. But Oliver contented himself with the assurance that
where there's a will, there's a way. One could not refuse an invitation
to spend Christmas with the Eldridge Devons!

And sure enough, there was a way. Mr. Hasbrook had mentioned to him
that he had had considerable work done upon the case, and would have
the papers sent round. And when Montague reached his office that
morning, he found them there. There was a package of several thousand
pages; and upon examining them, he found to his utter consternation
that they contained a complete bill of complaint, with all the
necessary references and citations, and a preliminary draught of a
brief--in short, a complete and thoroughgoing preparation of his case.
There could not have been less than ten or fifteen thousand dollars'
worth of work in the papers; and Montague sat quite aghast, turning
over the neatly typewritten sheets. He could indeed afford to attend
Christmas house parties, if all his clients were to treat him like this!

He felt a little piqued about it--for he had noted some of these points
for himself, and felt a little proud about them. Apparently he was to
be nothing but a figure-head in the case! And he turned to the phone
and called up Mr. Hasbrook, and asked him what he expected him to do
with these papers. There was the whole case here; and was he simply to
take them as they stood?

No one could have replied more considerately than did Mr. Hasbrook. The
