men who are always singing poor!"

"How many other kinds of things do you think I am?" he asked resignedly.

"I don’t know.  I think I’ll amuse myself by finding out."

"Meanwhile," he said, smiling, "remember I am always what I was when I
first set eyes on you—no!—the next second after I had seen you."

"A lightning change, cousin?"

"Like lightning, Diana."

"The lightning of the gods?"

"Diana’s own shaft....  ’The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the
moon by night,’ but I stand betwixt the rising sun of Japan and—you,
Diana.  Somebody’s shot me, that’s all."

"You are perfectly delightful, but do you realize that I’m dissecting
you all the while?"

"You once said——"

"Never mind that," she interrupted hastily; and blushed until it
infuriated her to calmness.  And to heal the sting with the cause of it
she said:

"You’re perfectly right, cousin; any man who can endure our scalpel will
be worth seizing and dragging to the parson.  But—you are perfectly safe
for a while.  It takes a lifetime to properly dissect a man of your
sort.  I’ll be eighty before I make up my mind about you."

"Eighty years is not beyond the statute of limitations."

"You’d marry me at eighty!  Do you know you’re beginning to trouble me?
I told you I was thoroughly feminine, and susceptible to flattery.  I
am; it’s too bad I’m so intelligent that I’ve really got to satisfy that
intelligence by spending years and years in dissecting you. Otherwise,
I’d run away with you now."

"In your Japanese silks and little straw sandals?"

"Oh, yes, if you were sentimental enough to insist."

"I would."

She shrugged.  "I knew you were a dreamer—captivated by a vision.
Suppose you had to see me pinning on store curls?"

"I’d help pin ’em."

"Well, there are plenty of other things to disillusion you.  I adore
onions."

"So do I," he said.

They laughed together.

She was near enough for him to be aware of the faint scent of her
breath, or it may have been a fragrance from her gown which stirred
slightly in the evening breeze, or the delicate fresh perfume of her
hair and skin—something indefinable, some exquisite emanation of youth
which had stolen subtly into his senses—something of her, and as
distinctly and inviolably hers as the occult atmosphere of a virgin
planet.

"Cousin," she said, "I thought we were to remove our masks in the family
circle.  They seem to be on as closely as ever."

He looked at her a moment.

"We never will remove them," he said.

"Never?"

"Never, Japonette."

"Why not?"

"Because, for example, in my case I want you to believe me everything
I’d like to be. I know what I am.  All people know what they are....
Does anybody ever really unmask? ... Could they if they wished to? There
would be only another mask beneath.... We can’t ever get rid of
masks....  I don’t care how hard we try, how honestly we try, how
intimate two people become, how deeply they may love—there’s always a
mask, and it grows there; and our own eyes are the slits. Even a mother
with her first born in her arms looks down into its eyes in vain—those
blue and transparent veils of a secret soul which sits behind them,
impenetrable, inviolable."

After a silence she said:

"Silvette was right; you are a poet, Jim.... How dusky it is growing
over the river. Silvette is probably superintending dinner preparations.
Shall we go down?"




                              *CHAPTER V*

                           *DE MOTU PROPRIO*


They arrived at Adriutha two days later in a roaring downpour of June
rain.  A maid conducted Silvette and Diana to their rooms, a valet
piloted Edgerton to another wing of the house devoted to bachelors’
quarters over the vast billiard room.

At the eastern end of the house Silvette stood beside the window while
the maid assigned to them undressed her.  Diana, already in her pajamas
and sandals, lay flat on the bed, one knee crossed over, swinging her
slim, bare foot and looking out at the rain.

It was a wet outlook across the meadows, over a low range of rocky and
wooded hills, behind which the invisible sun had already set.  In the
drenched foreground, beyond the meadow’s matted edge, the Deerfield
River tossed and foamed, swollen a deeper amber by the rain—a wide,
swift stream set with spray-dashed bowlders, and bordered alternately by
ledges dripping with verdure and sandy stretches full of low rain-beaten
willows.  The world, through its limpid veil of rain, looked like a
silvery aquarelle framed by a window.

Tea was presently served.  Silvette in her silk lounging suit came over
and seated herself on the edge of the bed; the maid finished drawing the
bath, and retired until again summoned.

"Well," sighed Silvette, pouring the tea, "here we are, Di.  How do you
feel about it now?"

"Depressed," said Diana briefly.

"So do I, somehow....  I wish we were back in New York, with just enough
to live on."

Diana swung her foot gently, but made no reply.

Presently she kicked off her sandal, lay thinking a moment, and then sat
up and accepted the cup of tea offered by her sister. They sipped their
tea in silence for a while, nibbled toast and cakes until sufficiently
refreshed.

"After all," observed Silvette, "what we are doing for a living is
purely a matter of personal taste.  It ought not to depress us."

"We should have told him!  That is the only thing that worries me,"
remarked Diana. "Still, it is really none of his business what we do for
a living."

"After all," repeated Silvette, "what is there to tell him?  Keno,
Nevada, has nothing to learn from New York in frivolity, I fancy. There
are several pretty women in every set who’d starve if they didn’t play
cards better than their neighbors."

"I rather wish we’d told him about our year there; yet, what is there to
tell?  Probably it resembled plenty of years with which he is perfectly
familiar."

"Do we have to account to Jim Edgerton anyway?" asked Silvette
impatiently.

"He wanted to come with us," mused Diana.  "When he wants to go, he’ll
go fast enough, I fancy.  It isn’t what he might think, or his possible
disapproval, that worries me; it’s that he ought to have been told more
about us in the beginning....  But how were we to tell him?"

"He didn’t ask, did he?"

"No; but, somehow or other, we ought to have put him au courant, and
then he could have had his choice about recognizing the relationship or
ignoring it.  That’s what bothers me a little."

"How could we possibly have told him all about ourselves the first
afternoon we ever set eyes on him?"

"There were two other afternoons; one is just ending....  I don’t know;
I might easily have created a situation in which it would have seemed
natural enough to mention our programme to him."

"Why didn’t you, Di?"

"Cowardice," said the girl frankly; and she stretched herself out flat
on the bed again.

"Do you think as much of Jim Edgerton’s opinion as that?"

"I seem to....  I didn’t want to take the risk of his disapproval.  I’m
beginning to realize that we’ve been dishonest with him."

"That is an ugly word, little sister."

"I don’t know any way to soften it.  A girl is either honest or the
contrary.  I was not honest with Jim Edgerton."

"He might not disapprove, after all.  He is no provincial."

"Yes—and he might disapprove.  Men of his kind who stand for almost
anything in outsiders are finicky about their own relatives. They really
don’t care what imprudence other people commit; they may even admire
it—even do it themselves—but there’s a difference as soon as it involves
one of the family.  I’ve an idea he is like that."

"Isn’t it stretching a thin tie of kinship too far to speak of Jim
Edgerton and ourselves in a family sense?  Are you and I not rather
inclined to abuse that word cousin, Diana?"

"He first used it to us," she said warmly; "it is his choice.  He’s a
very impulsive and generous boy; do you know it?"

"Yes, I do....  Isn’t it a thousand pities?"

"What about?"

"His losing everything—being so wretchedly poor....  And our being poor,
too."

"Yes," said Diana simply.

"And he’ll never, never recoup.  He is full of talent, and nothing else.
What a pity!  He isn’t the successful sort.  It’s a pity, isn’t it, Di?"

"Yes."

"Because he is already quite mad about you, Di—he’s a perfect boy about
you... How can men of his age retain their niceness and charm and
freshness, after what they usually pass through.  With all his
undesirable wisdom and his masculine worldly experiences, he’s
practically as innocent as we are."

Diana suddenly sat up cross-legged on the bed and gathered her ankles in
her hands.



"I wonder just how innocent we really are," she said, "with all those
things which we have been obliged to know about in our higher education?
And—speaking of education—there was our last year in Keno.  That year
did some curious things to us.  Do you realize our development, our
worldly evolution since the beginning of last year—how familiar we
became with that doubtful worldly wisdom which is supposed to be part of
the make-up of a woman of the world? ... Do you realize that it was a
year of laissez faire, of revelation, of laxity and acquiescence in
relaxation, a year of paradox, of ceremony sans façon, of schooling
oneself to overlook and accept, of an education in morals and their
immoral variations?  How aloof have we kept ourselves from what we have
learned to tolerate?—and how much was due to fastidiousness, how much to
expediency, how much to common sense, and how much to spiritual
conviction?"

"Does your conscience really trouble you?" asked Silvette anxiously.

"No; only in regard to Jim Edgerton.  I’d rather he knew how we regard
life before he reclaims relationship in public; that’s all."

Silvette said: "We are merely wiser; merely less provincial and more
honest and tolerant of a world that isn’t any too goody-goody.  We’ve
learned to distinguish between mock modesty, false shame, hypocrisy, and
honest conviction. Take Keno, for instance; before we lived there we
were inclined to look askance on what the world accepts with
indifference and perfect good nature.  I mean, on the rather lurid
gayeties of a little world where attractive divorcées make up the bulk
of society—where the eternal cry in the ballroom is ’Change partners!
Ladies change!’—and where nobody plays cards except for stakes.  After
all, Keno is merely a section of New York temporarily transplanted.
He’d probably feel at home there."

Diana turned, deliberately rolled across the bed, landing lightly on her
feet.

"All right," she said; "only, some day somebody will tell Jim Edgerton
that those two cousins of his are outpacing propriety. We’re just a dash
too pretty, Silvie, and we’ve simply got to be careful.  There’s one
enemy you and I will always have to reckon with—our own sex."

She walked to the window, looked out, and stood watching the rain, her
childish mouth troubled.  And, presently, speaking again without turning
around:

"Our programme, as we have arranged it, was to be a general one—to win
out, go in for everything, play the game as hard as it can be played,
meet the gayer world face to face squarely, and take from it honestly
all it has to offer."

"Except love."

"Except—that."

"Love, per se, we can’t afford," said Silvette gayly; "however, it may
even be included.  Who knows?  Material masculine eligibility need not
necessarily exclude that agreeable passion, need it?  Many a worthy
heart beats beneath the waistcoat of the plutocrat."

"The chances are against any deal in hearts, as far as we are
concerned."

"You’re not thinking of Jim Edgerton, are you, Di?"

Diana stood, hands clasped behind her back, staring at the rain.
Suddenly she pivoted on her sandals.
