undershirt, and driven by thirst to his tin ice-box, discovered it to be
empty.

"Confound it," he muttered, and rang up Stephanie’s studio.  A maid
answered, saying that Miss Quest had gone motoring and Miss Davis had
not yet returned from shopping.

"I want to borrow a lump of ice," explained Cleland. "I’ll come down for
it."

So he concealed his lack of apparel under a gay silk dressing gown,
picked up a pan, and went down, not expecting to encounter anybody.

In the kitchenette, in the rear, the obliging maid gave him a lump of
ice.  Carrying it in one hand, aloft, as an expert waiter carries a
towering tray of dishes, and whistling a gay air with great content—for
his work upstairs had gone very well that morning—he sauntered out of
the culinary regions, along the alley-like passageway, into the studio.

And as he started for the door which he had left ajar, a figure opened
it from without and entered hurriedly—a scared, breathless little
figure, bare-footed, swathed in a kimono and a shock of hair.

They stared at each other, astonished.  Both blushed furiously.

"I simply can’t help it," said the girl.  "I was sitting on that horse
waiting for Miss Davis, when a bee or a horsefly or something stung him
and he began to rear and kick all around the court, and I slid off him
and ran."

They both laughed.  Cleland, clutching his pan of ice, said:

"I seem doomed to run into you when I shouldn’t. I’m terribly sorry."

She blushed again and carefully swathed her waist in the obi.

"You didn’t mean to," she said.  "It was rather startling, though."

"It was, indeed.  And now we’re having another unconventional party.
Shall I leave this ice here and go out and quiet the nag?"

"He’ll surely kick you."

"I’ll take a chance——"  He set the pan of ice on a table, girded up his
dressing-gown, and went out into the court.  The horse stood quietly
enough now.  But Cleland soon discovered a green-eyed horsefly squatting
on the wall and rubbing its forelegs together in devilish exultation.

"I’ll fix you," he muttered, picking up a lump of wet clay and
approaching with infinite caution.  He was a good shot; he buried the
bloodthirsty little demon under a spatter of clay.  Then he went back
for his ice.

"The deed is done," he said cheerily.  "It was a horsefly, as you
said....  Good-bye....  When are we going to have another dance?"

"We’d better not," she said smilingly.  She had seated herself on the
sofa and had drawn her pretty, bare feet up under her kimono.

"You won’t let me give another party for you?" he inquired.

"I ought not to."

"But will you?"

"I don’t know.  This kimono party we’re having now seems sufficient for
the present; and I think you’d better go."

"Anyway," he said, "when a desire for innocent revelling seizes you, you
know where to go."

"Yes, thank you."

They laughed at each other.

"Good-bye, pretty stranger," he said.

"Good-bye, you nice boy!"

So he went away upstairs with his ice, and she stole out presently and
ventured into the courtyard where the placid white horse stood as calmly
as a cow.

And Stephanie, lying on her bed in her own room, twisted her body in
anguish and, hands clenched, buried her face in her arms.

Helen, returning an hour later, and glancing into Stephanie’s bed-room
as she passed, saw the girl lying there.

"I thought you were motoring!" she exclaimed.

"The car is laid up," said Stephanie, in a muffled voice.

"Oh.  Don’t you feel well, Steve?"

"N-not very."

"Can I do anything?  Wait a moment——"  She continued on to her bed-room,
unpinned her hat, drew on her working smock, and came slowly back,
buttoning it.

"What’s wrong, Steve?" she inquired.

"Nothing," said the girl, drearily.  "I’m just—tired."

"Why—you’ve been crying!" murmured Helen, bending over her.  "What is
making you so unhappy, Steve?  Don’t you wish to tell me?"

"N-no."

"Shall I sit here by you, dear?  I can work this afternoon——"

"No....  It’s nothing at all—truly it isn’t."

"Had you rather be alone?"

"Yes."

Helen went slowly away toward the court where her nag and its rider were
ready for her.  Stephanie lay motionless, dumb, wretched, her bosom
throbbing with emotions too powerful for her—yet too vague, too blind,
to enlighten her.

Unawakened to passion, ignorant of it, regardless and disdainful of what
she had never coped with, the mental and spiritual suffering was,
perhaps, the keener.

Humiliation and grief that she was no longer first and alone in
Cleland’s heart and mind had grown into a sorrow deeper than she knew,
deeper than she admitted to herself.  All the childish and pettier
emotions attended it, mocking her with her own frailty—ignoble jealousy,
hard resentment, the primitive sarcasm born of envy—the white flash of
hatred for those to whom this man turned for amusement—this man whom she
had adored from boyhood.

Why had he cast her out of the first place in his heart and mind?  He
had even told her that he was in love with her.  Why had he turned to
this shameless dancer?

And to what others did he also turn to find amusement when she did not
know where he was?

Had it been her fault?  No.  From the very first night that he had come
back to her—in the very face of her happiness to have him again—he had
shown her what kind of man he was—there at the Ball of All the Gods—with
that dreadful Goddess of Night.

She turned feverishly, tortured by her thoughts, but neither they nor
the hot pillow gave her any rest. They stung her like scorpions, setting
every nerve on edge with something—anger, perhaps—something unendurable
there in the silence of her room.

And at last she got up to make an end of it, once and for all.  But the
preparations took her some time—some cold water, brush and comb, and a
chamois rag.

Cleland, now dressed for luncheon, humming a comic song under his breath
and contentedly numbering his latest pencilled pages, heard the tap at
his open door, and looked up cheerfully, hoping for Marie Cliff, a
pre-prandial dance, and a pretty companion at luncheon. Tragedy entered,
wearing the mask of Stephanie Quest.

"Hello!" he cried gaily, jumping up and coming toward her.  "This is too
delightful.  Are you coming out to lunch with me, Steve?"

"Sit down a moment," she said.  But he continued to stand; and she came
over and stood beside his desk, resting one hand on it.

And, after a moment, lifting her grey eyes to his:

"I have borne a great deal from you.  But there is an insult which you
have offered me to-day that I shall not endure in silence."

"What insult?" he demanded, turning red.

"Making my studio a rendezvous for you and your—mistress!"

He knew what she meant instantly, and his wrath blazed:

"It was an accident.  I don’t know how you heard of it, but it was pure
accident.  Also, that is a rotten thing to say——"

"Is it!  You once told me that you prefer to call a spade a spade!  Oh,
Jim!—you were clean once.  What have you done!"

"But it’s a lie—and an absurd one!"

"Do you think that of me, too—that I tell lies?"

"No.  But you evidently believe one."

"It is too obvious to doubt——"  Her throat was dry with the fierceness
of her emotions and she choked a moment.

"Who told you?"

"I was there."

"Where?"

"In my bed-room.  I had not gone out.  I heard the maid tell you I was
out motoring.  I meant to speak to you—but you have been so—so
unfriendly lately.... And then that woman came in!" ... Her grey eyes
fairly blazed.

"Why do you do this to me?" she cried, clenching both hands.  "It is
wicked!—unthinkable!  Why do you hold me in such contempt?"

Her fierce anger silenced him, and his silence lashed her until she lost
her head.

"Do you think you can offer me such an affront in my own studio because
I am really not your sister?—because your name is Cleland and mine is
not?—because I was only the wretched, starved, maltreated child of
drunken parents when your father picked me out of the gutter!  Is that
why you feel at liberty to affront me under my own roof—show your
contempt for me? Is it?"

"Steve, you are mad!" he said.  He had turned very white.

"No," she said, "but I’m at the limit of endurance. I can’t stand it any
longer.  I shall go to-night to the man I married and live with him and
find a shelter there—find protection and—f-forgetfulness——"  Her voice
broke but her eyes were the more brilliant and dangerous for the
flashing tears:

"I know what you and my aunt talked over between you," she said.  "You
discussed the chances of my developing erratic, unscrupulous, morbid,
immoral traits! You were anxious for fear I had inherited them. Probably
now you think I have.  Think as you please——!" she flashed out through
her tears; "you have killed every bit of happiness in me.  Remember it
some day!"

She turned to go, and he sprang forward to detain her, but she twisted
herself out of his arms and reeled back against the desk.

Then he had her in his arms again, and she stared at his white, tense
face, all distorted by her blinding tears:

"I love you, Steve!  That’s all the answer I give you.  That’s my reply
to your folly.  I never loved anybody else; I never shall; I never can.
I am clean. I don’t know how it happens, but I am!  They lie who tell
you anything else.  I’m like my father; I care for only one woman.  I’m
incapable of caring for any other.

"I don’t know what I’ve done to you to make you say such things and
think them.  I consider you as my own kin; I respect and love you like a
kinsman. But—God help me—I’ve gone further; I love you as a lover.  I
can’t tear you out of my heart; I’ve tried because I saw no hope that
you ever could fall in love with me—but I couldn’t do it—I couldn’t.

"If you go to the man you married I shall never love any other woman.
That is the truth, and I know it, now!"

Her body was still rigid in his arms; her tense hands lay flat on his
breast as though to repulse him.

But there was no strength in them and they had begun to tremble under
the hard beating of his heart.

Her mouth, too, was quivering; her tear-wet eyes looked mutely into his;
suddenly her body relaxed, yielded; and at his fierce embrace her hot
mouth melted against his.

"Steve," he stammered—"Steve—can you care for me—in my way——?"

Under the deep-fringed lids her grey eyes looked at him vaguely; her
lips were burning.

"Steve——" he whispered.

Her slowly lifted eyes alone responded.

"Can you love me?"

Her eyes closed again.  And after a long while her lips responded
delicately to his.

"Is it love, Steve?" he asked, trembling.

"I don’t know....  I’m so tired—confused——"

Her arms fell from his neck to his shoulders and she opened her eyes,
listlessly.

"I think it—must be," she said....  "I’m quite sure it is!"

"Love?"

"Yes."




                             *CHAPTER XXV*


Cleland, tremendously thrilled and excited by the first but faint
response to his ardour which he had ever obtained of Stephanie, but
uncertain, too, and almost incredulous as to its significance and
