
But Paliser gave her all the rope that she wanted. He had no attraction
for her, he knew it, and in view of other experiences, the fact
interested him. It had the charm of novelty to this man who, though
young, was old; who, perhaps, was born old; born, as some are, too old
in a world too young.

He struck a match and watched the little blue-gold flame flare and
subside. It may have seemed to him typical. Then he looked up.

"Frankly, I have no inducements to offer, and, by the same token, no
lies. It would be untrue if I said I loved you. Love is not an emotion,
it is a habit, one which it takes time to form. I have had no
opportunity to acquire it, but I have acquired another. I have formed
the habit of admiring you. The task was not difficult. Is there anything
in your glass?"

"A bit of cork, I think," said Cassy, who was holding the glass to the
light and who was holding it moreover as though she had thoughts for
nothing else.

But her thoughts were agile as that squirrel. A why not? Why not? Why
not? was spinning in them, spinning around and around so quickly that it
dizzied her. Then, like the squirrel, up a tree she flew. For herself,
no. She did not want him, never had wanted him, never could.

"May I have it?" Paliser took the glass. Save for subsiding bubbles, and
the bogus water, there was nothing there. "Will you take mine? I have
not touched it."

Cassy took it from him, drank it, drank it all. Her thoughts raced on.
She was aware of that, though with what they were racing she could not
tell.

"I don't know why I am so thirsty."

Paliser knew. He knew that the taste of perplexity is very salt. She was
considering it, he saw, and he payed out the rope.

"People who claim to be wise are imbeciles. But people who claim to be
happy are in luck. I have no pretensions to wisdom but I can claim to be
lucky if----"

Cassy, her steeple-chasing thoughts now out of hand, was saying
something and he stopped.

"It is very despicable of me even to listen to you. I don't think I
would have listened, if you had not been frank. But you have had the
honesty not to pretend. I must be equally sincere. I----"

It was Paliser's turn. With a laugh he interrupted. "Don't. A little
sincerity is a dangerous thing and a great deal of it must be fatal.
Besides I know it all by heart. I am the son of rich and disreputable
people. That is not my fault, and, anyway, it is all one to you. But
what you mean is that, should you consent, the consideration will not
be--er--personal with me or--er--spiritual with you, but--er--just plain
and simple materialism."

Cassy looked wonderingly at him. It was surprising how quickly and how
completely he had nailed it. But into the bewilderment there crept
something else. "Yes, and I am ashamed to look myself in the face."

Paliser gave a tug at the rope. "Then don't do that either. Look at me.
Matrimony is no child's play. It is like a trip to England--close
confinement with the chance of being torpedoed. Interference is the
submarine that sinks good ships. If you consent, there is only one thing
on which I shall insist, but I shall insist on it absolutely."

Visibly the autocrat stiffened. "Shall you, indeed!"

Paliser pounded, or affected to pound, on the table. "Yes, absolutely."

You may go to Flanders then, thought Cassy, but, with that look which
she could summon and which was tolerably blighting, she said, "Ah! The
drill sergeant!"

"Yes, and here is the goose-step. The drill sergeant orders that you
must always have your own way in everything."

Considerably relaxed by that, Cassy laughed. "You are very rigorous. But
don't you think it is rather beside the mark?"

"Beside it!" Paliser exclaimed. "It tops it, goes all over it, covers
it, covers the grass, covers everything--except a fair field, a free
rein and every favour."

Cassy was gazing beyond where the squirrel had been. A limousine passed.
A surviving victoria followed. Both were superior. So also were the
occupants. They were very smart people. You could tell it from the way
they looked. They had an air contemptuous and sullen. The world is not
good enough for them, Cassy thought. In an hour, car and carriage would
stop. The agreeable occupants would alight. They would enter fastidious
homes. Costly costumes they would exchange for costumes that were
costlier. They would sit at luxurious boards, lead the luxurious life
and continue to, until they died of obesity of the mind.

None of that! Cassy decided. But already the picture was fading,
replaced by another that showed a broken old man, without a penny to his
name, or a hope save in her.

From the screen, she turned to Paliser, who, aware of her absence, had
omitted to recall her. Now, though, that she again condescended to be
present, he addressed her in his Oxford voice.

"But what was I saying? Yes, I remember, something that somebody said
before me. Nowadays every one marries except a few stupid women and a
few very wise men. Yet, then, as I told you, I have no pretensions to
wisdom."

"Nor I to stupidity," Cassy thoughtlessly retorted. Yet at once,
realising not merely the vanity of the boast but what was far worse, the
construction that it invited, she tried to recall it, tangled her
tongue, got suddenly red and turned away.

"You do me infinite honour then," said Paliser, who spoke better than he
knew. But her visible discomfort delighted him. He saw that she wanted
to wriggle out of it and, like a true sportsman, he gave her an opening
in which she would trip.

"Matrimony is temporary insanity with permanent results. You must not
incur them blindfolded. Do me the favour to look this way. Before you
sits a pauper."

In the surprise of that, Cassy did look and walked straight into it.
"What?"

"Precisely." In sheer enjoyment he began lying frankly and freely. He
lied because lying is a part of the game, because it is an agreeable
pastime and because, too, if she swallowed it--and why shouldn't
she?--it might put a spoke in such wheels as she might otherwise and
subsequently set going.

"Precisely," he repeated. "It is different with my father. My father has
what is called a regular income. One of these days I shall inherit it.
It will keep us out of the poorhouse. But meanwhile I have only the
pittance that he allows me."

Yes, Cassy sagaciously reflected. What with Paliser Place, its upkeep
and the rest of it, it must be a pittance. But the lie behind it, which
she mistook for honesty, tripped her as it was intended to do. A moment
before she might have backed out. Now, in view of the lie that she
thought was truth, how could she? It would be tantamount to
acknowledging she was for sale but that he hadn't the price. Red
already, at the potential shame of that she got redder.

Paliser, who saw everything, saw the heightening flush, knew what it
meant, knew that he was landing her, but knew, too, that he must bear
the honours modestly.

"Bread and cheese in a cottage and with you!" he exclaimed. "But,
forgive me, I am becoming lyrical." He turned, summoned the waiter, paid
for the water, paid for the service and took from the man his stick.

Cassy went with him to the car. She had made no reply. If she were to
take the plunge, there was no use shivering on the brink. But what would
her father say? He would be furious of course, though how his fury would
change into benedictions when he found himself transported from the
walk-up, lifted from Harlem and cold veal! Presently there would be a
flower in his button-hole and everything that went with the flower.
Moreover, if the poor dear wanted to be absurd, she would let him parade
his marquisate; while, as for herself, she would have to say good-bye to
so much that had been so little. Good-bye! Addio per sempre! The phrase
from La Tosca came to her. It told of kisses and caresses that she had
never had. Yet, beneath her breath, she repeated it. Addio per sempre!

Then suddenly, without transition, she felt extraordinarily at peace
with herself, with everybody, with everything. After all, she did not
know, stranger things had happened, she might even learn to care for him
and to care greatly. But whether she did or she did not, she would be
true as steel--truer! He had been so nice about it! Yes, she might,
particularly since she had made a clean breast of it and he knew she was
marrying him for what it pleased him to describe as his pittance.

The car now was flying up the Riverside. An omnibus passed. From the
roof, a country couple spotted the handsome girl and the handsome young
man who were lolling back so sumptuously, and the lady stranger,
pointing, said to her gentleman: "Vanderbilt folk, I guess, ain't they
dandy!" Behind the lady sat a novelist who was less enthusiastic.
Another girl gone gay, was his mental comment. Well, why not? he
reflected, for Jones' prejudices were few and far between. Besides, he
added: Les Portugais sont toujours gais. But he had other things to
think about and he dismissed the incident, which, in less than a week,
he had occasion to recall.

Cassy, meanwhile, after serenading a fat woman's door and looking from a
palatial window at the moving-pictures of her thoughts, at last heard
Paliser, who, already, had twice addressed her.

"It won't take over an hour or so."

But now the Tamburini, ceremoniously attired in a wrapper, strode in and
Paliser, who had been straddling the music-bench, stood up.

The fact that they had come together and were together, had already
darkly enlightened the fallen star and as she strode in she exclaimed
with poetry and fervour: "Two souls with but a single thought!"

Paliser took his hat. "We are a trifle better provided. I have as many
as three or four thoughts and one of them concerns a license. I am going
to get it."

His face was turned from Cassy and his eyes, which he had fastened on
his hostess, held caveats, commands, rewards.

Massively she flung herself on Cassy. "Dearie, I weep for joy!"

Cassy shoved her away. "Not on me, Tamby."

But the dear lady, in attacking her, shot a glance at Paliser. It was
very voluble.

Cassy, too, was looking at him. Her education had been thorough. She
knew any number of useless things. In geography, history, and the
multiplication-table she was versed. But Kent's Commentaries, passionate
as they are, were beyond her ken. The laws to which they relate were
also. None the less, on the subject of one law she had an inkling,
vague, unprecised, and, for all she knew to the contrary, incorrect. She
blurted it. "Don't I have to go, too?"

Ma Tamby grabbed it. "Go where, dearie?"

"For the license?"

Ma Tamby tittered. "Not unless you love the song of the subway. The
license is a man's job." Twisting, she giggled at Paliser. "But not hard
labour, he, he!"

"A life-term, though," he answered and added: "I'll go at once."

That settled it for Cassy. A chair stretched its arms to her. She sat
down.

Wildly the fat woman gesticulated. "Dearie, no! But how it gets me! As
true as gospel I dreamed so much about it that it kept me awake. I do
believe I have a pint of champy. Shall I fetch it? I must."

Coldly Cassy considered her. "Don't. You'll only get tight."

Paliser, making for the door, called back: "Save a drop for me."

"May the Lord forgive me," sighed the fat woman. "I was that flustered I
forgot to congratulate him. But how it takes me back! Dearie, I too was
young! I too have loved! Ah, gioventu primavera della vita! Ah, l'amore!
Ah! Ah!"

"You make me sick," said Cassy.

"Dearie----"

"Be quiet. My father won't like it and I can't lie to him about it. But
I shall need some things and you will have to go for them. What will you
tell him?"

With one hand, the fat woman could have flattened Cassy's father out.
But not his tongue. The nest of vipers there, even then hissed at her.

"Why, dearie, to-morrow you'll have your pick of Fifth Avenue and until
then, if you need a tooth-brush, I'll get one for you around the
corner."

"But my father will have to be told something. He'll worry to death. I
might write though, and put on a special delivery. Look here. Have you
any note paper that isn't rotten with scent? If not, I do believe I'll
chuck it."

"For God's sake, dearie!"

Hastily, in search of scentless paper, the fat woman made off.




XIX


Over the way, on the jimcrack of the stately mansion opposite, the
westering sun had put an aigrette of gold. The young man with the
conquering eye had gone. A lovely Jewess, leaning like a gargoyle,
violently threatened some Ikey in the unlovely street below. Above was a
pallid green. Beyond, across the river, the sun, poised on a hill-top,
threw from its eternal palette shades of salmon and ochre that tinted an
archipelago of slender clouds. But in the street was the music of
carefree lads, playing baseball, exchanging chaste endearments. There
too was the gaiety of little trulls, hasty and happy on their
roller-skates. While perhaps to generalise these delights, a trundled
organ tossed a ragtime. The charm was certainly affecting and that charm
the horn of Paliser's approaching car merely increased.

Long since the letter had gone and, with it, another to Mrs. Yallum. In
the former, Cassy had tried to gild the pill, yet without succeeding in
disguising it.

     Dear Daddy:

     You are the best man in the world and the next best your little
     girl is to marry now, right away, and become Mrs. Monty Paliser.
     But my heart will be with you and so will Mrs. Yallum. Don't fuss
     with her, there's a dear, and take your medicine regularly and be
     ready to give me your blessing as soon as I can run in, which will
     be at the first possible moment, when I shall have more news, good
