the fortunate young fellow who was receiving such undivided attention
from a girl like this.

But whether in Elorn's heart there really existed all the gaiety that
laughed at him out of her grey eyes, is a question. Because it seemed
to her that, at moments, a recurrent shadow fell across his face. And
there were, now and then, seconds suggesting preoccupation on his
part, when it seemed to her that his gaze grew remote and his smile a
trifle absent-minded.

                  *       *       *       *       *

She was drawing on her gloves; he had scribbled his signature across
the back of the check. Then, as he lifted his head to look for their
waiter, he found himself staring into the brown eyes of Palla Dumont.

The heavy flush burnt his face--burnt into it, so it seemed to him.

She was only two tables distant. When he bowed, her smile was the
slightest; her nod coolly self-possessed. She was wearing orchids.
There seemed to be a girl with her whom he did not know.

Why the sudden encounter should have upset him so--why the quiet glance
Elorn bestowed upon Palla should have made him more uncomfortable
still, he could not understand.

He lighted a cigarette.

"A wonderfully pretty girl," said Elorn serenely. "I mean the girl you
bowed to."

"Yes, she is very charming."

"Who is she, Jim?"

"I met her on the steamer coming back. She is a Miss Dumont."

Elorn's smile was a careless dismissal of further interest. But in her
heart perplexity and curiosity contended with concern. For she had
seen Jim's face. And had wondered.

He laid away his half-consumed cigarette. She was quite ready to go.
She rose, and he laid the stole around her shoulders. She picked up
her muff.

As she passed through the narrow aisle, she permitted herself a casual
side-glance at this girl in black; and Palla looked up at her, kept
her quietly in range of her brown eyes to the limit of breeding, then
her glance dropped as Jim passed; and he heard her speaking serenely
to the girl beside her.

At the revolving doors, Elorn said: "Shall I drop you at the office,
Jim?"

"Thanks--if you don't mind."

In the car he talked continually, not very entertainingly, but there
was more vivacity about him than there had been.

"Are you doing anything to-night?" he inquired.

She was, of course. Yet, she felt oddly relieved that he had asked
her.... But the memory of the strange expression in his face persisted
in her mind.

Who was this girl with whom he had crossed the ocean? And why should
he lose his self-possession on unexpectedly encountering her?

Had there been anything about Palla--the faintest hint of inferiority
of any sort--Elorn Sharrow could have dismissed the episode with
proud, if troubled, philosophy. For many among her girl friends had
cub brothers. And the girl had learned that men are men--sometimes
even the nicest--although she could not understand it.

But this brown-eyed girl in black was evidently her own sort--Jim's
sort. And that preoccupied her; and she lent only an inattentive ear
to the animated monologue of the man beside her.

Before the offices of Sharrow & Co. her car stopped.

"I'm sorry, Jim," she said, "that I'm so busy this week. But we ought
to meet at many places, unless you continue to play the recluse. Don't
you really go anywhere any more?"

"No. But I'm going," he said bluntly.

"Please do. And call me up sometimes. Take a sporting chance whenever
you're free. We ought to get in an hour together now and then. You're
coming to my dance of course, are you not?"

"Of course I am."

The girl smiled in her sweet, generous way and gave him her hand
again.

And he went into the office feeling rather miserable and beginning to
realise why.

For in spite of what he had said to Palla about the wisdom of
absenting himself, the mere sight of her had instantly set him afire.

And now he wanted to see her--needed to see her. A day was too long to
pass without seeing her. An evening without her--and another--and
others, appalled him.

And all the afternoon he thought of her, his mind scarcely on his
business at all.

                  *       *       *       *       *

His parents were dining at home. He was very gay that evening--very
amusing in describing his misadventures with Messrs. Puma and Skidder.
But his mother appeared to be more interested in the description of
his encounter with Elorn.

"She's such a dear," she said. "If you go to the Speedwells' dinner on
Thursday you'll see her again. You haven't declined, I hope; have you,
Jim?"

It appeared that he had.

"If you drop out of things this way nobody will bother to ask you
anywhere after a while. Don't you know that, dear?" she said. "This
town forgets overnight."

"I suppose so, mother. I'll keep up."

His father remarked that it was part of his business to know the sort
of people who bought houses.

Jim agreed with him. "I'll surely kick in again," he promised
cheerfully.... "I think I'll go to the club this evening."

His mother smiled. It was a healthy sign. Also, thank goodness, there
were no girls in black at the club.

At the club he resolutely passed the telephone booths and even got as
far as the cloak room before he hesitated.

Then, very slowly, he retraced his steps; went into the nearest booth,
and called a number that seemed burnt into his brain. Palla answered.

"Are you doing anything, dear?" he asked--his usual salutation.

"Oh. It's you!" she said calmly.

"It is. Who else calls you dear? May I come around for a little
while?"

"Have you forgotten what you----"

"No! May I come?"

"Not if you speak to me so curtly, Jim."

"I'm sorry."

She deliberated so long that her silence irritated him.

"If you don't want me," he said, "please say so."

"I certainly don't want you if you are likely to be ill-tempered,
Jim."

"I'm not ill-tempered.... I'll tell you what's the trouble if I may
come. May I?"

"Is anything troubling you?"

"Of course."

"I'm so sorry!"

"Am I to come?"

"Yes."

She herself admitted him. He laid his hat and coat on a chair in the
hall and followed her upstairs to the living-room.

When she had seated herself she looked up at him interrogatively,
awaiting his pleasure. He stood a moment with his back to the fire,
his hands twisting nervously behind him. Then:

"My trouble," he explained na√Øvely, "is that I am restless and unhappy
when I remain away from you."

The girl laughed. "But, Jim, you seemed to be having a perfectly good
time at Delmonico's this noon."

He reddened and gave her a disconcerted look.

"I don't see," she added, "why any man shouldn't have a good time
with such an attractive girl. May I ask who she is?"

"Elorn Sharrow," he replied bluntly.

Palla's glance had sometimes wandered over social columns in the
papers and periodicals, and she was not ignorant concerning the
identity and local importance of Miss Sharrow.

She looked up curiously at Jim. He was so very good to look at!
Better, even, to know. And Miss Sharrow was his kind. They had seemed
to belong together. And it came to Palla, hazily, and for the first
time, that she herself seemed to belong nowhere in particular in the
scheme of things.

But that was quite all right. She had now established for herself a
habitation. She had some friends--would undoubtedly make others. She
had her interests, her peace of mind, and her independence. And behind
her she had the dear and tragic past--a passionate memory of a dead
girl; a terrible remembrance of a dead God.

The heart of the world alone could make up to her these losses. For
now she was already preparing to seek it in her own way, under her own
Law of Love.

"Jim," she said almost timidly, "I have not intended to make you
unhappy. Don't you understand that?"

He seated himself: she lighted a cigarette for him.

"I suppose you can't help doing it," he said glumly.

"I really can't, it seems. I don't love you. I wish I did."

"Do you mean that?"

"Of course I do.... I wish I were in love with you."

After a moment she said: "I told you how much I care for you. But--if
you think it is easier for you--not to see me----"

"I can't seem to stay away."

"I'm glad you can't--for my sake; but I'm troubled on your account. I
do so adore to be with you! But--but if----"

"Hang it all!" he exclaimed, forcing a wry smile. "I act like an
unbaked fool! You've gone to my head, Palla, and I behave like a
drunken kid.... I'll buck up. I've got to. I'm not the blithering,
balmy, moon-eyed, melancholy ass you think me----"

Her quick laughter rang clear, and his echoed it, rather uncertainly.

"You poor dear," she said, "you're nearest my heart of anybody. I told
you so. It's only that one thing I don't dare do."

He nodded.

"Can't you really understand that I'm afraid?"

"Afraid!" he repeated. "I should think you might be, considering your
astonishing point of view. I should think you'd be properly scared to
death!"

"I am. No girl, afraid, should ever take such a chance. Love and Fear
cannot exist together. The one always slays the other."

He looked at her curiously, remembering what Estridge had told him
about her--how, on that terrible day in the convent chapel, this
girl's love had truly slain the fear within her as she faced the Red
assassins and offered to lay down her life for her friend. Than which,
it is said, there is no greater love....

"Of what are you thinking?" she asked, watching his expression.

"Of you--you strange, generous, fearless, wilful girl!" Then he
squared his shoulders and shook them as though freeing himself of
something oppressive.

"What you may need is a spanking!" he suggested coolly.

"Good heavens, Jim!----"

"But I'm afraid you're not likely to get it. And what is going to
happen to you--and to me--I don't know--I don't know, Palla."

"May I prophesy?"

"Go to it, Miriam."

"Behold, then: I shall never care for any man more than I care now
for you; I shall never care more for you than I do now.... And
if you are sweet-tempered and sensible, we shall be very happy
with each other.... Even after you marry.... Unless your wife
misunderstands----"

"My wife!" he repeated derisively.

"Miss Sharrow, for instance."

He turned a dull red; the girl's heart missed a beat, then hurried a
little before it calmed again under her cool recognition and instant
disdain of the first twinge of jealousy she could remember since
childhood.

The absurdity of it, too! After all, it was this man's destiny to
marry. And, if it chanced to be that girl----

