
"I certainly never had cause to regret my marriage," replied Mrs.
Partridge, with more feeling than she had yet shown. "While my husband
lived I had every external blessing that I could ask. But, just before
he died, somehow or other he got behind-hand in his business, and after
his death, there being no one to see to things, what he left was seized
upon and sold, leaving me friendless and almost penniless. Since then,
the effort to get food and clothes for my children has been so constant
and earnest, that I have scarcely had time to sit down and grieve over
my losses and sufferings. It is one perpetual struggle for life. And
yet, though I cannot now keep the tears from my eyes, I will not say
that I am unhappy. Thus far, all things necessary for me have come. I
yet have my little flock together, and a place that bears the sacred
name of home."

I looked into Helen's face, over which tears were falling, and wondered
if I were not dreaming. At school she had been the favourite of all,
she was so full of good humour, and had such a cheerful, peace-loving
spirit. Her parents were poor, but respectable people, who died when
Helen was fifteen years old. She was then taken from school, and I
never saw her afterward until she came to my house in the capacity of a
washerwoman, hundreds of miles away from the scenes of our early years.

"But can't you find easier work than washing?" I asked. "Are you not
handy with your needle?"

"The only work I have been able to get has been from the clothing men,
and they pay so little that I can't live on it."

"Can you do fine sewing?" I asked.

"Yes, I call myself handy with my needle."

"Can you make children's clothes?"

"Boy's clothes?"

"No. Girl's clothing."

"Oh, yes."

"I'm very much in want of some one. My children are all in"--rags and
tatters I was going to say, but I checked myself--"are all in need of
clothes, and so far I have not been able to get anybody to sew for me.
If you like, I will give you three or four weeks' sewing at least."

"I shall be very glad to have it, and very thankful for your kindness
in offering it to me," returned Mrs. Partridge, rising from her chair,
and adding as she did so--

"But I must be getting home. It is nearly dark, and Jane will be
anxious to see me back again."

I handed her the seventy-five cents she had earned for washing for me
during a whole day. Promising to come over and see me early in the
morning about the sewing, she withdrew, and I was left again to my own
reflections.

"If ever a murmurer and complainer received a severe rebuke, it is I!"
was the first almost audible thought that passed through my mind. "To
think that I, with my cup full and running over with blessings, should
make myself and all around me unhappy, because a few minor things are
not just to my satisfaction, while this woman, who toils like a slave
from morning until night, and who can hardly procure food and clothing
for her children, from whom she is almost constantly separated, is
patient and hopeful, makes me feel as if I deserved to lose what I have
refused to enjoy."

On the next morning Mrs. Partridge called quite early. She cut and
fitted several frocks for the children, at which work she seemed very
handy, and then took them home to make. She sewed for me five weeks,
and then got work in another family where I recommended her. Since
then, she has been kept constantly employed in sewing, at good prices,
by about six families. In all of these I have spoken of her and created
an interest in her favour. The mere wages that she earns is much less
than what she really receives. All her children's clothes are given to
her, and she receives many a bag of meal and load of coal without
knowing from whence it comes. In fact, her condition is more
comfortable in every way than it was, and, in fact, so is mine. The
lesson of patience I learned from Mrs. Partridge in my first, and in
many subsequent interviews, impressed itself deeply upon my mind, and
caused me to look at and value the good I had, rather than fret over
the few occurrences that were not altogether to my wishes. I saw, too,
how the small trouble to me had been the means of working out a great
good to her. My need of a washerwoman, about which I had been so
annoyed, and the temporary want of a seamstress which I had
experienced--light things as they should have been--led me to search
about for aid, and, providentially, to fall upon Mrs. Partridge, who
needed just what it was in my power to do for her.

Whenever I find myself falling into my old habit, which I am sorry to
say is too frequently the case, I turn my thoughts to this poor woman,
who is still toiling on under heavy life-burdens, yet with meekness and
patience, and bowing my head in shame, say--

"If she is thankful for the good she has, how deep should be my
gratitude!"




I DIDN'T THINK OF THAT!


MR. LAWSON, the tailor, was considered a very good member of society.
He was industrious, paid what he owed, was a kind husband and father
and a pleasant and considerate neighbour. He was, moreover, attached to
the church, and, by his brethren in the faith, considered a pious and
good man. And, to say the truth, Mr. Lawson would compare favourably
with most people.

One day as Mr. Lawson stood at his cutting board, shears in hand, a
poorly dressed young woman entered his shop, and approaching him,
asked, with some embarrassment and timidity, if he had any work to give
out.

"What can you do?" asked the tailor, looking rather coldly upon his
visitor.

"I can make pantaloons and vests," replied the girl.

"Have you ever worked for the merchant tailors?"

"Yes, sir, I worked for Mr. Wright."

"Hasn't he any thing for you to do?"

"No, not just now. He has regular hands who always get the preference."

"Did your work suit him?"

"He never found fault with it."

"Where do you live?"

"In Cherry street," replied the young woman.

"At No.--."

Mr. Lawson stood and mused for a short time.

"I have a vest here," he at length said, taking a small bundle from a
shelf, "which I want by tomorrow evening at the latest. If you think
you can make it very neatly, and have it done in time, you can take it."

"It shall be done in time," said the young woman, reaching out eagerly
for the bundle.

"And remember, I shall expect it made well. If I like your work, I will
give you more."

"I will try to please you," returned the girl, in a low voice.

"To-morrow evening, recollect."

"Yes, sir. I will have it done."

The girl turned and went quickly away. As she walked along hurriedly,
her slender form bent forward, and there was an unsteadiness in her
steps, as if from weakness. She did not linger a moment, nor heed any
thing that was passing in the street.

A back room in the third story of an old house in Cherry street was the
home of the poor sewing girl. As she entered, she said, in a cheerful
voice, to a person who was lying upon a bed which the room contained--

"I have got work, sister. It is a vest, and it must be done by
to-morrow evening."

"Can you finish it in time?" inquired the invalid in a faint voice.

"Oh, yes, easily;" and as she spoke, she laid off her bonnet and shawl
hurriedly and sat down to unroll the work she had obtained.

The vest proved to be of white Marseilles. As soon as the invalid
sister saw this, she said--

"I'm afraid you won't be able to get that done in time, Ellen; it is
very particular work. To stitch the edges well will alone take you many
hours."

"I will sit up late, and get a fair start to-night, Mary. Then I can
easily finish it in time. You know a vest is only a day's work for a
good sewer, and I have nearly a day and a half before me."

"Yes; but you must remember, Ellen, that you are not very fast with
your needle, and are, besides, far from being well. The work, too, is
of the most particular kind, and cannot be hurried."

"Don't fear for me in the least, Mary. I will do all I have engaged to
do," and the young woman, who had already arranged the cut-out garment,
took a portion of it in her lap and commenced her task.

The two sisters, here introduced, were poor, in bad health, and without
friends. Mary, the older, had declined rapidly within a few months, and
become so much exhausted as to be obliged to keep her bed most of the
time. The task of providing for the wants of both fell, consequently,
upon Ellen. Increased exertion was more than her delicate frame could
well endure. Daily were the vital energies of her system becoming more
and more exhausted, a fact of which she was painfully conscious, and
which she, with studious care, sought to conceal from Mary.

When, through loss of friends and change of circumstances, the two
sisters were thrown entirely dependent upon their own exertions for a
livelihood, they, with prudent forethought, immediately applied
themselves to the learning of a trade in order to have the means of
support. Confinement for twelve or fourteen hours a day, sitting in one
position--a great change for them--could not long be endured without
producing ill effects on frail young creatures at best. Mary, the
older, failed first; and, at the time of which we are writing, had so
far declined as to be little more than the shadow of any thing earthly.

With her own unaided hands, Ellen found it impossible to earn enough
for even their most simple need. Often Mary was without medicine,
because there was no money left after food and fuel were bought. More
and more earnestly did Ellen apply herself as want came in more varied
shapes; but the returns of her labour became daily less and less
adequate to meet the demands of nature.

The busy season had passed, and trade was dull. Ellen worked for only
two merchant tailors, and with them she was considered an extra hand.
When business fell off, as the season approached towards mid-summer,
she was the first to receive notice that no more work could be given
out for the present. With a disheartened feeling she returned home on
receiving this intelligence. Mary saw that something was wrong the
moment she entered, and tenderly inquired the cause of her trouble. On
learning what it was, she endeavoured to comfort and assure her, but to
little purpose.

As soon as Ellen could regain sufficient composure of mind, she went
forth in search of work at other shops. To one of her peculiar, timid,
and shrinking disposition this was a severe trial. But there was no
passing it by. Three days elapsed, during which every effort to get
work proved unsuccessful. Even the clothing stores had nothing to give
out to extra hands.

Reduced to their last penny, Ellen was almost in despair, when she
called upon Mr. Lawson. The garment he gave her to make seemed to her
like help sent from heaven. Cheerfully did she work upon it until a
late hour at night, and she was ready to resume her labour with the
rising sun. But, as Mary had feared, the work did not progress
altogether to her satisfaction. She had never made over one or two
white Marseilles vests, and found that she was not so well skilled in
the art of neat and accurate stitching as was required to give the
garment a beautiful and workmanlike appearance. The stitches did not
impress themselves along the edges with the accuracy that her eye told
her was required, and she was troubled to find that, be as careful as
she would, the pure white fabric grew soiled beneath her fingers. Mary,
to whom she frequently submitted the work, tried to encourage her; but
her eyes were not deceived.

It was after dark when Ellen finished the garment. She was weary and
faint; for she had taken no food since morning, and had been bending
over her work, with very little intermission, the whole day; and she
had no hope of receiving any thing more to do, for Mr. Lawson, she was
sure, would not be pleased with the way the vest was made. But, want of
every thing, and particularly food for herself and sister, made the sum
of seventy-five cents, to be received for the garment, a little
treasure in her eyes; and she hurried off with the vest the moment it
was finished.

"I will bring home a little tea, sister," she said, as she was about
leaving; "I am sure a cup of tea will do you good; and I feel as if it
would revive and strengthen me."

Mary looked at Ellen with a tender, pitying expression, while her large
bright eyes shone glassy in the dim rays sent forth by a poor lamp; but
she did not reply. She had a gnawing in her stomach, that made her feel
faint, and a most earnest craving for nourishing and even stimulating
food, the consequence of long abstinence as well as from the
peculiarity of her disease. But she did not breathe a word of this to
Ellen, who would, she knew, expend for her every cent of the money she
was about to receive, if she was aware of the morbid appetite from
which she was suffering.

"I will be back soon," added Ellen, as she retired from the room.

Mary sighed deeply when alone. She raised her eyes upwards for a few
moments, then closing them and clasping her hands tightly together, she
lay with her white face turned towards the light, more the image of
death than of life.

"Here it is past eight o'clock, and that vest is not yet in," said Mr.
Lawson, in a fretful tone. "I had my doubts about the girl when I gave
it to her. But she looked so poor, and seemed so earnest about work,
that I was weak enough to intrust her with the garment. But I will take
care, another time, how I let my feeling get the better of my judgment."

Before the individual had time to reply, Ellen came in with the vest,
and laid it on the counter, at which the tailor was standing. She said
nothing, neither did the tailor make any remark; but the latter
unfolded the vest in the way that plainly showed him not to be in a
very placid frame of mind.

"Goodness!" he ejaculated, after glancing hurriedly at the garment.

The girl shrunk back from the counter, and looked frightened.

"Well, this is a pretty job for one to bring in!" said the tailor, in
an excited tone of voice. "A pretty job, indeed! It looks as if it had
been dragged through a duck puddle. And such work!"

He tossed the garment from him in angry contempt, and walked away to
the back part of the shop, leaving Ellen standing almost as still as a
statue.

"That vest was to have been home to-night," he said, as he threw
himself into a chair. "Of course, the customer will be disappointed and
angry, and I shall lose him. But I don't care half so much for that, as
I do for not being able to keep my word with him. It is too much!"

Ellen would have instantly retired, but the thought of her sick sister
forced her to remain. She felt that she could not go until she had
received the price of making the vest, for their money was all gone,
and they had no food in the house. She had lingered for a little while,
when the tailor called out to her, and said--

"You needn't stand there, Miss! thinking that I am going to pay you for
ruining the job. It's bad enough to lose my material, and customer into
the bargain. In justice you should be made to pay for the vest. But
there is no hope for that. So take yourself away as quickly as
possible, and never let me set eyes on you again."

Ellen did not reply, but turned away slowly, and, with her eyes upon
the floor and her form drooping, retired from the shop. After she had
gone, Mr. Lawson returned to the front part of the store, and taking up
the vest, brought it back to where an elderly man was sitting, and
holding it towards him, said, by way of apology for the part he had
taken in the little scene:

"That's a beautiful article for a gentleman to wear--isn't it?"

The man made no reply, and the tailor, after a pause, added--

"I refused to pay her, as a matter of principle. She knew she couldn't
make the garment when she took it away. She will be more careful how
she tries again to impose herself upon customer tailors as a good vest
maker."

"Perhaps," said the old gentleman, in a mild way, "necessity drove her
to you for work, and tempted her to undertake a job that required
greater skill than she possessed. She certainly looked very poor."

"It was because she appeared so poor and miserable that I was weak
enough to place the vest in her hands," replied Mr. Lawson, in a less
severe tone of voice. "But it was an imposition in her to ask for work
that she did not know how to make."

"Brother Lawson," said the old gentleman, who was a fellow member of
the church, "we should not blame, with too much severity, the person
who, in extreme want, undertakes to perform work for which he does not
possess the requisite skill. The fact that a young girl, like the one
who was just here, is willing, in her extreme poverty, to labour,
instead of sinking into vice and idleness, shows her to possess both
virtue and integrity of character, and these we should be willing to
encourage, even at some sacrifice. Work is slack now, as you are aware,
and there is but little doubt that she had been to many places seeking
employment before she came to you. It may be--and this is a very
probable suggestion--that she did not come to you for work until she,
and those who may be dependent upon the meagre returns of her labour,
were reduced to the utmost extremity. And, it may be, that even their
next meal was dependent upon the receipt of the money that was expected
to be paid for making the vest you hold in your hand. The expression of
her face as she turned away, and her slow, lingering step and drooping
form, as she left the shop, had in them a language which told me of all
this, and even more."

A great change came over the tailor's countenance.

"I didn't think of that," fell in a low tone from his lips.

"I didn't suppose you did, brother Lawson," said his monitor. "We are
all more apt to think of ourselves than of others. The girl promised
you the vest this evening?"

"Yes."

"And, so far as that was concerned, performed her contract. Is the vest
made so very badly?"

Mr. Lawson took up the garment, and examined it more carefully.

"Well, I can't say that the work is so very badly done. But it is
dreadfully soiled and rumpled, and is not as neat a job as it should
be, nor at all such as I wished it. The customer for whom it is
intended is very particular, and I was anxious to please him."

"All this is very annoying, of course; but still we should always be
ready to make some excuse for the short-comings of others. There is no
telling under how many disadvantages the poor girl may have laboured in
making this vest. She may have had a sick mother, or a father, or
sister to attend to, which constantly interfered with and interrupted
her. She may have been compelled, from this cause, to work through a
greater part of the night, in order to keep her promise to you. Under
such circumstances, even you could hardly wonder if the garment were
not made well, or if it came soiled from her hands. And even you could
hardly find it in your heart to speak unkindly to the poor creature,
much less turn her away angrily, and without the money she had toiled
for so earnestly."

"I didn't think of that," was murmured in a low abstracted voice.

"Who could wonder," continued the old man, "if that unhappy girl,
deprived of the reward of honest labour, and driven angrily away as you
drove her just now, should in despair step aside into ruin, thus
sacrificing herself, body and soul, in order to save from want and
deprivation those she could not sustain by virtuous toil?"

"I didn't think of that," fell quick and in an agitated voice from the
tailor's lips, as, dropping the garment he held in his hand, he hurried
around his counter and left the shop.

Ellen was not tempted as the friend of Mr. Lawson had supposed; but
there are hundreds who, under like circumstances, would have turned
aside. From the shop of the tailor she went slowly homeward; at her
heart was a feeling of utter despondency. She had struggled long, in
weariness and pain, with her lot; but now she felt that the struggle
was over. The hope of the hour had failed, and it seemed to her the
last hope.

When Ellen entered the room where her sister lay, the sight of her
expectant face (for the desire for nourishing, refreshing food had been
stronger than usual with Mary, and her fancy had been dwelling upon the
pleasant repast that was soon to be spread before her) made the task of
communicating the cruel repulse she had received tenfold more painful.
Without uttering a word, she threw herself upon the bed beside her
sister, and, burying her face in a pillow, endeavoured to smother the
sobs that came up convulsively from her bosom. Mary asked no question.
She understood the meaning of Ellen's agitation well; it told her that
she had been disappointed in the expectation of receiving the money for
her work.

Deep silence followed. Mary clasped her hands together and raised her
eyes upward, while Ellen lay motionless with her face hidden where she
had first concealed it. There was a knock at the door, but no voice
bade the applicant for admission enter. It was repeated; but, if heard,
it met no response. Then the latch was lifted, the door swung open, and
the tailor stepped into the room. The sound of his feet aroused the
passive sisters. The white face of Mary was to him, at first, a
startling image of death; but her large bright eyes opened and turned
upon him with an assurance that life still lingered in its earthly
tenement.

"Ellen, Ellen," said the sick girl, faintly.

Ellen, too, had heard the sound of footsteps on the floor, and she now
raised up slowly, and presented to Lawson her sad, tearful countenance.

"I was wrong to speak to you as I did," said the tailor without
preface, advancing towards the bed and holding out to Ellen the money
she had earned. "There is the price of the vest; it is better made than
I at first thought it was. To-morrow I will send you more work. Try and
cheer up. Are you so very poor?"

The last two sentences were uttered in a voice of encouragement and
sympathy. Ellen looked her thankfulness, but did not venture a reply.
Her heart was too full to trust her lips with utterance.

Feeling that his presence, under all circumstances, could not but be
embarrassing, Mr. Lawson, after taking two or three dollars from his
pocket and placing them on the table with the remark--"Take this in
advance for work," retired and left the poor sisters in a different
frame of mind from what they were in when he entered. Shortly after
they received a basket, in which was a supply of nourishing food.
Though no one's name was sent with it, they were not in doubt as to
whence it came.

Mr. Lawson was not an unfeeling man, but, like too many others in the
world, he did not always "think."




TAKING BOARDERS.


CHAPTER I.

A LADY, past the prime of life, sat thoughtful, as twilight fell
duskily around her, in a room furnished with great elegance. That her
thoughts were far from being pleasant, the sober, even sad expression
of her countenance too clearly testified. She was dressed in deep
mourning. A faint sigh parted her lips as she looked up, on hearing the
door of the apartment in which she was sitting open. The person who
entered, a tall and beautiful girl, also in mourning, came and sat down
by her side, and leaned her head, with a pensive, troubled air, down
upon her shoulder.

"We must decide upon something, Edith, and that with as little delay as
possible," said the elder of the two ladies, soon after the younger one
entered. This was said in a tone of great despondency.

"Upon what shall we decide, mother?" and the young lady raised her head
from its reclining position, and looked earnestly into the eyes of her
parent.

"We must decide to do something by which the family can be sustained.
Your father's death has left us, unfortunately and unexpectedly, as you
already know, with scarcely a thousand dollars beyond the furniture of
this house, instead of an independence which we supposed him to
possess. His death was sad and afflictive enough--more than it seemed I
could bear. But to have this added!"

The voice of the speaker sank into a low moan, and was lost in a
stifled sob.

"But what can we do, mother?" asked Edith, in an earnest tone, after
pausing long enough for her mother to regain the control of her
feelings.

"I have thought of but one thing that is at all respectable," replied
the mother.

"What is that?"

"Taking boarders."

"Why, mother!" ejaculated Edith, evincing great surprise, "how can you
think of such a thing?"

"Because driven to do so by the force of circumstances."

"Taking boarders! Keeping a boarding-house! Surely we have not come to
this!"

An expression of distress blended with the look of astonishment in
Edith's face.

"There is nothing disgraceful in keeping a boarding-house," returned
the mother. "A great many very respectable ladies have been compelled
to resort to it as a means of supporting their families."

"But to think of it, mother! To think of your keeping a
boarding-house! I cannot bear it."

"Is there any thing else that can be done, Edith?"

"Don't ask me such a question."

"If, then, you cannot think for me, you must try and think with me, my
child. Something will have to be done to create an income. In less than
twelve months, every dollar I have will be expended; and then what are
we to do? Now, Edith, is the time for us to look at the matter
earnestly, and to determine the course we will take. There is no use to
look away from it. A good house in a central situation, large enough
for the purpose, can no doubt be obtained; and I think there will be no
difficulty about our getting boarders enough to fill it. The income or
profit from these will enable us still to live comfortably, and keep
Edward and Ellen at school."

"It is hard," was the only remark Edith made to this.

"It is hard, my daughter; very hard! I have thought and thought about
it until my whole mind has been thrown into confusion. But it will not
do to think for ever; there must be action. Can I see want stealing in
upon my children, and sit and fold my hands supinely? No! And to you,
Edith, my oldest child, I look for aid and for counsel. Stand up
bravely by my side."

"And you are in earnest in all this?" said Edith, whose mind seemed
hardly able to realize the truth of their position. From her earliest
days, all the blessings that money could procure had been freely
scattered around her feet. As she grew up and advanced towards
womanhood, she had moved in the most fashionable circles, and there
acquired the habit of estimating people according to their wealth and
social standing, rather than by qualities of mind. In her view, it
appeared degrading in a woman to enter upon any kind of employment for
money; and with the keeper of a boarding-house, particularly, she had
always associated something low, vulgar, and ungenteel. At the thought
of her mother's engaging in such an occupation, when the suggestion was
made her mind instantly revolted. It appeared to her as if disgrace
would be the inevitable consequence.

"And you are in earnest in all this?" was an expression mingling her
clear conviction of the truth of what at first appeared so strange a
proposition, and her astonishment that the necessities of their
situation were such as to drive them to so humiliating a resource.

"Deeply in earnest," was the mother's reply.

"We are left alone in the world. He who cared for us and provided for
us so liberally has been taken away, and we have nowhere to look for
aid but to the resources that are in ourselves. These well applied,
will give us, I feel strongly assured, all that we need. The thing to
decide is, what we ought to do. If we choose aright, all will doubtless
come out right. To choose aright is, therefore, of the first
importance; and to do this, we must not suffer distorting suggestions
nor the appeals of a false pride to influence our minds in the least.
You are my oldest child, Edith; and, as such, I cannot but look upon
you as, to some extent, jointly with me, the guardian of your younger
brothers and sisters. True, Miriam is of age, and Henry nearly so; but
still you are the eldest--your mind is more matured, and in your
judgment I have the most confidence. Try and forget, Edith, all but the
fact that, unless we make an exertion, one home for all cannot be
retained. Are you willing that we should be scattered like leaves in
the autumn wind? No! you would consider that one of the greatest
calamities that could befall us--an evil to prevent which we should use
every effort in our power. Do you, not see this clearly?"

"I do, mother," was replied by Edith in a more rational tone of voice
than that in which she had yet spoken.

"To open a store of any kind would involve five times the exposure of a
boarding-house; and, moreover, I know nothing of business."

"Keeping a store? Oh, no! we couldn't do that. Think of the dreadful
exposure!"

"But in taking boarders we only increase our family, and all goes on as
usual. To my mind, it is the most genteel thing that we can do. Our
style of living will be the same; our waiter and all our servants will
be retained. In fact, to the eye there will be little change, and the
world need never know how greatly reduced our circumstances have
become."

This mode of argument tended to reconcile Edith to taking boarders.
Something, she saw, had to be done. Opening a store was felt to be out
of the question; and as to commencing a school, the thought was
repulsed at the very first suggestion.

A few friends were consulted on the subject, and all agreed that the
best thing for the widow to do was to take boarders. Each one could
point to some lady who had commenced the business with far less ability
to make boarders comfortable, and who had yet got along very well. It
was conceded on all hands that it was a very genteel business, and that
some of the first ladies had been compelled to resort to it, without
being any the less respected. Almost every one to whom the matter was
referred spoke in favour of the thing, and but a single individual
suggested difficulty; but what he said was not permitted to have much
weight. This individual was a brother of the widow, who had always been
looked upon as rather eccentric. He was a bachelor and without fortune,
merely enjoying a moderate income as book-keeper in the office of an
insurance company. But more of him hereafter.



CHAPTER II.

MRS. DARLINGTON, the widow we have just introduced to the reader, had
five children. Edith, the oldest daughter, was twenty-two years of age
at the time of her father's death; and Henry, the oldest son, just
twenty. Next to Henry was Miriam, eighteen years old. The ages of the
two youngest children, Ellen and Edward, were ten and eight.

Mr. Darlington, while living, was a lawyer of distinguished ability,
and his talents and reputation at the Philadelphia bar enabled him to
accumulate a handsome fortune. Upon this he had lived for some years in
a style of great elegance. About a year before his death, he had been
induced to enter into some speculation that promised great results; but
he found, when too late to retreat, that he had been greatly deceived.
Heavy losses soon followed. In a struggle to recover himself, he became
still further involved; and, ere the expiration of a twelvemonth, saw
every thing falling from under him. The trouble brought on by this was
the real cause of his death, which was sudden, and resulted from
inflammation and congestion of the brain.

Henry Darlington, the oldest son, was a young man of promising talents.
He remained at college until a few months before his father's death,
when he returned home and commenced the study of law, in which he felt
ambitious to distinguish himself.

Edith, the oldest daughter, possessed a fine mind, which had been well
educated. She had some false views of life, natural to her position;
but, apart from this, was a girl of sound sense and great force of
character. Thus far in life she had not encountered circumstances of a
nature calculated to develop what was in her. The time for that,
however, was approaching. Miriam, her sister, was a quiet, gentle,
retiring, almost timid girl. She went into company with reluctance, and
then always shrunk as far from observation as it was possible to get;
but, like most quiet, retiring persons, there were deep places in her
mind and heart. She thought and felt more than was supposed. All who
knew Miriam loved her. Of the younger children we need not here speak.

Mrs. Darlington knew comparatively nothing of the world beyond her own
social circle. She was, perhaps, as little calculated for doing what
she proposed to do as a woman could well be. She had no habits of
economy, and had never in her life been called upon to make
calculations of expense in household matters. There was a tendency to
generosity rather than selfishness in her character, and she rarely
thought evil of any one. But all that she was need not here be set
forth, for it will appear as our narrative progresses.

Mr. Hiram Ellis, the brother of Mrs. Darlington to whom brief allusion
has been made, was not a great favourite in the family--although Mr.
Darlington understood his good qualities, and very highly respected
him--because he had not much that was prepossessing in his external
appearance, and was thought to be a little eccentric. Moreover, he was
not rich--merely holding the place of book-keeper in an insurance
office, at a moderate salary. But as he had never married, and had only
himself to support, his income supplied amply all his wants, and left
him a small annual surplus.

After the death of Mr. Darlington, he visited his sister much more
frequently than before. Of the exact condition of her affairs, he was
much better acquainted than she supposed. The anxiety which she felt,
some months after her husband's death, when the result of the
settlement of his estate became known, led her to be rather more
communicative. After determining to open a boarding-house, she said to
him, on the occasion of his visiting her one evening--

"As it is necessary for me to do something, Hiram, I have concluded to
move to a better location, and take a few boarders."

"Don't do any such thing, Margaret," her brother made answer. "Taking
boarders! It's the last thing of which a woman should think."

"Why do you say that, Hiram?" asked Mrs. Darlington, evincing no little
surprise at this unexpected reply.

"Because I think that a woman who has a living to make can hardly try a
more doubtful experiment. Not one in ten ever succeeds in doing any
thing."

"But why, Hiram? Why? I'm sure a great many ladies get a living in that
way."

"What you will never do, Margaret, mark my words for it. It takes a
woman of shrewdness, caution, and knowledge of the world, and one
thoroughly versed in household economy, to get along in this pursuit.
Even if you possessed all these prerequisites to success, you have just
the family that ought not to come in contact with anybody and everybody
that find their way into boarding-houses."

"I must do something, Hiram," said Mrs. Darlington, evincing impatience
at the opposition of her brother.

"I perfectly agree with you in that, Margaret," replied Mr. Ellis. "The
only doubt is as to your choice of occupation. You think that your best
plan will be to take boarders; while I think you could not fall upon a
worse expedient."

"Why do you think so?"

"Have I not just said?"

"What?"

"Why, that, in the first place, it takes a woman of great shrewdness,
caution, and knowledge of the world, and one thoroughly versed in
household economy, to succeed in the business."

"I'm not a fool, Hiram!" exclaimed Mrs. Darlington, losing her
self-command.

"Perhaps you may alter your opinion on that head some time within the
next twelve months," coolly returned Mr. Ellis, rising and beginning to
button up his coat.

"Such language to me, at this time, is cruel!" said Mrs. Darlington,
putting her handkerchief to her eyes.

"No," calmly replied her brother, "not cruel, but kind. I wish to save
you from trouble."

"What else can I do?" asked the widow, removing the handkerchief from
her face.

"Many things, I was going to say," returned Mr. Ellis. "But, in truth,
the choice of employment is not very great. Still, something with a
fairer promise than taking boarders may be found."

"If you can point me to some better way, brother," said Mrs.
Darlington, "I shall feel greatly indebted to you."

"Almost any thing is better. Suppose you and Edith were to open a
school. Both of you are well--"

"Open a school!" exclaimed Mrs. Darlington, interrupting her brother,
and exhibiting most profound astonishment. "I open a school! I didn't
think you would take advantage of my grief and misfortune to offer me
an insult."

Mr. Ellis buttoned the top button of his coat nervously, as his sister
said this, and, partly turning himself towards the door, said--

"Teaching school is a far more useful, and, if you will, more
respectable employment, than keeping a boarding-house. This you ought
to see at a glance. As a teacher, you would be a minister of truth to
the mind, and have it in your power to bend from evil and lead to good
the young immortals committed to your care; while, as a boarding-house
keeper, you would merely furnish food for the natural body--a use below
what you are capable of rendering to society."

But Mrs. Darlington was in no state of mind to feel the force of such
an argument. From the thought of a school she shrunk as from something
degrading, and turned from it with displeasure.

"Don't mention such a thing to me," said she fretfully, "I will not
listen to the proposition."

"Oh, well, Margaret, as you please," replied her brother, now moving
towards the door. "When you ask my advice, I will give it according to
my best judgment, and with a sincere desire for your good. If, however,
it conflicts with your views, reject it; but, in simple justice to me,
do so in a better spirit than you manifest on the present occasion.
Good evening!"

Mrs. Darlington was too much disturbed in mind to make a reply, and Mr.
Hiram Ellis left the room without any attempt on the part of his sister
to detain him. On both sides there had been the indulgence of rather
