
She was gratified by his grave "Yes!"

"But Elfie," said he, smiling again, "you have not told me
your thoughts yet. What had these verses to do with the sea
you were looking at so hard?"

"Nothing; I was thinking," said Fleda, slowly, "that the sea
seemed something like the world  I don't mean it was like,
but it made me think of it; and I thought how pleasant it is
to know that God takes care of his people."

"Don't he take care of everybody?"

"Yes, in one sort of way," said Fleda; "but then it is only
his children that he has promised to keep from everything that
will hurt them."

"I don't see how that promise is kept, Elfie. I think those
who call themselves so meet with as many troubles as the rest
of the world, and perhaps more."

"Yes," said Fleda, quickly, "they have troubles, but then God
wont let the troubles do them any harm."

A subtle evasion, thought Mr. Carleton. "Where did you learn
that, Elfie?"

"The Bible says so," said Fleda.

"Well, how do you know it from that?" said Mr. Carleton,
impelled, he hardly knew whether by his bad or his good angel,
to carry on the conversation.

"Why," said Fleda, looking as if it were a very simple
question, and Mr. Carleton were catechising her, "you know,
Mr. Carleton, the Bible was written by men who were taught by
God exactly what to say, so there could be nothing in it that
is not true."

"How do you know those men were so taught?"

"The Bible says so."

A child's answer! but with a child's wisdom in it, not learnt
of the schools. "He that is of God heareth God's words." To
little Fleda, as to every simple and humble intelligence, the
Bible proved itself; she had no need to go further.

Mr. Carleton did not smile, for nothing would have tempted him
to hurt her feelings; but he said, though conscience did not
let him do it without a twinge, 

"But don't you know, Elfie, there are some people who do not
believe the Bible?"

"Ah, but those are bad people," replied Fleda, quickly; "all
good people believe it."

A child's reason again, but hitting the mark this time.
Unconsciously, little Fleda had brought forward a strong
argument for her cause. Mr. Carleton felt it, and rising up,
that he might not be obliged to say anything more, he began to
pace slowly up and down the deck, turning the matter over.

Was it so? that there were hardly any good men (he thought
there might be a few), who did not believe in the Bible and
uphold its authority? and that all the worst portion of
society was comprehended in the other class?  and if so, how
had he overlooked it? He had reasoned most unphilosophically,
from a few solitary instances that had come under his own eye;
but applying the broad principle of induction, it could not be
doubted that the Bible was on the side of all that is sound,
healthful, and hopeful, in this disordered world. And whatever
might be the character of a few exceptions, it was not
supposable that a wide system of hypocrisy should tell
universally for the best interests of mankind. Summoning
history to produce her witnesses, as he went on with his walk
up and down, he saw with increasing interest, what he had
never seen before, that the Bible had come like the breath of
spring upon the moral waste of mind; that the ice-bound
intellect and cold heart of the world had waked into life
under its kindly influence, and that all the rich growth of
the one and the other had come forth at its bidding. And
except in that sun-lightened tract, the world was and had been
a waste indeed. Doubtless, in that waste, intellect had at
different times put forth sundry barren shoots, such as a
vigorous plant can make in the absence of the sun, but also
like them immature, unsound, and groping vainly after the
light in which alone they could expand and perfect themselves;
ripening no seed for a future and richer growth. And flowers
the wilderness had none. The affections were stunted and
overgrown.

All this was so  how had he overlooked it? His unbelief had
come from a thoughtless, ignorant, one-sided view of life and
human things. The disorder and ruin which he saw, where he did
not also see the adjusting hand at work, had led him to refuse
his credit to the Supreme Fabricator. He thought the waste
would never be reclaimed, and did not know how much it already
owed to the sun of revelation; but what was the waste where
that light had not been! Mr. Carleton was staggered. He did
not know what to think. He began to think he had been a fool.

Poor little Fleda was meditating less agreeably the while.
With the sure tact of truth, she had discerned that there was
more than jest in the questions that had been put to her. She
almost feared that Mr. Carleton shared himself the doubts he
had so lightly spoken of, and the thought gave her great
distress. However, when he came to take her down to tea, with
all his usual manner, Fleda's earnest look at him ended in the
conviction that there was. nothing very wrong under that face.

For several days, Mr. Carleton pondered the matter of this
evening's conversation, characteristically restless till he
had made up his mind. He wished very much to draw Fleda to
speak further upon the subject, but it was not easy; she never
led to it. He sought in vain an opportunity to bring it in
easily, and at last resolved to make one..

"Elfie," said he, one morning, when all the rest of the
passengers were happily engaged at a distance with the letter-
bags  "I wish you would let me hear that favourite hymn of
yours again; l like it very much."

Fleda was much gratified, and immediately with great
satisfaction repeated the hymn. Its peculiar beauty struck him
yet more the second time than the first.

"Do you understand those two last verses?" said he, when she
had done.

Fleda said "Yes!" rather surprised.

"I do not," he said, gravely.

Fleda paused a minute or two, and then finding that it
depended on her to enlighten him, said in her modest way, 

"Why, it means that we have no goodness of our own, and only
expect to be forgiven, and taken to heaven, for the Saviour's
sake."

Mr. Carleton asked, "How for his sake?"

"Why, you know, Mr. Carleton, we don't deserve to go there,
and if we are forgiven at all, it must be for what He has
done."

"And what is that, Elfie?"

"He died for us," said Fleda, with a look of some anxiety into
Mr. Carleton's face.

"Died for us!  And what end was that to serve, Elfie?" said
he, partly willing to hear the full statement of the matter,
and partly willing to see how far her intelligence could give
it.

"Because we are sinners," said Fleda, "and God has said that
sinners shall die."

"Then how can he keep his word, and forgive at all?"

"Because Christ has died for us," said Fleda, eagerly 
"instead of us."

"Do you understand the justice of letting one take the place
of others?"

"He was willing, Mr. Carleton," said Fleda, with a singular
wistful expression, that touched him.

"Still, Elfie," said he, after a minute's silence, "how could
the ends of justice be answered by the death of one man in the
place of millions?"

"No, Mr. Carleton, but He was God as well as man," Fleda said,
with a sparkle in her eye which perhaps delayed her
companion's rejoinder.

"What should induce him, Elfie," he said, gently, "to do such
a thing for people who had displeased him?"

"Because he loved us, Mr. Carleton."

She answered with so evident a strong and clear appreciation
of what she was saying, that it half made its way into Mr.
Carleton's mind by the force of sheer sympathy. Her words came
almost as something new.

Certainly Mr. Carleton had heard these things before; though
perhaps never in a way that appealed so directly to his
intelligence and his candour. He was again silent an instant,
pondering, and so was Fleda.

"Do you know, Elfie," said Mr. Carleton, "there are some
people who do not believe that the Saviour was anything more
than a man?"

"Yes, I know it," said Fleda;  "it is very strange!"

"Why is it strange?"

"Because the Bible says it so plainly."

"But those people hold, I believe, that the Bible does not say
it."

"I don't see how they could have read the Bible," said Fleda.
"Why, he said so himself."

"Who said so?"

"Jesus Christ. Don't you believe it, Mr. Carleton?"

She saw he did not, and the shade that had come over her face
was reflected in his before he said "No."

"But perhaps I shall believe it yet, Elfie," he said, kindly.
"Can you show me the place in your Bible where Jesus says this
of himself?"

Fleda looked in despair. She hastily turned over the leaves of
her Bible to find the passages he had asked for, and Mr.
Carleton was cut to the heart to see that she twice was
obliged to turn her face from him, and brush her hand over her
eyes, before she could find them. She turned to Matt. xxvi.
63-65, and, without speaking, gave him the book, pointing to
the passage. He read it with great care, and several times
over.

"You are right, Elfie," he said. "I do not see how those who
honour the authority of the Bible, and the character of Jesus
Christ, can deny the truth of His own declaration. If that is
false, so must those be."

Fleda took the Bible, and hurriedly sought out another
passage.

"Grandpa showed me these places," she said, "once when we were
talking about Mr. Didenhover  he didn't believe that. There
are a great many other places, grandpa said; but one! is
enough." 

She gave him the latter part of the 20th chapter of John.

"You see, Mr. Carleton, he let Thomas fall down and worship
him, and call him God; and if he had not been, you know  God
is more displeased with that than with anything."

"With what, Elfie?"

"With men's worshipping any other than himself. He says he
'will not give his glory to another.' "

"Where is that?"

"I am afraid I can't find it," said Fleda  "it is somewhere
in Isaiah, I know" 

She tried in vain; and failing, then looked up in Mr.
Carleton's face to see what impression had been made.

"You see Thomas believed when he saw," said he, answering her;
 "I will believe, too, when I see."

"Ah! if you wait for that"  said Fleda.

Her voice suddenly checked: she bent her face down again to
her little Bible, and there was a moment's struggle with
herself.

"Are you looking for something more to show me?" said Mr.
Carleton, kindly, stooping his face down to hers.

"Not much," said Fleda, hurriedly; and then making a great
effort, she raised her head, and gave him the book again.

"Look here, Mr. Carleton  Jesus said, 'Blessed are they that
have not seen, and yet have believed.' "

Mr. Carleton was profoundly struck, and the thought recurred
to him afterwards, and was dwelt upon. "Blessed are they that
have not seen, and yet have believed." It was strange at
first, and then he wondered that it should ever have been so.
His was a mind peculiarly open to conviction, peculiarly
accessible to truth; and his attention being called to it, he
saw faintly now what he had never seen before, the beauty of
the principle of faith  how natural, how reasonable, how
necessary, how honourable to the Supreme Being, how happy even
for man, that the grounds of his trust in God being
established, his acceptance of many other things should rest
on that trust alone.

Mr. Carleton now became more reserved and unsociable than
ever. He wearied himself with thinking. If he could have got
at the books, he would have spent his days and nights in
studying the evidences of Christianity; but the ship was bare
of any such books, and he never thought of turning to the most
obvious of all, the Bible itself. His unbelief was shaken; it
was within an ace of falling in pieces to the very foundation;
or, rather, he began to suspect how foundationless it had
been. It came at last to one point with him  If there were a
God, he would not have left the world without a revelation 
no more would he have suffered that revelation to defeat its
own end by becoming corrupted or alloyed; if there was such a
revelation, it could be no other than the Bible; and his
acceptance of the whole scheme of Christianity now hung upon
the turn of a hair. Yet he could not resolve himself. He
balanced the counter doubts and arguments on one side and on
the other, and strained his mind to the task; he could not
weigh them nicely enough. He was in a maze; and seeking to
clear and calm his judgment that he might see the way out, it
was in vain that he tried to shake his dizzied head from the
effect of the turns it had made. By dint of anxiety to find
the right path, reason had lost herself in the wilderness.

Fleda was not, as Mr. Carleton had feared she would be, at all
alienated from him by the discovery that had given her so much
pain. It wrought in another way, rather to add a touch of
tender and anxious interest to the affection she had for him.
It gave her, however, much more pain than he thought. If he
had seen the secret tears that fell on his account, he would
have been grieved; and if he had known of the many petitions
that little heart made for him, he could hardly have loved her
more than he did.

One evening Mr. Carleton had been a long while pacing up and
down the deck in front of little Fleda's nest, thinking and
thinking, without coming to any end. It was a most fair
evening, near sunset, the sky without a cloud, except two or
three little dainty strips which set off its blue. The ocean
was very quiet, only broken into cheerful mites of waves that
seemed to have nothing to do but sparkle. The sun's rays were
almost level now, and a long path of glory across the sea led
off towards his sinking disk. Fleda sat watching and enjoying
it all in her happy fashion, which always made the most of
everything good, and was especially quick in catching any form
of natural beauty.

Mr. Carleton's thoughts were elsewhere  too busy to take note
of things around him. Fleda looked now and then as he passed
at his gloomy brow, wondering what he was thinking of, and
wishing that he could have the same reason to be happy that
she had. In one of his turns his eye met her gentle glance;
and, vexed and bewildered as he was with study, there was
something in that calm bright face that impelled him
irresistibly to ask the little child to set the proud scholar
right. Placing himself beside her, he said, 

"Elfie, how do you know there is a God? what reason have you
for thinking so, out of the Bible?"

It was a strange look little Fleda gave him. He felt it at the
time, and he never forgot it. Such a look of reproach, sorrow,
and pity, he afterwards thought, as an angel's face might have
worn. The question did not seem to occupy her a moment. After
this answering look she suddenly pointed to the sinking sun,
and said 

"Who made that, Mr. Carleton?"

Mr. Carleton's eyes, following the direction of hers, met the
long, bright rays, whose still witness-bearing was almost too
powerful to be borne. The sun was just dipping majestically
into the sea, and its calm self-assertion seemed to him at
that instant hardly stronger than its vindication of its
Author.

A slight arrow may find the joint in the armour before which
many weightier shafts have fallen powerless. Mr. Carleton was
an unbeliever no more from that time.




CHAPTER XII.


"He borrowed a box of the ear of the Englishman, and swore he
would pay him again when he was able.  Merchant of Venice.


One other incident alone in the course of the voyage deserves
to be mentioned; both because it served to bring out the
characters of several people, and because it was not  what
is?  without its lingering consequences.

Thorn and Rossitur had kept up indefatigably the game of
teasing Fleda about her "English admirer," as they sometime
styled him. Poor Fleda grew more and more sore on the subject.
She thought it was very strange that two grown men could not
find enough to do to amuse themselves without making sport of
the comfort of a little child. She wondered they could take
pleasure in what gave her so much pain; but so it was; and
they had it up so often that, at last, others caught it from
them, and, though not in malevolence, yet in thoughtless
folly, many a light remark was made and question asked of her
that set little Fleda's sensitive nerves a-quivering. She was
only too happy that they were never said before Mr. Carleton 
that would have been a thousand times worse. As it was, her
gentle nature was constantly suffering from the pain or the
fear of these attacks.

"Where's Mr. Carleton?" said her cousin, coming up one day.

"I don't know," said Fleda; "I don't know but he is gone up
into one of the tops."

"Your humble servant leaves you to yourself a great while this
morning, it seems to me. He is growing very inattentive."

"I wouldn't permit it. Miss Fleda, if I were you," said Thorn,
maliciously. "You let him have his own way too much."

"I wish you wouldn't talk so, cousin Charlton!" said Fleda.

"But seriously," said Charlton, "I think you had better call
him to account. He is very suspicious lately. I have observed
him walking by himself, and looking very glum indeed. I am
afraid he has taken some fancy into his head that would not
suit you. I advise you to inquire into it."

"I wouldn't give myself any concern about it," said Thorn,
lightly, enjoying the child's confusion and his own fanciful
style of backbiting; "I'd let him go if he has a mind to, Miss
Fleda. He's no such great catch. He's neither lord nor knight
 nothing in the world but a private gentleman, with plenty of
money, I dare say, but you don't care for that; and there's as
good fish in the sea as ever came out of it. I don't think
much of him."

"He is wonderfully better than you," thought Fleda, as she
looked in the young gentleman's face for a second, but she
said nothing.

"Why, Fleda," said Charlton, laughing, "it wouldn't be a
killing affair, would it? How has this English admirer of
yours got so far in your fancy? praising your pretty eyes, eh?
 eh?" he repeated, as Fleda kept a dignified silence.

"No," said Fleda, in displeasure; "he never says such things."

"No?" said Charlton. "What then! What does he say? I wouldn't
let him make a fool of me, if I were you. Fleda  did he ever
ask you for a kiss?"

"No!" exclaimed Fleda, half beside herself, and bursting into
tears: " I wish you wouldn't talk so! How can you!"

They had carried the game pretty far that time, and thought
best to leave it. Fleda stopped crying as soon as she could,
lest somebody should see her; and was sitting quietly again,
alone as before, when one of the sailors whom she had never
spoken to, came by, and leaning over towards her with a leer
as he passed, said 

"Is this the young English gentleman's little sweet-heart?"

Poor Fleda! She had got more than she could bear. She jumped
up, and ran down into the cabin; and in her berth Mrs.
Carleton found her some time afterwards, quietly crying, and
most sorry to be discovered. She was exceeding unwilling to
tell what had troubled her. Mrs. Carleton, really distressed,
tried coaxing, soothing, reasoning, promising, in a way the
most gentle and kind that she could use.

"Oh, it's nothing  it's nothing," Fleda said, at last,
eagerly; "it's because I am foolish  it's only something they
said to me."

"Who, love?"

Again was Fleda most unwilling to answer, and it was after
repeated urging that she at last said 

"Cousin Charlton and Mr. Thorn."

"Charlton and Mr. Thorn! What did they say? What did they say,
darling Fleda?"

"Oh, it's only that they tease me," said Fleda, trying hard to
put an end to the tears which caused all this questioning, and
to speak as if they were about a trifle. But Mrs. Carleton
persisted.

"What do they say to tease you, love? What is it about? Guy,
come in here, and help me to find out what is the matter with
Fleda."

Fleda hid her face in Mrs. Carleton's neck, resolved to keep
her lips sealed. Mr. Carleton came in, but to her great relief
his question was directed not to her but his mother.

"Fleda has been annoyed by something those young men, her
cousin and Mr. Thorn, have said to her; they tease her, she
says, and she will not tell me what it is."

Mr. Carleton did not ask, and he presently left the state-
room.

"Oh, I am afraid he will speak to them!" exclaimed Fleda, as
soon as he was gone. "Oh, I oughtn't to have said that!"

Mrs. Carleton tried to soothe her, and asked what she was
afraid of. But Fleda would not say any more. Her anxious fear
that she had done mischief helped to dry her tears, and she
sorrowfully resolved she would keep her griefs to herself next
time.

Rossitur and Thorn were in company with a brother officer, and
friend of the latter, when Mr. Carleton approached them.

"Mr. Rossitur and Mr. Thorn," said he, "you have indulged
yourselves in a style of conversation extremely displeasing to
the little girl under my mother's care. You will oblige me by
abandoning it for the future."

There was certainly in Mr. Carleton's manner a sufficient
degree of the cold haughtiness with which he usually
expressed. Displeasure, though his words gave no other cause
of offence. Thorn retorted rather insolently.

"I shall oblige myself in the matter, and do as I think
proper."

"I have a right to speak as I please to my own cousin," said
Rossitur, sulkily, "without asking anybody's leave. I don't
see what you have to do with it."

"Simply that she is under my protection, and that I will not
permit her to be annoyed."

"I don't see how she is under your protection," said Rossitur.

"And I do not see how the potency of it will avail in this
case," said his companion.

"Neither position is to be made out in words," said Mr.
Carleton, calmly. "You see that I desire there be no
repetition of the offence, the rest I will endeavour to make
clear, if I am compelled to it."

"Stop, Sir!" said Thorn, as the young Englishman was turning
away, adding with an oath "I wont bear this! You shall answer
this to me, Sir!"

"Easily," said the other.

"And me, too," said Rossitur. "You have an account to settle
with me, Carleton."

"I will answer what you please," said Carleton, carelessly;
"and as soon as we get to land, provided you do not, in the
meantime, induce me to refuse you the honour."

However incensed, the young men endeavoured to carry it off
with the same coolness that their adversary showed. No more
words passed; but Mrs. Carleton, possibly quickened by Fleda's
fears, was not satisfied with the carriage of all parties, and
resolved to sound her son, happy in knowing that nothing but
truth was to be had from him. She found an opportunity that
very afternoon, when he was sitting alone on the deck. The
neighbourhood of little Fleda she hardly noticed. Fleda was
curled up among her cushions, luxuriously bending over a
little old black Bible, which was very often in her hand at
times when she was quiet and had no observation to fear.

"Reading! always reading!" said Mrs. Carleton, as she came up
and took a place by her son.

"By no means!" he said, closing his book with a smile;  "not
enough to tire any one's eyes on this voyage, mother."

"I wish you liked intercourse with living society," said Mrs.
Carleton, leaning her arm on his shoulder and looking at him
rather wistfully.

"You need not wish that  when it suits me," he answered.

"But none suits you. Is there any on board?"

"A small proportion," he said, with the slight play of feature
which always effected a diversion of his mother's thoughts, no
matter in what channel they had been flowing.

"But those young men," she said, returning to the charge, "you
hold yourself very much aloof from them?"

He did not answer, even by a look, but to his mother the
perfectly quiet composure of his face was sufficiently
expressive.

"I know what you think; but, Guy, you always had the same
opinion of them?"

"I have never shown any other."

"Guy," she said, speaking low and rather anxiously, "have you
got into trouble with those young men?"

"I am in no trouble, mother," he answered, somewhat haughtily;
"I cannot speak for them."

Mrs. Carleton waited a moment.

"You have done something to displease them, have you not?"

"They have displeased me, which is somewhat more to the
purpose."

"But their folly is nothing to you?"

"No  not their folly."

"Guy," said his mother, again pausing a minute, and pressing
her hand more heavily upon his shoulder, "you will not suffer
this to alter the friendly terms you have been on?  whatever
it be, let it pass."

"Certainly; if they choose to apologize, and behave
themselves."

"What  about Fleda?"

"Yes."

"I have no idea they meant to trouble her; I suppose they did
no at all know what they were doing  thoughtless nonsense 
and they could have had no design to offend you. Promise me
that you will not take any further notice of this."

He shook off the beseeching hand as he rose up, and answered
haughtily, and not without something like an oath, that he
would.

Mrs. Carleton knew him better than to press the matter any
further; and her fondness easily forgave the offence against
herself, especially as her son almost immediately resumed his
ordinary manner.

It had well nigh passed from the minds of both parties, when
in the middle of the next day, Mr. Carleton asked what had
become of Fleda?  he had not seen her except at the
breakfast-table. Mrs. Carleton said she was not well.

"What's the matter?"

"She complained of some headache  I think she made herself
sick yesterday  she was crying all the afternoon, and I could
not get her to tell me what for. I tried every means I could
think of, but she would not give me the least clue  she said
'No' to everything I guessed  I can't bear to see her do so 
it makes it all the worse she does it so quietly  it was only
by a mere chance I found she was crying at all, but I think
she cried herself ill before she stopped. She could not eat a
mouthful of breakfast."

Mr. Carleton said nothing, and, with a changed countenance,
went directly down to the cabin. The stewardess whom he sent
in to see how she was, brought back word that Fleda was not
asleep, but was too ill to speak to her. Mr. Carleton went
immediately into the little crib of a state-room. There he
found his little charge, sitting bolt upright, her feet on the
rung of a chair, and her hands grasping the top to support
herself. Her eyes were closed, her face without a particle of
colour, except the dark shade round the eyes which bespoke
illness and pain. She made no attempt to answer his shocked
questions and words of tender concern, not even by the raising
of an eyelid, and he saw that the intensity of pain at the
moment was such as to render breathing itself difficult. He
sent off the stewardess with all despatch after iced water and
vinegar and brandy, and himself went on an earnest quest of
restoratives among the lady passengers in the cabin, which
resulted in sundry supplies of salts and cologne, and also
offers of service, in greater plenty still, which he all
refused. Most tenderly and judiciously he himself applied
various remedies to the suffering child, who could not direct
him otherwise than by gently putting away the things which she
felt would not avail her. Several were in vain. But there was
one bottle of strong aromatic vinegar which was destined to
immortalize its owner in Fleda's remembrance. Before she had
taken three whiffs of it, her colour changed. Mr. Carleton
watched the effect of a few whiffs more, and then bade the
stewardess take away all the other things, and bring him a cup
of fresh strong coffee. By the time it came Fleda was ready
for it; and by the time Mr. Carleton had administered the
coffee, he saw it would do to throw his mother's shawl round
her, and carry her up on deck, which he did without asking any
questions. All this while Fleda had not spoken a word, except
once when he asked her if she felt better. But she had given
him, on finishing the coffee, a full look and half smile of
such pure affectionate gratitude, that the young gentleman's
tongue was tied for some time after.

With happy skill, when he had safely bestowed Fleda among her
cushions on deck, Mr. Carleton managed to keep off the crowd
of busy inquirers after her well-doing, and even presently to
turn his mother's attention another way, leaving Fleda to
enjoy all the comfort of quiet and fresh air at once. He
himself seeming occupied with other things, did no more but
keep watch over her, till he saw that she was able to bear
conversation again. Then he seated himself beside her, and
said softly 

"Elfie, what were you crying about all yesterday afternoon?"

Fleda changed colour, for, soft and gentle as the tone was,
she heard in it a determination to have the answer; and
looking up beseechingly into his face, she saw in the steady
full blue eye, that it was a determination she could not
escape from. Her answer was an imploring request that he would
not ask her. But taking one of her little hands and carrying
it to his lips, he in the same tone repeated his question.
Fleda snatched away her hand, and burst into very frank tears;
Mr. Carleton was silent, but she knew through his silence that
he was only quietly waiting for her to answer him.

"I wish you wouldn't ask me, Sir," said poor Fleda, who still
could not turn her face to meet his eye  "It was only
something that happened yesterday."

"What was it, Elfie?  You need not be afraid to tell me."

"It was only  what you said to Mrs. Carleton yesterday  when
she was talking "

"About my difficulty with those gentlemen!"

"Yes," said Fleda, with a new gush of tears, as if her grief
stirred afresh at the thought.

Mr. Carleton was silent a moment; and when he spoke, there was
no displeasure, and more tenderness than usual, in his voice.

"What troubled you in that, Elfie? tell me the whole."

"I was sorry, because it wasn't right," said Fleda, with a
grave truthfulness which yet lacked none of her universal
gentleness and modesty.

"What wasn't right?"

"To speak  I am afraid you wont like me to say it, Mr.
Carleton."

"I will, Elfie for I ask you."

"To speak to Mrs. Carleton, so; and, besides, you know what
you said, Mr. Carleton"

"It was not right," said he, after a minute, "and I very
seldom use such an expression, but you know one cannot always
be on one's guard, Elfie."

"But," said Fleda, with gentle persistence, "one can always do
what is right."

"The deuce one can!" thought Mr. Carleton to himself.

"Elfie, was this all that troubled you? that I had said what
was not right?"

"It wasn't quite that only," said Fleda, hesitating.

"What else?"

She stooped her face from his sight, and he could but just
understand her words.

"I was disappointed "

"What, in me?"

Her tears gave the answer; she could add to them nothing but
an assenting nod of her head.

They would have flowed in double measure if she had guessed
the pain she had given. Her questioner heard her with a keen
pang, which did not leave him. for days. There was some hurt
pride in it, though other and more generous feelings had a far
larger share. He, who had been admired, lauded, followed,
cited, and envied, by all ranks of his countrymen and
countrywomen; in whom nobody found a fault that could be dwelt
upon, amid the lustre of his perfections and advantages  one
of the first young men in England, thought so by himself, as
well as by others  this little pure being had been
disappointed in him. He could not get over it. He reckoned the
one judgment worth all the others. Those whose direct or
indirect flatteries had been poured at his feet, were the
proud, the worldly, the ambitious, the interested, the
corrupted; their praise was given to what they esteemed, and
that, his candour said, was the least estimable part of him.
Beneath all that, this truth-loving, truth-discerning little
spirit had found enough to weep for. She was right, and they
were wrong. The sense of this was so keen upon him, that it
was ten or fifteen minutes before he could recover himself to
speak to his little reprover. He paced up and down the deck,
while Fleda wept more and more from the fear of having
