
"Yes, I'll sign it," answered Tim, more as though it would be conferring
a favor on the club than as a duty he owed to his new friends.

Frank gave the necessary orders to get the boat under way again. Tim
handled his oar with considerable skill, and before they reached the
boat-house, he had learned to time his stroke with that of his
companions.

When they landed, Captain Sedley took Tim apart with him, and very
kindly told him what would be expected of him in his new relation,
urging him to be true to his good resolution, and assuring him that he
should never want for substantial encouragement so long as he persevered
in well doing. Tim hung his head down while he listened to this kind
advice; his answers were short, but they were all satisfactory, so far
as words could be taken as the index of his intentions.

Frank then read the constitution, and the new member listened to it with
attention. The stringent provisions of the sixth article, which forbade
swearing, indecent language, and other boyish vices, brought a scarcely
visible smile to his lips, and excited a doubt as to the success of the
experiment in the mind of the director.

"Now, Tim, you can sign it," said Frank.

"It's pretty strict--ain't it?" added Tim, with one of his peculiar
grins, as he took the pen that was handed to him. "You know I ain't used
to being quite so strained up as you fellers, and I may kinder break
through afore I know it."

"If you do, you shall be judged kindly and charitably," said Captain
Sedley.

"Well. I'll sign it."

But it was not quite so easy a thing for Tim to sign; at least, to
perform the mechanical part of the act, for he had been to school but
little, and good penmanship was not one of his accomplishments. However,
he succeeded in getting over the form, though it would have puzzled the
secretary to read it, if he had not known what it was.

"Now, Zephyrs, Tim is one of us," said Frank.

"He hasn't got any uniform," suggested Charles.

"He shall have one," replied Captain Sedley, as he wrote an order on Mr.
Burlap, the tailor, to supply him with a uniform.

"All aboard!" shouted Frank. "We will pull up the lake, and see how the
Butterfly gets along. They have been practising for a fortnight, and
they ought to be able to row pretty well by this time."

"With Uncle Ben to show them how," added Fred Harper.

Again the Zephyrs were in their seats, and the boat was backed out into
the lake. The flags were unrolled, and put in their places. The graceful
barge was nicely trimmed, so as to rest exactly square in the water, and
everything was ready for a sharp pull. The weather was cool, and the
boys required some pretty vigorous exercise to keep them warm.

The various commands were given and executed with the usual precision,
only that Tim, who was not thoroughly "broken in," made some blunders,
though, considering his short service, his proficiency was decidedly
creditable.

The Zephyr darted away like an arrow, and the slow, measured, musical
stroke of the oars was pleasant and exciting to the rowers.

"You haven't told us about the other matter yet, Frank," said Charles,
as the boat skimmed along over the little waves of the lake.

"Let us know about it," added Fred.

"About what?" asked Tim Bunker, whose modesty in his new position did
not seem to cause him much trouble.

"We are to have a race with the Butterfly, when Tony gets things to his
mind," replied Frank.

"That'll be fun! Are ye going to put up anything?"

"Put up anything?"

"Yes; what's going to be the stakes?"

"I don't know what you mean, Tim."

"When they race horses, each man bets on his own."

"We are not going to bet; that would be contrary to the constitution."

"Would it? I didn't hear nothing about betting."

"Article second says that one of the objects of the association shall be
the acquiring of good habits in general; and I am sure betting is a very
bad habit."

"Well, I s'pose it is."

"But several gentlemen of Rippleton have subscribed fifty dollars as a
prize to the winner of the race," added Frank; "just as they give medals
in school, you know."

"Well, of course you will win."

"I don't know."

"You are used to your boat, and them fellers ain't."

"We can't tell yet; perhaps the Butterfly will prove to be a faster boat
than the Zephyr, and some of Tony's members are a good deal larger and
stouter than ours. I think the chances are about equal."

"I think likely. What are you going to do with the money if you win?"

"I don't know; we haven't thought of that yet," replied Frank, not
particularly pleased with the question.

"Divide it among the fellers, I s'pose."

"I think not; we had better apply it to some useful purpose,--that is,
if we win it,--such as enlarging our library, buying some philosophical
instruments--"

"What's them?"

"An air pump, and other apparatus of the kind."

Tim did not comprehend the nature of the mystical implements any better
than before; but as his mind was fixed upon something else, he did not
demand further explanation.

"Fifty dollars," said he; "how much will that be apiece. Thirteen into
fifty; can any of you fellers cipher that up in your heads?"

"Three and eleven thirteenths dollars each," said William Bright, who
pulled the next oar forward of Tim. "Three dollars and eighty-five
cents--isn't it?"

"Eighty-four and a fraction," replied Fred, with schoolboy accuracy.

"A feller could have a good time on that, I'll bet," ejaculated Tim.

"And many a poor man would like it to buy bread for his family," added
Frank. "But there is the Butterfly!"

Tim Bunker dropped his oar at this announcement, and was on the point of
rising to get a better view of the Zephyr's rival, when the handle of
William Bright's oar gave him a smart rap in the back.

"Mind out!" said Tim. "Don't you know any better than to hit a feller in
that way?"

"Cease--rowing!" called Frank, as he saw Tim's first involuntarily
double up, and his eye flash with anger.

"It was your fault, Tim, and you must not blame him," added the
coxswain, mildly, but firmly.

"My fault!" and Tim added an expression which I cannot put upon my page.

"Such language as that is contrary to the constitution," continued
Frank. "You stopped rowing without orders."

"What if I did!"

"You should not have done so. No member can do, or cease to do, without
orders; that's our discipline."

Tim cooled off in a moment, made a surly apology for his rudeness, and
the Zephyr continued on her course.




CHAPTER IV.

THE FRATERNAL HUG.


The incident which had just occurred gave Frank considerable uneasiness.
Tim was naturally quarrelsome, and his former mode of life had done
nothing to improve his disposition. He had never been taught that
self-restraint is necessary to preserve social harmony. If anything did
not suit him, he was not disposed to argue the matter in a conciliatory
manner, but to right his wrongs, whether real or imaginary, by physical
force. In this manner he had obtained his reputation as a "good
fighter."

Frank began to fear that Tim had come into the club without a proper
understanding of its duties and requirements. Though he had, with an ill
grace, apologized for his conduct, he seemed to feel no compunction on
account of it; but, on the contrary, he every moment grew more
overbearing and insolent. He could not speak to his companions in a
gentlemanly manner, as they had been accustomed to be addressed. He was
course, rude, and vulgar; and the members, who had received him among
them in the best spirit possible, began to feel some repugnance towards
him.

But what could be expected of him in so short a time? They had no reason
to believe that a boy who had always been a desperado would suddenly
become a gentle and kind-hearted person. His nature wanted refining, and
such a work could not be done in a moment. These reflections came to
Frank's relief, when he had become well-nigh discouraged at the idea of
reforming Tim--discouraged more by thinking of the vast chasm that
yawned between what he was and what he ought to be. Like the pendulum in
the story, he was crowding the work of months and years into a single
instant. A little sober thought in the proper direction set him right.

The Butterfly was darting out of "Weston Bay" as they approached.

"Cease--rowing!" said Frank. "Now, my lads, let us give them three
rousing cheers. All up! One!"

"Hurrah!"

"Two."

"Hurrah!"

"Three."

"Hurrah!"

And then the Zephyrs clapped their hands, long and loudly, and this was
the greeting which the old club gave to the new one. The compliment was
heartily returned by the Butterfly, and then the cheers were repeated
again and again. Every member seemed to glow with kindly feeling towards
the others. Even Tim Bunker for the time laid aside his morose look, and
joined in the expression of good will with as much zeal as his
companions.

"Now man your oars, Zephyrs," said Frank.

"What ye going to do now?" asked Tim, as he grasped his oar with the
others.

"You shall know in due time," replied the coxswain.

Here was another thing which Tim had yet to learn--not to ask questions
of the commander. It was a part of the discipline of the club to obey
without stopping to argue the point. Captain Sedley himself had
suggested this idea, and it had been thoroughly carried out on board the
Zephyr. It was an established principle that "the coxswain knew what he
was about," and that he alone was responsible for the guidance and the
safety of the boat.

Tim did not seem to fancy this kind of discipline. He evidently felt
that he had been born to command, and not to obey. But the consciousness
that he was in the minority induced him to yield whatever convictions he
might have had of his own superiority to the will of the "powers that
be," and he followed the example of the others.

"Ready--pull!" continued Frank.

He and Tony had arranged a little system of "fleet maneuvers," to be
carried out when the two boats met.

To the surprise of all on board,--for they were not "posted up" in
regard to these tactics,--Frank put the Zephyr about.

"Cease--rowing!" said he, when the boat was headed in the opposite
direction.

To the further surprise of the Zephyrs, they discovered that the
Butterfly had executed a similar maneuver, and that the two boats lay at
the distance of nearly a quarter of a mile apart, the bow of one
pointing directly east, and the other directly west.

"Ready to back her!" said Frank, and the boys all pulled their oar
handles close to their breasts, ready at the word to take the reverse
stroke.

"Back her!"

The Butterfly did the same thing exactly, and the two boats rapidly
approached each other, stern first. Tony had certainly made the most of
the time which had been allotted to him for drilling his crew, and they
worked together almost as well as the Zephyrs, who were a little
embarrassed at each new movement by the awkwardness of Tim Bunker.

"Steady--slow," continued Frank, as the two boats came nearer together.
"That will do; cease--rowing. Ready--up!" and the twelve oars gleamed in
the sunshine.

The sterns of the two boats came together, and Frank threw Tony a line,
which the latter made fast.

"Ready--down!" said Tony and Frank, almost in the same breath; and the
oars were deposited in their places on the thwarts.

The two clubs were facing each other as they sat in their seats, with
the respective coxswains standing in the stern sheets.

"Mr. Coxswain of the Butterfly," said Frank, as he removed his hat, and
gracefully bowed to Tony, "in behalf of the members of the Zephyr Boat
Club, of which you were so long a cherished member, I welcome you and
your club, and the beautiful craft in which you sail, to these waters.
May the Zephyr and the Butterfly cruise together in entire harmony; may
no hard words or hard thoughts be called forth by either, but may all be
peace and good-will."

This little speech was received with a burst of applause by Tony's
club, and the boats interchanged volleys of cheers.

"Mr. Coxswain of the Zephyr," Tony began, in reply to his friend's
speech, "I am much obliged to you and your companions for the kind words
you have spoken for yourself and for them. I am sure there will never be
any hard feelings between us, and I assure you if any fellow in our club
attempts to make a row, we will turn him out. Won't we, fellows?"

"Ay, ay! That we will," replied the club, with one voice.

"If we get beaten in a race, we will bear our defeat like men. Won't we,
boys?"

"That we will."

Tony wound up by saying he was not much at making speeches, but he was
ready to do everything he could to make things go off right and
pleasantly.

Three cheers more were given on each side, and the crews were ordered
into their seats.

"Starboard oars, ready--up!" said Frank.

"Larboard oars, ready--up!" said Tony.

"Ready--down!" was then given by one, and repeated by the other. And
then, "Ready--pull!" followed, in like manner.

My reader will readily perceive that the effect of this maneuver was to
turn the boats round in opposite directions, so that they came alongside
of each other, after a few strokes of the oars.

The painter of the Butterfly was thrown on board the Zephyr, and made
fast to the bow ring. The boys were now all brought together, and the
discipline of the clubs was relaxed so as to permit the members to
enjoy a few moments of social recreation.

The Butterfly, as we have said in the introduction, was of the same size
and model as the Zephyr, and, except that the former was painted in
gayer colors, to represent the gaudy tints of the butterfly, the two
boats were exact counterparts of each other.

Her crew had already procured their uniform, and wore it on the present
occasion. It was a pair of white pants, made "sailor fashion," with a
short red frock, and a patent-leather belt. These garments, owing to the
coldness of the weather, were worn over their usual clothes. The hat was
a tarpaulin, with the name of the club in gilt letters on the front, and
upon the left breast of the frock was a butterfly, worked in colors.

The Butterfly, like her rival, carried an American flag at the stern,
and a blue silk fly, with the letter "B" on it, at the bow.

"This is glorious, isn't it, Frank?" said Tony, as he took his friend's
hand and warmly pressed it.

"First rate! There is fun before us this season; and if nothing happens
to mar the harmony which now prevails, we shall enjoy ourselves even
more than we did last summer."

"Nothing can happen--can there?" replied Tony, glancing involuntarily at
Tim Bunker, who seemed to be so amazed at the good will that prevailed
around him as to be incapable of saying anything.

"I hope not; but, Tony, what about the race? Has your club voted on the
question of the prize?"

"Yes."

"What did you do?"

"What have you done, Frank?" asked Tony. There was not the slightest
doubt as to his Yankee paternity.

"We voted to accept the offer."

"So did we, though our members were so afraid of doing something wrong,
that George had to come into the meeting and argue the question with
them. We accepted the offer on condition that you did so."

"Then it is all arranged."

"Yes, except the time."

"We shall leave that all to you."

"We are ready now," replied Tony, with a smile.

"Name the day, then."

"Next Wednesday afternoon."

"Very well."

"Who shall be the judges? We have chosen your father for one."

"And we shall choose Uncle Ben for another."

"Let us choose the other together."

"Agreed."

The two clubs were then called to order, and Frank, at Tony's request,
stated the business to them.

"Please to nominate," said he.

"Mr. Hyde, the schoolmaster," exclaimed a dozen voices.

It was a unanimous vote, and the judges were all elected.

"Now, Tony, let us have some fun."

"We will try our fleet tactics a little more, if you like."

"So I say."

"We will go down the lake with the 'fraternal hug.'"

"The what!" exclaimed Charles Hardy.

"We call our present position the 'fraternal hug.'"

"Hurrah for the fraternal hug!" shouted Charles, and all the boys
laughed heartily.

"Nothing bearish about it, I hope," added Fred Harper.

"We have no bears," replied Frank, as he ordered out his starboard oars.

Tony in like manner got out his larboard oars.

"Now, Frank," said he, "as you are a veteran in the service, you shall
be commodore, and command the allied squadron."

A burst of laughter greeted this sally; but Frank was too modest to
accept this double command, and would only do so when a vote had been
passed, making him "commodore."

Fenders--a couple of cushions, which Frank, in anticipation of this
maneuver, had provided--were placed between the two boats to keep them
from injuring each other, and the order was given to pull. As but six
oars were pulled in each boat, their progress was not very rapid. No
one, however, seemed to care for that. The joining of the two boats in
the "fraternal hug" was emblematic of the union that subsisted in the
hearts of their crews, and all the members of each club seemed better
satisfied with this symbolical expression of their feelings than though
they had won a victory over the other.

When they came abreast of the Zephyr's boat-house, they discovered that
Uncle Ben was on board the Sylph, which lay moored at a short distance
from the shore.

Bang! went the cannon which the veteran had again rigged on the bow of
the sail-boat.

And as they passed down the lake, Uncle Ben blazed away in honor of the
fraternal hug between the two clubs.




CHAPTER V.

UP THE RIVER.


At the end of the lake the boats separated, after giving each other
three hearty cheers.

"Where are you going now?" asked Tim Bunker.

"We will go up the lake again."

"Suppose we try a race?" suggested Fred Harper.

"There will be no harm in it, I suppose," replied Frank, glancing at the
Butterfly.

"Zephyr, ahoy!" shouted Tony. "We will pull up together, if you like."

"Agreed."

The two boats were then drawn up alongside of each other, ready to start
when the word should be given.

"Say when you are ready," shouted Tony.

The rowers in each boat were all ready to take the first stroke.

"Ready--pull!" said Frank; and the crews bent to the work.

"Now give it to 'em!" shouted Tim Bunker, as he struck out with his oar.

"Steady, Tim," said Frank. "Be very careful, or you will lose the
stroke."

"No, I won't. Put 'em through by daylight!" And Tim, without paying much
attention to the swaying of the coxswain's body, by which his stroke
should have been regulated, redoubled his exertions. He was very much
excited, and the next moment the handle of his oar hit the boy in front
of him in the back. Then the boy behind hit him, and a scene of
confusion immediately ensued. Of course no boy could pull his stroke
except in unison with the others; so the whole were compelled to cease
rowing.

"We have lost it," said Frank, good-naturedly.

The boys, seeing how useless it was to attempt to row in the midst of
such confusion, were obliged to wait till order had been restored.

"No, we hain't; pull away!" replied Tim, as He seized his oar, and began
to row with all his might.

"Cease rowing!" said Frank.

"Catch your oars, you sleepies, or they will get in first!" exclaimed
Tim, who continued to struggle with his oar in defiance of the order.

He had already pulled the boat half round.

"I guess the fifty dollars won't come to this crew," added Tim,
contemptuously.

"It certainly will not, if you don't obey orders better than that,"
replied Frank.

"I don't want to have the club beat so easy as that."

"But it is all your fault, Tim."

"You lie!"

"What! what!" exclaimed Frank. "We cannot have such language as that. If
you don't conform to the constitution you have signed, you shall be put
on shore at the nearest land."

"Well, I ain't a going to have it laid to me, when I hain't done
nothing. Didn't I pull with all my might and main? and if the other
fellers had done so too, we should have been ahead of 'em afore this
time," answered Tim, somewhat tamed by the threat of the coxswain.

"We will not talk about that until you say whether you intend to conform
to the rules of the club, or not," added Frank, firmly.

"Of course I do."

Tim was still gruff in his tones; but it was evident that he wanted to
conform to the rules, and that his obstinacy was still struggling for
expression.

"You must not tell the coxswain, or any other member, that he lies,
Tim," continued Frank.

"That was a slip of the tongue."

The Bunker tried to laugh it off, and declared that he was so used to
that form of expression he could not leave it off at once. This was
regarded as a great concession by all.

"Very well; if you will promise to do your best to obey the rules, we
will say no more about it."

"Of course I will," replied Tim, with a laugh, which was equivalent to
saying, "If any of you think I am yielding too much, why, I am only
joking."

"Now, Tim, that point being settled, I repeat that our mishap was caused
by you, though we don't blame you for it. You meant to do your best, but
you didn't go to work in the right way."

"What's the reason I didn't?"

"You broke up the stroke."

"The fellers ought to have pulled faster, then, so as to keep up with
me; if they had, we should have done well enough."

"That is not the way. The coxswain is to judge how fast you may pull
with safety."

"Just as you like. All I wanted was to win the race."

"I understand you; but we can do nothing if the discipline of the club
is not observed."

"I didn't know about that."

"Let us understand one another for the future. You must regulate your
stroke by the motion of my body. You are to see nothing but me; and
whatever happens, you must obey orders."

"Let's try it again. I will do as you say," replied Tim, with a great
deal more gentleness than he had before shown.

"Ready--pull!" said Frank. And away darted the Zephyr up the lake.

Tim pulled very steadily now, and showed a disposition to do as the
others did, and to obey orders. Frank was pleased with the result of the
conference, and began to entertain strong hopes of the ultimate
reformation of the Bunker.

But the race was lost; the Butterfly was almost at the head of the lake.

"There's a chance for the Butterflies to crow over us," said Tim, after
a silence of several moments.

"There is to be no crowing. If we had beaten them, I should not have
permitted a word to be spoken that would create a hard feeling in the
minds of any of them," replied Frank. "And I know that Tony is exactly
of my mind."

"It is no great credit to them to have beaten us under these
circumstances," added Fred.

"Each club must be responsible for its own discipline. No excuses are to
be pleaded. Good order and good regulations will prevent such accidents
as just befell us."

"That is what discipline is for," said William Bright.

"Exactly so. Don't you remember what Mr. Hyde told me when I tried to
excuse myself for not having my sums done with the plea that I had no
pencil?" asked Charles Hardy. "He said it was as much a part of our duty
to be ready for our work as it was to do it after we were ready."

"That's good logic," put in Fred. "If the engine companies did not keep
their machines in good working order, of course they would render no
service at the fire. You remember Smith's factory was burnt because 'No.
2's' suction hose leaked, and the 'tub' couldn't be worked."

"That's it; in time of peace prepare for war."

"Where's the Butterfly now?" asked Tim, who did not feel much interest
in this exposition of duty.

"She is headed up to Rippleton River," replied Frank. "I hope she does
not mean to venture among the rocks."

Rippleton River was a stream which emptied into the lake at its eastern
extremity. Properly speaking, Wood Lake was only a widening of this
river, though the stream was very narrow, and discharged itself into the
lake amid immense masses of rock.

The mouth of this river was so obstructed by these rocks, that Captain
Sedley had forbidden the boys ever to venture upon its waters; though,
with occasional difficulties in the navigation, it was deep enough and
wide enough to admit the passage of the boat for several miles. A
wooden bridge crossed the stream a little way above the lake--an old,
decayed affair which had frequently been complained of as unsafe.

"Tony knows the place very well," said Charles. "He will not be rash."

"But there he goes right in amongst the rocks, and the Butterflies are
pulling with all their might. He is crazy," added Frank, his countenance
exhibiting the depth of his anxiety.

"Let Tony alone; he knows what he is about," responded Fred.

"Heavens!" exclaimed Frank, suddenly, as he rose in his place. "There
has been an accident at the bridge! I see a horse and chaise in the
river."

Tim dropped his oar, and was turning round to get a view of the object,
when Frank checked him. So strict was the discipline of the club, that,
notwithstanding the excitement which the coxswain's announcement tended
to create, not another boy ceased rowing, or even missed his stroke.

"Keep your seat," said Frank to Tim. "Take your oar."

"I want to see what's going on," replied Tim.

"Keep your seat," repeated Frank, authoritatively.

Tim concluded to obey; and without a word resumed his place, and
commenced pulling again.

"Tony is after them; if you obey orders we may get there in season to
render some assistance," continued Frank. "Don't balk us now, Tim."

"I won't, Frank; I will obey all your orders. I didn't think when I got
up," replied Tim, with earnestness, and withal in such a tone that
Frank's hopes ran high.

"Will you cross the rocks, Frank?" asked Charles Hardy.

"Certainly."

"But you know your father told us never to go into the river."

"Circumstances alter cases."

"But it will be disobedience under any circumstances."

"We won't argue the point now," answered the bold coxswain, quickening
the movements of his body, till the crew pulled with their utmost
strength and speed, and the Zephyr flew like a rocket over the water.

"I don't like to go, Frank, and though I will obey orders, I now protest
against this act of disobedience," replied Charles, who was sure this
time that Captain Sedley would commend and approve his inflexible love
of obedience.

"Pull steady, and mind your stroke," added Frank, whose eye was fixed
upon the chaise in the water.

"We may strike upon the rocks and be dashed to pieces," suggested
Charles.

"If you are afraid--"

"O, no! I'm not afraid; I was thinking of the boat."

"If it is dashed to pieces in a good cause, let it be so."

"Good!" ejaculated Fred Harper. "That's the talk for me!"

"The water in the lake is very high, and I know exactly where the rocks
lie. Keep steady; I will put you through in safety."

"Where is the Butterfly now, Frank?" asked William Bright.

"Wait a minute.--There she goes! Hurrah! she has passed the reefs
safely. They pull like heroes. There! Up go her oars--they are in-board.
There are a man and a woman in the water, struggling for life. The man
is trying to save the woman. The chaise seems to hang upon a rock, and
the horse is kicking and plunging to clear himself. Steady--pull
steady."

"Tony will save them all," said Fred.

"Hurrah! there he goes overboard, with half a dozen of his fellows after
him! There are six left in the boat, and they are working her along
towards the man and woman. They have them--they are safe. Now they pull
the lady in--hah--all right! I was afraid they would upset the boat.
They have got her in, and the man is holding on at the stern. Tony has
got a rope round the horse's neck, and the fellows are clearing him from
the chaise."

The Zephyr was now approaching the dangerous rocks, and Frank was
obliged to turn his attention to the steering of the boat through the
perilous passage.

"Steady," said he, "and pull strong. All right; we are through. We are
too late to do anything. They have landed the man and woman, and now
they are towing the horse ashore. Tony's a glorious fellow! He is worth
his weight in solid gold!"

"Can't we save the chaise?" asked Tim Bunker.

"We can try."

"Hurrah for the chaise then!"

"Bowman, get the long painter ahead," continued Frank.

"Ay, ay."

The coxswain of the Zephyr steered her towards the vehicle, which still
hung to the rock, and, by a skilful maneuver, contrived to make fast the
line to one of the shafts of the chaise.

"Ready--pull!" said Frank, as he passed the line over one of the
thwarts.

The crew pulled with a will, and the jerk disengaged the chaise, and
they succeeded in hauling it safely to the shore, and placing it high
and dry upon the rocks.




CHAPTER VI.

HURRAH FOR TONY!


Tony and his six companions, who had been with him in the river, stood
on the rocks shivering with cold, when the Zephyr's crew landed. The
rest of her boys had been sent to conduct the lady and gentleman to the
nearest house, and render them such assistance as they might require.

"You are a brave fellow, Tony!" said Frank, warmly, as he grasped the
wet hand of his friend.

"I am very wet and cold, whatever else I may be," replied Tony, trying
to laugh, while his teeth chattered so that he could hardly speak.

"You had better go home; you will catch cold," continued Frank.

"We must wait for the fellows."

"No, you shall take six of the Zephyr's crew, and pull home as fast as
you can, and we will wait for the rest."

"We can do no more good here; so we may as well go. Thank you for your
offer, Frank, and I will accept it. If you like I will take Fred Harper
