
"Three bells! Dry up!" interposed Wilton. "One of the officers of the
deck will be down in a minute."

The young gamblers put away the implements, and drew back into their
berths until the inspecting officer had looked into the room. When the
master had gone on deck again, the play was resumed, and Shuffles and
Wilton watched it with deep interest.

Gambling was a new thing on board the Young America. It had not been
practised at all in the preceding year, having been introduced by
Shuffles and Monroe, who had visited a prop saloon in the city where
they resided, during their late furlough. Each of them had brought a set
of props on board, with which they intended to amuse themselves during
the voyage. As yet, the practice was confined to a few of "our
fellows;" but the crew in the steerage were certainly in very great
danger of being carried away by the passion for gaming, for it was
spreading rapidly.

The prop-shaking was carried on in the mess rooms, while the students
were off duty. Shuffles had played with half a dozen boys the night
before; Sanborn and Lynch had been engaged in the game since the first
watch was set, and another party had been employed in the same manner in
another room. All of the boys were supplied with money in considerable
sums, generally in sovereigns and half sovereigns, for use when they
reached Europe. It was changing hands now, though no one had as yet been
particularly lucky.

"Have a game, Shuffles?" said Lynch, when Sanborn declared that he had
no money left but gold.

"No," replied Shuffles, "I shall not play any more."

"Why not?"

"I haven't time; and I don't want to become too fond of it."

"Haven't time!" exclaimed Lynch.

"No; I've got a big job on my hands."

"What's that?"

"Making a chain."

"Making a what?"

"Making a chain."

"A watch chain?"

"I think it will be a watch chain; but I'll tell you about it when we
are alone. Do you understand?"

"No, I don't."

"Keep still then."

Shuffles turned in, and the others followed his example. He did not
sleep, if they did, for his soul was full of rage and malice. He was
studying up the means of revenge; and he had matured a project, so
foolhardy that it was ridiculous, and his mind was fully occupied with
it.

At twelve o'clock he was called to take his place with the first part of
the port watch on deck. Belonging to each quarter watch, there were five
petty officers, four of whom were to call the portion of the crew who
were to relieve those on duty. Shuffles was called by one of these.

The wind was freshening when he went on deck, and the ship was going
rapidly through the water. At the last heaving of the log she was making
eleven knots, with her studding sails still set. Mr. Fluxion came on
deck at eight bells.

Wilton, Sanborn, and Adler were in the watch with Shuffles, and the
malcontent lost not a moment in pushing forward the scheme he had
matured. Fortunately or unfortunately, he was placed on the lookout with
Wilton, and the solitude of the top-gallant forecastle afforded them a
good opportunity for the conference.




CHAPTER XI.

THE GAMBLERS IN NO. 8.


"It's coming on to blow," said Wilton, as the lookouts took their
stations on the top-gallant forecastle.

"I don't think it will blow much; it is only freshening a little,"
replied Shuffles.

"Now, what about the mutiny?" demanded Wilton, impatiently, after he had
become more accustomed to the dash of the sea under the bows of the
ship.

"Don't call it by that name," replied Shuffles, earnestly. "Never use
that word again."

"That's what you mean--isn't it? You might as well call things by their
right names."

"It's an ugly word, and if any one should happen to hear it, their
attention would be attracted at once. We musn't get in the habit of
using it."

"I don't know what you are going to do yet," added Wilton.

"It's a big job; but I mean to put it through, even if I am sure of
failure."

"What's the use of doing that? Do you want to get the fellows into a
scrape for nothing?"

"There will be no failure, Wilton; you may depend upon that. There will
be a row on board within a day or two, and, if I mistake not, nearly
all the fellows will be so mad that they will want to join us."

"What row?"

"Do you know the reason why I wouldn't shake props this evening?"

"I'm sure I don't."

"Lowington has found out what is going on in the rooms."

"He hasn't, though!"

"Yes, he has."

"How do you know?"

"What odds does it make how I know?" answered Shuffles, impatiently, for
Wilton was much too inquisitive to suit his purposes. "I talked with the
chaplain half an hour to-night. When he went to my berth after the wine,
I rather think he heard the rattle of the props. At any rate the whole
thing will be broken up to-morrow or next day."

"I don't see how that will make a row. Not more than a dozen fellows
have played any; and they won't think of making a row about that."

"You see!" added Shuffles, confidently.

"Ugh!" exclaimed Wilton, as a cloud of spray dashed over the bow, and
drenched the lookout; but they wore their pea-jackets, and such an
occurrence was to be expected at sea.

"Stand by to take in studding sails!" shouted Paul Kendall, who was the
officer of the deck; and the order was repeated by his subordinates in
the waist and on the forecastle.

"We must go," said Wilton; and they descended from their position.

The wind had continued to freshen, until the ship labored somewhat under
her heavy press of canvas. It was the policy of the principal to go as
easily and comfortably as possible, and he had directed Mr. Fluxion, if
the wind continued to increase, to have the sail reduced, though neither
the safety of the ship nor of the spars absolutely required such a step.
The quarter watch on deck was sufficient to perform this labor.

"Lay aloft, foretopmen!" said the second lieutenant; and those of the
watch who had their stations in the fore rigging sprang up the shrouds.
"Stand by the halyard of the top-gallant studding sails! Man the tacks
and sheets!"

"All ready, sir," reported the second midshipman, who was in the
foretop, superintending the operation.

"Lower on the halyards! Ease off the tacks, and haul on the sheet!"

The two top-gallant studding-sails were thus brought into the top, where
they were made up. The fore-topmast and the lower studding sails were
taken in by a similar routine, and the Young America then moved along
less furiously through the water.

"Now about the chain," said Wilton, when the lookouts had returned
to their stations.

"Let me see; where did I leave off?" replied Shuffles.

"You said there was to be a row; which I don't believe."

"I may be mistaken about that; if I am, the job will be all the more
difficult. Lowington has got us out to sea now, and, in my opinion, he
means to shake us up. He is a tyrant at heart, and he will carry it
with a high hand. I hate the man!" added Shuffles, with savage
earnestness.

"You may, but the fellows don't generally."

"They will as soon as he begins to put the twisters on them. You won't
hear him say, 'If you please, young gentlemen,' now that we are in blue
water. You know how savage he was with me."

"Well, but you were disobedient. You told him, up and down, you wouldn't
do what he ordered you to do."

"No matter for that. You had a chance to see the spirit of the man. He
was a perfect demon. He put me in irons!" exclaimed Shuffles, still
groaning under this indignity. "I have been insulted and outraged, and I
will teach him that Bob Shuffles is not to be treated in that manner! I
will be revenged upon him, if it costs me my life."

"The fellows won't go into any such desperate game as that," replied
Wilton, cautiously.

"But there will be fun in the thing," added the malcontent, softening
his tone. "We shall have the ship all to ourselves. We needn't trouble
ourselves anything about Latin and Greek, and trigonometry and algebra.
We shall go in for a good time generally."

"It is all moonshine; it can't be done. What's the use of talking about
such a thing?" said Wilton.

"It can be done, and it shall be," replied Shuffles, stamping his foot
on the deck.

"How?"

"I am not quite ready to tell you yet."

"Very well; I don't want to know anything more about it," answered the
timid conspirator, who was almost disgusted at the foolhardiness of the
plan.

"I can get along without you," added Shuffles, with assumed
indifference.

"I would rather have you do so."

"All right; but you will want to come in when we have got along a little
farther."

"Perhaps I shall; if I do, I suppose the door will be open to me."

"It may be open; but perhaps you can't walk into the cabin then."

"Why not?"

"Do you suppose the fellows who do the burden of the work are going to
be shut out of the cabin? If you join at the eleventh hour, you will
have to be what you are now--a foremast hand."

"What can I be if I join now?"

"Second or third officer."

"Who will be first."

"I can't mention his name yet. He belongs in the cabin now."

"You don't mean so!" said Wilton, astonished to learn that his bold
companion expected to find friends among the present officers of the
ship.

"I know what I'm about," replied Shuffles, confidently.

With this information Wilton thought more favorably of the mad
enterprise. If it was to be a winning game, he wished to have a part in
it; if a losing one, he desired to avoid it. There was something in the
decided manner of the chief conspirator which made an impression upon
this doubting mind.


"I don't want to go in till I know more about it," said he, after
walking two or three times across the top-gallant forecastle.

"You can't know anything more about it until you have been toggled,"
replied Shuffles.

"Toggled?" repeated the sceptic, curiously.

"This thing is to be well managed, Wilton. We shall not use any hard
words, that outsiders can understand; and if any of them happen to hear
anything that don't concern them, they will not know what it means. Will
you join, or not?"

"I will," replied Wilton, desperately.

The strange words which Shuffles used, and the confidence he manifested
in the success of his project, carried the hesitating lookout man. He
was fascinated by the "clap-trap" which the leader of "our fellows" had
adopted to help along his scheme, for it promised to afford no little
excitement during the voyage.

"Now you talk like a man, Wilton," replied Shuffles. "You shall be a
member of the league at once."

"What's the league?"

"The Chain League."

"Upon my word, Shuffles, you have been reading yellow-covered novels to
some purpose."

"I didn't get this idea from a novel. I invented it myself."

"The Chain League!" repeated Wilton, who was pleased with the title of
the conspirators.

"It will be called simply 'The Chain.' I am the first member, and you
are the second; or you will be when you have been toggled."

"Toggled again!" laughed Wilton. "What do you mean?"

"Initiated."

"Go ahead, then."

"Repeat after me."

"Go on," replied Wilton, deeply interested in the proceeding, even while
he was amused at its formality.

"I am a link of the chain."

"I am a link of the chain," repeated Wilton.

"I will obey my superior officers."

"I will obey my superior officers."

"And I will reveal none of its secrets."

"And I will reveal none of its secrets."

"This I promise----"

"This I promise----"

"On penalty of falling overboard accidentally."

"On penalty of what?" demanded Wilton, both puzzled and terrified by the
mysterious words.

"Repeat the words after me. On penalty," said Shuffles, sternly.

"I know what the words are, but I'll be hanged if I will repeat them.
'Falling overboard accidentally!' What does that mean?"

"It means that, if you betray the secrets of The Chain, you might fall
overboard accidentally, some day."

"That is, you would push me over when no one was looking," added Wilton,
involuntarily retreating from the conspirator, whom, for the moment, he
regarded as a very dangerous companion.

"That's what the words mean," replied Shuffles, coolly.

"Have I been toggled?" demanded Wilton.

"No; you didn't repeat all the words."

"Then you needn't toggle me any more. I've got enough of this thing."

"All right; just as you say. But I can tell you this, my dear fellow? if
you should whisper the first word of what has passed between us
to-night, you might fall overboard," continued Shuffles, sharply, as he
laid his hand on his companion's shoulder.

Wilton grasped the sheet of the fore-topmast staysail which was the
nearest rope to him, and held on as though he was then in imminent
danger of "falling overboard accidentally."

"I won't say a word," protested he, vehemently; for he did not know but
that Shuffles was wicked enough to push him into the sea.

"Wilton, you are a fool!" added the disappointed conspirator, with deep
disgust. "Why didn't you say what I told you?"

"I don't want to be bound in any such way as that," replied the
terrified student.

"Don't you see it is only a form?"

"No, I don't; or if it is, I don't want anything to do with such forms.
You won't get any fellows to be toggled in that way."

"Yes, I shall? I shall get plenty of them. They are not babies, like
you."

"I'm not a baby."

"Yes, you are--a great calf! What are you afraid of?"

"I'm not afraid; I didn't think you meant to have any murder in your
Chain."

"I don't; no fellow will think of such a thing as betraying one of the
secrets."

"Then what's the use of having such a penalty?"

"It will prevent any fellow from opening his mouth when he ought to keep
it shut."

"I don't want anything to do with a concern that means murder. I'm not
any better than I should be, but I'm too good for that."

"Suit yourself; but remember, if you should happen to say a word, you
will fall overboard accidentally, some night when you are on the
lookout, or out on the yard-arm."

"Two bells," said Wilton, greatly relieved to hear them, for he did not
like to stand any longer on the top-gallant forecastle, where there was
no railing, with such a dangerous fellow as Shuffles proved to be.

Two other members of the watch were sent forward to take their places.
Wilton and Shuffles went down and mingled with their shipmates, who were
talking about what they should do and what they should see in Ireland,
where the ship would first make a harbor. Wilton breathed easier, and
the topic was a more agreeable one than the dark and terrible matter
which had been under discussion on the top-gallant forecastle.

Shuffles was disappointed by the scruples of his generally unscrupulous
companion. He regarded the machinery of the plot, the clap-trap of the
secret league, as decidedly attractive; and he depended largely upon it
to influence his companions. Though he claimed that his plan was
original, it was suggested by a secret political organization in
Europe, of which he had read in a pamphlet; and the idea had doubtless
been modified by his more extensive readings in the department of
fiction, in which midnight juntos laid out robbery, treason, and murder;
Venetian tales in which bravos, assassins, and decayed princes in
disguise largely figured; in which mysterious passwords opened
mysterious dungeons beneath ruined castles; in which bravo met bravo,
and knew him by some mysterious sign, or cabalistic word.

Shuffles had a taste for these things, and out of his lively imagination
he had coined a similar association to be recruited from the crew of the
Young America, which was to redress fancied wrongs, and even take the
ship out of the hands of the principal. He could think of nothing but
this brilliant enterprise; and while his shipmates were talking of the
future, and indulging in the old salts' vocation of "spinning yarns," he
was busy maturing the details of "The Chain League." He did not, for
reasons best known to himself attempt to make any more proselytes that
night.

The ship continued to go along easily on her course till morning. It was
a clear night, and though the wind was fresh, the sea was not rough, and
the Young America behaved very handsomely. The programme for the watches
was carried out to the letter, but on the first night out, the boys were
too much excited by the novelty of the situation to be able to sleep
much.

At eight bells in the morning, after the port watch had breakfasted, all
the students off duty attended prayers. Then the starboard watch had
their morning meal, after which all hands were piped to muster.

Mr. Lowington mounted the hatch, and it was understood that the case of
discipline which had come up the day before was to be settled now.

"Shuffles!" called the principal.

The culprit came forward.

"Are you still of the same mind as when I saw you last evening?"
continued Mr. Lowington.

"I am, sir," replied Shuffles, with a becoming exhibition of meekness.

"You will step upon the hatch, then."

Shuffles took position by the side of the principal.

"You will repeat after me," added Mr. Lowington.

The culprit was startled at these words, and began to suspect that
Wilton had betrayed him in spite of his fear of falling overboard
accidentally. It looked just then as though the principal intended to
"toggle" him.

"I acknowledge that I have done wrong," Mr. Lowington continued.

Shuffles repeated the words, happy to find that he was not to take the
obligation of "The Chain League."

"And I will hereafter endeavor to do my duty faithfully."

The promise was repeated with the lips, but of course it had no meaning,
and did not reach the heart.

"That is all, Shuffles," added the principal.--"Young gentlemen, you are
dismissed from muster."

This was certainly a very mild atonement for the grave offence which
Shuffles had committed, and the lenity of the principal was generally
commented upon by the boys. The starboard watch was piped below to
study and recite, while the port watch were to be off and on during the
forenoon. The first part now had the deck, while the second was off
duty, and the boys belonging to it were permitted to remain on deck or
to spend their time in the mess rooms. They were not allowed to linger
in the steerage where the recitations were going on, but might pass
directly through on their way to their apartments.

At ten o'clock the first part of the port watch was relieved, and the
second part went on duty. Shuffles and Wilton were at liberty now, but
there appeared to be a coldness between them, and Wilton sought another
companion for his leisure hours. Sanborn and Adler belonged to his part
of the watch, and he soon joined them.

"There isn't much difference between being off duty and being on," said
Adler, as they seated themselves on the main hatch.

"There will be a difference when we have to make and take in sail every
half hour. We had a big job taking in the studding sails last night."

"They don't drive the ship," added Sanborn. "I suppose if we were a
merchantman, they would crack on all the sail she would carry."

"She goes along beautifully," said Wilton.

"She was only making five knots the last time the log was heaved."

"And the sea is as smooth as a mill-pond. We shall not get to Queenstown
for two months at this rate."

"Stand by to set studding sails!" shouted Pelham, the officer of the
deck.

"I wondered why they didn't do that before," said Sanborn.

The fore and main studding sails were set, two at a time, by the part of
the watch on duty, the wind still being well aft.

"What shall we do?" asked Wilton, with a long yawn, after they had
watched the operation of setting the studding sails for a time. "This is
stupid business, and I'm getting sleepy."

"Let us go below," suggested Sanborn.

"What for? The professors won't let you speak out loud while the
recitations are going on," added Adler.

"We don't want to speak out loud. What do you say to shaking a little?"
continued Wilton.

"I'm with you," replied Wilton. "Can either of you change me a half
sovereign?"

Neither of them could, but they were willing to take Wilton's due bills,
till his indebtedness amounted to ten shillings. The boys had already
begun to talk the language of sterling currency, and many of them were
supplied with English silver coins as well as gold. The three boys went
down at the fore hatch, and removing their caps as they entered the
steerage, walked silently to Gangway D, from which they went into mess
room No. 8, which had thus far been the headquarters of the gamblers.
Seating themselves on the stools, they used one of the beds as a table,
and in a few moments were deeply absorbed in the exciting game. They
spoke in whispers, and were careful not to rattle the props too loudly.

After they had played a few moments, Shuffles came in. They invited him
to join them in the play, but he declined, and soon left the mess room,
returning to the deck. In the waist he met Paul Kendall, who was the
officer of his watch, and, like him, was off duty. They had generally
been on good terms while in the after cabin together, for then Shuffles
was on his best behavior.

"How do things go on in the after cabin now, Kendall--I beg your
pardon--Mr. Kendall?" said Shuffles, in his most gentlemanly tones.

"About as usual, Mr. Shuffles," replied Paul.

"I am not a 'mister' now," laughed Shuffles.

"Well, it's all the same to me. I am sorry you are not with us now."

"So am I," added Shuffles. "I did not expect to be on board this year,
or I should have been there now."

"You can be, next term, if you like."

"This thing yesterday has ruined all my prospects."

"That was rather bad. I never was so sorry for anything in my life
before," answered Paul, warmly. "You and I were always good friends
after we got well acquainted, though I did vote for another at the
election a year ago."

"You did what you thought was right, and I don't blame you for that. I
always did my duty when I was an officer."

"That you did, Shuffles; and we always agreed first rate. Isn't it a
little strange that I have not lived in the steerage since the ship's
company were organized?"

"That's because you were always a good boy, and a smart scholar. I think
you would not like it."

"If it wasn't for losing my rank, I should like to try it," replied
Paul. "I should like to get better acquainted with the fellows."

"You wouldn't like them in the steerage. You would see a great many
things there which you never see in the cabin; a great many things which
Mr. Lowington and the professors know nothing about."

"Why, what do you mean, Shuffles?" demanded Paul, astonished at this
revelation.

"I ought not to say anything about it; but I believe these things will
break up the Academy Ship one of these days, for the boys are growing
worse instead of better in her, and their folks will find it out sooner
or later."

"You surprise me!" exclaimed Paul, sadly, for he held the honor of the
ship and her crew as the apple of his eye. "If there is anything wrong
there, you ought to make it known."

"I suppose I ought; but you know I'm not a tell-tale."

"You have told me, and I'm an officer."

"Well, I blundered into saying what I have. What you said about going
into the steerage made me let it out. I am sorry I said anything."

"You have raised my curiosity."

"I will tell you; or rather I will put you in the way of seeing for
yourself, if you will not mention my name in connection with the
matter, even to Mr. Lowington, and certainly not to any one else."

"I will not, Shuffles."

"The fellows are gambling in the steerage at this very moment," added
Shuffles, in a low tone. "Don't betray me."

"I will not. Gambling!" exclaimed Paul, with natural horror.

"You will find them in No. 8," continued Shuffles, walking away, and
leaving the astonished officer to wonder how boys could gamble.




CHAPTER XII.

THE ROOT OF ALL EVIL.


Paul Kendall, who had not occupied a berth in the steerage since the
first organization of the ship, was greatly surprised and grieved to
learn that some of the crew were addicted to vicious practices. Gambling
was an enormous offence, and he was not quite willing to believe that
such a terrible evil had obtained a foothold in the ship. He could
hardly conceive of such a thing as boys engaging in games of chance;
only the vilest of men, in his estimation, would do so. Shuffles had
told him so, apparently without malice or design, and there was no
reason to doubt the truth of his statement, especially as he had given
the particulars by which it could be verified.

The second lieutenant went down into the steerage. Classes were reciting
to the professors, and studying their lessons at the mess tables. There
was certainly no appearance of evil, for the place was still, and no
sound of angry altercation or ribald jest, which his fancy connected
with the vice of gambling, saluted his ears. He cautiously entered
Gangway D, and paused where he could hear what was said in mess room No.
8.

"I'm five shillings into your half sovereign," said one of the
gamblers; and then Paul distinctly heard the rattling of the props.

"There's the half sovereign," added another, whose voice the officer
recognized as that of Wilton. "You own five shillings in it, and I own
five shillings."

"That's so," replied Sanborn, who appeared to be the lucky one.

"Let us shake for the coin," added Wilton. "It's my throw."

"That's rather steep."

"We get along faster--that's all. If I throw a nick, or a browner, it's
mine; if an out, it's yours."

"I am agreed--throw away," replied Sanborn, without perceiving that the
one who held the props had two chances to his one.

The props rattled, and dropped on the bed.

"A browner!" exclaimed Wilton, thereby winning all he had lost at one
throw.

"Hush! don't talk so loud," interposed Adler. "You'll have the profs
down upon us."

"I'll go you another five shillings on one throw," said Sanborn,
chagrined at his loss.

"Put down your money."

The reckless young gambler put two half crowns, or five shillings, upon
the bed, and Wilton shook again.

"A nick!" said he, seizing the two half crowns.

"Try it again," demanded Sanborn.

Paul Kendall was filled with horror as he listened to this conversation.
When he had heard enough to satisfy him that the speakers were actually
gambling, he hastened to inform Mr. Lowington of the fact. Paul was an
officer of the ship, and this was so plainly his duty that he could not
avoid it, disagreeable as it was to give testimony against his
shipmates. It seemed to him that the ship could not float much longer if
such iniquity were carried on within her walls of wood; she must be
purged of such enormities, or some fearful retribution would overtake
her. There was no malice or revenge in the bosom of the second
lieutenant; he was acting solely and unselfishly for the good of the
institution and the students.

He went on deck again. Shuffles was still there, and they met in the
waist.

"You told me the truth," said Paul.

"You did not think I was joking about so serious a matter--did you?"
replied Shuffles.

"No; but I hoped you might be mistaken."

"How could I be mistaken, when I have seen, at one time and another, a
dozen fellows engaged in gambling? Of course such things as these will
ruin the boys, and bring the ship into disrepute."

"You are right. My father, for one, wouldn't let me stay on board a
single day, if he knew any of the boys were gamblers."

"It can be easily stopped, now you know about it," added Shuffles.

"Perhaps it can. I will inform Mr. Lowington at once."

"Remember, if you please, what I said, Mr. Kendall. I am willing to do a
good thing for the ship; but you know how much I should have to suffer,
if it were known that I gave the information. I didn't mean to blow on
my shipmates; but you and I have been so intimate in the after cabin,
that I spoke before I was aware what I was about," continued Shuffles.

"I shall not willingly betray you."

"Willingly! What do you mean by that?" demanded the conspirator,
startled by the words of the officer.

"Suppose Mr. Lowington should ask me where I obtained my information,"
suggested Paul.

"Didn't you see for yourself in No. 8?"

"He might ask what led me to examine the matter so particularly. But,
Shuffles, I will tell him honestly that I do not wish to inform him who
gave me the hint; and I am quite sure he will not press the matter, when
he finds that the facts are correct."

"Don't mention my name on any account," added Shuffles. "It was mean of
me to say anything; but the ship was going to ruin, and I'm rather glad
I spoke, though I didn't intend to do so."

"I will make it all right, Shuffles," replied Paul, as he descended the
cabin steps.

Mr. Lowington was in the main cabin, and the second lieutenant knocked
at the door. He was readily admitted, and invited to take a seat, for
the principal was as polite to the young gentlemen as though they had
been his equals in age and rank.

"I would like to speak with you alone, if you please, sir," Paul began,
glancing at the cabin steward, who was at work in the pantry.

"Come into my state room," said the principal, leading the way.

"I hope your business does not relate to the discipline of the ship,"
continued Mr. Lowington, when they were seated, and the door of the
room was closed. "If it does, you should have applied to the captain."

"This is a peculiar case, sir, and I obtained my information while off
duty," replied Paul, with some embarrassment; for he had thought of
communicating his startling discovery to Captain Gordon, and had only
been deterred from doing so by the fear of betraying Shuffles.

"I will hear what you have to say."

"There is something very bad going on in the steerage," said Paul,
seriously.

"Indeed! What is it?" asked the principal, full of interest and anxiety.

"Gambling, sir."

"Gambling!" repeated Mr. Lowington, his brow contracting.

Paul made no reply; and he expected to be asked how he had obtained the
startling information.

"Are you quite sure of what you say, Mr. Kendall?"

"Yes, sir, I am. In mess room No. 8, there are three or four students
now engaged in gambling. I stood at the door long enough to find out
what they were doing."

"This is serious, Mr. Kendall."

