
"I do."

"Let me say that Mr. Stoute did not indorse my course, and that in
future I will give Mr. Kendall permission to leave the class whenever he
desires to do so."

"That is very well, sir; but, under the circumstances, I cannot permit
the captain to be embarrassed even by the necessity of asking
permission. If, by any diffidence on his part, he should delay asking
leave to go on deck, serious mishaps might occur."

"Then I am to be subject to the will of that boy?" said the professor,
disgusted at the thought.

"Not unless you are connected with the sailing department of the vessel.
You are simply prevented from exercising your will over him, to the
detriment of his duties as a navigator."

"In this light the case looks different to me," added the professor, who
was laboring to recede from his position as gracefully as possible. "I
am willing to permit the captain to have his own will in all matters
pertaining to the management of the vessel, as I am to allow the cook
entire freedom in making his soup."

"Then nothing more need be said, and you can resume your position on
board of the Josephine at once."

"I am not entirely satisfied about that order, Mr. Lowington," added Mr.
Hamblin.

"Why not?"

"Because that sustains Mr. Kendall and condemns me in a public and
formal manner."

"That is precisely what I intend to do."

"It amounts to sacrificing me, by placing me in a derogatory position. I
have not transcended the power given me, and it is not right that I
should be formally condemned."

"The order passes no judgment upon the past; it relates to the future
only. Captain Kendall must understand that he has full liberty to go
when and where he pleases, in the discharge of his duty. I am confident
he will not abuse this liberty."

"But I am to stand before him in this business as a whipped puppy.
Couldn't you give him the order verbally, and explain my position to
him?"

"What is your position?" demanded the principal, with a smile.

"I mean simply that in detaining him I erred through a want of knowledge
of seamanship."

"I can explain that; but I think it would be better for you to do so."

"For me!" gasped the professor. "Why, sir, that would be an apology!"

"It would be merely an explanation, which would come more gracefully
from you than from any other person."

"I don't think so, sir. It would be lowering myself before him."

"As you please, Mr. Hamblin. I will explain the matter myself, when I
give him the order."

"If you could give him the order verbally, it would be better."

"No; he must have the written order to show to any professor who
disputes his authority. But Captain Kendall will never give you any
trouble. He is manly and gentle, and he will not take advantage of his
position."

"I think he will have abundant ground to manifest his triumph."

"He will not do anything of the kind. If any officer of the Josephine
treats you with disrespect, he shall be suspended at once from office."

"That is very proper, sir," added Mr. Hamblin, heartily.

The learned gentleman let himself down as easily as possible. He had
consented to remain rather than subject the principal to the great
inconvenience and delay of procuring a new instructor. Captain Kendall
was to be independent only in the sailing department, in which he had no
disposition to interfere, any more than with the cook. He regarded it as
a bitter necessity which compelled him to return to the Josephine; for
he could not forego the pecuniary advantage and the opportunity of
visiting the classic lands which the voyage presented; but, though he
yielded with what grace he could command, he was dissatisfied with Mr.
Lowington, and more dissatisfied with Paul.

To go back to the consort unsustained was almost like going to a dungeon
for a capital crime, to which nothing but personal interest induced him
to submit. If the captain did not enjoy his triumph, it would be a
degree of forbearance which he could not comprehend. But he was quite
certain that the captain would "put on airs," abuse his absolute
liberty, and perhaps snub his teacher before the class. Mr. Hamblin
expected this, and made up his mind to be on the lookout for it.

After dinner Mr. Lowington suggested that his services must be much
needed on board of the Josephine, and proposed to send him to her at
once. Mr. Hamblin consented, and as the consort kept astern of the ship,
the latter was hove to, and the professor's barge lowered. Mr. Lowington
went with the learned gentleman, and agreeably to his promise, made a
full explanation to Paul, while the instructor, without a word to any
one, hastened to the steerage, and called his class, just as though
nothing had occurred. It was observed that he was unusually sour,
crabbed, and precise, and all the students were anxious to know how the
question of discipline had been settled.

"Read this order, if you please, Captain Kendall," said the principal,
when he had conducted him to the cabin, where they were alone.

"I have no desire to leave my class, unless my duty to the vessel
requires it," added Paul, after he had read the order.

"I did not suppose you had; but you will keep that order in your pocket,
and remember that your first duty is to your ship and crew."

"I suppose you have learned by this time, sir, the reason why we did not
take in sail sooner on Saturday," continued Paul, blushing deeply.

"I have. Professor Hamblin feels very badly about this matter. At the
time of it, he believed he was right, for he knows less about a vessel
than even the chaplain of the ship. He acknowledges now that he was in
error. Our rules did not before apply with sufficient distinctness to
your particular case, as captain of the vessel, responsible for her
proper navigation. Mr. Hamblin did not overstep the letter of his duty
in refusing you permission to go on deck, and I only blame him for his
want of judgment. By this order, which corrects the ship's rules, you
are made independent in all matters relating to the management of the
vessel."

"I think there can be no trouble now, sir," replied Paul, delighted to
find that his conduct was approved.

"I hope not; and I do not expect any."

Mr. Lowington returned to the ship, satisfied that he had healed the
wounds of both the sufferers. Paul was happy, and he determined to treat
the professor with the utmost deference and kindness, and thus remove
the remembrance of the difficulty. At four o'clock, after the squadron
had passed Beveland, and entered the Belgian territory, Paul went down
to recite his Greek, as usual. He could not help seeing that Mr.
Hamblin's lip quivered, and that he was laboring under strong emotions,
when he took his place at the mess table. The captain was hardly less
embarrassed, but he hoped an opportunity would soon occur for him to
perform some kind act for the irritated gentleman.

When the recitation was nearly finished, and both parties had recovered
their self-possession, the vessel gave a sudden "bump," which nearly
tipped the professor off his stool; but he righted himself, and was too
much absorbed in his favorite study to think of the incident for a
moment.

"Mr. Terrill directs me to report to you that the vessel is aground!"
said one of the midshipmen, in breathless haste, touching his cap to the
captain.

Paul blushed deeply, and was intensely annoyed at this repetition of the
circumstances of Saturday; but there was no alternative but for him to
go on deck.

"Will you excuse me, Mr. Hamblin?" asked Paul, rising.

The professor bowed, but made no reply in words. He wondered if the
vessel had not been run aground on purpose to mortify and annoy him. He
was inclined to think that such was the case, and that it had been done
to enable the captain to display his absolute authority.

Paul went on deck; but the pilot assured him that the accident would not
subject the vessel to half an hour's delay, for the tide was rising very
rapidly. He had run her a little too near a shoal, while the Young
America, by keeping in mid channel, had gone clear. There was nothing
for the captain to do on deck, and he returned to his class. The
Josephine came off the ground within the half hour, and by putting on
more sail overhauled the ship before she reached Antwerp.

"Here is the city, Paul," said Dr. Winstock, as the Josephine rounded a
bend in the river. "You can see the spire of Antwerp Cathedral."

"I see it, sir. I have heard a great deal about it. This is farther than
we have been from the sea since we sailed."

"Yes, it is a long pull from the sea for a sailing vessel; but Antwerp
is the only convenient port for visiting the greater part of Belgium. We
are only a short distance from Brussels, Ghent, Malines, and Li√©ge. I
suppose we shall visit no other port in Belgium; indeed, there is no
other convenient one, except Ostend."

"There is a whole fleet of British steamers at anchor opposite the
town," said Paul, when the Josephine had gone a little farther.

"A great many merchant steamers come up the river. There are regular
lines to London and Harwich. By the latter route you may leave Antwerp
at four in the afternoon and be in London at nine the next morning,
though the Ostend or Calais line is quicker and better."

"Those are large steamers," added Paul, as the squadron approached the
fleet at anchor.

"Why, that's the Victoria and Albert!" exclaimed the doctor, pointing to
the largest of the ships. "That is the yacht of the Queen of England."

"It is a pretty large yacht," replied Paul. "What are the other
steamers?"

"They are the consorts of the yacht. The one that lies nearest to her is
the Osborne, which was formerly the queen's state vessel. The others are
merely a kind of guard of honor."

"Does it take five steamships to bring the queen over to Antwerp?" asked
Paul, laughing.

"She must go in state when she goes," added the doctor. "The Victoria
and Albert is a ship of twenty-four hundred tons. I hope we shall have
an opportunity to go on board of her."

"I hope we shall; but that is hardly to be expected."

"They do not exhibit her when she is in English waters, but I think they
do when she is abroad."

"All ready to moor ship, Mr. Terrill," said Paul, as the Young America
gave the signal.

The Josephine ran up to a point near the ship, and within a couple of
cables' length of the royal squadron let go her anchor. Port officers
came on board, and explained the harbor regulations; among them, one
whose duty it was to determine the amount due the pilot. This official
"hooked" the vessel, or measured her draught. As the Josephine drew
about ten feet of water, the charge was one hundred and ninety-eight
francs.

Everything was made snug on board; the ropes were carefully coiled, and
all the running rigging hauled taut; for, lying near the queen's yacht,
Paul desired to have the vessel present her best appearance. The work of
the day was ended, and the students were at liberty to observe the
strange scenes around them. There was the city of Antwerp, but it was
not much different from any other city. The Scheldt formed a crescent in
front of the town, and there was a multitude of vessels lying at the
quays, as the space on the shore is called. The river is about fifteen
hundred feet wide, and deep enough to float a ship of the line. The city
is very strongly fortified, on both sides of the river.

"Here we are, for a week or two," said Pelham to the first lieutenant,
after all the ship's duty had been performed.

"I suppose so," replied Terrill. "It seems to me just as though we had
been sailing down hill ever since we came into the river. Hark!"

It was just six o'clock, and the chime of bells on the great Cathedral
played a silver-toned melody which was almost enchanting.

"I should not object to hearing that every hour," said Pelham, when the
tune was finished. "Do they play the same tune over again?"

"I'm sure I don't know," replied Terrill.

"They have a different tune for each hour of the day, and play the
entire music of an opera," interposed Dr. Winstock. "They give a short
strain at the quarter hour, and a longer one at the half hour."

"That will be music all day long."

"Yes, and all night long," added the surgeon, as he walked away with the
captain.

"I wish he were going to stay on board instead of that solemn old
lunatic, the Greek and Latin humbug" said Terrill, who had a habit of
speaking his mind very plainly.

"Do you know how the row was settled between him and the captain?" asked
Pelham.

"I do not; but I am confident Mr. Lowington sustained the captain,"
answered Terrill. "I was in hopes that we had got rid of him when he
went on board of the ship yesterday, and I was mad when I saw him coming
back to-day noon."

"There is not a fellow in the Josephine that didn't have the same
thought," added Pelham. "I don't see why a man need try to make himself
as disagreeable as he does. All the students were willing to treat him
with respect, and get their lessons well; but he is as crank as an
alderman."

"I wish we could get rid of him," suggested Terrill.

"Of course we can't do that," replied Pelham, who was not disposed to
get into any more scrapes.

"We might make the Josephine uncomfortable for him," suggested Terrill.

"We might; but I think we had better not," added the prudent Pelham,
made wise by experience, as the bell for the cabin supper rang.

Professor Hamblin looked unusually gloomy and morose, but he labored
perseveringly to keep up his dignity. Paul sat at the head of the table,
ordinarily with his officers on each side of him in the order of their
rank; but on the present occasion, Dr. Winstock occupied the place at
his right. At the opposite end of the board was Mr. Hamblin, with the
fat professor on his right. Behind the captain's chair stood the head
steward, while the second steward was stationed near the instructors.

Mr. Hamblin occasionally cast a furtive glance at the young commander;
but Paul seemed to be as composed as though nothing had happened to
disturb the friendly relations between them. Though he did not observe
it, Terrill persisted that the learned gentleman looked "ugly," and
would make another row as soon as he could get a chance.

"I can see through the mainsail when there is a hole in it," said the
executive officer to Pelham, when they went on deck again. "If there
wasn't mischief in Mr. Hamblin's eye, there never was mischief in any
man's eye."

"What do you mean?" asked Pelham.

"You know the old lunatic threatened to have the captain suspended for
leaving the class. He failed in that, and if he don't try it again, I'm
mistaken in the man."

"Of course he won't make any more complaints till he has something to
complain of, and Paul won't give him a chance."

"I don't suppose he will voluntarily; but his conduct will be distorted.
I tell you the professor is ugly, and he hates the captain as badly as a
Christian can."

"He hasn't improved his popularity on board by what he has done."

"Every fellow on the Josephine is down upon him. There'll be a row on
board soon, in my opinion," added Terrill, as Dr. Winstock and Paul came
on deck.

A boat was lowered to send the surgeon on board the ship. Paul
accompanied him; and on the way they went up to the gangway of the
Victoria and Albert, and ascertained that visitors would be admitted to
the ship on the following day, from ten till four.




CHAPTER VII.

THE LECTURE ON BELGIUM.


"All hands, attend lecture on board ship, ahoy!" shouted the boatswain
of the Josephine, as the signal to this effect appeared on the Young
America.

Ordinarily this call was not an agreeable one; for the students had
voted that it was "dull music" to listen to a stupid lecture on
geography and history; but in the present instance it was not so. The
information communicated in regard to England and Scotland was so
familiar to them that it was robbed of its interest; but the
school-books contained only very meagre allusions to Holland and
Belgium. Many of them had read Mr. Motley's eloquent descriptions of the
bravery and devotion to principle of the Dutch people in their civil
wars and in their terrible conflict with the Spaniards, and they were
desirous of knowing more about the country and its inhabitants.

Holland is in itself an exceedingly interesting country. The students
had seen something of its dikes and ditches, and were anxious to see
more. The region seemed to be very much like a ship; for it was
necessary to keep the water out as much as possible, and to pump out
that which leaked in or rained in. The boys were to go on shore, and
they desired to understand something of the history of the country, in
order to appreciate the various objects which commemorated mighty events
in the past. The citadel of Antwerp was in sight at a bend up the river,
and they were curious to know its antecedents.

On both vessels the libraries had been ransacked for information by the
more enthusiastic of the pupils, and many interesting facts had been
gleaned from the volumes; but those who knew the most about the country
were the most anxious to know more. With only a few exceptions,
therefore, the "call to lecture," on the present occasion, was a welcome
one. The boats were lowered, and all hands in the Josephine, including
the professors, went on board of the ship, leaving the vessel in charge
of the adult forward officers.

Mr. Mapps had already made his preparations in the steerage, and on the
foremast hung a large Dutch map of the Netherlands. The students filed
in and took their seats. The professor looked unusually pleasant and
enthusiastic, probably because he felt that his wares were in demand.

"Young gentlemen, before you is the map of the Netherlands," he began.
"For our present purpose, the term must include both Holland and
Belgium; for until 1830 the two were one country, the latter having had,
for no long period, a separate political existence till that time.

"The Dutch name of the country is Nederlanden; the French name,
Pays-Bas; both of which have the same meaning--'low countries.' By
this time you have realized the literal significance of the term; for
nearly all the region consists of an immense low plain, intersected by
rivers or arms of the sea. A reference to the physical geography of
Europe shows you that the great northern plain, containing nine times
the area of France, or about one half the area of Europe, extends from
the Ural Mountains to the German Ocean.

"Doubtless the whole region now included in the Netherlands was once a
mere swamp, a wild and useless morass, unfit for the habitation of man.
Three great rivers, you perceive on the map, have their course, in whole
or in part, through Holland and Belgium--the Rhine, the Maas, or Meuse,
and the Scheldt.

"By a reference to your navigation charts, young gentlemen, you will
often find banks and bars thrown up at the mouths of rivers. At the
mouth of the Scheldt, several miles from the shore, there are Thornton's
Ridge, The Rabs, Schouwen Bank, Steen Banks, and others of similar
formation. At the mouth of the Mississippi, in our own country, you are
aware that large vessels find great difficulty in getting over the bar.
If we take a tumbler full of Mississippi water, after heavy rains in the
north-west, and let it stand a few moments, a thick sediment settles at
the bottom. This sediment forms the bar at the mouth of the river. The
sand and mud are carried down by the current, and when the water has a
chance to rest, it deposits its burden upon the bottom."

"But why in that particular place?" asked an interested student.

"Because the current of the river comes to a halt where it meets the
inflowing tide of the gulf, or when it has spent its force. These bars
are sometimes formed by currents resulting from the combined action of
the sea and the flow of the river, or by winds. A heavy gale has been
known to change the aspect of a coast, to shut up a harbor, or to open
one where there had before been no inlet. Cape Cod presents some
remarkable instances of these physical revolutions.

"The great rivers of the Netherlands, in like manner, have brought down
their sands and mud, and deposited them on what now forms the shore of
the country. The forces of the ocean, against which the Dutchman of
to-day has to contend for the preservation of his life and property,
assisted in making this country a habitable region. Certain westerly and
south-westerly winds drive the waters of the Atlantic into the German
Ocean. The coast of the country, you see by the map, is exposed to the
longest sweep of the wind from the north-west, and the most violent
tempests to which Holland is exposed come from that direction. Now, what
is the effect of these storms?"

"They pile up the sand-bars," replied Captain Kendall.

"Precisely so; the dunes and ridges of sand which border the country
from the straits of Dover to the Texel are caused by these violent winds
from the north-west. The effect of this piling up of the sands was
eventually to limit, in a measure, the boundary of the sea. The dunes
and ridges formed the foundation for the dikes which the industrious and
persevering Dutchman has erected upon them, and by which he has made
his country. For the want of time, I shall defer the physical features
of Holland, and a more particular description of its dikes and ditches,
to a future occasion. In what country are we now?"

"In Belgium, sir," replied McLeish, who always answered when he could,
though in general knowledge he was far behind his American classmates.

"What is the French name?"

"La Belgique."

"The German?"

"Belgien."

"What is the French adjective?"

"Belge."

"There is a liberal newspaper published at Brussels, the capital of
Belgium, which is often quoted as political authority in the United
States, called the Ind√©pendance Belge. What does the term mean?"

"'The Belgian Independent,' or 'The Independent Belgian,'" laughed
Pelham.

"But the first word is a noun."

"'The Belgian Freeman,' or something of that sort."

"Doubtless it will bear that rendering, though it means literally
'Belgian Independence.' Belgium is bounded on the north, and partly on
the east, by Holland; mostly on the east by the Rhenish provinces of
Prussia, forming a part of Germany; on the south-west by France; and on
the north-west by the German Ocean. It has an area of eleven thousand
three hundred and thirteen miles; that is, it is about the size of
Maryland, or of Massachusetts and Connecticut united.

"Its population in 1863 was about five millions, equal to the aggregate
of New York and Massachusetts. In New England, in 1860, there were fifty
persons to the square mile; in Massachusetts, which is the most densely
peopled of the United States, one hundred and seventy; but Belgium has
four hundred and forty souls to the square mile, and is the most
thickly-settled country in the world.

"Belgium contains nine provinces, the largest of which, in area, is
Luxembourg, though it is one of the smallest in population. The largest
in population is East Flanders."

"Flanders!" exclaimed Terrill; "I was hoping you would say something
about Flanders, for I had an idea it was Belgium."

"It is a part of it. Flanders has belonged to France, Spain, Austria,
and Holland, at times; but it was divided into two provinces by the King
of Holland, and became a part of the United Kingdom of Belgium when it
was established in 1830. It figures largely in history, and 'our army in
Flanders' is a proverb.

"The soil of Belgium is generally sandy and poor; but, by skill and
industry, the people obtain large crops from it. In a country so densely
peopled there could not be many large farms, and the majority of the
farmers cultivate what would not be more than a garden in America; but
the system of agriculture is not surpassed by that of any country in the
world. Flax-raising is the principal occupation of the farmers; but
grasses and roots receive particular attention. Horses, cattle, and
sheep are raised in great numbers.

"The manufactures of Belgium are very celebrated. The laces of Brussels
and Mechlin (Malines) have the highest reputation. Linen goods, carpets,
woollens, cottons, hosiery, are largely produced. The foreign and
domestic commerce of Belgium, largely carried on through the port of
Antwerp, is extensive.

"Belgium is a flat country, as we have said. There are no mountains,
though in the provinces of Li√©ge and Brabant the American traveller will
find a variety of scenery similar to that in the eastern part of
Massachusetts and Connecticut. This portion of Belgium is a beautiful
garden.

"The government, according to the charter of 1831, is a constitutional,
representative, and hereditary monarchy; that is, it has a constitution,
a parliament, and the oldest son of the king is his successor. The
king's person is declared to be sacred, and his ministers, instead of
himself, are held responsible for the government acts. The legislative
branch consists of a senate and a chamber of representatives; but the
king must sign their acts before they can become laws.

"The members of both houses of the legislature are chosen by the people,
and are called deputies. Only citizens who pay a certain amount of
direct taxes can vote. The deputies who live out of the town in which
the session is held are paid sixty-two dollars a month. They are elected
for four years, half every two years. The political privileges of the
people are only less than those of our own country.

"The present king is Leopold I.[A] He is seventy-four years old, and for
the last fifty years has been a man of mark in Europe. He was for some
time in the service of the Emperor of Russia, and went to England with
the allied sovereigns, in 1814, where he became acquainted with, and
afterwards married, the Princess Charlotte, daughter of George IV.; but
she died within two years. In 1830 Leopold was elected King of Greece;
but he finally refused the crown, because the conditions he made were
not complied with. In 1831 he was elected King of the Belgians, and was
crowned the same year. The next year he married Louise, the daughter of
Louis Philippe, King of France. Leopold, Duke of Brabant, will succeed
him. He has several other sons and daughters, among them Marie
Charlotte, wife of Maximilian, Archduke of Austria, who has been elected
Emperor of Mexico. Leopold is one of the richest men in Europe.

[Footnote A: Leopold I. died Dec. 10, 1865, and was succeeded by his
son, Leopold II.]

"Nearly all the people of Belgium are Roman Catholics, there being but
about thirteen thousand Protestants and two thousand Jews; but the
largest religious liberty is allowed to all sects. A portion of the
salary of ministers of all denominations is paid from the national
treasury. While the Catholics receive seven hundred thousand dollars
from the state, the Protestants obtain eleven thousand, and the Jews two
thousand dollars. The salary paid by the state to the archbishop is four
thousand two hundred dollars, and to a bishop about three thousand.

"The history of Flanders is substantially the early history of Belgium.
Many changes were made in the territorial limit of the country from time
to time, in the hands of its different owners. The first mention of
this country in history is in the time of Julius C√¶sar, who conquered
the Low Countries, and the Romans held them till the year 400, when they
were joined to the empire of the Franks. They formed part of the vast
realm of Charlemagne.

"After the Romans had abandoned the territory, several independent
nobles established themselves in the southern part of the Netherlands.
Among them were the Counts of Flanders, who became very powerful and
influential men. They are to be regarded as the founders of the Flemish
provinces. Having no male heirs, their possessions went to the house of
Burgundy. Philip, Duke of Burgundy, married Margaret, Countess of
Flanders, and, upon the death of her father, she brought to him the
country of Flanders and other valuable possessions.

"During the succeeding hundred years, Namur, Brabant, Limbourg,
Hainault, Holland, Zealand, Friesland, and Luxembourg, all of which now
belong to Holland and Belgium, were added to the territories of the
Dukes of Burgundy. At this period appears the powerful but rash and
cruel Charles the Bold. His life was spent in open or secret strife with
Louis XI., king of France, whose suzerain, or nominal vassal, he was.
The king was instrumental in stirring up rebellion in several cities of
the Low Countries, which the duke put down with his accustomed severity.

"Charles, in revenge, having leagued with some discontented French
princes, Louis secretly fomented an insurrection in Li√©ge. When the blow
was first struck, the crafty king was paying a visit to his cousin of
Burgundy, as he called the duke, who, on hearing the news, retained his
sovereign as a prisoner, threatening to kill him for his perfidy. The
cunning prince tried to pacify his enraged host. He was but partially
successful, and could only obtain his liberty by submitting to the most
humiliating terms. The duke compelled his royal guest to march in person
with him to the revolted city, and assist his vassal in putting down the
rebellion he had himself instigated.

"Charles the Bold was slain in battle, and his death ending his line of
dukes, Louis seized upon several of the provinces. Mary, the daughter of
Charles, was married to the Archduke of Austria, who claimed the
Burgundian provinces in right of his wife. He obtained possession,
however, of only Franche-comt√© and the Low Countries. The conflicting
claims for these territories kept Austria and France at war for a long
time.

"The Archduke Maximilian, who married Mary of Burgundy, became Emperor
of Germany on the death of his father. He had two children by her,
Philip and Margaret, the former of whom married Joanna, daughter of
Ferdinand and Isabella of Spain. They were the parents of Charles V.,
Emperor of Germany and King of all Spain. During this period the Low
Countries were governed by Maximilian, Philip, and Charles, deriving
their right from Charles the Bold.

"Charles V. was succeeded as King of Spain by Philip II., his son, who
also inherited the Flemish provinces. Mr. Motley's incomparable History
of the Rise of the Dutch Republic, commences at this point, with the
abdication of Charles V., and the accession of Philip II. I hope all who
have not read this work will do so, as many of you can, here in the
midst of the scenes described in its glowing pages.

"Philip was a bigot and a tyrant, and his despotism, which included the
establishment of the Inquisition, drove the people to madness, and
provoked them to rebellion. During the reign of Charles V. the
Reformation had made considerable progress in Germany, and its
principles were firmly planted in the Low Countries. Philip imposed upon
himself the duty of rooting out the obnoxious doctrines, and of
restoring the supremacy of the Catholic church.

"After his accession to the Netherlands, the king remained four years in
the country, and then departed for Spain, from which he did not again
return. He made his sister regent, and she was to be assisted by
Granvelle, Bishop of Arras. William, Prince of Orange, and the Counts
Egmont and Horn, were associated with the bishop as councillors, but
they had no real power or influence.

"The despotic conduct of Granvelle, and the attempt on his part to
introduce the Inquisition, by order of his royal master, excited the
most desperate opposition. The people organized under the lead of the
Prince of Orange, and Egmont and Horn, and an insurrection broke out in
Flanders, in 1566. These Protestant rebels have been styled iconoclasts,
or image-breakers, for they broke into the churches, overturned the
images, defaced the valuable paintings, and otherwise injured the church
property.

"The famous Cathedral of Notre Dame, which you can see from the deck of
the ship, was ravaged by the mob. The statues of Christ, the Virgin, and
the Saints were hurled from their pedestals; the rich paintings, the
choicest works of Flemish art, were cut to pieces; the organs were torn
down, the altars overturned, and the gold and silver vessels used in the
mass were carried off. For three days these tumultuous proceedings
continued, and were suppressed only when the fury of the mob had ceased,
by the Knights of the Golden Fleece, of which the Prince of Orange was a
member. The career of this remarkable man is closely identified with the
history of the Netherlands during this period. He was opposed to the
violence of the mob, not only from prudential motives, but because his
own religious views were not yet in sympathy with the Protestant
reformers, though he afterwards fully embraced their doctrines.

"The patriots of the Low Countries were, in the beginning of these
troubles, both Catholic and Protestant; but the sacrilegious conduct of
the mob detached the former from the cause, and as the Catholics were
more numerous in the southern than in the northern provinces, they
finally turned the scale in favor of Philip II. in their own section,
while the people of Holland established their independence.

"Philip then sent the savage and relentless Duke of Alva to suppress the
new religion in the Netherlands. Egmont and Horn were beheaded at
Brussels, and the Prince of Orange retired into Germany, appealing to
the Protestant princes for assistance. With an army he had raised in
Germany, and with money obtained there and of Queen Elizabeth of
England, he marched into the Netherlands, and called his people to arms.
A long and terrible war ensued, in which the Dutch suffered up to the
limit of human endurance, and displayed a heroism which is without
parallel in the history of the nations.

"The Prince of Orange was created Stadtholder; almost unlimited powers
were conferred upon him, and for years he struggled against the most
stupendous obstacles. The Dutch, being a maritime people, established a
navy, which inflicted many heavy blows upon the Spanish power. The
severity of Alva so goaded the Netherlanders that the whole country was
in arms against him. He failed to reduce them to subjection, and was
recalled. His next two eminent successors died of fever, and the Duke of
Parma was then sent as regent of Philip. In 1579 the northern provinces
declared their independence, and established the Dutch Republic, or the
Seven United Provinces, of which the Prince of Orange was stadtholder.

"Philip was so incensed at the success of the Prince of Orange that he
offered a large reward to any one who would take his life, and a
fanatical Burgundian shot him at Delft, in 1584. With this event Mr.
Motley closes his History of the Rise of the Dutch Republic.

"Belgium adhered to Spain, or, rather, the Duke of Parma succeeded in
reducing it to subjection after the murder of the stadtholder. In 1598
Philip gave the Flemish provinces to his daughter Isabella. But on her
death without children, the country again reverted to Spain. After more
than a century of strife, including the Thirty Years' War, the repeated
quarrels between England and Spain, and France and Spain, and the War of
the Spanish Succession, during which period the Low Countries were
often the battle-ground, Belgium passed into the hands of the Austrians.

"In settling up the disastrous strife of the century, the treaty-making
powers had given several of the Belgian fortresses to Holland, in order
to check the ambition of France, and the Dutch closed the Scheldt. After
an interval of peace under Maria Theresa of Austria, her son, Joseph
II., attempted to break through portions of the treaties, and obliged
the troops of Holland to evacuate his territory, but he could not open
the river. He was rash in his proceedings, and a rebellion was organized
against him.

"About this time commenced the French Revolution, whose influence
extended to the Low Countries, and in 1789 the Austrian garrison at
Brussels was forced to surrender. But the people were not united, and
their dissensions enabled the Austrians to regain their power. The
French Directory sent an army to assist the Belgians, the Austrians were
driven from the country, and Belgium was incorporated with France.

"Napoleon, while he controlled the destinies of France, devoted much
attention to the Flemish provinces, and especially to the city of
Antwerp. When you go on shore you will see immense docks and
fortifications built by him. He intended to make it a great naval
station, and it would have been of vast importance to him in carrying
out his plans for the invasion of England. The works on the opposite
side of the river, called 'T√™te de Flandre,' were the beginning of an
immense military town. During this period England was almost continually
at war with France, and several expeditions were sent against Holland
and Belgium.

"When Napoleon abdicated, the Flemish Provinces were restored to
Austria; but when the allies who had overthrown Napoleon finally
disposed of their conquests, Holland and Belgium were united, and given
to the Stadtholder, who had adhered to the allies. He was styled William
I., King of the Netherlands.

"The two sections could not agree; the Dutch regarded Belgium as a
conquered province, and were not at all conciliatory in their treatment
of the new acquisition. The Belgians were essentially French in their
habits, and disliked the Dutch. In 1830 they revolted against their
masters, the insurrection extended to the principal cities, and the king
called upon the great powers who had given him the country. A congress
assembled in London at his request, which, however, decreed the
independence of Belgium.

"The people first elected a son of Louis Philippe king; but he declined,
and Leopold was then chosen. King William, of Holland, protested, and in
spite of the treaty, held the city of Antwerp. A French army was sent to
the assistance of Leopold; Antwerp capitulated, but it was not till 1839
that Holland made a treaty with Belgium, acknowledging her independence.
Leopold strengthened his position by marrying a daughter of the King of
France; and his son and heir, the Duke of Brabant, was married to Marie,
Archduchess of Austria.

"In 1848, when Louis Philippe was overthrown in France, some disturbance
occurred, and Leopold offered to abdicate; but his proposition was not
accepted, and he wisely and skilfully led his government through all the
troubles of that excitable period. He is a wise and prudent statesman,
and as such has had a great deal of influence in Europe.

"Now, young gentlemen, I trust you will not be satisfied with this
meagre sketch of the interesting country we are now visiting, but will
read up the subject so that you will understand it better."

Mr. Mapps left his position, and the studies of the morning were
commenced. After dinner the usual shore liberty was given, the
allowances paid in French francs, a supply of which had been procured in
London, and the students were landed. Instead of going on shore
immediately, Dr. Winstock and Paul paid a visit to the Victoria and
Albert.

At the gangway they found the steward of the ship, who volunteered to
conduct them through the vessel. There was nothing strikingly peculiar
in the exterior of the yacht, except that she had large, square windows,
composed of a single pane of glass, in her upper saloons and cabins; but
the steward informed the visitors that these were replaced in heavy
weather by wooden shutters, having only the small, round ports in them.

Between the paddle-boxes was a large open space, covered over by the
hurricane deck. On each side, abaft the wheels, was a small apartment,
or pavilion, with large glass windows, elegantly cushioned and
furnished, where the royal passengers could sit in rough weather, and
look out upon the sea. On the hurricane deck was a spacious
dining-saloon.

From the open space between the wheels, the steward conducted Dr.
Winstock and Paul to a passage-way, at the after end of which was a
saloon called the breakfast-room. Its length corresponded with the width
of the vessel, and one side was round, being formed at the stern of the
vessel, in which were several of the large square windows, so that the
apartment was very light and pleasant.

On each side of the passage-way were several apartments, arranged in
suits. Returning to the open space amidships, the party entered the
