
"I sartainly did. That proves that Levi went down to the P'int afore I
did--don't it?"

"Well--yes; he went down there, of course," added Dock, in rather
deprecating tones. "He couldn't have got his boat if he hadn't gone
down there."

"Then of course Levi done it!" exclaimed the old man. "'Tain't no use
o' beating round the bush no more. Levi done it, and he meant to kill
me."

"'Tain't so!" protested Mrs. Fairfield, warmly. "There ain't no sense
nor reason in sayin' Levi done it. Levi wouldn't do sech a thing."

"He may jine all the churches in town, but I tell you he's a bad boy,
and he's go'n' as straight to the gallows as a chicken goes to her
dough. Don't you know how he used me? how he fit me, and found fault
with his victuals; and then got all the property took away from me,
jest because I wouldn't let him spend it all? Don't tell me! I know
what Levi Fairfield is better 'n any other man."

"What on airth should the boy wan't to break your bones for, let alone
killin' on you?" demanded Mrs. Fairfield.

"O, well, Susan, you're nothin' but a woman; and we can't expect women
folks to see through everything--can we, Dock?"

"Your wife has excellent judgment about things in general, Squire
Fairfield," replied Dock, smoothly.

"There now! Tell me I don't know!" retorted the irate helpmate,
somewhat appeased by the delicate compliment. "'Tain't in reason that
boy meant to do sech a thing."

Mr. Fairfield groaned, and changed his position in the bed. His bones
ached, and his bruises smarted; but the task of showing that Levi was
wicked enough even to plan a deliberate murder was too pleasing a one
to be abandoned, though the twinges of pain that darted through the
miser's limbs indicated rest both for body and mind. The sufferer
rehearsed all the points bearing against his nephew in the heinous act
under consideration, and he succeeded in satisfying himself and his
visitor that the young man intended to shorten his uncle's life. Mrs.
Fairfield,--grateful for the newspapers, which had given her a new
joy in the desolate world, and for the chickens, turkeys, and
roasting-pieces, which afforded her an occasional respite from salt
fish and fresh fish,--Mrs. Fairfield was obstinate, and refused to
believe that Levi--who, by the way, had just added the "Cape Ann Light"
to his aunt's sum total of earthly joys--was capable of doing a wicked
act.

"Women folks don't see through things," said Mr. Fairfield, disgusted
at his wife's want of perception. "I've been thinkin' o' what you said
last night," he added, turning to Dock. "I never thought of sech a
thing before; but, I vow, it's just as you said."

"Well, Squire Fairfield, I didn't say that to set you against the boy;
only to have you keep your eyes open," replied Dock.

"When I fell into that hole, it opened my eyes so wide, I shan't shet
'em agin very soon."

Mrs. Fairfield wanted to know "what on airth all this talk meant;" and
the relations of Levi to his uncle's post-mortem estate were explained,
so that "women folks" could understand them. She did not believe Levi
cared for the property, what there was of it, and she was not yet
willing to believe that he set the trap to destroy his uncle.

"I believe it; and what's more, I know it," persisted the miser. "But
I'll cheat him out of it; I'll make a will this very day! I'll give
what little I have to Susan--I will, by gracious!"

"It's very proper for you to do so," replied Dock, mildly.

"Can't you write a will, Dock?"

"Me! No. I don't know how. You must make it strong, or they'll break
it, you know. Better send for Squire Saunders, and have it done right."

"Squire Saunders!" exclaimed the invalid. "What'll he charge?"

"O, five dollars, perhaps."

"Five dollars! What jest for writin' a little or sunthin?"

"Perhaps he won't charge you more than three."

"I shan't give no three dollars, nuther. I can't afford it. I'm
e'enamost stripped of everything now."

The will was not made, and Dock left the house, promising to call again
in the afternoon.




CHAPTER VI.

THE STARRY FLAG.


Levi Fairfield, in happy ignorance of the misfortune which had befallen
his uncle, headed The Starry Flag towards the mansion of Mr. Watson.
This was to be a great day with him, and he was filled with hope and
exultation.

The Starry Flag was a capital boat, but Levi had long been beset by an
ambition to sail something larger. This desire was about to be
realized, for Mr. Watson, always a lover of the sea, had contracted for
a yacht of eighty tons, at the establishment of a celebrated builder in
the city. She was to be ready by the 1st of June, but she was not
completely stored and furnished till the 10th.

Mr. Watson had remained in the city over night, and was to sail in the
yacht for his summer home the next morning--on the day that Levi missed
falling into the chasm. As the wind was fair, and tolerably fresh, the
young skipper thought she would arrive by noon, and he was to take the
ladies round as far as Eastern Point, to give her a welcome to the
waters of the Cape.

Levi was to be the commander of the yacht, and he was every way
qualified for the position. He had studied navigation, could take an
observation, and do all the problems required of a thorough sailing
master. On the deck of a vessel he was in his element, and there was
not a point in navigation or seamanship with which he was not familiar.
He could not only hand, reef, and steer, but he could knot and splice,
parcel and serve, as neatly and as skilfully as a veteran man-of-war's
man. He was interested in such matters, and had spent hours and hours
in making short and long splices, eye splices, Turk's heads, and other
parts of rigging, until he was an adept in the art.

Bessie had been the prime mover in this enterprise. She insisted upon
having a craft in which the whole family could go off for a month, and
be almost as comfortable as in their own home. She prevailed in this,
as she did in nearly everything which involved only the will of her
father to gratify her.

Bessie and Mrs. McGilvery were handed into the boat at the pier behind
the house, and The Starry Flag was soon dancing over the long waves
that roll into Sandy Bay from the broad ocean. All the party were
excited; for to see a splendid, new yacht, in which they hoped to have
many good times, was enough to kindle a glowing enthusiasm in such
lovers of the art of boating.

"You don't know her name yet--do you, Levi?" said Bessie, in a kind of
taunting tone.

"I do not, but I shall soon find out if this breeze holds," replied the
skipper, who had been wilfully kept in ignorance on this important
matter.

"Wouldn't you like to know?" added Bessie, teasing him.

"Of course I would; but I am willing to wait a few hours longer."

"Why don't you manifest a little impatience about it?" pouted she.

"It wouldn't do any good; besides, I am a Yankee, and I think I can
guess what her name is. Indeed, I feel almost sure I know it."

"What do you think it is?"

"That's telling," laughed Levi.

"But won't you tell me?" said Bessie, assuming an imploring look.

"I think I will pay you off by keeping still."

"Do tell me what you think it is. I shall not like it if you don't."

Levi would have dived down among the fishes if such had been her will,
and he was compelled to answer,--

"Of course there is only one name for her, and your father must have
chosen that."

"Perhaps not. But why don't you say what you think the name is?"

"Will you tell me if I guess right?"

"I will if you guess right the first time."

"Very well; here goes, then! Her name is the Bessie Watson, to be sure.
There is no other name fit for her."

"No! How absurd you are, Levi Fairfield!" replied Bessie, blushing up
to the eyes.

"No? Why, that ought to be her name, if it isn't. It's the Bessie, the
Bessie Watson, or something of that kind. I know it is. Of course your
father wouldn't think of calling her by any other name."

"It isn't anything of the kind, Levi. I am willing to confess that
father wanted to name her after me, but I wouldn't let him. I wanted
another name."

"I'm sorry you did, for I wanted that name; and I shall not enjoy her
half so much as I should if she had been called after you," replied
Levi, not at all in the tones of gallantly, but in those of simple
truth and sincerity.

"It is very kind of you to say so, and to think so, Levi; but I believe
she has received a better name," added Bessie, not unmoved by the
devotion of the gallant skipper.

"There isn't any better name. I'm really disappointed."

"You will not be when you read her name."

"But what is the name?" asked Levi, seriously.

"The--why, I almost told you!" laughed Bessie.

"I hope it is not a hard name, for sailors make such a fuss about
jaw-breaking words. An old coaster meant to name his vessel the
Amphitrite, but he gave the name of Anthracite to the painter, and it
was duly lettered upon the stern. However, it answered just as well, as
the craft went into the coal trade."

"It isn't a long name, nor a hard one, and I know it will suit you."

"Well, Bessie, if it suits you, it will suit me," added Levi; "though I
did hope she would be called the Bessie."

The Starry Flag sped on her way, and before noon was off Eastern Point.
There were several coasters approaching, but Levi could not make out
the yacht till he examined every craft with the spy-glass.

"I see her!" exclaimed he, as he headed his boat so as to intercept
her.

"Is she handsome?" asked Bessie.

"I can't make her out very well at this distance; but we shall be up
with her in half an hour or so."

Bessie looked through the glass, and so did Mrs. McGilvery, but they
did not obtain much satisfaction. The yacht was making her ten knots,
and in the time Levi had named they were within hailing distance of
her.

"She is a beauty, and no mistake!" exclaimed the skipper, warmly. "She
is pretty enough to be called the Bessie Watson."

"You mustn't say such things, Levi. They are not pretty," said Bessie,
very seriously.

"The yacht is pretty enough, and so is the one she ought to have been
named after," persisted the gallant skipper.

"There it is again! You are real naughty, Levi," pouted she; and
probably, like all pretty girls, she had a distaste for compliments.

"Yacht ahoy!" shouted Levi.

But Mr. Watson had already recognized The Starry Flag, and the yacht
was thrown up into the wind. Levi hauled in his sheet, and sailed in a
graceful curve around the stern of the vessel, intent upon reading the
secret which had been so persistently kept from him.

"Now you will know!" exclaimed Bessie, gazing anxiously into his face
to observe the effect of the discovery upon him.

"Dog-fish and dunderfunk!" ejaculated Levi, as he read the name, "THE
STARRY FLAG!"

"There now, Mr. Skipper! Isn't that the name of all names for her?"

"The Starry Flag!" repeated Levi, as he gazed at the golden letters on
the stern of the yacht.

"Why don't you say something, you absurd skipper? I'm dying to know
what you think of it, and you don't say a word."

"I like it first-rate; but if I had read 'Bessie' there, I should have
liked it better, much as I like it now."

"I couldn't have her named after me! How ridiculous! I'm sorry you
don't like the name."

"But I do like it, Bessie; though you couldn't expect me to like any
other name as well as yours."

"Why, how absurd you are!" replied Bessie, as Levi ran the boat up to
the yacht.

The gangway had been rigged so that the passage from one craft to the
other was an easy matter, even for ladies. Mr. Watson assisted them on
board. One of the hands, who knew the coast, was deputed to take charge
of The Starry Flag, and Levi went on board of the beautiful vessel he
was to command.

"Well, Levi, what do you think of her?" asked Mr. Watson, after they
had walked around the deck, and inspected the cabin and cook-room of
the yacht.

"She is magnificent, sir!" replied Levi. "She is, without exception,
the finest yacht I ever saw, and I have examined a great many."

"I am glad she suits you. How do you like the name?"

"Very much, sir, though if it had been the Bessie, I should have liked
it better."

"I intended to give her that name, but Bessie was contrary, and
insisted that she should be called The Starry Flag, in grateful
remembrance of her trip from the Penobscot. I really appreciate her
motives, and both of us desire to perpetuate the name of your boat by
giving it to the finest yacht that could be built."

"Since it pleases both you and her, I ought to be satisfied with
it--and I am. We have two Starry Flags now, and we may get them mixed."

"The name of your boat shall henceforth be The Starry Flag, Jr.,"
laughed Mr. Watson. "When we say The Starry Flag, we mean the yacht,
and when we say The Starry Flag, Jr., we mean your boat."

The Starry Flag, then, cut her way through the long billows at a rate
which was highly gratifying to the embryo captain, who, prompt to his
instincts, had taken the helm, when he had examined her. He declared
that she steered splendidly, and he was sure she would prove to be a
good sea-boat. In a short time she came to anchor off Mike's Point. The
steward had prepared a lunch for the party, and they sat down at the
table as soon as the yacht swung round to her cable.

"Now, Levi, you must get a crew for your vessel. These men, with the
exception of the cook and steward, will return to Boston this
afternoon," said Mr. Watson.

"Are the crew to leave her?"

"I only engaged them to bring her down, for I thought that you would
prefer to select your own hands."

"I should," replied Levi, thinking what young men he could procure.

"We shall be ready to start on our cruise to the eastward in three or
four days," added Mr. Watson.

"I will be ready, sir."

By the time the lunch was disposed of, The Starry Flag, Jr. had
arrived, and Levi landed the party. He was anxious to engage his crew,
and he ran the boat over to her moorings. On the rocks he found Dock
Vincent, who had been observing the yacht.




CHAPTER VII.

GRAVE CHARGES.


"What vessel's that, Levi?" asked Dock Vincent, as the young skipper
landed on the rocks.

"It's The Starry Flag," replied Levi, smiling.

"No, I mean the large yacht, off the Point."

"So do I."

"You don't mean to tell me that vessel's called The Starry Flag!"

"Yes, I do; that's her name. My boat is now called The Starry Flag,
Jr.," answered Levi, beginning to move off, for he was not disposed to
hold any intercourse with such a person as Dock Vincent.

"Hold on a minute, Levi; tell us about her," said Dock. "What is she
for?"

"A yacht; but I am in a hurry now."

"Wait a minute. I have some bad news to tell you."

"Bad news?"

"Your uncle had an ugly fall this morning, just after you went off in
the boat," added Dock.

"Where did he fall?" asked the young skipper, interested now, and
troubled by the information.

"He fell into the cut, where the plank crosses it," replied Dock,
pointing to the place where the accident had occurred.

"Is he much hurt?"

"Yes; I think the old man is putty badly damaged in his timbers. He has
taken to his bed, and I shouldn't wonder if he had to stay there a
month."

"I am sorry for it," said Levi, with entire sincerity. "How did it
happen?"

Dock explained how it happened, taking care to locate himself at a
considerable distance from the scene of the catastrophe.

"The old man thinks somebody fixed the plank so as to make him fall,"
added he, finishing his narrative.

"To make him fall!" exclaimed the attentive listener. "Who does he
think did it?"

"Well, Levi, he thinks you did it," answered Dock, softening his tones,
so as not to commit himself to this view.

"I!"

"The old man thinks so, but that don't make it so, you know."

"What makes him think I did it?"

"Because you were the last person that went down to the P'int before he
did. You were running over to Watson's new house, in the Flag, when the
thing happened."

"I haven't been over the plank to-day," said Levi.

"You went to your boat just before the old man come down here; and he
don't see who else could have done it."

"I did not cross on the plank; I went along on the rocks, as I always
do when I come across the second beach," protested the young skipper.

"Well, I don't know anything about it, you see, Levi," added Dock, in
deprecatory tones. "I only tell you what the old man told me. He knows
you hate him."

"But I don't hate him."

"Don't you?" asked Dock, with a sceptical grin.

"I'm sure I do not," answered Levi, with emphasis.

"Perhaps you don't; but after all the trouble there's been between you
and the old man, it wouldn't be strange if you hated him and he hated
you."

Probably Dock was as sincere as Levi; for there was not a Christian
idea in his head, or a Christian purpose in his heart. He had no keener
perception of the sublime doctrine of forgiving one's enemies, than the
beasts of the field or the fowls of the air. In his view it was the
most natural thing in the world for the uncle to hate the nephew, and
for the nephew to hate the uncle; and he did not believe it possible
for either of them to banish the foul impulse from his heart.

"I don't hate my uncle; I would do anything in the world for him,"
continued Levi, earnestly, but thoughtfully, for he was deeply pained
by the suspicions of his uncle.

"I'm going up to see the old man, by and by, and I'll tell him what you
say about it," added Dock.

"I have a great deal to do, but I shall go and see him myself," said
Levi, as he began to move up the rocks again.

"What's your hurry, Levi? I want to talk with you about that vessel.
She is a fine schooner."

"She is all that. I have to find a crew for her, for we are going off
on a cruise in three or four days. Do you know of any young fellows who
want to make good wages without working very hard?"

"Yes; there's Mat Mogmore," replied Dock, after a little reflection.
"He'll make a first-rate hand for you. I rather think he'll go off to
Australia with me in the Caribbee."

"In the what?"

"In the Caribbee--that's my vessel. She's a schooner, rather larger
than that yacht, and she'll outsail anything of her inches that ever
floated. If you want Mat Mogmore, he'll be glad of a lay in that yacht,
for I shan't get off for three weeks yet. I'll speak to him about it."

Levi preferred to do his own speaking, not wishing to place himself
under any obligation, however slight, to a man of Dock's character and
antecedents. He decided to visit his uncle at once, and call at Mr.
Mogmore's house on his way home. With some difficulty he escaped from
his ancient enemy, and crossing the plank, which had been placed in its
original position by Dock after the accident, he walked up the tongue
of land, dreading the scene at his uncle's which the information he had
received led him to expect.

He found his aunt in the kitchen, and inquired particularly into the
condition of uncle Nathan. She thought he was "a leetle more
comfortable," and told Levi to go in and see him if he wanted to, for
she was confident that the young man could clear himself from the grave
charge preferred against him.

"How do you feel, uncle Nathan?" asked Levi, kindly, as he entered the
bed-room.

The old man looked at him with a savage stare, but made no reply.

"I am sorry you have had such a fall," continued Levi.

"No, you ain't sorry, nuther! What do you want to say that for, Levi
Fairfield? It's all your work, and 'tain't likely you keer how much I
suffer," growled the injured man, his words interspersed with many a
groan.

"What is my work, uncle?" asked Levi, mildly.

"Didn't you fix that plank over the cut so's to gim me this fall?"

"No, sir, I'm sure I did not," protested Levi.

"Don't tell me!" groaned the old man, suffering as much from passion as
from pain.

"I can only say, uncle, that I have not touched the plank; and I did
not go near it this morning."

"'Tain't no use; I know you did! You went down to your boat afore I
did, for I see you standin' over to Watson's new house jest afore I
fell. You want to kill me--that's what you're tryin' to do; and you
e'enamost done it this mornin'."

"I'm sorry you have such an opinion of me, uncle," replied Levi, more
in sorrow and pity than in anger.

"You've got most of my money afore I'm dead, and you mean to have the
rest on't arter I'm gone," continued the old man, in angry, whining
tones.

"Do you still think I took the gold, uncle Nathan?"

"Do I think so! I know you did! Nobody else took it, and nobody could
done it but you! What have you done with it?"

"I know nothing about it, uncle. I am sorry you think so hard of me.
I'm ready and willing to do anything I can for you."

"Then gim me back my money!"

"I haven't it."

"Yes, you have!"

It was useless to talk with the sufferer, and Levi's presence only
excited him. After repeating, in the gentlest of tones, his desire to
serve him, the young skipper turned to depart.

"You'll be found out, Levi Fairfield, and you'll have to give that
money up. 'Tain't no use to try to git red on me, for I'm go'n' to make
a will, and leave what little I've got to your aunt," said Mr.
Fairfield.

"Uncle Nathan, do you really think I want your money?" asked Levi,
beginning to be indignant at the foul suspicious of the old man.

"That's what you want to kill me for," whined the miser.

"I don't want to kill you, or hurt you."

"I'm go'n' to make a will; so 'tain't no use to try to git red of me
any more."

Levi pitied the sufferer, as much for his moral as his mental
obtuseness, and fearful that his indignation might get the better of
his pity, he left the room. His uncle threatened him with all the
terrors of the courts and the prisons as he withdrew. In the kitchen he
found Dock Vincent, who had come to make his promised afternoon visit.
Levi left immediately, and called at the house of the carpenter. Mat
Mogmore, after some haggling, consented to become one of the crew of
the yacht. He was a young man of eighteen, who had made two or three
fishing voyages, and was a smart, active fellow. He had been rather
intimate with Dock since the return of the latter; and this was all
Levi had against him. Before night, the young captain of The Starry
Flag had engaged three other hands. The crew were to go on board the
next morning, when Levi intended to start on a trial trip, for the
purpose of training his men, and becoming more familiar himself with
the working of the yacht.

Dock Vincent entered the chamber of Mr. Fairfield. He found the old man
agitated, and almost crying with anger and vexation.

"So Levi's been to see you," said the visitor, seating himself at the
bedside.

"Yes, he has! Sunthin must be done, Cap'n Vincent," replied the old
man, trying to rise on the bed, but sinking back with a groan.

"Don't try to git up; keep still, Squire Fairfield, and don't hurt
yourself," interposed Dock.

"I can't stand this no longer!" howled the miserable man, the tears
starting in his eyes. "Sunthin must be done."

"What shall it be, squire?" asked the comforter, coolly.

"I can't stand it no longer, and I won't, nuther," repeated the
sufferer. "Somebody's got my money, and I must git it back, or it'll
kill me. That boy must be took up, and sarched till the money's found.
I know he's got it. Nobody else couldn't have took it. He must have
kerried it off in that little saw-mill. That's what he come arter the
saw-mill for--to kerry off the money in."

"Do you want to have Levi arrested?" asked Dock, musing.

"Yes; he must be took up. As soon as he sees I'm in airnest, he'll git
scared, and give up the money."

"Musn't be too hasty, squire. If you be, it'll damage you."

"No 'twon't; nothin' can damage me now. I'll resk it. Git a constable;
but don't git Gayles."

Dock counselled moderation, and thought it would be better to wait till
they had more proof, before taking any decisive steps. He finally
quieted the old man by promising to "hunt up the evidence," and have
Levi arrested as soon as there was any proof to work with.




CHAPTER VIII.

CONSTABLE COOKE.


Levi went on his experimental trip in The Starry Flag the next day. The
wind was very fresh, and he had an excellent opportunity to test the
weatherly qualities of the yacht, and she proved to be all he had
anticipated or desired. She would sail almost into the wind's eye, and
went through a chop sea as steadily as a judge through a trial. Captain
Fairfield, as all hands on board called him, was proud and happy in his
new situation. He was in his element; and it was not likely that the
possession of any sum of money could long keep him from the position he
was born to fill--the command of a vessel.

The yacht was fitted up below with special reference to the wants of
her owner's family and friends. Her trunk extended nearly the whole
length of her, affording a high and spacious cabin for a vessel of her
size. On each side of the companion-way, leading down from the cockpit,
or standing-room, was a small state-room, one of which was appropriated
to the use of the captain. It contained a single berth, a writing-desk,
a plentiful supply of lockers, drawers, shelves, and brackets for
clothing, charts, and nautical instruments. Levi had installed himself
in this little apartment, and felt like a lord, as he sat in its
cushioned arm-chair at the desk, glancing at his tasty and convenient
surroundings.

This state-room, and its fellow on the opposite side of the ladder,
opened into the main cabin, which contained four berths, with curtains
extending out in front, so as to form an enclosure for each occupant,
securing entire privacy. Opening from the forward part of the cabin
were two large and airy rooms, each having two berths, for the
accommodation of Mr. Watson's family. They contained every convenience
belonging to a first-class hotel, with a curious economy of space,
which would have excited the admiration of those who have a taste for
overcoming impossibilities.

Between these state-rooms was a narrow passageway leading to the
forecastle, which occupied about half the length of the vessel, and
contained the pantry, ice-house, cook-room, store-room, and six berths
in the forward part for the hands.

The cook and steward were colored men. The former had served for years
in a packet ship, and the latter was a steamboat waiter, who never
failed to put on a white jacket at meal times. The four hands who had
been employed on the Cape were young men, the oldest not over twenty,
all of whom had made several fishing voyages, and were hardy, active,
and accomplished seamen for a small craft.

On her trial trip Levi took the yacht as far as Boone Island, on the
coast of Maine. He dined in state, all alone in the cabin,--he had no
passengers on this cruise,--and Augustus, the cabin steward, wore his
white jacket, and stood behind his chair. In fact, Levi was Captain
Fairfield on this occasion; and he wore his dignity with becoming
modesty and grace.

In the evening, after his return, he made a full and enthusiastic
report to Mr. Watson and the ladies of the good behavior of the yacht,
and declared that he was ready at once to go round the world in her.

"We don't care about going round the world in her, Levi," laughed Mr.
Watson; "but on Monday morning we will start for Mount Desert, if you
are ready at that time."

"I am ready now, sir."

"I cannot leave before Monday. If we enjoy this trip, we will spend the
whole of the month of August on board of The Starry Flag. I should like
to go as far as the Bermudas, if you think it is safe to take so long a
voyage in her."

"Safe!" exclaimed Levi. "You can cross the Atlantic in her as safely as
in a steamship. For my part, I should feel safer in her than in any
steamer that ever went to sea. She would shake you up more, perhaps,
but she will take you through all right if she is well handled."

"No doubt of it. I told the builder to have her as strong as wood and
iron could make her. My directions were, first, strength, second,
comfort, and third, speed."

"I think he has got the speed in first, for we logged twelve knots
to-day, with the wind free in a chopping sea. But she can't be excelled
for comfort and safety. I know by the feeling of her in a sea just how
she would behave in a gale."

"Have you seen Mr. Gayles since your return, Levi?" asked Mr. Watson,
suddenly changing the subject, and wearing a look of anxiety.

"No, sir; he was not at home when I went to supper," replied Levi,
satisfied something unpleasant had occurred; and he had not much
difficulty in surmising its nature.

"Have you heard anything about a search-warrant?"

"Not a word, sir; but I almost expected something of the kind. My uncle
charged me with taking the money he lost; but I did not even know that
he had any money in his house," answered Levi, grieved and mortified at
the necessity of again defending himself from such an assault.

"Mr. Gayles told me that your room at his house, and indeed all his
premises, had been searched by Constable Cooke, in your absence,
to-day, for the missing gold."

"Of course they did not find anything," replied Levi, blushing.

"No, they did not; but perhaps they would if your affairs had been
managed by a less discreet person than Mr. Gayles. It seems that Dock
Vincent went to the house, with the constable, about dinner time. Your
uncle appears to have employed Vincent to look up the money for him.
Mr. Gayles was willing to admit the officer, but he positively refused
to allow Vincent to enter his house. Levi, that villain is the worst
enemy a man ever had. You must beware of him; have nothing to do with
him, and nothing to say to him."

"I do not, any more than I can help."

"The story now is, that you took your uncle's money, and set a trap to
kill or severely injure him at the cut, because you are his legal
heir."

"How absurd!" interposed Bessie, indignantly, as she rose from her
chair, and seated herself by the side of Levi on the sofa, her mild
eyes beaming with unwonted fire.

"Very absurd, my dear; but there are people who are foolish enough to
believe such absurd stories even of their own minister. Of course,
Levi, there is no real danger, but you may be seriously annoyed."

Levi was smart. He had done great deeds. He was known to be worth
thirty-five or forty thousand dollars, in the hands of his guardian;
and his intimate relations with the family of Mr. Watson rendered it
exceedingly probable that he would eventually roll in wealth, to be
counted by hundreds of thousands. Most of the people were generous
enough to congratulate the young man, in their hearts, on his brilliant
prospects, especially as he did not put on any airs, or cut any of his
old friends.

But there were weak and evil-minded men and women who envied his good
fortune, and were ready to seize upon any rumor which tended to bring
discredit upon him. Among these was Constable Cooke, whom Dock Vincent
had employed to search for Mr. Fairfield's money. He could not help
thinking that, if he had been intrusted with the warrant for the arrest
of Levi, on the charge, three years before, of purloining Ruel
Belcher's money, instead of Mr. Gayles, he would have done precisely as
that worthy man had, and in the end would have been appointed the young
man's guardian, making a few hundred dollars every year in commissions
on the care of the property. He could not exactly forgive Mr. Gayles
for being so fortunate; nor was he so exclusive as to confine his
dislike to the guardian, but extended it to the ward.

Constable Cooke, therefore, was a fit person to do the dirty work of
Nathan Fairfield and his coadjutor. He adopted the miser's theory in
full, that Levi had set the house on fire with the candle, in order to
cover up the loss of the money, which he had conveyed from the house in
the little saw-mill. Since the arrival of the yacht, it had even been
conjectured that she was the property of Levi, who had paid for her
with the ill-gotten gold. This theory, explained and bolstered up with
specious argument and sophistical evidence by the constable, rather
staggered many people who believed in Levi. If the young man's
character had been doubtful, the theory would have been plausible; for,
after all, a person's good character is the best testimony in his
favor.

Mr. Watson and Levi discussed the situation coolly, though the ladies,
with their warmer sympathies, were indignant, and disposed to be
violent in their measures. Nothing could be done but to wait the issue
of events; and Levi walked as proudly as ever through the streets of
the town. The next day he took the ladies out to sail in the yacht; but
before he went he called at his uncle's house, carrying a nice
tenderloin steak and a jar of jelly for the sufferer, who was
improving, in spite of the heat and excitement to which he agitated
himself.

"Don't tell him, aunt Susan, that I brought these, things," said Levi.
"I pity him, and I don't hate him. I shall try to be a Christian
towards him now, whatever he does."

The old lady burst into tears. Such a spirit amazed and overwhelmed
her. The reading of her religious paper had prepared her, in some
measure, to appreciate such conduct. The next day, which was Sunday,
Levi carried some other luxuries for the invalid; but he did not
venture to see his uncle after the violent scene which had attended his
