buntlines."

"Then you really are not a lamb?"

"Not if I know myself! I didn't do anything to get into the cabin; so
it isn't my fault that I'm there. Whether I go to the Rhine or not, I
suppose it is certain enough that the rest of our fellows will not."

"No; we have spoiled all our chances."

"There's no doubt of that," laughed Perth.

"But we are going to Paris," added Herman, in a whisper. "We have the
wires all laid down."

"Are you, though?" said Perth, deeply interested in the communication.
"I should like to go with you."

"But we are not going in a bunch; only two or three in a squad. Don't
say anything to any of our fellows about it."

"I never says nothing to nobody," laughed Perth. "But I want to know
more about it."

"The arrangements are all made, and I don't think there is any chance
to fail."

"Good!"

But the professor commenced his lecture at this point, and the steerage
was hushed, so that it was not prudent even to whisper. The students
were all required, at these lectures, to be prepared with paper and
pencils, so that they could take notes, especially of dates and
statistics.

"Our party consists of Little, Ibbotson and myself," Herman wrote on
his paper, which he placed so that Perth could read it.

"Have you any stamps?" Perth wrote.

"No; but Ibbotson has a letter of credit on which he can raise some."

"My uncle, in Glasgow, sent me twenty pounds--four five-pound notes--at
the request of my father. I got it at Havre," wrote Perth. "I will join
you in Paris if I go to Germany; if not, I will start with you. Pop. N.
Ger., 28 mill.; S. Ger., 12.5 mill.; total, 40.5 mill.; about equal to
pop. of France."

The sudden change in the style of the second master's notes is
accounted for by the fact that the principal entered the steerage at
the moment indicated by the break in the conversation between the two
runaways. They were in the rear of all the other students, and were
fully exposed to Mr. Lowington's gaze as he passed out of the main
cabin. Perhaps he did not think it was quite natural for such students
as Perth and Herman to be engaged so industriously in taking notes; or
it may be that his practised eye fully comprehended at a glance the
nature of their occupation. The instant the door opened, Herman slyly
slipped off the sheet on which he had been writing, and thrust it into
his pocket. Perth had written over one of his small pages of note
paper, and begun upon a second. He had, when his companion had read
what he wrote upon it, slipped the first sheet into the atlas, which
served as a desk for him.

Mr. Lowington walked to the vicinity of Gangway B, and paused there.
Perth turned down the upper part of the sheet, on which he had written
the last part of his message to Herman, so that nothing objectionable
appeared on it, even if the principal took it into his head to look
over his shoulder. Perth was not at all flurried--he was too old a
rogue to commit himself by any weakness; and when he had written down
the statement of the professor, he paused and looked at the speaker, as
though he was wholly and entirely absorbed in the lecture. The entrance
of Mr. Lowington caused many of the students to look behind them, as
boys will do in school, on the smallest pretence. Mr. Mapps insisted
upon the students' attention, and he paused till his hearers had
gratified their curiosity.

Mr. Lowington did not appear to be quite satisfied with the conduct of
Perth, and, reaching over the shoulder of the second master, he took
the paper from the atlas. Of course this act produced a sensation among
the boys; the most insignificant event creates a sensation in the
school-room. Mr. Mapps lowered the pointer, and intimated by his
actions that he did not intend to proceed till order was restored.
Perth was confounded this time, if he never was before.

"What kind of a lecture are you delivering, Mr. Mapps?" asked the
principal, with a smile.

"A lecture on Germany, such as I have usually given on these
occasions."

"As this young gentleman writes it down, it seems to me rather a
singular lecture. I will read it."

Perth wanted to drop through into the hold.

"'I will join you in Paris if I go to Germany; if not, I will start
with you. Population North Germany, twenty-eight millions; South
Germany, twelve and a half millions; total, forty and a half millions;
about equal to population of France.' The latter part seems to be a
little more germane than the first part. 'I will join you in Paris if I
go to Germany,' is rather paradoxical, and I conclude that the young
gentleman has not correctly reported this part of your lecture."

"I think not, sir," laughed Mr. Mapps. "I do not remember saying
anything about going to Paris."

"Well, Mr. Perth, I recommend that you take a seat nearer to the
professor, so that you can understand him better; for certainly you
make very bad work of taking notes," added Mr. Lowington, as he pointed
to a seat near the foremast.

Perth walked forward, and took the place indicated. Mr. Mapps proceeded
with the lecture; but it is doubtful whether the second master
understood him any better than before, he was so completely absorbed by
the consideration of the little difficulty into which he had so
heedlessly plunged himself. After all, the situation was not so bad as
it might be. The principal could make nothing of the sentence he had
read, and as nothing had been found upon Herman, he could trust to his
ingenuity to explain away the meaning of it. So he used his brain in
trying to devise a solution of the sentence which would satisfy the
principal, instead of attending to the lecture, which he feared would
have no practical value to him.

A large majority of the students were deeply interested in the remarks
of the professor, and as they were to be in Germany in a few days, even
the dry statistics were considerably valued. As it would not be civil
to report the professor's lecture from the middle, where it was
interrupted by the entrance of the principal, it is necessary to return
to the commencement of it.

"What is the German for Germany?" asked the professor, as he picked up
his pointer.

"Deutschland."

"The French?"

"Allemagne."

"Germany can hardly be called a nation, though in some respects it is
similar to the United States. It is a confederation of nations, though
the people speak the same language, and are united by many other common
ties of manners and customs, as well as of contiguity of territory. But
it is peculiar in some respects, as, Prussia is a nation, under its own
king and laws; but only a portion of it belongs to Germany. Austria[1]
is an empire, under its own emperor; but only a part of his dominions
are represented in the Germanic Confederation. Its several states are
united for some specific purposes, such as the collection of certain
taxes, and mutual defence. In other respects its empires, kingdoms,
duchies, &c., are independent nations, making their own laws, and
regulating their own affairs."

      [1] Professor Mapps describes Germany as it was before the war of
      1866, and the subsequent reconstruction of North Germany. In
      "NORTHERN LANDS, OR YOUNG AMERICA IN PRUSSIA AND RUSSIA," the
      present status of Germany will be explained.

"I don't exactly understand the relations of Austria and Prussia to the
Germanic Confederation," said Paul Kendall. "How can part of them
belong to the confederation without the whole?"

"Very easily," replied the professor; "though, if you ask me why a
part, and not the whole, of Prussia or Austria should be included in
the Germanic Confederation, I cannot tell you, unless it be to preserve
'ancient landmarks.' The province of Prussia proper was not German; and
that may be a very good reason why it never should be. Germany is a
league of the several sovereignties into which the old German empire
had fallen. The archduchy of Austria was, and Hungary was not, German,
in the reign of the emperors. Holstein-Lauenburg[2] belongs to Denmark,
but belongs, at the same time, to Germany. Of the eight provinces of
Prussia, two are not included in the confederation. Of the twenty-one
states or provinces which constitute the Austrian empire, eleven are
German.

      [2] Annexed to Prussia in 1866.

"I can see no good reason why, if the Germanic league is of any
service, the provinces of Prussia and Posen should not be admitted, as
well as the other six divisions of the kingdom of Prussia. We take the
fact as we find it. Germany, then, is simply a union of states for
certain purposes. It is not, in any proper sense, a nation. It does not
send representatives to foreign countries, and it can make laws and
regulations only to cover the purposes of the league.

"In 1863 there were thirty-four states represented in the
confederation. The empire of Austria cast four votes in the general
convention; the kingdoms of Prussia, Bavaria, Saxony, Hanover, and
WÃ¼rtemburg, also four each; other states, grand duchies, duchies,
electorates, principalities, landgraviates, and free cities, from one
to three, according to their size and importance. These representatives
meet at Frankfort, which is the capital of Germany. The population of
Northern Germany is about twenty-eight millions; of Southern Germany,
twelve and a half millions; making about forty and a half millions, or
about equal to that of France.

"Of the early history of Germany there is no authentic record. The
ancient Romans had no knowledge of the people north of the Danube and
east of the Rhine, except as the barbarous tribes who made incursions
into their territory. When Gaul came into the possession of the Romans,
they learned more of the barbarians of the north, who were called
Germani--a word which is probably derived from ger, a spear,
indicating their warlike character. Among these tribes were the
Teutons, the Saxons, the Franks, the Goths, the Vandals, the Gauls,
whose names are common in history. Clovis, the ancient sovereign of the
Frankish empire, and his successors, conquered these tribes, and
incorporated their territory in the Empire of the West, which reached
the height of its glory under the reign of Charlemagne. His son Louis
was too weak to rule so vast a realm, and in 843 the empire was divided
into three parts, and given to his three sons. France became the
portion of Charles the Bald; Italy, of Lothaire; and Germany, of Louis.
At this time the German kingdom extended from the Rhine to the Elbe,
and from the German Ocean to the Danube.

"During the succeeding century, Germany was partitioned into three
smaller divisions, became a part of France again, and the throne was
subverted by the nobles, who elected the kings. Portions of Italy, and
other territory beyond the Elbe, were conquered. I will not weary you
even by mentioning the line of kings who followed. Their dominions were
torn by dissensions, while they struggled to increase their power. In
1273, Count Rudolph of Hapsburg was elected emperor, and, after a
fierce struggle with the unruly barons, succeeded in establishing his
authority, and in obtaining possession of the dukedom of Austria, and
several other provinces. The house of Hapsburg has to the present time
retained the throne of Austria.

"Jealous of the growing power of the Hapsburgs, the nobles elected
Adolph, Count of Nassau, Emperor of Germany; but Albert, Rudolph's son
and successor, wrested the crown from him. The Hapsburgs had
possessions in Switzerland, when the house obtained its power in
Austria, and they held them as dependencies upon the dukedom. The Swiss
revolted in the reign of Albert, and their long and severe struggle for
independence was commenced at this time.

"During the reign of Sigismund, one of the successors of Albert, John
Huss, the reformer, was burned at the stake at Constance, whither he
had gone with the safe-conduct of the emperor. His martyrdom caused the
Hussite war, in which several severe battles were fought, including one
at Prague. In 1593, Maximilian I. succeeded to the throne; and in his
reign the Reformation by Luther began. Charles V., the grandson of
Maximilian,--of whom I spoke to you in giving the history of Holland
and Belgium,--united the crowns of Spain, Germany, the Netherlands, and
Naples, and the empire became the leading power of Europe. The
Reformation produced fierce dissensions and savage contests. Charles
was obliged, sorely against his will, to grant privileges to his
Lutheran subjects. But he was disgusted with power, and resigned his
crown. He was succeeded by his brother, Ferdinand I., as Emperor of
Germany, and by his son, Philip II., as King of Spain; to whom, also,
he gave his possessions in the Netherlands. The dissensions in the
empire enabled France on the west and Turkey on the east to wrest
valuable possessions from it. The successors of Charles V. were unable
to breast the storm of progress successfully, and the imperial
authority was completely shattered. The power of the petty rulers of
small states increased and overshadowed that of the central authority.

"The emperors Ferdinand and Matthias treated the Protestants with so
much severity, committing the most flagrant outrages upon them, that it
brought on the Thirty Years' War. When Matthias died, the insurgents
declared the throne vacant, and chose the Elector Frederick emperor.
The Protestant princes fought for him, while the Catholic powers
sustained Ferdinand II., Archduke of Austria. Peace was established, by
the treaty of Westphalia, in 1648, by which Germany lost a portion of
her territory. After these events, the power of the emperors waned
still more, until their title was little more than a surname of the
rulers of Austria. When Prussia became a great Protestant power, under
Frederick the Great, she was a check upon Austria, and prevented the
latter from reÃ«stablishing the ancient power of the German empire.

"The French revolution practically destroyed the empire. Francis II. of
Austria, overwhelmed by Napoleon, ceded to him the country on the left
bank of the Rhine. When the Rhenish Confederation of Napoleon was
formed, in 1806, Francis resigned the crown of the German empire, which
was thus formally dissolved. Many changes in territorial limits were
made, and the free cities lost their independence. The country was
either actually or virtually subject to Napoleon, who dictated its
policy, and levied heavy contributions upon it.

"As it was not possible for all these small states to maintain their
separate independence unaided, when the Allied Powers had driven
Napoleon from Europe, and restored the nations to their original
condition, it became necessary to regulate the affairs of Germany.
Prussia objected to an independent empire, whose power might endanger
her safety and progress; and a confederation of the states was formed
in 1815, which exists at the present time."[3]

      [3] Dissolved in 1866.

The professor continued to describe the country, and to define the
powers and duties of the Federal Diet; but as many changes have been
made in the government and in the states, it is not necessary to
transcribe his remarks to these pages. He promised, as occasion might
offer on their travels, to give the students further explanations of
the nature of the territory, governments, and local peculiarities of
the several states they might visit. The boys were satisfied with this
arrangement, and the session was closed. The boatswain immediately
piped all hands to muster on deck.

"Whom do you purpose to join in Paris, if you go to Germany?" asked Mr.
Lowington, when Perth appeared among the officers.

"My uncle," replied the second master, promptly.

"Your uncle from Glasgow, I suppose you mean."

"Yes, sir. He wrote me that he should be in Paris early this month."

"How happened you to be writing the sentence on your paper?"

"I was writing a letter which I intended to copy with ink, as soon as I
had time."

"Have you the rest of the letter?"

"No, sir; I tore it up just now."

"Will you be kind enough to produce your uncle's letter?" said the
principal, quietly.

"I don't keep my letters, sir; and I destroyed it as soon as I had read
it."

"I suppose you did," replied Mr. Lowington, significantly. "But if you
don't go to Germany, what then? I think you wrote the words, 'I will
start with you.'"

"Yes, sir."

"Start from where?"

"From here."

"I don't understand it."

"I was going to write to uncle Donald, that, if I went to Germany, I
would see him in Paris as we pass through that city. If I did not go, I
wanted him to come here, and take me to Paris with him."

"And you think this explains what you wrote upon your note paper?"
inquired the principal.

"As I understand it, sir, it does."

"Was Herman expected to join your party?"

"No, sir."

"I observed that he seemed to be much interested in what you were
writing, and that you took some pains to let him see your paper. Your
explanation is not satisfactory, and I should not dare to take you to
Germany, lest you should miss your uncle on the way. Perhaps he had
better come to Brest himself. When do you expect him?"

"I don't know when he is coming, sir," replied Perth, rather abashed to
find his explanation had obtained so little consideration.

"Have you any money, Perth?" asked Mr. Lowington, suddenly.

"No, sir."

"Not a few francs, even?"

"Perhaps I have a few English pence."

"Haven't you a few English pounds?"

"No, sir."

"Just think a little, before you answer."

"If I had even a pound, I should be likely to remember it, sir."

"I should say you would; and twenty times as likely to remember it, if
you had twenty pounds," added the principal.

"O, I haven't anything like that, sir."

"You have an astonishingly bad memory, Perth. You received a letter
from your uncle in Glasgow, while you were at Havre. Do you remember
that?"

"Certainly I do, sir," replied Perth, wondering what the principal
could mean by such pointed questions.

Was it possible that Mr. Lowington had read what he wrote on the first
sheet of note paper? He thrust his hand into his pocket, and the sheet
was there as he had taken it from the atlas.

"You do remember the letter?"

"To be sure I do, sir."

"And don't you remember that there were four five-pound notes in it,
numbering from thirty-three thousand eight hundred forty-five to eight,
inclusive? It is very singular, indeed, that you have forgotten this
little circumstance."

Perth was confounded by this revelation. He saw that he was caught, and
that it was useless for him to say anything more; so he wisely held his
peace.

"If your uncle has not changed his mind within three days, he has no
more intention of coming to France than I have of going to Glasgow. I
received a letter from him to-day, since the ship came to anchor,
forwarded from Havre after we left. The writer was confined to the
house with a severe attack of rheumatism. In the quiet of his chamber,
he had an opportunity to consider whether he had done right to send you
twenty pounds, even with the advice of your father, without informing
me of the fact. He thought the sum was a large one for a young man to
have, and he desires me to see that you make a proper use of it. I will
trouble you to hand me the money, which shall be placed to your credit,
and receipted for by the pursers."

"I haven't the money now, sir," replied Perth, who was fully resolved
to run away at the first convenient opportunity, and wanted the money
to pay his expenses.

"Where is it?"

"I sent it to a banker--"

"Silence! Don't blacken your soul with any more falsehoods, Perth,"
interrupted the principal, sternly.

"You may search me, sir," replied the second master, throwing out his
arms, as though he were ready to submit to the operation.

"I may, but I do not choose to do so at present. Keep your eye on him,
Peaks," added the principal, as he walked forward to his usual stand on
the hatch.

"You are foolish, Master Perth," said the old boatswain, shaking his
head; for he had been the only person who had listened to the
interview, and appeared to be present for a purpose.

Perth put his hands in his pockets. He felt the paper on which he had
written during the lecture. It would be a dangerous document in case he
should be searched; for its contents would expose him, and implicate
others. As slyly and as quickly as he could, he took it out, tore it
into small bits, and threw it out the open port into the water.

"What's that?" demanded Peaks, seizing him by the collar.

"You are too late," answered Perth.

"What was it you tore up?"

"The five-pound notes."

"Tell that to the marines!" exclaimed the old sailor.

"They are gone to Davy Jones's locker now," replied Perth, shaking his
head.

Peaks instantly reported the matter to the principal, who, however, did
not deem it necessary to take any immediate action. Probably he did not
believe the young wretch had destroyed the bills; or, if he had, it was
his own loss. Perth stood silent and sullen, while Mr. Lowington spoke
to the students, announcing the arrangements for the excursion to the
Rhine. The delinquent was certain, by this time, that he was not to be
one of the party; but he hoped, if he saved his money, that he should
find an opportunity to escape from the squadron soon after his
shipmates started on their journey.




CHAPTER XII.

A MYSTERIOUS MOVEMENT.


"Young gentlemen," said Mr. Lowington, as he stepped upon the hatch,
after disposing of Perth's case, "we shall commence our tour to the
Rhine to-morrow morning."

A hearty demonstration of applause greeted this announcement, and
doubtless those who had been faithful from the beginning realized a
certain sense of triumph, because they were justified in their hopes.

"We shall leave in the first train for Paris, where we will spend the
night, and proceed to Strasburg the next day. From this point we shall
enter Germany, and after visiting several places of interest, such as
Fribourg, Baden, Schaffhausen, Stuttgart, Carlsruhe, Heidelberg, and
Frankfort, we shall take the steamer at Mayence, and go down the Rhine
as far as Cologne. This excursion will enable you to see all of the
river which is worth seeing. You have already seen the Rhine in
Holland, and at Basle. All its picturesque portions are crowded into
the space of less than a hundred miles, which you can witness from the
deck of a steamer in a single day, if such haste were necessary.

"As we leave at an early hour in the morning, it will be best to make
our arrangements to-night. On our return to Havre, Captain Shuffles
requested me to allow all hands to join in this excursion."

A few half-suppressed hisses from some of the runaways were promptly
drowned in a sea of applause from the Order of the Faithful.

"I had the subject under consideration, and it would have afforded me
very great pleasure to grant the request; but the conduct of those in
whose favor it was made has been such, since we left Havre, that I am
unable to grant it. I shall, therefore, be obliged again to leave
thirty-one of your number on board of the Josephine during the absence
of the others."

The runaways, to the astonishment, if not the horror, of the Faithful,
warmly applauded this announcement. It was equivalent to saying they
did not wish to join the excursion. The principal made no remark,
though the applause was certainly impudent; but doubtless he was fully
reconciled to the little arrangement he had made with Mr. Fluxion.

"Those who are to go will bring their bags on board of the ship, and
sleep here to-night," continued Mr. Lowington. "Those who are not to go
will take their bags on board the Josephine. If there is any doubt as
to who the thirty-one are, their names will be read."

No one called for the reading of the names, for there was no one who
needed to be enlightened. The students were dismissed, and the boats
from the consort returned. In a short time, the runaways, who belonged
to the ship's company, appeared upon deck with their luggage. They
seemed to be rather jubilant than otherwise; and though their manner
was very offensive, the principal took no notice of it, as it was not
openly insolent, consisting only of a real or assumed expression of
pleasure at the sentence pronounced against them. All of them expected
to escape from the consort during the administration of Dr. Carboy, and
they regarded a couple of weeks in Paris and Switzerland, free from
restraint, as ample compensation for the deprivation.

"Let those laugh that win," said Herman, when Horne, one of the
Faithful, ventured to sympathize with him in the misfortune of being
left behind.

"I don't see what you can win doing duty and learning your lessons on
board of the Josephine," added Horne.

"Don't you cry, my hearty. You will hear from us by the time you get
halfway down the Rhine; and if we don't have a better time than you do,
it will be because we don't know how."

"Well, I suppose you do know Howe," answered Horne, with a smile, which
indicated that he enjoyed even a sickly pun. "I should think you had
known him to your sorrow."

"Howe has played out. I expect Lowington will get boozy on this
excursion."

"Why so?"

"Because he's going to take a Horne on the trip."

"Pretty good! I see you know Howe."

"We know how to have a good time, and we can do it without any sheep's
wool."

"Are you going to run away in the Josephine again, Herman?"

"No; that's played out."

But the runaway was reminded, by this question, that he had been
talking rather imprudently, and he left his companion for more genial
associates.

Perth still stood on the quarter-deck, waiting the action of the
principal, who had sent the head steward to overhaul the state-room of
the delinquent. The money could not be found in the cabin, though
several of the officers, who were there, assisted in the search.

"What have you done with the twenty pounds sent you by your uncle,
Perth?" asked Mr. Lowington, when the steward had reported to him.

"Thrown it overboard, sir," replied Perth, with a malignant glance at
the boatswain.

"He threw some bits of paper he had torn up into the water," added
Peaks. "Whether it was the bank bills or not, I don't know, but I don't
think it was."

"Very well," added Mr. Lowington, who never permitted a delinquent
pupil to see that he was disturbed and annoyed, even if he was so. "You
will bring your bag on deck, and go on board of the Josephine."

"I'm ready, sir," replied Perth, with brazen assurance.

"As your conduct is hardly becoming an officer and a gentleman, you
will clothe yourself in a seaman's dress," added the principal, taking
the shoulder-straps from his coat. "When a young man can stand up and
reel off a string of lies without blushing, he is not fit to associate
with those who are competent to be officers of this ship."

"I earned my rank, sir," said Perth, who had an idea that he should
sleep in the cabin of the Josephine during his intended short stay on
board of her.

"And forfeited it by your gross misconduct. You will obey the orders
given you," added the principal, as he turned and walked away.

Peaks did not take his eye off the offender, but attended him to the
cabin, where he was supplied with a seaman's suit. Perth objected to
changing his clothing with a pertinacity which provoked the boatswain.

"If you say you won't change the clothes, I will report to Mr.
Lowington," said Peaks.

"Well, I won't."

"All right, my hearty;" and the old sailor left the state-room.

But he had not reached the deck before Perth hailed him.

"I will put them on, Mr. Peaks. I've thought better of it," said he,
throwing off his frock coat, as the boatswain appeared at the door of
the room.

"All the better for you, my lad. I thought you wanted to spend a week
or two in the brig," replied Peaks.

"I think it is a hard case, after a fellow has earned his rank, to take
it from him," muttered Perth, as he proceeded to put on the sailor's
suit.

"An officer should be a gentleman," growled the old sailor.

But the boatswain had been overreached, after all. The four five-pound
notes had been sewed into the waistband of Perth's trousers; and this
was the particular reason why he objected to losing his rank, if he had
to lose his pants with it. Peaks would not take his eye off him long
enough to allow him to tear out the bills; but when the boatswain went
to report to the principal, the opportunity was obtained, and promptly
used. The money was saved, and he yielded the point. He was conducted
to the deck, and when the boats brought the Josephines, who were to
visit Germany, to the ship, the runaways were sent to their new
quarters, or rather their old ones, for they had spent three weeks in
her before, under the superintendence of Mr. Fluxion. Before supper
time the change was effected. Dr. Carboy, at his own request,--for he
preferred the trip to the Mediterranean to that into Germany,--was
transferred to the consort for the cruise, with Peaks and Bitts.

The "happy family" were now united on board the ship, and all the
active discordant elements of the squadron were collected in the
consort. With only a very few exceptions, both parties were satisfied
with the arrangement. The runaways perhaps experienced a feeling of
relief that they were no longer in danger of being watched and
overheard by the "lambs." They had only to look out for the adult
officers now, and in the steerage they were by themselves.

Yet the appearance of Peaks on board of the consort with his bag was
rather ominous. Bitts was not regarded with the same dread. There were
now four adult forward officers in the Josephine; but the old boatswain
was the only one who inspired any special terror. Little's brilliant
scheme to enable his small party to escape seemed to be endangered by
Peak's coming, for he was an exceedingly prompt, decided and vigilant
man. The four old sailors, on an emergency, could handle the Josephine
alone.

"What do you think now?" said Herman, when everything on board the
consort had settled down into order and quiet.

"I don't like to see old Peaks on board," replied the little villain.
"He is a tough customer, and may bother us."

"That's so."

"But I think we can wax him."

"I hope so. We have Tom Perth now to help us. We must take him into our
squad, and then we shall just make up a crew for the third or fourth
cutter."

"I don't like too many."

"But Perth has the rocks in his pocket now--twenty pounds, or five
hundred francs," suggested Herman.

"That's an inducement."

"Certainly it is. We can cut for Paris the moment we get on shore."

"All right. We will try it on about to-morrow night. But don't say a
word to a single other fellow. We must look out for ourselves this
time, and not attempt to carry all the rest of the fellows on our
backs," added the prudent Little.

"It looks mean to do so."

"No, it don't. I have told them all to look out for themselves."

"But they don't even know how the thing is to be managed."

"No; and they shall not know it. If they don't know enough to go ashore
when the vessel is adrift, let them stay on board."

"Well, Perth is the only fellow to whom I mentioned it."

"That's all right; but don't let him say anything about how the thing
is to be done."

"He don't know. I only told him we had a plan which could not possibly
fail."

"It won't, if Peaks don't make trouble. We must let off the gun when he
is not on deck," continued Little.

"We shall be able to see, after to-night, how things are to be done on
board, and whether any of the men are to keep watch," added Herman. "We
needn't give up if we don't happen to get off to-morrow night, for we
have two or three weeks to do the job in."

Little, seated out on the bowsprit, rehearsed his plan again, and went
into all the minor details. They were presently joined by Perth, and
the whole affair was explained to him. He approved it, and made a
number of suggestions in regard to the boats.

"I am bound to go this time," said Perth, earnestly. "I don't stay
another week in the Academy. I have had my shoulder-straps stripped
off, and am pointed at by the lambs as an example of a naughty boy. I
bluffed them all on board the ship, but with me the die is cast. If
your plan don't work, I shall jump overboard, and swim ashore. I have
been degraded and disgraced, and I can't possibly stand it any longer."

"We are all in the same boat; and if we can't get off any other way, we
will set the vessel afire, and swim ashore by the light of it," added
Little.

"You are the fellow for me!" exclaimed Perth. "I don't want any milk
and water about this scrape. If we can't make it go in one way, we will
try another."

Peaks, who was planking the deck, extended his walk to the forecastle,
and the trio discontinued their conversation. They were satisfied that
setting the vessel adrift, some time in the night, would accomplish
their purpose, and they were willing to wait till the next evening.
They had some difficulty in escaping the observation of their
companions who were not in the secret; but they assured them something
would be done just as soon as Mr. Fluxion started for Italy, which it
was understood, would be on the following day.

Berths were assigned to the temporary crew of the Josephine, and at an
early hour they turned in. None of them were detailed to keep the
anchor watch on deck; but in the night Little crawled out of his berth,
and went up the ladder. All was still on deck, and he could not see
that any one was on watch. Seven bells struck on board a man-of-war at
anchor near the vessel. It was half past eleven. He crept stealthily to
the forecastle, where he found Bitts, who was asleep under the lee of
the capstan. This discovery satisfied him that the forward officers
were to keep the anchor watch. The arrangement was not favorable to the
carrying out of Little's scheme; but if the man on deck would only
sleep, it would not make so much difference.

Little carefully studied the situation, which suggested to his fertile
invention half a dozen expedients, in case he failed at the proper time
to unbit the cable. Four of them could jump into one of the cutters,
lower the boat from the davit, and might reach the shore before a
single man could call assistance, and get another boat into the water.
One of them could pretend to be sick, and, sending the watchman to the
cabin to procure medicine, escape while he was looking for it. And so
the little schemer went on till he had a quiver full of expedients, any
one of which promised to be successful. Having satisfied himself that
he had not been reckoning too fast, he went below again, and turned in.

At daylight in the morning all hands were called on board of the Young
America. An early breakfast was taken, and a steamer came alongside to
convey the happy party to the shore. The hands on board the Josephine
were turned out at the same hour, and they had the satisfaction of
seeing the members of the Order of the Faithful depart on their
pleasant tour to the Rhine. Breakfast was served to them at the usual
hour, and when Herman and Little went on deck, after the meal, they saw
a man in a canoe coming alongside. He looked like a pilot, but neither
of the two runaways who saw him suspected that he had a mission on
board. He came on deck, and was duly welcomed by Mr. Fluxion.

"What does that covey want here?" said Little.

"I don't know," replied Herman.

"He has made his canoe fast astern, as though he meant to stay here
some time."

"O, he's only loafing, and wants to see a Yankee ship and a Yankee
crew," laughed Herman.

Little did not exactly like the coming of the pilot; not that he had
any suspicion of the actual programme, but he was afraid the vessel
might be moored in some less convenient place for the escape than her
present berth. As the runaways finished their breakfast, they came on
deck, and some of them recognized the pilot as the one who had brought
the Josephine into port the day before.

"All hands, on deck, ahoy!" shouted Peaks, blowing a pipe more shrill
than had ever before been heard on board of the consort.

All hands were on deck already; but the call produced a decided
sensation. Something was to be done, and all hands fell to discussing
probabilities with a zeal, which ought to have brought forth correct
conclusions. The general opinion seemed to be, that nothing more than a
sermon was coming off, though the vice-principal was not much given to
preaching. If Mr. Fluxion was going to Italy, it would be necessary for
him formally to transfer his authority to Professor Carboy. On the
whole, therefore, the prospect was rather pleasing than otherwise.
Herman, and some of the others who were deeply concerned in coming
events, advised all the fellows to behave well, and take the preaching
kindly, so that the officers need not "smell a mice."
