the applause and admiration which is lying about loose for general
circulation in society, all contributed to her popularity. As I
approached the circle they were discussing with great animation the
preliminaries of a match game of croquet that was proposed to be played
at Clairmont to-day.

"Oh, here comes Mr. Henderson! let's ask him," she said, as I approached
the circle.

"Don't you think it will be a nice thing?" she said. "Mr. Sydney has
arranged that after playing the first games as a trial the four best
players shall be elected to play a match game, two on each side."

"I think it will vary the usual monotony of croquet," said I.

"Hear him," she said, gaily, "talk of the usual monotony of croquet! For
my part I think there is a constant variety to it, no two games are ever
alike."

"To me," I said, "it seems that after a certain amount of practice the
result is likely to be the same thing, game after game."

"Girls," she said, "I perceive that Mr. Henderson is used to carrying
all before him. He is probably a champion player who will walk through
all the wickets as a matter of course."

"Not at all," I said. "On the contrary I shouldn't wonder if I should
'booby' hopelessly at the very first wicket."

"And none the worse for that," said Sydney. "I've boobied three times
running, in the first of a game, and yet beaten; it gets one's blood up,
and one will beat."

"For my part," said Miss Alice, "the more my blood is up the less I can
do; if I get excited I lose my aim, my hand trembles, and I miss the
very simplest move."

"I think there is nothing varies so much as one's luck in croquet," said
Eva. "Sometimes for weeks together I am sure to hit every aim and to
carry every wicket, and then all of a sudden, without rhyme or reason, I
make the most absurd failures, and generally when I pique myself on
success."

"I think, Miss Eva, I remember you as the best player in Newport last
Summer," said Mr. Sydney.

"And likely as not I shall fail ingloriously to-day," said she.

"Well, we shall all have a time for bringing our hands in," said Mr.
Sydney. "I have arranged four croquet grounds, and the fifth one is laid
out for the trial game with longer intervals and special difficulties in
the arrangement, to make it as exciting as possible. The victorious side
is to have a prize."

"Oh, how splendid! What is the prize to be? was the general
exclamation."

"Behold, then!" said Mr. Sydney, drawing from his pocket a velvet case
which when opened displayed a tiny croquet mallet wrought in gold and
set as a lady's pin. Depending from it by four gold chains were four
little balls of emerald, ruby, amethyst, and topaz.

"How perfectly lovely! how divine! how beautiful!" were the sounds that
arose from the brilliant little circle that were in a moment
precipitated upon the treasure.

"You will really set them all by the ears, Mr. Sydney," said Mrs. Van
Arsdel. "Croquet of itself is exciting enough; one is apt to lose one's
temper."

"You ought to see mamma and Mrs. Van Duzen and Aunt Maria play," said
Eva, "if you want to see an edifying game, it's too funny. They are all
so polite and so dreadfully courtly and grieved to do anything
disagreeable to each other, and you know croquet is such a perfectly
selfish, savage, unchristian game; so when poor Mrs. Van Duzen is told
that she ought to croquet mamma's ball away from the wicket, the dear
lady, is quite ready to cry and declares that it would be such a pity to
disappoint her, that she croquets her through her wicket, and looks
round apologizing for her virtues with such a pitiful face! 'Indeed, my
dear, I couldn't help it!'"

"Well," said Mrs. Van Arsdel, "I really think it is too bad when a poor
body has been battering and laboring at a difficult wicket to be
croqueted back a dozen times."

"It's meant for the culture of Christian patience, mamma," said Eva.
"Croquet is the game of life, you see."

"Certainly," said Mr. Sydney, rubbing his hands, "and it teaches you
just how to manage, use your friends to help yourself along, and then
croquet them into good positions; use your enemies as long as you want
them, and then send them to----."

"The devil," said Jim Fellows, who never hesitated to fill up an
emphatic blank in the conversation.

"I didn't say that," said Mr. Sydney.

"But you meant it, all the same; and that's the long and the short of
the philosophy of the game of life," said Jim.

"And" said I, "one may read all sorts of life-histories in the game.
Some go on with a steady aim and true stroke, and make wickets, and hit
balls, yet are croqueted back ingloriously or hopelessly wired and lose
the game, while others blunder advantageously and are croqueted along by
skillful partners into all the best places."

"There are few of us girls that make our own wickets in life," said Eva.
"We are all croqueted along by papas and mammas."

"And many a man is croqueted along by a smart wife," said Sydney.

"But more women by smart husbands," said Mrs. Van Arsdel.

On that there was a general exclamation, and the conversation forthwith
whisked into one of those animated whirlwinds that always arise when the
comparative merits of the sexes are moved. There was a flutter of
ribbons and a rustle of fans and a laughing cross-fire of sharp sayings,
till the whole was broken up by the announcement that we were drawing
near the landing.




CHAPTER XXXIII.

THE MATCH GAME.


The lawn at Clairmont made a brilliant spectacle, all laid out with
different croquet sets. The turf was like velvet, and adjoining every
ground was a pretty tent, with seats and every commodious provision for
repairing at once any temporary derangement of the feminine toilet. The
fluttering of gay flags and pennons from these various tents gave an
airy and breezy look to the scene, and immediately we formed ourselves
into sets, and the games began. It had been arranged that the
preliminary playing should take place immediately, and the match game be
reserved till after lunch. The various fancy costumes of the players,
lit up by the bright sunshine, and contrasted with the emerald green of
the lawn, formed a brilliant and animated picture, watched with interest
by groups of non-combatants from rustic seats under the trees. Of course
everybody was a little nervous in the trial games, and there was the
usual amount of ill luck, and of "Ohs and Ahs" of success or failure. I
made myself a "booby" twice, in that unaccountable way that seems like
fatality. Then suddenly, favored of the fates, made two wickets at once,
seized an antagonist's ball, and went with it at one heat through the
side wicket, the middle and other side wicket up to the stake and down
again, through the middle wicket to the stake again, and then struck
back a glorious rover to join my partner. It was one of those
prodigiously lucky runs, when one's ball goes exactly where it is
intended, and stops exactly in the right place, and though it was mostly
owing to good luck, with the usual prestige of success I was covered
with glory and congratulations, and my partner, Miss Sophie Elmore,
herself a champion at croquet, was pleased to express most unbounded
admiration, especially as our side came out decidedly victorious.

Miss Sophie, a neat little vigorous brunette, in a ravishing fancy
croquet-suit, entered into the game with all that whole-hearted ardor
which makes women such terrible combatants.

"Oh, I do hope that we shall be in at that final match-game!" she
said, with a charming abandon of manner. "I should so like to beat Eva
Van Arsdel. Those Van Arsdels always expect to carry all before them,
and it rather provokes me, I confess. Now, with you to help me, Mr.
Henderson, I am sure we could beat."

"Don't put too much faith in my accidental run of luck," I said; "'one
swallow does not make a summer.'"

"Oh, I'm quite sure by the way you managed your game that it wasn't
luck. But you see I want to try with Eva Van Arsdel again, for she and I
were held to be the best players at Newport last summer, and she beat in
the last 'rubber' we played. It was so provoking--just one slip of the
mallet that ruined me! You know, sometimes, how your mallet will turn in
your hands. She made just such a slip and took the stroke over again.
Now that is what I never will do, you see," &c., &c.

In short, I could see that for pretty Miss Sophie, at present, croquet
was to all intents and purposes, the whole game of life, that every
spangle and every hair-pin about her were vital with excitement to win.

After lunch came the ballot for the combatants who were to play the
deciding game, and the parties elected were: Miss Sophie Elmore, Miss
Eva Van Arsdel, Mr. Sydney, and myself.

"Miss Van Arsdel," said Mr. Sydney, "you must be my captain. After the
feats that you and Mr. Henderson have been performing it would be
impossible to allow you both on one side."

"I think just as likely as not you will be worsted for your pains," said
Eva. "I know Sophie of old for a terrible antagonist, and when she pulls
on her croquet-gloves like that, it means war to the knife, and no
quarter. So, my dear, begin the tournament."

The wickets were arranged at extra distances upon this trial ground, and
it was hardly prudent to attempt making two wickets at once, but Miss
Sophie played in the adventurous style, and sent her ball with a
vigorous tap not only through both the first wickets, but so far ahead
that it was entangled in the wires of the middle wicket, in a way that
made it impossible to give it a fair stroke.

"Now, how vexatious!" she cried.

"I have two extra strokes for my two wickets, but I shall make nothing
by it." In fact, Miss Sophie, with two nervous hits, succeeded only in
placing her ball exactly where with fair luck the next player must be
sure to get it.

Eva now came through the two first wickets, one at a time, and with a
well-directed tap took possession of Miss Sophie, who groaned audibly,
"Oh, now she's got me! well, there's no saying now where she'll stop."

In fact, Miss Eva performed very skillfully the rôle of the "cat who
doth play, and after--slay." She was perfect mistress of the tactics of
split-shots, which sent her antagonist's ball one side the wicket and
hers the other, and all the other mysteries of the craft, and she used
them well, till she had been up and hit the stake and come down to the
middle wicket, when her luck failed.

Then came my turn, and I came through the first two wickets, struck her
ball and used it for the two next wickets, till I came near my partner,
when with a prosperous split-shot I sent her off to distant regions,
struck my partner's ball, put it through its wicket, and came and
stationed myself within its reach for future use.

Then came Mr. Sydney with a vigorous succession of hits, and knocked us
apart; sent one to one side of the ground, and one to the other, and
went gallantly up to his partner. By this time our blood was thoroughly
up, and the game became as Eva prophesied, "war to the knife." Mohawk
indians could not have been more merciless in purposes of utter mischief
to each other than we, and for a while it seemed as if nothing was done
but to attack each other's balls, and send them as far as possible to
the uttermost part of the grounds. As each had about equal skill in
making long shots the re-union however was constantly effected, and thus
each in turn were beaten back from the wickets, till it seemed for a
while that the game would make no progress.

At last, however, one slip of our antagonists threw the power into our
hands, and Miss Sophie used it to take herself and me up through three
wickets to the stake, and thence down again till the intricate middle
wicket stopped our course.

A burst of cheering greeted her success, and the dark little lady seemed
to glow like a coal of fire. I wasn't sure that sparks did not snap from
her eyes as she ended her performance with a croquet that sent Eva's
ball spinning to the most inaccessible distances.

A well-pointed shot from Wat Sydney again turned the tide of battle, and
routed the victors, while he went to the rescue of the banished
princess, and took her back to position.

Every turn of the tide, and every good shot was hailed with cheers, and
the excitement became intense. There were points in the battle as hard
to carry as the Malakoff, and we did nothing but fight, without
advancing a step. It seemed for a while that none of us would ever so
far get the advantage of another as to pass that downward middle wicket.
Every successive step was won by battles. The ladies were so excited
that they seemed two flames of fire. Every nerve in them was alive, and
we men felt ourselves only clumsy instruments of their enkindled ardor.
We were ordered about, commanded, rebuked, encouraged, and cheered on to
the fray with a pungency and vigor of decision that made us quite
secondary characters in the scene. At last a fortunate stroke gave Miss
Sophie the command of the game, and she dashed through the middle
wicket, sent Eva's ball to farthest regions up, and Mr. Sydney's down to
the stake, took mine with her in her victorious race through wicket
after wicket, quite through to the stake, and then leaving me for a
moment she croqueted Sydney's ball against the stake, and put it out. A
general cheer and shouts of "victory" arose.

"We've got it! We're quite sure to go out the next move!" she said, in
triumph, as she left her ball by my side. "She never can hit at that
distance."

"I can try, though," said Eva, walking across the ground, and taking her
place by her ball, pale and resolved, with a concentrated calmness. She
sighted the balls deliberately, poised her mallet, took aim, and gave a
well-considered stroke. Like a straight-aimed arrow the ball flew across
the green, through the final wicket, and struck Sophie's ball!

A general cheering arose, and the victorious markswoman walked
deliberately down to finish her work. One stroke put Sophie out of the
combat, the next struck upon me and then from me up to the head of the
two last wickets that yet remained to be made. She came through these
with one straight stroke, and hit me again.

"Now for it," she said, setting her red-slippered foot firmly on the
ball, and with one virulent tap, away flew my ball to the other end of
the ground, while at the same time hers hit the stake and the victory
was won.

A general shout, and three cheers, and all the spectators started from
their seats like a troop of gay tropical birds, and came flocking around
the victors.

I knelt down, and laid my mallet at her feet. "Beautiful princess!" said
I, "behold your enemies, conquered, await your sentence."

"Arise, Sir Knight," she said, laughing; "I sentence you to write a
ballad describing this battle. Come, Sophie," she added, turning gayly
to the brunette, "let's shake hands on it. You shall have your revenge
of me at Newport this summer," and the two rival fair ones shook hands
in all apparent amity.

Wat Sydney now advancing presented the prize with a gallant bow, and Eva
accepted it graciously, and fastened the blue scarf that floated over
her shoulder with it, and then the whole party adjourned to another
portion of the lawn, which had been arranged for dancing; the music
struck up and soon we were all joining in the dance with a general
hilarity.

And so ended the day at Clairmont, and we came home under a broad full
moon, to the sound of music on the waters.




CHAPTER XXXIV.

[Eva Van Arsdel to Isabel Convers.]


My dearest Belle:--Since I last wrote you wondrous things have taken
place, and of course I must keep you au courant.

In the first place Mr. Sydney came back to our horizon like a comet in a
blaze of glory. The first harbinger of his return was not himself in
propriâ, but cards for a croquet fête up at Clairmont got up with the
last degree of elegance.

Mr. Sydney, it appears, understands the effect of a gilded frame to set
off a picture, and so resolved to manifest himself to us in all his
surroundings at Clairmont.

The party was to be very select and recherché, and of course everybody
was just wild to go, and the Elmores in particular were on the qui
vive to know if we had invitations before them. Sophia Elmore called
down for nothing but to see. We had all the satisfaction there was to be
got in showing her our cards and letting her know that they had come two
days sooner than theirs. Aunt Maria contrived to give them to understand
that Mr. Sydney gave the entertainment mostly on my account, which I
think was assuming quite too much in the case. I am positively tired of
these mean little rivalries and these races that are run between
families.

It is thought that Sophia Elmore is quite fascinated by Mr. Sydney.
Sophia is a nice, spirited girl, with a good, generous heart as I
believe, and it's a thousand pities she shouldn't have him if she cares
for him.

But, to my story. You may imagine the fuss at Tullegig's. Of course we
belong to the class who live in the enjoyment of "nothing to wear," and
the first result of a projected entertainment is to throw us all on our
knees before Tullegig, who queens it over us accordingly.

I was just dying to find out if a certain person was to be there. Of
late our intercourse has been so very stately and diplomatic that it
really becomes exciting. He has avoided every appearance of intimacy,
every approach to our old confidential standing, and yet apparently for
the life of him cannot keep from taking views of me at safe distance;
so, as I said, it was something to see if he would be there.

As to Clairmont, I think in the course of my life I have seen fine
grounds, fine houses, fine furniture, and fine fêtes before.
Nevertheless I must do Sydney the justice to say that he gave a most
charming and beautiful entertainment where everything was just as lovely
as could be. We went up on a splendid boat to the sound of music. We had
a magnificent lunch under the trees, and there were arrangements for
four games to go on at once, which made a gay and animated tableau. All
the girls wore the prettiest costumes you can imagine, each one seeming
prettier than the other; and when they were all moving about in the game
it made a bright, cheerful effect. Mr. Henderson was there and
distinguished himself to such a degree that he was appointed one of the
four who were to play a match-game, in conclusion, for a prize.
Curiously enough he played with Sophia against Sydney and myself. How we
did fight! Sophie is one of these girls that feel everything to the tips
of their fingers, and I am another, and if we didn't make those men
bestir themselves! I fancy they found women rulers were of a kind to
keep men pretty busy.

I can imagine the excitement we women would make of an election if we
should ever get into politics. Would we not croquet our adversaries'
balls, and make stunning split-shots in parties, and wire ourselves
artfully behind wickets, and do all sorts of perplexing things? I
confess if the excitement should get to be half as great as in playing
croquet, I should tremble to think of it.

Well, it was some excitement at all events to play against each other,
he and I. Didn't I seek out his ball, didn't I pursue it, beat it back
from wickets, come on it with most surprising and unexpected shots?
Sophie fought with desperation on the other side, and at last they
seemed to have carried the day, there was but one stroke wanting to put
them out; they had killed Sydney at the stake and banished me to the
farthest extremity of the ground. Mamma always said I had the genius for
emergencies, and if you'll believe me I struck quite across the ground
and hit Sophie's ball and sent it out, and then I took his back to
make my two last wickets with, and finally with an imposing coup de
théâtre I croqueted him to the other end of the ground, and went out
amid thunders of applause. He took it with great presence of mind, knelt
down and laid the mallet handsomely at my feet, and professed to deliver
himself captive, and I imposed it on him as a task to write a ballad
descriptive of the encounter. So he was shut up for about half an hour
in the library, and came out with a very fine and funny ballad in Chevy
Chase measure describing our exploits, which was read under the trees,
and cheered and encored in the liveliest manner possible.

On the whole, Mr. Henderson may be said to have had quite a society
success yesterday, as I heard him very much admired, and the Elmores
overwhelmed him with pressing invitations to call, to come to their
soirées, etc., etc. You see these Elmores have everything money can buy,
and so they are distracted to be literary, or at least to have literary
people in their train, and they have always been wanting to get
Henderson and Jim Fellows to their receptions. So I heard Mrs. Elmore
overwhelming him with compliments on his poem in a way that quite amused
me, for I knew enough of him to know exactly how all this seemed to
him. He is of all persons one of the most difficult to flatter, and has
the keenest sense of the ridiculous; and Mrs. Elmore's style is as if
one should empty a bushel basket of peaches or grapes on your head
instead of passing the fruit dish.

But I am so busy traducing my neighbors that I forgot to say I won the
croquet prize, which was duly presented. It was a gold croquet mallet
set as a pin with four balls of emerald, amethyst, ruby, and topaz
depending from it. It had quite an Etruscan effect and was very pretty,
but when I saw how much Sophia really took the defeat to heart, my soul
was moved for her and I made a peace-offering by getting her to accept
it. It was not easy at first, but I made a point of it and insisted upon
it with all my logic, telling her that in point of skill she had really
won the game, that my last stroke was only a lucky accident, and you
know I can generally talk people into almost anything I set my heart on,
and so as Sophie was flattered by my estimate of her skill and as the
bauble is a pretty one, I prevailed on her to take it. I am tired and
sick of this fuss between the Elmores and us, and don't mean to have
more of it, for Sophie really is a nice girl, and not a bit more spoiled
than any of the rest of us, notwithstanding all the nonsense of her
family, and she and I have agreed to be fast friends for the future,
whatever may come.

I had one other motive in this move. I never have accepted jewelry from
Sydney, and I was quite willing to be rid of this. If I could only
croquet his heart down to Sophie to use, it might be a nice thing. I
fancy she would like it.

I managed my cards quite adroitly all day to avoid a tête-à-tête
interview with Sydney. I was careful always to be in the center of a
group of two or three, and when he asked me to walk through the
conservatories with him I said, "Come, Amy and Jane," and took them
along.

As to somebody else, he made no attempt of the kind, though I could
see that he saw me wherever I went. Do these creatures suppose we
don't see their eyes, and fancy that they conceal their feelings? I am
perfectly certain that whatever the matter is, he thinks as much of me
as ever he did.

Well, it was moonlight and music all the way home, the band playing the
most heart-breaking, entrancing harmonies from Beethoven and melodies
from Schubert, and then Wat Sydney annoyed me beyond measure by keeping
up a distracting chit-chat when I wanted to be quiet and listen. He
cares nothing for music, and people who don't are like flies, they have
no mercy and never will leave you a quiet moment. The other one went
off and sat by himself, gazed at the moon and heard the music all in the
most proper and romantic style, and looked like a handsome tenor at an
opera.

       

So far, my dear, the history of our affairs. But something more
surprising than ever you heard has just happened, and I must hasten to
jot it down.

Yesterday afternoon, being worried and wearied with the day before, I
left your letter, as you see, and teased Ida to go out driving with me
in the Park. She had promised Effie St. Clere to sketch some patterns of
arbors and garden seats that are there, for her new place at Fern
Valley, and I had resolved on a lonely ramble to clear my heart and
brain.

Moreover, the last time I was there I saw from one of the bridges a very
pretty cascade falling into a charming little wooded lake in the
distance. I resolved to go in search of this same cascade which is deep
in a shady labyrinth of paths.

Well, it was a most lovely perfect day, and we left our carriage at the
terrace and started off for our ramble, Ida with her sketch-book in
hand. She was very soon hard at work at a rustic summer-house while I
plunged into a woody tangle of paths guided only by the distant sound of
the cascades. It was toward evening and the paths seemed quite solitary,
for I met not a creature. I might really have thought I was among the
ferns and white birches up in Conway, or anywhere in the mountains, it
was so perfectly mossy and wild and solitary. A flock of wild geese
seemed to be making an odd sort of outlandish noise, far in a deep, dark
tangle of bushes, and it appeared to me to produce the impression of
utter solitude more than anything else. Evidently it was a sort of wild
lair seldom invaded. I still heard the noise of the cascade through a
thicket of leaves, but could not get a sight of it. Sometimes it seemed
near and sometimes far off, but at last I thought I hit upon a winding
path that seemed to promise to take me to it. It wound round a declivity
and I could tell by the sound I was approaching the water. I was quite
animated and ran forward till a sudden turn brought me to the head of
the cascade where there was a railing and one seat, and as I came
running down I saw suddenly a man with a book in his hand sitting on
this seat, and it was Mr. Henderson.

He rose up when he saw me and looked pale, but an expression of
perfectly rapturous delight passed over his face as I checked myself
astonished.

"Miss Van Arsdel!" he said. "To what happy fate do I owe this good
fortune!"

I recovered myself and said that "I was not aware of any particular
good fortune in the case."

"Not to you, perhaps," he said, "but to me. I have seen nothing of
you for so long," he added, rather piteously.

"There has been nothing that I am aware of to prevent your seeing me," I
said. "If Mr. Henderson chooses to make himself strange to his friends
it is his own affair." He looked confused and murmured something about
"many engagements and business."

"Mr. Henderson, you will excuse me," said I, resolved not to have this
sort of thing go on any longer. "You have always been treated at our
house as an intimate and valued friend; of late you seem to prefer to
act like a ceremonious stranger."

"Indeed, you mistake me, entirely, Miss Van Arsdel," he said, eagerly.
"You must know my feelings; you must appreciate my reasons; you see
why I cannot and ought not."

"I am quite in the dark as to both," I said. "I cannot see any reason
why we should not be on the old footing, I am sure. You have acted of
late as if you were afraid to meet me; it is all perfectly unaccountable
to me. Why should you do so? What reason can there be?"

"Because," he said, with a sort of desperation, "because I love you,
Miss Van Arsdel. Because I always shall love you too well to associate
with you as the wife or betrothed bride of another man."

"There is no occasion you should, Mr. Henderson. I am not, so far as I
understand, either wife or betrothed to any man," I said.

He looked perfectly thunderstruck.

"Yet I heard it from the best authority."

"From what authority?" said I, "for I deny it."

"Your mother."

"My mother?" I was thunderstruck in my turn; here it was to be sure.
Poor mamma! I saw through the whole mystery.

"Your mother told me," he went on, "that there was a tacit engagement
which was to be declared on Mr. Sydney's return, and cautioned me
against an undue intimacy."

"My mother," I said, "has done her utmost to persuade me to this
engagement. I refused Mr. Sydney out and out in the beginning. She
persuaded me to allow him to continue his attentions in hope of changing
my mind, but it never has changed."

He grew agitated and spoke very quickly.

"Oh, tell me, Miss Van Arsdel, if I may hope for success in making the
same effort?"

"I shouldn't be surprised if you might," said I.

There followed a sort of electric flash and a confusion of wild words
after this--really my dear I cannot remember half what he said--only the
next I knew, somehow, we were walking arm in arm together.

"What a talk we had, and what a walk up and down those tangled alleys!
going over everything and explaining everything. It was a bright long
twilight and the great silver moon rose upon us while yet we were
talking. After a while I heard Ida calling up and down the paths for me.
She came up and met us with her sketch-book under her arm."

"Ida, we're engaged, Harry and I," I said.

"So I thought," she said, looking at us kindly and stretching out both
hands.

I took one and he the other.

"Do you think I have any chance with your parents?" asked Harry.

"I think," said Ida, "that you will find trouble at first, but you may
rely on Eva, she will never change; but we must go home."

"Yes," said I, "it would not do to introduce the matter by getting up a
domestic alarm and sending a party to drag the lake for us; we must
drive home in a peaceable, orderly manner," and so, it being agreed
among us that I should try my diplomatic powers on mamma first, and
Harry should speak to papa afterward, we drove home.

Well, now Belle, it is all over--the mystery I mean; and the struggle
with the powers, that bids to begin. How odd it is that marriage, which
is a thing of all others most personal and individual, is a thing where
all your friends want you to act to please them!

Mamma probably in her day felt toward papa just as I feel, but I am sure
she will be drowned in despair that I cannot see Wat Sydney with her
eyes, and that I do choose to see Harry with mine. But it isn't mamma
that is to live with him, it is I; it is my fearful venture for life,
not hers. I am to give the right to have and to hold me till life's
end. When I think of that I wonder I am not afraid to risk it with any
man, but with him I am not. I know him so intimately and trust him so
entirely.

What a laugh I gave him last night, telling him how foolishly he had
acted; he likes to have me take him off, and seemed perfectly astonished
that I had had the perspicuity to read his feelings. These men, my dear,
have a kind of innocent stupidity in matters of this kind that is
refreshing!

Well, if I am not mistaken, there was one blissful individual sent home
in New York last night, notwithstanding the terrors of the 'stern
parents,' that are yet to be encountered.

How I do chatter on! Well, my dear Belle, you see I have kept my word. I
always told you that I would let you know when I was engaged, the very
first of any one, and now here it is. You may make the most of it and
tell whom you please, for I shall never change. I am as firm as Ben
Lomond.

  Ever your loving    EVA.




CHAPTER XXXV.

DOMESTIC CONSULTATIONS.


On the afternoon after the croquet party Aunt Maria Wouvermans and Mrs.
Van Arsdel, withdrawn to the most confidential recess of the house, held
mysterious council.

"Well, Nelly," said Aunt Maria, "how did you think things looked
yesterday?"

"I thought a crisis was impending, but after all nothing came. But you
see, Maria," said Mrs. Van Arsdel, "that girl! she is the most
peculiar creature. She wouldn't give him the least chance; she just held
herself away from him. Two or three times I tried to arrange that they
should be alone together, but she wouldn't. She would keep Susan and
Jane Seaton at her elbow as if they had been glued to her."

"It was so provoking," said Aunt Maria, "because all the Elmores were
there watching and whispering. Those Elmores are in such an elated state
on account of the wedding in their family. You'd really think it was a
royal marriage at the very least; and they whisper about and talk as if
we had been trying to catch Sydney and couldn't; that's what provokes
me! they were all on tiptoe watching every turn, and I did long to be
able to come down on them with an announcement! What ails Eva? Of course
she must mean to have him; no girl at her age would be fool enough to
refuse such an offer; you see she's three-and-twenty."

"Well, if you'll believe me, Eva actually went and gave that croquet pin
Sydney gave her to Sophie Elmore! I overheard her urging it on her, and
he overheard it too, and I know he didn't like it; it was so very marked
a thing, you see!"

"Eva gave that pin to Sophie Elmore! The girl is crazy. She is too
provoking for anything! I can't think what it is, Nelly, makes your
girls so singular."

Mrs. Wouvermans, it will appear, was one of that very common class of
good people who improve every opportunity to show how very senseless
their neighbors are compared with themselves. The sole and only reason,
as might be gathered from her remarks, why anything disagreeable
happened to anybody, was because they did not do, or had not done just
as she should have done in their circumstances.

Now Mrs. Van Arsdel, though conceding in general that sister Maria was
stronger and brighter than herself, was somewhat rebellious under the
process of having it insisted in detail that every unfortunate turn of
affairs was her fault, and so she answered with some spirit.

"I don't see that my girls are any more singular than other people's.
Very few mothers have brought up nicer girls than mine. Everybody says
so."

"And I say, Nelly, they are peculiar," insisted Mrs. Wouvermans.
"There's Ida going off at her tangent! and Miss Eva! Well! one thing, it
isn't my fault. I've done the very best I could in instructing them!
It must come from the Van Arsdel side of the house. I'm sure in our
family girls never made so much trouble. We all grew up sensible, and
took the very best offer we had, and were married and went about our
duties without any fuss. Though of course we never had a chance like
this."

"Now, I shouldn't wonder in the least," said Mrs. Van Arsdel, "if Sydney
should fly off to Sophie Elmore. It's evident that she is perfectly
infatuated with him! and you know men's hearts are caught on the rebound
very often."

"Oh, yes," said Aunt Maria, "I shouldn't wonder, just as Jerold Macy
flew off to Blanche Sinclair, when Edith Enderly coquetted so with him.
He never would have gone to Blanche in the world if Edith had not thrown
him off. Edith was sorry enough afterward when it was too late to help
it."

"I declare," said Mrs. Van Arsdel, "one never knows what trouble is till
one has girls at the marrying age!"

"It's all your own fault," said Aunt Maria, "you indulge them too much.
For my part," she continued, "I like the French way of arranging these
things. It ought not to be left to the choice of a young silly girl. The
parents ought to arrange for her, and then the thing is settled without
any trouble. Of course people of experience in mature life can choose
better for a girl than she can choose for herself! Our girls in America
have too much liberty. If I had daughters to bring up I should bring
them up so that they would never think of disputing what I told them."

"So you are always saying, Maria," said Mrs. Van Arsdel, "it's quite
safe to say what you'll do when you haven't any, but it's very provoking
to me. I only wish you had Ida and Eva to manage."

"I only wish I had!" said Aunt Maria. "I should have had them both well
married by this time. There shouldn't be any of this kind of nonsense
that you allow. I'd set down my foot. I wouldn't have it. My daughters
should obey me. You let them make a perfect nose-of-wax of you. They
treat you in any way they please."

"You always think so much of yourself, Maria, and whatever happens you
turn round and blame me. I wish to mercy you'd had children and then
you'd see! People who haven't are always delighted with themselves and
always criticising people who have. If you had a family of children to
manage they'd soon bring you down."

"Well, Nelly, you'll just see, you'll have a lot of old maids on your
hands, that's all," said Aunt Maria. "Ida is a gone case now, and Eva is
on the certain road. Girls that are so difficult and romantic and can't
tell their own mind are sure to make old maids at last. There was Ellen
Gilliflower, and Jane Seabright, they might both have had houses and
horses and carriages of their own if they had taken offers when they
could get them."

"You know poor Jane lost her lover."

"To be sure. Well, he was dead, wasn't he? and she couldn't marry him,
but was that any reason why she never should marry anybody? There was
John Smithson would have put her at the head of one of the best
establishments about New York, and she might have had her own coupé and
horses just as Mrs. Smithson does now. It's all this ridiculous idea
about loving. Why, girls can love anybody they'd a mind to, and if I
had a daughter she should."

"Oh! I don't know, Maria," said Mrs. Van Arsdel. "I think it is a pretty
serious thing to force a daughter's affections."

"Fiddlestick upon affections, Nelly, don't you begin to talk. It makes
me perfectly sick to hear the twaddle about it. People in good
circumstances always like each other well enough, and any girl can get
along with any man that puts her in a good position and takes good care
of her. If Ida had been made to marry a good man when she first came
out of school she never would have gone off at all these tangents, and
she'd have been a contented woman, and so would Eva. She ought to be
made to marry Wat Sydney, it is a tempting of Providence to let the
thing drag on so. Now, if Sydney was like Sim Rivington, I wouldn't say
a word. I think Polly's conduct is perfectly abominable, and if Sim goes
on getting drunk and raises a hell upon earth at home Polly may just
have herself to thank for it, for she was told all about him. She did it
with her eyes open, but Eva's case is different."

At this moment the door-bell rung, and the waiter brought in a letter on
a silver salver. Both ladies pounced upon it, and Aunt Maria saying,
"It's to you, from Sydney," eagerly broke it open and began reading.

"I should think, sister," said Mrs. Van Arsdel, in an injured tone, "I
might be allowed the first reading of my own letters."

"Oh, pshaw, don't be so peevish," said Aunt Maria, pushing it petulantly
toward her. "If you don't want me to take any interest in your affairs
I'm sure I don't see why I should. I'll go, and you may manage them
yourself."

"But, Maria," said poor Mrs. Van Arsdel, apologetically, "one naturally
has the wish to see one's own letters first."

"Well, mercy on us, child, don't be in a passion about it," said Aunt
Maria, "you've got your letter, haven't you? Do read it, and you'll see
it's just as I thought. That girl has offended him with her airs and
graces, and he is just on the point of giving her up."

"But, you see, he says that he still desires to propose to her," said
Mrs. Van Arsdel, reading, "only that as her manner to him is so marked
he does not wish to expose himself to another refusal."

"Well," said Aunt Maria, "now you see, Nelly, after all, that letter
leaves the game in Eva's own hands. If now she will behave herself and
let you invite him to an interview and treat him properly, it can all be
settled. The letter, in fact, amounts to a proposal in form. Now, Nelly,
that girl must be made to behave herself. I wish I could put some
pluck into you; you must be decided with her."

