over them all.'"

"You read part of that before," said Maggie.

"Part of the story; but I thought you would like to have the whole."

"Oh, I do. But I thought it was Zwentibold that Henning of Dageförde
killed, when he was trying to get at the white banner."

"Maybe there were two Zwentibolds; or the story got a little confused
among the old chroniclers."

"Then how is one to know which is true?"

"It is difficult, very often, Maggie," her uncle said smiling. "Human
testimony is a strange thing, and very susceptible of getting confused."

"What will you read next, Ditto? About the minister who was converted?"

"Oh, no," said Flora. "Let the catechism alone. Haven't you got some
more Saxon stories, Meredith?"

"Plenty. Which shall it be, Mr. Murray?"

"Saxon, for this time."


"'THE REMMIGA FARM.

"'As in my former narrations I have told of the glorious victory which
with God's help Landolf gained over the old priest Heinrich and his
children, I will tell you now of a third victory which the Lord granted
him. An hour from here was a farm which in the chronicle is called the
Remmiga manor; it was inhabited by a free man named Walo. His wife's
name was Odela, sometimes the chronicle calls her Adela. The name is
one, for the word Adel is often written and spoken as Odel in the old
manuscripts. The pair had a son, who bore his father's name.

"'As owner of a head manor, Walo was at the same time priest of the
community, which dignity always went along with the possession of a
chief manor among the old Saxons. All the councils and courts of the
community were held under his presidency; he brought the sacrifices
thereto pertaining; and it is easy to imagine what consideration on all
these accounts he enjoyed. This consideration was still further
heightened by the fact of his knowledge of the old laws and customs, and
by his incorruptible truth and uprightness. Like Heinrich, he too was at
the beginning a determined enemy of the Christian religion. Landolf
visited him frequently and told him about the Lord Jesus, but Walo's ear
was deaf to the truth of the gospel. He knew from old legends that once
upon a time two brothers, the white and the black Ewald, who had
preached Christianity among the Saxons, had been by them sacrificed to
their idols. And so, with Saxon tenacity holding fast to the old
traditions, he told Landolf to his face that in justice he ought to
suffer the same fate which had fallen upon the two Ewalds; and that it
could not be carried out upon him, simply because the decision of the
people, taken by the national assembly at the stone-houses, once taken
became a law, according to which the free preaching of the gospel was
permitted. Landolf did not allow himself to be daunted by this, but
continued his visits and his teachings; for he observed that Walo, in
spite of all that, always listened with attention when he told about the
Lord Christ.

"'One day Landolf came again to Remmiga. He found Walo sitting in front
of his dwelling, by the place of sacrifice, where the assemblies of the
district were wont to be held, still and sunk in his own thoughts. Near
him stood his wife Odela and his little son, who was perhaps twelve
years old. The boy ran joyously to meet Landolf and said--"It is nice
that you have come. I have just been asking father to let me go away
with you; I would like to hear a great deal about the Lord Jesus; I want
to be His disciple. Mother is glad; and," he whispered softly, "she
loves the Son of God too; but father feels very troubled, and don't like
it; he says he has lost his wife and his son to-day!" Odela gave Landolf
her hand and spoke aloud. "Yes, I love Jesus; I want to be His disciple;
but Walo will have none of it; and so I too will go with you, that I may
hear about Jesus and be baptized."

"'Landolf hardly knew where he stood. Until this time Odela and her son
had listened in silence when he talked about Jesus, but never a word had
they spoken. Now they told him how, while he talked, the Lord Jesus had
so grown in their hearts that they could not get loose from Him again;
and they did not wish to get loose; for they wanted to be saved and to
come into the Christian's heaven, where Jesus is and the holy angels.

"'Then up rose Walo, turned a dark look upon Landolf, and said to him,
"Thou hast led astray my wife and my son with thy words, and now I have
no wife and no son any more. Go out of my grounds; take my wife and my
son with thee; they have no love for me any longer; their love is for
Jesus."

"'"O Walo!" Landolf answered, "seest thou not yet that thy gods are dead
idols? Dost thou not see that Jesus is the true, the living God? Jesus
has won their hearts; thine idols cannot win hearts; thou mayest see
that by thy wife and thy son. Let Jesus gain thy heart too. You shall
all three be saved."

"'Walo shook his head. "He wins not my heart!"

"'"Then," cried the servant of the Lord joyfully, "then shall thy wife
and thy son win thy heart for Jesus. Thy wife and thy son desire to be
baptized. Thou canst not hinder them: they are free; they are noble
born. I am going to baptize them now, this day, in thy presence; for
they believe in Jesus that He is the Son of God. But I know that thy
wife and thy son are dear to thee, and thou art very dear to them, only
Jesus is dearer yet. Let them remain with thee after they are baptized;
do not thrust them out from thy house. And if, when they are baptized,
they love thee still better than formerly, if they are more dutiful to
thee than formerly, wilt thou then believe that Jesus is mightier than
thine idols? Thou hast often told me that Odela is proud and passionate,
though in all else good and noble. Now if when she is baptized she
becomes humble and gentle, wilt thou then believe that Jesus can give
people new hearts?"

"'Walo looked at the glad Landolf with an astonished face. "Odela humble
and gentle!" said he. "Yes, then I will believe that Jesus can make the
heart new; I will believe that He is God, and I will worship Him."

"'"Give me thy right hand, Walo," said Landolf; "I know a Saxon keeps
his word and never tells a lie, and Walo before all others."

"'They shook hands. Landolf did not delay. He went immediately for
Hermann and Heinrich, and fetched them to share in his joy and to act as
the sponsors. And oh, how gladly they came! That same evening Adela and
her son were baptized in the name of the Triune God; and Landolf
joyously reminded them that he had promised Walo his wife and his son
should win his heart for Christ.

"'A year passed away, and on the very day on which Adela and her son had
been baptized, Walo also received baptism; for the Christianised Adela
had become humble and gentle, because Jesus dwelt in her heart; and
after their baptism she and her son had loved the husband and father
still more ardently, and had been more obedient to him than before. Walo
confessed, "they are better than I." Oh, the Christian walk, the
Christian walk! how mighty it is to convert! The walk of Christians is
the living preaching of the living God.

"'And now a Christian chapel was erected by Walo at Remmiga, on the
place of sacrifice; and around the chapel there rose up a Christian
village, which established itself upon his soil and territory; a brook
ran through the new village, which was therefore called Bekedorf, and is
called so at the present day; it lies in the parish of Hermannsburg. The
chapel stood till the Thirty Years' War; it was burnt down then by
Tilly's marauders, and has never been built up again. But there is more
of the story. Walo died old and full of days, in the arms of his wife
and son. Landolf had gone home long before, and so had old Hermann and
Heinrich. But the young Walo had grown to be the most faithful friend of
Hermann's son, who was also named Hermann, and who by Kaiser Otto the
Great was made Duke of Saxony. So then, when Hermann Billing was made
the Kaiser's lieutenant of the kingdom in Northern Germany, upon
occasion of Otto's journey into Italy, Hermann made his faithful Walo a
graf, that is, one of the chief judges of the country; and he travelled
about and wrought justice and righteousness, and was, as the Scripture
says of an upright judge, "for a terror to evil-doers and the praise of
them that did well." He married Odelinde, a noble young lady, who also
loved the Saviour, and had been brought up by the good cloister ladies
at the Quänenburg. They led a happy and God-fearing life, but they had
no children. When now both of them were old and advanced in years,
Odelinde one day was reminding her husband of the blessing she had
received from the pious training of the cloister ladies; and she asked
him whether, as they had no children, and were rich, they might not
found another cloister with their money, in which noble young girls
should be educated by good cloister sisters. Walo complied with her wish
gladly; for he loved the kingdom of God, and at that time the cloisters
were simply the abodes of piety; they were not yet places of idleness,
but of diligence; not homes of lawlessness, but of modesty; not of
superstition, but of faith.

"'About four miles from his place on the river Böhme lay a wide tract of
meadow land, bordered by a magnificent thick wood of oaks and beeches.
When Walo travelled through the country as graf, he had often been
greatly pleased with this spot; and it had occurred to him that such
beauty ought not to remain any longer given up to wild beasts, but
should become a dwelling-place for men. This thought recurred now
vividly to his mind. His wife desired to see the place too. So they went
to view it, and decided to build a cloister there, around which then
other human dwellings would grow up, but the cloister itself should be
the home of pious ladies whose special business should be the bringing
up of nobly-born young girls. The wood was rooted up' (roden is to
root up); 'and on the Rode' (that is, the space cleared) 'the cloister
was built, which thereupon was called Walo's Rode; about which later
the village Walsrode was settled, which still later spread itself out
into a little city, having the cloister to thank for its origin. Walo
not only built the cloister at his own expense, but also endowed it for
its support with the tithes of the Bekedorf village, which belonged to
the manor. It is but a little while since the Bekedorfers bought off
these tithes.

"'I must state, however, that in my extracts from the chronicle there
occurs a divergence from the usual dates. That is, I have formerly read
under a picture of Graf Walo in the cloister church at Walsrode the
number of the year 986. In my extracts, on the other hand, it is said
that the cloister was founded by Walo in the year of grace 974, and
consecrated by Bishop Landward of Münden. The last can be explained by
the fact that the valley of the Oerze belonged to the see of Münden and
not to the nearer Verden, and therefore Walsrode also being founded from
hence, must be consecrated by the Münden bishop. But as to the
difference of the two dates, I can do nothing further to clear that up,
since I am no investigator of history, but have singly written down what
I have found.'"




CHAPTER XIII.


"I like that," said Maggie sedately.

"How curiously near it seems to bring the Middle Ages!" said Meredith.
"The picture of Graf Walo!--and Pastor Harms has seen it."

"Why couldn't Walo build a schoolhouse without making a cloister of it?"
asked Maggie.

"There were really reasons, apart from religious ones," Mr. Murray
replied. "You remember your views of old castles on the Rhine, perched
up on inaccessible heights?"

"It must have been very inconvenient," said Flora. "Imagine it!"

"It would have been worse than inconvenient to live below in the valley.
A rich noble could not have been sure of keeping any precious thing his
house held--unless his retainers were very numerous and always on duty;
and in that case the lands would have come by the worst. The only really
secure places, Maggie, were the religious houses."

"What dreadful times!" said Flora.

"So these stories show them."

"Uncle Eden," said Esther, "it is time to go in and get ready for
dinner."

"Is it? Oh, this pine wood is better than dinner! Look how the light is
coming red through the boles of the trees! Feel this air that is playing
about my face! Smell the pines!"

"But you will want dinner, Uncle Eden, all the same, and it will be
ready."

"Well," said Mr. Murray, rousing himself so far as to get up on one
elbow.

"Where shall we go for our reading to-morrow afternoon?" said Maggie.

"The Lookout rock," suggested Meredith.

"Do you like that, Uncle Eden?"

"I like it all, Maggie. If to-morrow is like to-day, I think the Lookout
rock will be very enjoyable."

"And then you can look at the sky while you are talking to us," said
Maggie comfortably.

"Why precisely at the sky?" Meredith asked laughing.

"Oh, it's so beautiful up there sometimes."

They sauntered slowly back to the house, through the sweet pines, under
the illuminating red rays which were coming level against the
tree-stems. Then out of the wood and among the flower-beds and shrubbery
surrounding the house; with the open view of sky and river, purple-brown
and ruddy gold lights flowing upon the sides of the hills, reflecting
the western brilliance, which yet was warm and rich rather than
dazzling.

"I never saw such a place as this!" exclaimed Meredith for the fourth or
fifth time.

"The world is a wonderful place generally," observed Mr. Murray
thoughtfully. "Rich--rich! 'the riches of His grace,' and the riches of
His wisdom."

They were a very happy party at dinner. Fenton, it is true, came out
singularly in the conversation, and gave a number of details respecting
life at school and his views of life in the world. Mr. Murray's answers
however were so humorous, and so wise and sweet at the same time, that
it seemed Fenton only furnished a text for the most pleasant discourse.
And after dinner Maggie got out stereoscopic views, and she and others
delighted themselves with a new look at the Middle Ages.

"What a strange thing it must be," said Meredith, "to live where every
farm and every church has a history; of course every village."

"Haven't farms and villages in our country a history?" Maggie inquired.

"No," said Esther; "of course not."

"A few," said Mr. Murray. "Such New England farms, for instance, as
still bear the names 'Lonesome' and 'Scrabblehard.' But the histories
are not very old, and refer to nothing more picturesque than the
struggles of the early settlers."

"What struggles?" Maggie wanted to know.

"Struggles for life. With the hard soil, with the hard climate, and with
the wild Indians. But such struggles, Maggie, left an inheritance of
strength, patience, and daring to their children."

"Why haven't we stories like those of the Saxons?"

"Why!" exclaimed Fenton impatiently, "are you such a simple? There was
nothing here but red Indians till a little while ago."

"We have not been a nation for more than a hundred years, Maggie," said
Meredith.

"And before that, were the Indians here at Mosswood?"

"No, no," said Fenton. "You had better study history."

"As you have," put in his uncle. "Won't you tell Maggie when the first
settlements of the English were made in America?"

However, Fenton could not.

"In the beginning of the seventeenth century it was, Maggie, that the
first colonies were established here. The Dutch came to New York, and
the Puritans to New England, and a little earlier the English colonists
to Virginia. We are a young country."

"Is it better to be a young country, or to be an old one?"

"The young country has its life before it," said Mr. Murray
smiling;--"like a young girl."

"How, Uncle Eden?"

"She has the chance still to make it noble and beautiful."

"We can't have these grand old castles, though," said Meredith, looking
at the view of Sonneck.

"Those are the picturesque scars remaining of a time which was not
beautiful--except to the eye. I suppose it was that."

The conversation took a turn too historical to be reported here.

The next day was a worthy successor of the preceding. All the party went
to church in the morning; on account of the distance, nobody went in the
afternoon. Mr. Candlish would not have his horses and servants called
out in the latter half of the day. The dinner was early; and so then
after dinner the party set out upon a slow progress to the Lookout rock,
carrying Bibles, and Meredith with his little German volume in his
pocket.

Another such afternoon as the yesterday's had been! Warm, still,
fragrant, hazy; more hazy than ever. The outlines of the distant hills
were partially veiled; the colours on the middle distance glowing,
mellow and soft, all the sun's glitter being shielded off. Slowly and
enjoyingly the little company wandered along, leaving the lawns and
pleasure ground of flowers behind them; through the cedars, past the
spot where a day or two ago they had sat and read and eaten their
chicken pie. Past that, and then up a winding steep mountain road that
led up to the height of the point above. Just before the top was reached
they turned off from the way towards the left, whence glimpses of the
river had been coming to them, and after a few steps over stones and
under the trees which covered all the higher ground, emerged from both
upon a broad, smooth, top of a great outlying mass of granite rock which
overhung the river. Not literally; a stone dropped from the edge would
have rolled, not fallen, into the water; a stone thrown from the hand
easily might have done the latter. The precipice was too sheer to let
any but those sitting on the very edge of the rock look down its rugged,
tree-bedecked side. However, Mr. Murray and Meredith at once placed
themselves on that precise edge of the platform, while the girls and
Fenton sat down in what they considered a safer position. A hundred feet
below, just below, rolled the broad river; Mosswood's projecting point
to the right still shutting off all view of the upper stream, while the
jutting forth of Gee's point below on the other side equally cut off the
southern reach of the river. The trees at hand, right and left, above
and below, standing in autumn's gay colours; the hillsides and curves of
the opposite shore showing the same hues more mild under the veil of
haze and the distance. Not a leaf fluttered on its stem in the deep
stillness; but far down below one could hear the soft lapping of the
water as it flowed past the rocks. The stillness and the light filled up
the measure of each other's beauty.

For a while everybody was silent. There was a spell of nature, which
even the young people did not care to break. Flora drew a long breath,
at last, and then Maggie spoke.

"Uncle Eden, we came here to talk."

"Did we?"

"I thought we did--to talk and to read."

"Nature is doing some talking, and we are listening."

"What does Nature say?"

"Do you hear nothing?"

Maggie thought she did, and yet she could not have told what. "It is
not very plain, Uncle Eden," she remarked.

"It becomes plainer and plainer the older you grow, Maggie,--that is,
supposing you keep your ears open."

"But I would like to know what your ears hear, Uncle Eden."

"It will be more profitable to go into the subjects you wanted to
discuss. What are they?"

"I made a list of them, Uncle Eden," said Maggie, foisting a crumpled
bit of paper out of her pocket. "Uncle Eden, Ditto read to us some
stories which you didn't hear,--it was just before you came,--about poor
people who gave the only pennies they had to pay for sending
missionaries, and went without their Sunday lunch to have a penny to
give; and Flora said she thought it was wrong; and we couldn't decide
how much it was right to do."

"It is a delicate question."

"Well, how much ought one, Uncle Eden?"

"You do not want to go without your lunch?"

"No, sir. Ought I, Uncle Eden?"

"My dear, the Lord's rule is, 'Every man according as he purposeth in
his heart, so let him give. What you want to give, that is what the
Lord likes to receive."

"Don't He like to receive anything but what we like to give?"

"He says, 'The Lord loveth a cheerful giver.'"

There was a pause.

"But, Mr. Murray," said Flora, "isn't there such a thing as a duty of
giving?"

"There is such a thing."

"That is what we want to know. What is it? What is the duty, I mean?"

"What does the Bible say it is, you mean?"

"Yes, sir, certainly."

"I am afraid you will think the rule a sweeping one. The Lord said,
'This is my commandment, that ye love one another as I have loved you.'"

Another pause.

"But we were talking of giving, Mr. Murray."

"Love will give where it is needful."

"But will nothing but love give?"

"Not to the Lord."

"To what, then?" said Flora hastily.

"To custom--to public opinion--to entreaty--to conscience--to fear--to
kindness of heart."

"And isn't that right?"

"It is not giving to the Lord."

"Well, Mr. Murray, take it so; how much ought one to give, as you say,
to the Lord?"

"All."

"And be a beggar!" said Flora quickly.

"No; only the Lord's steward."

"That is exactly what I thought Mr. Murray would say," said Meredith.

"Then it comes back to the first question, Mr. Murray. Suppose I am a
steward, how much must I give away out of my hand?"

"If you are a good steward, your question will be different. It will
rather run thus--'What does my Master want me to do with this money?'
and if you are a loving servant, naturally the things which are dear to
your Master's heart will be dear to yours."

"You are speaking in generals, Mr. Murray," said Flora frettedly; "come
to details, and then I shall know. What objects are dear to His heart?"

"Don't you know that, Miss Flora?"

"No, I don't think I do. Please to answer, Mr. Murray, what are the
objects, as you say, dear to His heart?"

"All the people He died for."

Flora paused again.

"I can't reach all those people," she said softly.

"No. Do good to all those who come within your reach."

"What sort of good?"

"Every sort they need," said Mr. Murray smiling.

"Do you think it is wrong to wear diamonds, Mr. Murray?"

"Certainly not,--if you think the money will serve the Lord best in that
way, and if your love to Him can express itself best so."

A muttered growl from Fenton expressive of extreme disgust was just not
distinct enough to call for rebuke.

"Then I suppose, according to that, I am never to buy a silk dress that
is at all expensive," said Flora, the colour mounting into her handsome
face. "And costly furniture of course must be wrong, and everything else
that is costly."

"Your conclusions--not mine, Miss Flora," remarked Mr. Murray
good-humouredly. "It is a matter of loving stewardship; and love easily
finds its way to its ends, always."

"And Meredith wants to know what he shall do with Meadow Park," said
Maggie.

"Yes. Ah, Mr. Murray! do say something to stop him," added Flora. "Do
not let him spoil Meadow Park."

"To turn the Pavilion into a pretty little church would spoil nothing,
Miss Flora, as it seems to me."

"No, but that is not all. Meredith is persuaded that he must make the
place a home for old women, and a refuge for sick people, and fill it
with loafers generally. Mamma and I will have to run away and be without
any home at all; and don't you think he owes something to us?"

"I have not decided upon anything, Mr. Murray," said Meredith smiling,
though he was very earnest. "I just wish I knew what I had best do."

"Pray for direction, and then watch for the answer."

"How would the answer come, Mr. Murray?" asked Flora.

"He will know when he gets it. Come, Meredith--read."

"About the man with the catechism?" said Maggie.

"If you like. It will be a change from the Saxon times," said Meredith.
And he wheeled about a little and reclined upon the rock, so as to turn
his face towards his hearers. "But what a delicious place to read and
talk, Mr. Murray!"

"Nothing can be better."

"This story begins with Pastor Harms's account of part of one of the
Mission festivals that used to be held at Hermannsburg every year."

"Will that be interesting?" said Flora.

"Listen and see. I pass over the account of the first day."




CHAPTER XIV.


"'The first day's celebration of our Mission festival was at an end. It
was then not early, but still on until late in the night the sounds of
the songs of praise and thankfulness were to be heard in the houses,
from the parsonage out to the furthest outlying houses of the peasants,
and so it was also in the surrounding villages; for the parish village
could by no means accommodate all the guests who had come to the
festival, albeit not only the chambers and dwelling-rooms, but also the
haylofts were made lodging-places for the sleepers. And that was a
blessed evening, when so many brethren and sisters from far and near
could refresh themselves with one another's company and pour out their
hearts together. I thank God that so many pastors and teachers were
come, too, and also our faithful superintendent was not wanting. It is
right that the heads of the Church should not be missing at such a
festival.

"'The next day--and we had prayed the Lord to give us good weather for
it--we were to go to a place in the midst of the lonely heath, called
Tiefenthal."'

"What does that mean?" Maggie interrupted.

"Tief means deep. Thal means valley."

"'Deep valley,'" said Maggie. "But I do not understand what a heath
is."

"Naturally. We do not have them in this country, that ever I heard of,"
said Meredith.

"Neither here nor in England," said Mr. Murray. "For miles and miles the
Lüneburger heath is an ocean of purple bloom; that is, in the time when
the heather is in blossom. But there are woods also in places, and in
other places lovely valleys break the spread of the purple heather,
where grass and trees and running water make lovely pictures. Sometimes
one comes to a hill covered with trees; and here and there you find
solitary houses and bits of farms, but scattered apart from each other,
so that great tracts of the heath are perfectly lonely and still. You
see nothing and hear nothing living, except perhaps some lapwings in the
air, and a lizard now and then, and humming beetles, and maybe here and
there some frogs where there happens to be a wet place, and perhaps a
landrail; elsewhere a general, soft, confused humming and buzzing of
creatures that you cannot see, and the purple waves of heather, only
interrupted here and there by a group of firs or a growth of bushes
along the edge of a ditch."

"O Uncle Eden!" cried Maggie, "have you been there? And do you know the
village, too?"

"The village? Pastor Harms's village--do you mean, Hermannsburg? Yes.
It is like many others. Two long lines of cottages, the little river
Oerze cutting it in two, beautiful old trees shading it,--that is the
village. The cottages are not near each other; gardens and fields lie
between; and at the gable of every house is a wooden horse or horse's
head; from the old Saxon times, you know. No dirt and no squalor and no
beggars nor misery to be seen in Hermannsburg. That, I suppose, is much
owing to Pastor Harms's influence."

"Thank you, Uncle Eden," said Maggie with a sigh of intense interest.
"Now you can go on, Ditto. They were going out into the heath. All the
people?"

"I suppose so. 'To a place in the midst of the heath solitudes called
Tiefenthal. Why? I had not told them that; I wanted to tell it to them
first of all on the spot. I had another reason besides, though; I wanted
to have the sun beat a little in African fashion on the heads of the
guests at our festival, so that our brethren in Africa might not be the
only ones hot. So at nine o'clock the next morning the great crowd of
those who were to make the pilgrimage with us from Hermannsburg, were
assembled at the Mission-house under the banner of the cross, which
fluttered joyously from the high flagstaff. It was hard for me not to be
able to walk with the rest, but I was only just recovered from a severe
illness. A pilgrimage is the pleasantest going on earth to me. One can
sing by the way so joyfully with the hosts that are moving along; one
can talk so cordially and so familiarly about the kingdom of God in the
crowd of the brethren; and now and then one gets a chance by a shallow
ditch to tumble one of one's fellow pilgrims over, especially one of the
children. I had to do without all that and get into a waggon. When I
came to the Mission-house, the procession set itself in motion towards
the high grounds of the heath. With sounding of trumpets and amid songs
of praise the crowds travelled on, for nearly two hours long, all the
while mounting higher and higher, and truly, for God had heard our
prayer, under a burning sunshine. Many a one had to sweat for it
soundly; even I in the waggon. It was a picturesque procession; a whole
long row of carriages and these crowds of people; the solitary heath had
become all alive. At last a not inconsiderable height was reached, where
the ground fell off suddenly into a steep, precipitous dell. This was
Tiefenthal. It is a very narrow valley, or rather a cut between two
hills, one of which is bare, the other covered with a luxuriant growth
of evergreens. Below stands an empty bee enclosure, called the Pastor's
Beefield, because it as well as the wood-covered hill belongs to the
pastor of Hermannsburg. From all the farms round about hosts of pilgrims
were coming at the same time with us, travelling along; and like the
brooks which after a thunder-shower plunge down from the hills to the
lower ground, even so the waves of humanity rolled towards Tiefenthal.
At last, then, I took my stand on the slope of the bare hill, surrounded
by the brethren who bore the trumpets in their hands, the blast of which
sounded mightily through the dell and broke in a quivering echo upon the
opposite hill. Countless hosts lay upon the two slopes and in the bottom
of the dell, and out of many thousand throats the song of praise to the
Lord rose into the blue dome of the sky.

"'First was sung, with and without accompaniment of the trumpets, the
lovely hymn--

    "Rejoice, ye Christians all,
    His Son by God is given," &c.

to the glorious melody, "Aus meines Herzens Grund!" Then, when the
mighty sounds died away, followed the preaching, upon Hebrews xi.
32-40.'"

"Read that passage, Maggie," said her uncle.

Maggie read:

"'And what shall I more say? for the time would fail me to tell of
Gideon, and of Barak, and of Samson, and of Jephthah; of David also, and
Samuel, and of the prophets: who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought
righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, quenched
the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness
were made strong, waxed valiant in fight, turned to flight the armies of
the aliens. Women received their dead raised to life again: and others
were tortured, not accepting deliverance; that they might obtain a
better resurrection: and others had trial of cruel mockings and
scourgings, yea, moreover of bonds and imprisonments: they were stoned,
they were sawn asunder, were tempted, were slain with the sword: they
wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins; being destitute, afflicted,
tormented; (of whom the world was not worthy;) they wandered in deserts,
and in mountains, and in dens and caves of the earth.'--Uncle Eden, that
was a great while ago, wasn't it?"

"That was."

"But I mean, people don't do so now, do they?"

"Not here, just now, in America. But nothing is changed in human nature
or the relations of the two parties, since the Lord said to the serpent,
'I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and
her seed.'"

"But does that mean that, Uncle Eden? I thought the seed of the woman
was Christ?"

"It is. But the devil fights against Christ in the persons of his
people; and the 'seed of the serpent,' the children of the devil, hate
the children of God, from Cain's time down. 'If they have persecuted me
they will also persecute you,' the Lord said."

"There is no persecution here, though, in this country, Mr. Murray?"
said Flora.

"Not persecution with fire and sword. But nothing is changed, Miss
Flora. It will be fire and sword again, just so soon as the devil sees
his opportunity. So all history assures us. Go on, Meredith; let us see
what Pastor Harms made of his text--or doesn't he tell?"

"I'll go on, sir, and you'll see. 'As you have just heard out of the
Holy Scriptures, so it has been, my dear friends, with the faithful
witnesses and martyrs of the truth; hacked to pieces, run through the
body, slain with the sword, or left to wander in the deserts, on the
mountains, in dens and caves of the earth, of whom the world was not
worthy. Even in the New Testament we read how Peter and Paul had to
suffer imprisonment, how Stephen was stoned, James beheaded with the
sword; how the Jews persecuted all the confessors of the most blessed
Saviour, dragged them out of their houses, threw them into prisons, and
took joy in stoning them. And even as the Jews began it, the heathen
have carried it on; and not hundreds or thousands, but many hundred
thousands of Christians in the ten great Christian persecutions sealed
their belief in the Lord Jesus and their faithful confession of His holy
name with their blood. In our last year's Mission festival in Müden, I
told you how the holy apostles Peter and Paul met their death like
heroes and martyrs; our beloved Hermannsburg church is named after them;
and I told you about Saint Lawrence, after whom the church in Müden is
called. "And to-day," you are questioning, "to-day are you going to tell
us about martyrs again? We conclude so, from the text you have chosen!
But wherefore always about martyrs?" My beloved, I have a special love
to the martyrs; and I do not know how it happens, at every Mission
festival they come with special vividness before my mind. I believe it
arises from this: that I am persuaded the ever-growing zeal for missions
among all earnest Christians is a token that before long the Church of
Christ will have to take her flight out of Europe; and so the
unconscious efforts of Christians is towards preparing a place for the
Church among the wilds of heathenism. And therefore I believe that the
times of martyrdom will cease to be far-off times for us any longer;
that the kingdom of Antichrist is drawing near with speedier and
speedier steps, is becoming daily more powerful; the apostasy from
Christ is becoming constantly greater and more decided; Christianity is
growing more and more like a putrid carcass, and where the carcass is,
there the eagles are gathered together. And therefore missions are
becoming more evidently the banner around which all living Christians
rally; for what is written in the Revelation xii. 14-17, will soon
receive its fulfilment. And when I see such great crowds of Christians
singing praise and keeping holy day, then the thought always comes to
me, How would it be if persecution were to break loose now? would all
these be true witnesses and martyrs, and rather bear suffering, and
yield up the last drop of their blood and endure any torments, than fall
away and deny Christ? Oh, and when I reflect how mightily in those times
of bloody persecution the Christian Church gave her testimony and fought
and suffered; what a power of Faith, Hope, and Love made itself known,
that could shout for joy at the stake; and when I think how cold, how
lukewarm, how loveless Christianity is now--I could almost wish for a
mighty persecution to come, to break up the rotten peace of Christians,
who have grown easy and luxurious and to arouse again the right heroism
of the soldiers of God.

"'It is not only in the times of the Jews and the Romans, at the first
founding of the Christian Church, that such mighty battles of heroes
have been fought; the dear and blessed time of the Reformation has had
its martyrs, who for the pure Word and true sacrament of our beloved
Lutheran Church staked their persons and lives. Who does not know those
two faithful disciples, who amid songs of praise were burned at the
stake at Cologne on the Rhine? that Heinrich von Zutphen who had to give
up his life in Ditmarsh? those thousands who were murdered or burned by
the Catholic Inquisition? those thousands who had to pine away in the
prisons and cloisters of the Catholics? without reckoning the hundreds
of thousands in the religious wars stirred up by the Catholics, who made
the battle-fields fat with their blood, and have died for the faith of
their Church? And now I will tell you why I have brought you here to-day
to this Tiefenthal. We stand upon holy ground here, upon ground of the
martyrs. Hear what your fathers suffered for the sake of the pure, true
Word and sacrament.

"'The story that I am going to tell you must have been acted out
somewhere between 1521 and 1530. For in the chronicle where I have read
the story mention is made of the Diet at Speier, but nothing is said of
the Diet at Augsburg.'"

"Stop, Ditto, please," said Maggie. "What's a diet?"

"The supreme council of the German Empire, composed of princes and
representatives of independent cities of the empire. The famous Diet of
Augsburg was held in 1530."

"What was it famous for?"

"Famous for an open, bold confession and declaration of the Protestant
