smoke circling skyward from the chimney; no whir of looms. It saddened
one inexpressibly.

"It is a big subject," said Jack slowly. "I've been puzzling my brains
half the winter with what wiser heads than mine have said about capital
and labor,--Mill and Brassey and Howell, and our own men, with soft,
sweet bits of Ruskin, and savage bits of Carlyle. I don't know but
Carlyle was right when he said, 'The beginning and the end of what is
the matter with us, in these days, is, that we have forgotten God.'
Cameron said it another way,--honor and honesty. Because, certainly,
honor appeals to all that is noblest in human nature,--to chivalry, and
tenderness and thought for others; and nothing ever prospered, in the
long-run, that did not have a substratum of truth."

"Well, according to Bristow, we came back to him this winter--not I,
Darcy, I don't make any pretence,"--and he shook his head with slow
gravity. "But I was interested in the revival on psychological grounds.
I had never been so inside of one before. Bristow is a good man, no
doubt; but it is just the one chosen way with him,--strong crying and
praying, and believing yourself a sinner above all men, and then a
sudden peace and happiness, and a courage to endure,--a blind,
unreasoning courage to take the present as it is, because God sent it,
and it must be for the best. Boyd and Whitlow and Kenny were the great
lights. They went about from house to house; they exhorted and prayed.
Whitlow was one of the old bank-directors. Strange to say, he did not
lose a penny. His money was in government-bonds; and now he has
persuaded Yerbury that if his advice had been taken there would have
been no trouble. Whitlow discharged his man this winter, and took in his
place a half-grown boy. Mrs. Whitlow sets a good example to her class by
discharging one handmaid and making the other do double duty. Yet, so
far as I can find, Whitlow is a richer man than he was three years ago.
Kenny keeps his factory open, and gives the men three days' work in the
week, and pays them in poor shoes, as much as possible; and takes out a
good deal in high rent. Boyd, who has the name of being the greatest
saint of all,--does what? Opens that miserable row of houses, that he
couldn't let on any terms, and takes in tenants who are willing to work
out the rent. He gets good prices, too. Is he losing on them? Faugh! the
very term of charity makes me sick. And this winter he purchased a good
deal of the stock of the relief-store. Wretched flour; miserable,
adulterated stuff of tea; pork, some of it that wasn't fit to eat; and
cheap butter, that every one would have been ten times better without. I
went to him one day, red-hot, in a sanitary view of the business; and he
preached religion to me,--his kind. 'Boyd,' said I, 'there's Keppler's
saloon, your own property, paying you a good income, no doubt, in these
hard times, adding to the want and misery of Yerbury faster than your
whole church can save. If you are in earnest, go break up that den of
iniquity!'"

Jack laughed. "What did he say to that?"

"Meekly, that Keppler had a lease for five years, and was going on the
second. The man is so honorable, he cannot break faith with his
fellow-man, forsooth; but he breaks faith with God, in a serene,
untroubled manner." And Maverick's lip curled scornfully under the
fringe of moustache.

"But there must be some gold, or the counterfeit would not be so
successfully received. We have had so much false money everywhere, that,
since we can make that pass, we do not trouble ourselves. And yet,
Maverick, there is something in it that you and I don't see clearly
yet; but we cannot teach it acceptably until we can show better fruit.
And, when leaders of all kinds, in high places, show that self only is
at the bottom of every thing they do, it seems hopeless to demand that
the class below, watching them, and suffering from their wrongdoing,
shall attain a higher moral status. How can they help following coarsely
in the footsteps of their betters?"

"Darcy, suppose you turn parson!" and Maverick laughed half quizzically.
"See here: the world wants a very old sermon preached again to it,
hammered into every fibre, put up over every doorway,--the essence of
all knowledge, all religion, briefly comprehended in this, 'Love thy
neighbor as thyself.' You won't need gown or bands for that work. Not
to have one code of morals for the rich, and one for the poor; one creed
for Sunday, and quite another belief for Monday; to have no lofty,
impossible theories and exalted moods, but truthful, honest living; not
to push away the miserable, ignorant souls, but take them by the hand in
hearty co-operation. Maybe Cameron has the right clew. Why should we let
human love be shamed by such things as an Oneida community or a Mormon
city?"

The strong, earnest voice stirred Jack like martial music. All these
years he had been struggling with a great, blind, confused
something,--perhaps it was not a silver-mine or a railroad, but a work
just here in the town of his boyhood, where he was known, where he had
played and worked.

"Seventeenthly, and lastly," and Maverick looked at his watch, "I cannot
idle any more time upon you, and must cut short with a 'To be
continued.' We will talk it over again and again; and, if we cannot get
it into shape, there is still Florida left. So, while you are dreaming
it out by this great silent mill, whose prisoned spirits should prate of
prosperity instead of desolation, I'll run my course around Yerbury, and
we'll compare notes over our cigars. Addio," waving his hand.

Jack watched the compact figure as it moved briskly away; then he
sauntered round the mill, down one street and up another, strolled out
to Lovers' Lane, and returned by Larch Avenue. The Barry house began to
show signs of life, for old Mat was clearing up the grounds. This was
the one oasis that had not been bitten by speculation. He thought of
winsome little Sylvie, and one summer evening when Irene Lawrence
stepped into that pretty, cosey room with the grace and beauty of a
Juno. Where was she now? And what was Fred doing? Making a great leap
into name and fame, doubtless, now that he was put upon his mettle. The
old boyish freaks came back to his mind, the enthusiastic unreasoning
adoration, the last tender parting. An intense and subtile sympathy
filled his soul; and, though he smiled a little, the memory was very
sacred.

The texture of Jack's mind was not of the quick, brilliant, or sanguine
order. He went over his books again; he ruminated as he cleaned the
garden-paths, spaded the beds, trimmed the trees and shrubbery, and
attended to the odds and ends known only to a careful householder.
Cousin Jane was in her element out here; and they two discoursed of
farming and gardening, and industry, she in a sharp, trenchant way.

She had remarked incidentally that her visit was near its end. Now that
Jack was home, cousin Ellen would not need her.

"I don't see why you should not make your home here, cousin Jane,"
replied Mrs. Darcy. "Grandmother grows feebler all the time, and you
have quite spoiled me by your strength and cheeriness. You have no
nearer tie; and if you could content yourself with us--Jack was
speaking about it a few evenings since. We should like so to keep you,
cousin Jane."

Jane Morgan studied the beseeching eyes a while, then dropped her own,
and thought.

"Very well," she answered, "if you like to have it so. While I am well
and strong I think I ought to do enough somewhere to earn my living, and
not use up the little laid by for a rainy day. If you and Jack are
agreed, we'll consider it a bargain for a year. I like to be settled
about what I'm going to do: there's nothing so uncomfortable as hanging
on tenterhooks. When my visit's through I like to go, if I'm going; not
stand an hour or two with the door-knob in my hand."

Jack was delighted. They could spare him now and then of an evening to
stroll down to Maverick's office, where they discussed pretty nearly
every thing under the sun. It was so in the beginning,--"the earth was
without form, and void." Then the Barrys returned; Sylvie changed in
some indescribable way as to a kind of delicate outside manner, but the
same fresh, earnest girl in heart and soul, taking up her friendship
with Jack just where she had laid it down. Yet they had both grown
broader and richer in nature and experience, and there was something of
the subtile flavor of new acquaintanceship.

Yerbury cleaned house, even to the tidying-up of streets and
carting-away of rubbish. It was pitiful to see the attempts of some of
the poor women, who washed their worn white curtains, scrubbed the
shutters and hall-door, and set out a few ragged geraniums in the front
yard, or made a little bed of lettuce and onions.

Yerbury Savings Bank was in the hands of a receiver. Some sold out their
small accounts for a trifle: it was agreed there could not be much in
the way of dividends. Here was a great mortgage on the Downer farm,
that the Eastmans had partly cut into city lots. And, though Downer had
received a large price, he was a poor man to-day, with no business, and
several sons tramping the highways for work. Farms had not been
profitable, but had the wealth and extravagance produced any better
result? These places around would be sold presently for any sum they
would bring.

"Speculation did look so tempting, though," said Jack with a humorous
smile. "But for grandmother I might have been in the midst of it."

"There's just one thing that makes a man or a country rich," said Jane
Morgan incisively; "and that's industry, good, honest labor. Marking up
one's goods before breakfast, as the Frenchman did, realizes no absolute
money. The speculators jingle their dollars from hand to hand, until
some poor fool, attracted by the noise, gives them a hundred for their
twenty. When a man makes money simply by another person's loss, he has
not created any thing, or made any more of it; and the world's no
better, that I can see."

"Cousin Jane, you are dipping into political economy;" and Jack nodded
gayly. "I shall have to ask Maverick and some of the others up here; and
maybe you can put in a straw, or a head of wheat, toward the
regeneration of Yerbury."

"I dip into a little common sense now and then, and it seems to me
that's what the world needs. There is no lack of the uncommon kind, and
it's not to be altogether despised, since at times uncommon things are
given to people to do. But, if all the bees in the hive thought they had
a call to be queens, it runs in my mind there'd be a lack of honey
presently."

"You are on the right foundation, cousin Jane. We must not only make the
honey an honorable thing, but honor the bees, put labor on a better,
truer foundation."

"I should just say, 'See here, my friends, it is not possible for us all
to be rich, whether it is some fixed immutable law of fate, or the lack
of necessary elements in one's character, or the meeting of the right
person with the right circumstances; but the fact is there, true as
judgment. You can be comfortable and clean if you have the energy; and
it is better to scrub your own kitchen-floor, or raise a bushel of
potatoes, than to sit and whine about luck or respectability. Now and
then a ready-made fortune drops down upon one, and I don't know but it
often brings a curse: anyhow, what you work for, you are pretty sure to
enjoy.' It makes me mad when I see healthy, hearty young women sighing
for servants and pianos and what not; when their grandmothers, who had
as good blood, and as good sense, didn't despise honest work."

Sylvie Barry came in while Miss Morgan was in the midst of her "speech,"
as Jack declared it to be; and now she clapped her small white hands,
with a "Bravo!"

"A new disciple, Jack," and she smiled. "Miss Morgan, we shall set you
to reading our favorite authors, and solving the tremendous question.
Where can we get work for these to do? For a great many stand idle in
the market-place, because they have not been hired. What can we set them
at?"

"Well, Miss Barry, I don't know much about the big, outside questions;
but, going around Yerbury a little this winter, I shouldn't say the work
was all done up; or, done in such a poor, thrown-together way, that it
tumbles right to pieces again. There's skewy, ill-made beds with ragged
counterpanes; there's shreds of old ingrain-carpets, that you fall over;
there's broken chairs, and shabby clothes, and dirty corners,--work
enough, I should say, to last some woman an hour or two. She might get
out her pieces of calico, and, with the children's help, make a new
spread, maybe a tidy apron, and she might braid a rag mat out of bits,
and a hundred things that go toward comfort. No: all the work isn't
done up yet, Miss Sylvie," and Jane Morgan stopped just then, to knit
the seam-stitch in a stocking for a poor body.

Sylvie threw herself on the footstool, and leaned her arms on Miss
Morgan's knee.

"I wasn't thinking so much of that when I spoke," she began earnestly;
"but I do wonder if some of us couldn't take it up. There are
art-schools, and music-schools, and cooking-schools, in the great
cities; and why couldn't we start something of the kind here? Poor
people--the real poor, I mean--are often wasteful and idle because they
do not just know how to be any thing else. They buy cheap garments in
stores, and they soon come apart. I had a sewing-school last summer, and
I found some mothers didn't seem to care whether their children learned
or not,--since there was so much sewing done by machines. But if the
mothers could be taught a little"--

"That's about the upshot of what I said. You see, Miss Barry, people
have been earning so much money of late years, that sewing has gone out
of fashion. It didn't pay to do this or that, so they earned and spent.
Now they sit listless in their dirt and rags, bemoaning hard times. It
is good to know how to do more than one thing," and Miss Morgan nodded
her head confidently, her strong face full of earnestness.

"Why can't you and Sylvie start a school--what shall we call it?--of
useful and homely arts? You see, the girls do work in the mills and
shops until they get married, and then they do not know how to make the
best of their husbands' money. But don't crowd out all the beauty and
the pleasure; there must be something to enlist the heart. Give a man an
interest in a thing, and you awake a new feeling, an enthusiasm that
makes every thing go as smoothly as oiling up machinery."

"I have often thought," said Mrs. Darcy in her soft, gentle voice,
"that the poor did not get as much good of their money as the better
classes, because they never have enough to buy advantageously, and
store-keepers so often take the advantage of them. Now, yesterday I was
over to Mrs. Hall's, and the poor thing was trying to make some bread,
and she was not fit to stand up and knead it; so I thought I'd try. The
flour was heavy and sticky and lumpy, and what I should call very
unprofitable. No one could make good bread out of it. She said they
traded at Kilburn's, because he would wait if they did not have the
money. The flour was seven and a half a barrel; the eighth, ninety-five
cents; and I do not believe the bread was fit to eat. So you must
remember, when you blame people for poor cooking, that they may not
always have decent materials to work with."

"Maverick was growling about Kilburn the other evening. It is a shame
that he should sell such poor goods, when prices have come down a good
deal."

"Can you not reform him a little?" and Mrs. Darcy smiled.

"Cousin Jane and Sylvie might go into business, as did the poor weavers
of Toad Lane, with their sack of oatmeal, firkin of butter, a little
sugar and flour," said Jack laughingly. "A fair division of labor. The
men of Yerbury shall provide work, and the women shall train the
inefficient how and where to spend money."

Sylvie glanced up with bright, inquiring eyes.

"Was it some more co-operation?" she asked.

Jack brought out his book, and read the story of the "Equitable Pioneers
of Rochdale" and their wonderful success from a small beginning. The
girl listened with wide-open eyes, and even Jane Morgan laid down her
knitting.

"The queen-bee and the workers again," said she, as Jack closed the
book. "It is not every man for himself, but every man for each other.
And it comes back, always."




CHAPTER XII.


"WHERE is grandmother?" Jack asked one morning late in May, as he came
in from the garden, and found her place at the table vacant.

"She does not feel very well this morning, and I told her there was no
need of rising with the lark," answered cousin Jane; but, though her
voice was cheerful, there was a new gravity in her face.

"It is something unusual"--

"She is getting to be an old lady, Jack. There, sit down to your
breakfast while it is nice and hot. No fear but what I will attend to
grandmother."

She had risen; but in the midst of her dressing her hands had lost their
cunning, her limbs their strength. Jane came to look at her in alarm.

"It's a warning," she said, with her grand old smile. "But I have no
pain, and so you can leave me here for a while. My strength may come
back."

Mrs. Darcy was much frightened.

"Remember that ninety-four is a good old age, and she has hardly had a
sick day in her life. After breakfast Jack might go over for Dr.
Maverick. He is sensible, and will not torment her with experiments."

Jack rather hurried through his meal, and then ran up to grandmother's
room. She put out her wrinkled hand, thin to be sure, but still slender
and smooth, with no knobby joints. A proud sort of beauty illumined the
old face, though the eyes were a little dull.

"Dear boy," and there was a curious quaver in her voice, "I've had to
give in at last. The Lord knows best. He has given me many a happy year
with you; yet I have never forgotten the folks over yonder. I shall be
glad to see them again,--your father, Jack, and the rest. 'Then they
came to the land of Beulah, where the sun shineth day and night, and
betook themselves to rest'--you know. We used to read it together."

A sharp pang went to Jack's heart. He pressed the limp hand to his lips,
and gazed into the face that had changed in some indescribable way. Then
Jane came with a tempting breakfast, and fed her with wonderful
gentleness, it seemed to him.

He went out, and brought Maverick back with him.

"It is a general breaking-up of nature," said the doctor with a tender
gravity. "Nothing can be done, unless she should suffer; but I do not
think she will. It is the way lives ought to end oftener. Give her
whatever she will take; and keep cheerful, all of you. After all, it is
only a little journey."

"Where?" the young eyes asked as they met each other in solemn mood.

Jack scarcely left her. She liked to open her eyes, and find him sitting
there, when she would smile faintly, and murmur a few words. Sylvie and
Miss Barry were the only visitors admitted to her room. They used to
read out of "Pilgrim's Progress," the book she had loved so well, and
occasionally they sang some sweet old hymn.

"Jack," she said once, "you will find everything in my old box there in
the bureau. It was my mother's, and came across the sea with me. You
have been a good lad. You took your father's place with me, and you must
never regret that you staid here to make an old woman happy. You have
been a good lad--a good--little lad"-- And her mind wandered to other
years.

Just growing gradually weaker, and falling asleep peacefully. A long,
well-spent life, and a death to remember and desire.

They buried her in Yerbury churchyard, and the townspeople turned out to
do her honor. Jack thought of another death, and the almost solitary
state of the funeral.

How good it was that they had Jane Morgan now! She carried them right
along.

Jack opened the brass-bound box, still fragrant with its sandal-wood
lining. Some old letters, the trinkets she had saved from her poverty,
and a will bequeathing her all, in government bonds, to Jack.

There was nearly seven thousand dollars. With his own little savings he
felt quite rich.

"Jack," said his mother, "all these years you have waited patiently, and
put by your own dreams. Do not think that I did not notice the struggle.
It was very generous and kindly; and I am glad, for grandmother's sake,
that you staid. But now if you like we will go somewhere else, and make
a new home"--did her voice tremble a little then? "I am still young
enough to take root elsewhere, and cousin Jane is so energetic she helps
one to new life. There may be prettier and more prosperous places, and
you have years before you in which to realize a fortune."

He glanced up at the face bending over him, instinct with the honorable
grace of middle life; the hair with a few threads of silver; the soft,
fine skin showing some wrinkles about the eyes and two or three light
creases across the forehead; the cheeks out of which roundness had
vanished, and the lips the scarlet of girlhood, but though both were
pale the mouth was still tender and sweet. A womanly woman,--that seemed
to him a perfect description of his mother, a woman who had loved three
generations, and held by them. Now for his sake she would give up the
old ties, and try a new world,--this shy, shrinking, loving woman.

What would she leave? She had never known any other home in her married
life, though this had been changed and improved since her wedding-day.
Everywhere some trace of his father. The porch with the roses climbing
over it, the great maples in the street, planted by him; the odorous old
balm of Gilead, that he had hunted up because she had cared for it, and
they had one in her old home; the trailing clematis with its shining
smilax-like green, and its heliotrope fragrance; the white rose that had
been planted on the morning of Jack's birth, and had sent up many
generations from the old root; the latticed summer-house with its wealth
of grapes; and almost like a vision Jack could fancy he saw the tall
figure and deliberate step,--the sweet ghost of memory that could never
walk in any other place. Did his mother have such dreams?

Yes, there were better things to life than mere money-getting.

"I believe those were the wild dreams of boyhood,"--smiling a
little,--"the 'long, long thoughts of youth.' I used to want something
that would occupy my whole soul and every energy, that was stirring,
earnest, absorbing, and held a grand outlook. But I think"--very
deliberately, as if he were weighing every word--"that my work has come
to me, instead of my going out to seek it. At all events, I shall not go
away for the present."

"Well," she returned, but she could not keep the great gladness out of
her voice.

Having thus made his election, Jack Darcy looked sturdily about to see
what was to be done, and the best way to do it. He asked two of the old
over-lookers, Hurd and Bradley, to meet him at Maverick's office; and
there they discussed co-operation until long past midnight. They looked
into the cotton-mill connected with the Rochdale experiment; they read
up the workings of those at Oldham and Lancashire, of the industries in
France, and banking in Germany.

"Here we are," said Jack, "with so much of our lives spent in learning
to manage looms and turn out different kinds of cloth. People must wear
clothes until the millennium, and cloth will be made. It seems to me
that it must be a good thing to identify the workmen, and get their real
interest. We should avoid strikes on the one hand, the continual
disputes about wages, and be much less at the mercy of all outside
influence. The men will understand thoroughly that industry, economy,
thrift, and perseverance is good for each individually; that he is using
these qualities not only for the master, but for himself. There will be
better work, and more of it."

Hurd seemed to be taking the measure of Darcy through this speech. Now
he said,--

"Darcy, any man who knows enough to head such a business as Hope Mills,
knows enough to carve out a fortune for himself; and my opinion is that
he would be a fool to let the chance slip."

"A man may have the knowledge, but not the requisite capital," was the
patient answer. "Then he might think"--

"Well, you've a sight of faith, that's all! Your men will go on with the
tramp of soldiers in good times; and when the pinch comes, then look
out! If they were educated, reasonable, sensible; but you and I both
know the mass are not. It will do better in the old countries, for there
children expect to follow in the footsteps of their parents; but here,
where every boy looks upon himself as a possible president, it cannot be
done. It has been tried, and has failed. It will again."

"Then you will not join?"

"I don't say that, Darcy. I can't very well get away from Yerbury: if I
could, the Lord knows I'd go. But there--it is just as bad everywhere
else. Don't be too sanguine though: you young chaps build air-castles
easily."

Bradley wrung his hand warmly at parting. "I want to look into this
thing a little more closely," he said. "I believe you have struck the
keynote. Whatever raises the workman raises the whole world. If you get
him to be self-supporting, there is one less pauper or tramp for the
State to take in charge, and tax all other workingmen for his support."

"I rather like the scheme of the co-operative store," Hurd began
presently. "There's a sight of money somehow between the producer and
the consumer. Farmers are grumbling all the time. I wrote to my
brother-in-law last spring about trading for a small farm, and going
into poultry-business perhaps; and he sent back a list of prices he had
obtained for his produce. Butter twenty-five cents, and we paid forty
this winter. Milk two and a half cents a quart, while ours is from eight
to ten."

"Transportation to be counted in," suggested Maverick.

"The thing discouraged me, so I thought I'd hold on a bit, since I did
not know the first rule for farming. As Darcy says, we have spent all
these years perfecting ourselves in our business, and it hardly looks
reasonable that we should succeed at once in something altogether
different. If you don't mind, Darcy, I'd like to look over that Rochdale
experiment a little at my leisure."

Jack handed him the book, and the small party dispersed. In a week they
met again, with two more, one a stubborn old Englishman who had been in
the business. They had done very well for a while, then the market
flattened. They could not hold their stock, so the big fish swallowed
them up. That was always the end where you had no credit and no reserve
capital. Truth to tell, Jack began to realize how hard it would be to
convert some of the very men he would like to have.

Meanwhile Hamilton Minor came up with some capitalists, and Hope Mills
was put up at auction. They looked around the town, examined the
building and machinery, which was the best of its kind; but nobody
could tell whether we had reached bottom prices or not, and, though the
place was to be offered at an immense sacrifice, they were wary. Empty
mills and rusting machinery were not profitable investments. Mr. Minor's
eloquence went for nothing. These long-headed dons would rather hold on
to their money, though they expressed a good deal of sympathy for the
Lawrence estate.

"I do believe it will go for the face of the mortgage," said Jack to
Maverick that evening. "Twenty thousand dollars, and a year's interest
and taxes. Twenty-two thousand would cover the whole thing; and three
years ago Mr. Lawrence wouldn't have looked at fifty thousand. Maverick,
I can get together ten thousand of my own, and if there was one other
person"--

"We will hunt him up," returned Maverick hopefully. "There is the
reputation of the cloth already made, which is one great step in your
favor. Yes, it must be done."

Yerbury was looking a little brighter and better at midsummer.
Scarlet-fever had pretty well disappeared; but malaria had come in its
stead, convenient name for want of nourishment, stagnation, and
despondency. The haggard-looking wives and mothers went out to a day's
washing or scrubbing; but the children, better off, roamed over the
fields in search of berries or a stray ownerless fruit-tree, laughing
and happy in their rags and bare feet.

Darcy tried two or three pretty well-to-do men, that he fancied had the
good of the town at heart; but the project looked wild to them. If David
Lawrence couldn't stand up against hard times, no new men could. He,
Darcy, had better put his money in government-bonds, and live on the
interest. Nothing could be made in such times as these.

"It seems as if one half of the world has decided that the other half
should starve," Jack declared in a discouraged tone. "No one is willing
to start the ball again. If it wasn't for mother I would risk every
dollar of my own. And then to think of the land lying idle about
here,--enough to feed half the town! I do not wonder that we are fast
coming to beggary and ruin."

Maverick was pretty sober for several days, then he went off to
Narragansett Pier; "tired of my everlasting badgering," said Jack to
Sylvie, who, poor child, had her hands and heart full of projects that
she talked over with Miss Morgan and her aunt, and did not make much
more progress than Jack.

So it happened one July evening that Jack sat smoking on the porch in a
rather despondent frame of mind. Miss Morgan and his mother had gone to
make some neighborly calls.

A quick step came down the street. "If Maverick wasn't in Rhode Island!"
thought Jack; then it came nearer, with a little halt, and Jack sprang
down the steps in the moonlight.

"Hillo, old fellow!" said the rich, laughing voice. "Have you looked
after my patients, and entertained my office-callers, in my absence?
That would only be fair play, for I have been about your business; and,
by Jove! succeeded too!"

"Maverick!" There was an odd little tremble in Jack's voice.

"Ask me to sit down, and stay me with--well, a pipe, for I have finished
my last cigar. I came in the train just fifteen minutes ago, and
skulked--that's the very word--under the trees and through by-ways, lest
some one, seeing, should lay violent hands on me. Yes, get out your best
armchair, old chap, and treat me like a prince."

The two seated themselves again, and stretched out their legs to the
porch-railing. The soft light fell around, outlining here and there a
bit of vine as if it were held against a silver background. A few early
insects were chirping, and somewhere down the street there was a waft of
distant music.

"Succeeded!" Jack drew a long breath.

"Yes: with a woman too. Nay, you need not look at me so wonderingly. I
have not sold myself for base gold to the Evil One," laughing lightly.
"I have never told you much about myself; for, like the needy
knife-grinder, 'story, God bless you! there was none to tell;' but there
is a chapter now, and you must hear it first. My mother was left an
orphan in her infancy, and her aunt adopted her. She was a canny
Scotswoman, by name Jean McLeod. She was very good to my mother, who
married quite to her liking, although my father was not rich, but we
always lived in a certain style, and my father had a fine reputation as
a lawyer. My mother's death, the result of an accident, so prostrated
him, that he never recovered from the shock. Aunt McLeod came to stay
with us through that weary time. Then she took us both to her heart and
home: it was a large warm heart and a beautiful home. My father left a
little: it was made over to me; and my sister, five years younger than
I, was brought up properly, and married properly, and lives in Chicago
in elegant style. Then Aunt Jean tried her hand on me, chose a suitable
young woman, and insisted that the fates had decided it. The upshot was
a quarrel. Not but what the girl was nice enough, and all that, but I
did not care to marry; and so I walked off to Europe, and was there
three years. Some rather cool letters passed between us at first, but
they grew warmer; and when I returned it was winter, and she was in New
York. I went straight up to her house. She was very glad to see me; and
there in her lovely library, all glow and softness and perfume, by the
side of the grate, with a screen in her hand, sat Anastasia Lothrop. She
is Aunt Jean's pet protégée, though she has home and lands and people
of her own. A handsome woman too, by Jove! However, we have gone our
separate ways. I think she (Aunt Jean) was rather annoyed at my settling
at Yerbury.

"Well, I went to Narragansett, and found her alone this time; and she
has promised to buy Hope Mills. I do believe there's no end to the
woman's money. She talked it over as a mere bagatelle. I am to meet her
in New York, and you are to go down, Jack; and we are to see the holder
of the mortgage, and do no end of business. I think she is rather
interested in the scheme, and I do believe she is delighted to do me a
favor. Now you can keep your money for a kind of reserve fund. The mere
savings of labor will not answer at first, you know."

Maverick drew a long breath then, and puffed lustily at his cigar.

"I don't know how ever to thank you."

"Don't thank me, Darcy. You see, I am interested in this experiment. I
want to see if there is enough faith and honesty and industry and
trustfulness left in the world to make such a general partnership a
success. You know it has been said that since the war our character as a
whole has degenerated fearfully. Politically there is no doubt of it.
Commercially and industrially are still open questions. If we could
succeed in making one hundred people comfortable, instead of one rich,
nine comfortable, and the other ninety next door to pauperism, we shall
have done something. If we can so educate ninety men that they are able
to understand the difficulties and embarrassments of carrying on
business and its numerous fluctuations, we shall have raised them higher
in the social scale. And it is most sadly true of all the large failures
of late, some one has been dishonest, some one or two or three have
taken other people's money to speculate with. It should be called
stealing as much as when a poor man takes it, even if he spends it for
rum. And, Darcy, we will keep our eye single upon one thing: we shall
not move the world, or convert it, but haply one little corner of
Yerbury; while all the wit and wisdom the world has been saving up for
ages will be hurled against us in different shapes, from puffy snowballs
to the grim old fellows soaked in water and frozen hard. And sometimes I
think, with all the energy you are going to bring to bear upon this, you
could carve out a fortune somewhere else."

"I don't know as to that, Maverick," said Darcy in a half-funny,
half-sad tone. "From New York to St. Louis, from thence to New Orleans,
to Florida, and back here again, I never found an opening. Two or three
people did promise to write to me, but they have not. I felt the world
could go on quite as well without me and hundreds of others. So, then,
the only thing is to create a place; and Heaven knows I shall try hard
enough to make a success of this."

"And you will do it too: I'm not afraid. Give us your hand, old chap! I
never swore friendship with but just one fellow: that was in my college
days, and I have his note for one hundred dollars as a memento. I might
have been keener, I dare say; but one of the transcendentally lovely
things of youth is its perfect faith. These preternaturally wise and
prudent young people come into the world mentally gray-headed. But I do
it now with my eyes wide open; and, when you are a rich man, I have
another scheme I want to take through, a sort of home or hospital of my
own planning: so don't fancy I shall let you off easy."

They held each other's hands in a long, lingering clasp. Beside the
warmth and magnetism that was a component part of Dr. Maverick's nature
when he chose to use it, which was not nearly always, there was a
steadfast kindliness, the vigor of a true and pure manhood, that made a
clear atmosphere about him, in which insincerity, weakness, and
selfishness seemed to flicker into pale shadows, and shrink away from
the intense mental light he turned upon them.

And just here the vision of the boy face came back to Jack, the
strangling arms about his neck, the fluttering breath and quivering
lips, and the sound of the rather thin, childish voice,--"You are my
King Arthur, and I shall love you my whole life long."

The sadness in the smile was for the old ideal.




CHAPTER XIII.


"THE telegram!" exclaimed Maverick ten days later, striding down the
garden where Jack was at work in the strawberry-bed.

Jack Darcy flushed like a girl, through the other fine coloring of
labor. He had hardly dared to believe in and hold to Maverick's promise.
Manlike, neither had spoken of it since that night.

"'Thursday, at four, at the Westminster.' That is to-morrow. We must be
on time, or she would never have any faith in us; and, though my credit
may be nil, yours must be"--

"As I hope to keep it through my life," was the grave reply. "You will
take the morning train?"

"Yes. It will give us a trifle of spare time, which won't be bad for a
couple of overworked fellows like us. But I must look after a lot of
people this afternoon, and if I can I will drop in this evening."

Jack went back to his strawberries. He had been making a mental
calculation about an acre, and the profits thereon, moved to it by
something Jane Morgan had said. Twenty miles below them, on Swanston
Bay, which was quite a summer-resort, the hotel-keepers had paid
twenty-five cents per quart for nice large berries. On their little
patch they had raised a hundred and twenty quarts. There was another
side to the labor-question,--diversity of industry. Jane's idea of a
great fruit-garden, or call it a farm, was not bad. You could crowd ten
such patches in an acre of ground. If nothing better came to hand, he
might hire some of the ground lying waste around Yerbury, and set the
idle at work.

Sylvie came through with some flowers in her hand. Jack looked up again,
and laughed, and threw himself on the grass under a tree, chatting
gayly. He felt so light at heart! She wondered a little, and then,
without knowing the cause, rejoiced with him in the depths of her soul.

The two men started the next morning, and at the appointed time were
ushered into Miss McLeod's private parlor. Maverick had said, "She's a
little queer in some ways; but in the main you will like her, I think."
Meanwhile Jack had formed a dozen ideals of her, based mostly on the
personal appearance of Miss Barry and his grandmother.

The door of the adjoining room opened, and Miss McLeod entered. An old
woman, of course, and a fashionable woman, but with a young-old face and
figure. Not the graceful airiness of youth, so often painful in its
desire to impress the beholder with what it is not, but an old age to
which all the good things of life, rightly used, have contributed, and
brought about a delightful result. She was of medium height, and
possibly had not been handsome in her palmy days; but she challenged
one's respect for a true and honorable womanhood, and an old age neither
inane, querulous, nor servile.

A rather plump figure, with deep chest, full shoulders, and erect
carriage. The face was wrinkled; but the skin had a peachy softness, the
lips were still full and finely curved, and, though the mouth was rather
wide, it indicated resolution and decision. The whole contour of the
face was slightly aquiline, the forehead high and broad, but the curling
hair falling over it in the requirements of fashion softened it; shining
silvery white, curling naturally, and very abundant, the coil at the
back partly covered with a diamond-shaped bit of elegant black thread
lace that matched the barb at her throat. Her rich, soft, steel-colored
silk made no rustle as she crossed the floor, but the diamonds in her
ears and on her breast flashed a glitter of sunlight about her.

Maverick greeted her with pleasant but not effusive warmth, and
introduced his friend. They skirmished on the boundary-line of small
talk for a while, Jack feeling that he was being measured and gauged at
every possible indication of the real man, but his honesty of purpose
kept him steadfast.

Presently Maverick plunged into the business part, much to Darcy's
satisfaction.

"I wrote to my lawyer, Mr. Hildreth, about it," Miss McLeod replied. "He
has seen the parties holding the mortgage; and, on account of business
embarrassments, they are extremely anxious to realize upon it. Mr. Minor
is naturally desirous of having it sold at an advantage; but he is on
the bond, and has been making continuous efforts with no success. No one
can tell how low property will sink, business property especially, that
depreciates so rapidly if neglected. The mortgage is considered
one-third of what the property was valued at seven years ago; but we
have all shrunk a trifle since that," with a shrug, and a curious little
bend of the head, as if the decapitation was not altogether a pleasant
process. "This is the 4th of August, and on the 19th it is advertised
for sale. There may be one chance in a thousand of a better purchaser;
though Mr. Hildreth thinks no one but a lunatic, or a woman, would put
money in such an adventure," her lips curving in their bitter-sweet
smile. Indeed, there was nothing she was so much like as a cluster of
bright bitter-sweet berries, on a sharp but sunshiny autumn day, with
the leaves and tendrils brown and faded, but the brilliant life and soul
still shining from the ripe centre. She impressed you with the same
defiant glow of exultation.

"I have money lying idle, it is true," she continued; "but I want to
hear your plans before I decide, Mr. Darcy. Philip," nodding to her
nephew, "has interested me in this scheme; but I must know what it
promises before I take the risk."

Jack was confused a little by the bright, penetrating glance; and he had
not quite overcome his boyish trick of blushing. Often as he had gone
over the plan with Howell, Fawcett, and other political economists at
his tongue's end, all his troupe of fine ideas seemed to desert him. He
laughed at his own embarrassment: she smiled and nodded, and that made
them friends.

"I don't know that I can put it any better," he began earnestly, "than
to say that I want to take up the lever of work, and put the wheels of
labor in motion, to bring the starving workmen and the halting capital
together again. It is all very well for us to rush every dollar into
government-bonds; but if there is no business, what is to augment our
revenue, and where then shall we be finally, with our mills and
workshops shut up, and our people begging? If I had enough of my own to
bridge over the chasm, I would ask no one's help," he went on a little
proudly. "The mills at Yerbury stand in sad silence, with ruin before
them; our men are idle and dispirited, turning into tramps and
vagabonds, because they hate to sit still and starve. And here am I, of
