bills and bills; their name is legion."

"How much?" he asks, briefly.

"I think--you may as well give me a thousand dollars," in a rather
slow, considering tone.

He looks at her in surprise.

"Well," and she tosses her head, setting the short curls in a flutter,
"is a thousand dollars so large a sum?"

"You had better think before spending it," he answers, gravely. "You
will then have four thousand left."

"It is my own money."

"I know it is. But, Marcia, you all act as if there was to be no end to
it. If you should get all your part, the ten thousand, it would be only
a small sum and easily spent. What do you want to do with so much just
now?"

"I told you I had bills to pay," she says, pettishly, "and dresses to
get." Then she lights upon what seems to her a withering sarcasm. "I
have no one to take me to Madame Vauban's and pay no end of bills. If I
bought dresses like that when I had no need of them and was not in
society----"

"Hush, Marcia!" he commands, "you shall have your money. Spend it as
you like," and he strides through the hall. He has been sorely tried
with Eugene, who will not interest himself in work, and has been
indulging in numerous extravagances; and business has not improved,
though everything in the factory goes smoothly.

Violet is in Cecil's room, teaching her some dainty bits of French. She
looks up with a bright smile and a blush, the color ripples over her
face so quickly. His is so grave. If she only had the courage to go and
put her arms about his neck and inquire into the trouble. She is so
intensely sympathetic, so generous in all her moods.

He has come home to take her to drive. It is such a soft,
Indian-summery day, with the air full of scents and sounds, but all the
pleasure has gone out of it now for him.

"Papa, listen to me," says Cecil, with her pretty imperiousness. "I can
talk to mamma in real French."

He smiles languidly and listens. If a man should lose his all, this
dainty, dimpled little creature playing at motherhood could set a
table, sweep a house, make her children's clothes and perhaps keep
cheerful through it. Was there ever any such woman, or is he dreaming?

He goes to hunt up Marcia's property, and is tempted to hand it over to
her and never trouble his head about it again. But that will not be the
part of prudence, any more than trusting their all to Eugene. Having
accepted the burthen, he must not lay it down at any chance
resting-place. So he hands it to her quietly at luncheon, and that
evening listens courteously to his mother's plans, offering no
objection.

"But he did not evince the slightest interest," she declares to Marcia.
"And you will see that every possible obstacle will be put in the way."

"And he can spend his money upon pony carriages for her!" retorts
Marcia, spitefully.

The pony carriage is indeed a grievance, and when Floyd teaches his
wife to ride, as her pony is accustomed to the saddle, the cup brims
over. He has announced the visitors to her, and she dreads, yet is most
anxious to see Madame Lepelletier.

"Was not this room hers when she was here in the summer?" asks Violet,
standing by the window.

"Yes," answers her husband, but he makes no further comment. It looks
like crowding Violet out, and he is not sure he wants that. He will
have her treated with the utmost respect during this visit, and it will
prove an opportunity to establish her in her proper standing as his
wife.

It all comes about quite differently. Violet is at the cottage, and has
gone up to take a look at papa's room and put some flowers on the
table. All is so lovely and peaceful. There is no place in the world
like it, for it is not the chamber of death, but rather that of
resurrection.

"Violet," calls her husband.

She turns to run down the stairs. It is a trifle dark, and how it
happens she cannot tell, but she lands on the floor almost at her
husband's feet, and one sharp little cry is all.

He picks her up and carries her to the kitchen, laying her on Denise's
cane-seat settee, where she shudders and opens her eyes, then faints
again.

"I wonder if any bones are broken!" And while Denise is bathing her
forehead, he tries her arms, which are safe. Then as he takes one small
foot in his hand she utters a piercing exclamation of pain. Prof.
Freilgrath is away; there is nothing but for Floyd to go for a
physician. He looks lingeringly, tenderly at the sweet child face, and
kisses the cold lips. Yes, she is very dear to him.

He brings back the doctor speedily. One ankle is badly sprained, and
there seems a wrench of some kind in her back. She must be undressed
and put to bed, and her ankle bandaged. He makes her draw a dozen long
respirations.

"I do not believe it can be anything serious," he says, kindly, "but we
will keep good watch. I will be in again early in the morning. There is
no present cause for anxiety," studying Grandon's perturbed face.

"I hope there is none at all," the husband responds, gravely.
"And--would it be possible to move her in a day or two?"

"She had better lie there on her back for the next week. You see, it is
a great shock to both nerves and muscles: we are not quite birds of the
air," and he laughs cheerily. "We will see how it goes with her
to-morrow."

Floyd returns to the chamber. Violet has a bright spot on either cheek,
and her eyes have a frightened, restless expression.

"It was so careless of me," she begins, in her soft tone that ought to
disarm and conquer any prejudice. "I should have looked, but I have
grown so used to running up and down."

"Accidents happen to the best of people." Then he has to laugh at the
platitude, and she laughs, too. "I mean--" he begins--"well, you are
not to worry or blame yourself, or to take the slightest trouble. I am
sorry it should happen just now, or at any time, for that matter, and
my only desire is that you shall get perfectly well and strong. It
might have been worse, my little darling," and he kisses her tenderly.
Then suddenly he realizes how very much worse it might have been, if
she had been left maimed and helpless; and bending over, folds her in
such an ardent embrace that every pulse quivers, and her first impulse
is to run away from something she cannot understand, yet is vaguely
delicious when the fear has ceased.

"I must go down to the park, but I will be back soon and stay all
night. Denise will bring you up a cup of tea." Then he kisses her again
and leaves her trembling with a strange, secret joy.

Rapidly as he drives home, he finds them all at dinner. "You are late,"
his mother exclaims sharply, but makes no further comment. Eugene
stares a little at the space behind him, and wonders momentarily. But
when he seats himself and is helped, he remarks that Cecil is not
present and inquires the reason.

"She was very naughty," explains Mrs. Grandon, severely. "Floyd, the
best thing you can do is to send that child back to England. She is
completely spoiled, and no one can manage her. If you keep on this way
she will become unendurable."

Floyd Grandon makes no answer. If Marcia and Eugene would not tease her
so continually, and laugh at the quick and sometimes insolent retorts!

"Where is Violet?" inquires Gertrude.

"She is at the cottage. She has met with an accident," he replies,
gravely.

"Oh!" Gertrude is really alarmed. The rest are curious, indifferent.
"What is it, what has happened?"

"She slipped and fell down-stairs, and has sprained her ankle; beside
the shock, we trust there are no more serious hurts."

"Those poky little stairs!" says Marcia. "I wonder some one's neck has
not been broken before this. Why do you not tear them out, Floyd, and
have the place altered. It has some extremely picturesque points and
would make over beautifully."

"It wouldn't be worth the expense," says Eugene, decisively, "on that
bit of cross road with no real street anywhere. I wonder at St. Vincent
putting money in such a cubby as that."

"The situation is exquisite," declares Marcia. "It seems to just hang
on the side of the cliff, and the terraced lawn and gardens would look
lovely in a sketch; on an autumn day it would be at its best, with the
trees in flaming gold and scarlet, and the intense green of the pines.
I really must undertake it before it is too late. Or as 'Desolation' in
midwinter it would be wonderfully effective."

"The most effective, I think."

Eugene is angry with Floyd for being the real master of the situation
and not allowing him to draw on the firm name for debts. He takes a
special delight in showing ill-temper to the elder.

"I am so glad," says Gertrude to Floyd, as soon as there is sufficient
lull to be heard. "Broken limbs are sometimes extremely troublesome.
But she will not be able to walk for some weeks if it is bad."

"It was dreadfully swollen by the time Dr. Hendricks came. I am very
thankful it was no worse, though that will be bad enough just when I
wanted her well," he says, with an energetic ring to his voice that
causes his mother to glance up.

"It is extremely unfortunate," she comments, with sympathy plainly
ironical. "What had we better do? Our dinner invitations are out."

"Everything will go on just the same," he answers, briefly, but he is
sick at heart. His life seems sacrificed to petty dissensions and the
selfish aims of others. The great, beautiful house is his, but he has
no home. The wife that should be a joy and pleasure is turned by them
into a thorn to prick him here and there. Even his little child--

"Jane, what was the trouble?" he asks, a few minutes later, as he
enters Cecil's room, where she is having a cosy dinner with her small
dishes.

"O papa--and I don't mind at all! It's just splendid up here."

"Hush, Cecil," rather peremptorily.

"Mrs. Grandon was--I do think she was cross," says Jane. "Miss Cecil
said she would wait for her mamma, and Mrs. Grandon said----" Jane
hesitates.

"Isn't it your house, papa? Grandmamma shook me because I said so," and
Cecil glances up defiantly.

"What did Mrs. Grandon say?" he asks, quietly, of Jane; for intensely
as he dislikes servants' gossip, he will know what provocation was
given to his child.

"She said that Miss Cecil wasn't mistress here nor any one else, and
that she would not have dinner kept waiting for people who chose to be
continually on the go. She took Miss Cecil's hand, and the child jerked
away, and she scolded, and Miss Cecil said that about the house."

"Very well, I understand all that is necessary." He has not the heart
to scold Cecil, the one being in the house devoted to Violet, and looks
at her with sad eyes as he says,--

"Mamma has had a bad fall, and is ill in bed. You must be a good girl
to-night and not make trouble for Jane."

"Oh, let me go to her!" Cecil is down from her dainty table, clinging
to her father. "Let me go, I will be so good and quiet, and not tease
her for stories, but just smooth her pretty hair as I did when her head
ached. Oh, you will let me go?"

He raises her in his arms and kisses the rosy, beseeching lips, while
the earnest heart beats against his own. "My darling," there is a
little tremble in his voice, "my dear darling, I cannot take you
to-night, but if you will be brave and quiet you shall go to-morrow.
See if you cannot earn the indulgence, and not give papa any trouble,
because you love him."

A long, quivering breath and dropping tears answer him. He is much
moved by her effort and comforts her, puts her back in her chair, and
utters a tender good night. Gertrude waylays him in the hall for a
second assurance that matters are not serious with Violet, and sends
her love. He sees no one else, and goes out in the darkness with a step
that rings on the walk. It seems to him that he has never been so angry
in all his life, and never so helpless.

"She has had her tea and fallen asleep," announces Denise, in a low
tone, as if loud talking was not permissible, even at the kitchen door.
"I think the powder was an anodyne. There is another for her in the
night if she is restless."

He goes up over the winding stairs with a curious sensation. She lies
there asleep, one arm thrown partly over her head, the soft white
sleeve framing in the fair hair that glitters as if powdered with
diamond-dust. The face is so piquant, so brave, daring, seductive, with
its dimples and its smiling mouth, albeit rather pale. His stern, tense
look softens. She is sweet enough for any man to love: she has ten
times the sense of Marcia, the strength and spirit of Gertrude, and
none of the selfishness of Laura. She is pretty, too, the kind of
prettiness that does not awe or stir deeply or command worship. What
is it--and an old couplet half evades him--

    "A creature not too bright and good
    For human nature's daily food."

That just expresses her. What with the writing and the business, he has
had so little time for her, but henceforth she shall be his delight. He
will devote himself to her pleasure. Proper or not, she shall go to the
city and see the gayety, hear concerts and operas and plays, even if
they have to go in disguise. But how to give her her true position at
home puzzles him sorely. He had meant to introduce her at these coming
parties, but of course that is quite out of the question.

Denise comes up presently, the kindly friend, the respectful domestic,
and takes a low seat when Mr. Grandon insists upon her remaining
awhile. Something in her curious Old World reverence always touches
him. He asks about Violet's childhood, whatever she remembers. The
mother she never saw; but she has been with the St. Vincents thirteen
years. They lived in Quebec for more than half that time; then Mr. St.
Vincent was abroad for two years, and Miss Violet went to the convent.
Denise is a faithful Romanist, but she has always honored her master's
faith,--perhaps because he has been so generous to hers.

There is some tea on the kitchen stove keeping warm, she tells him with
her good night, some biscuits and crackers, and a bottle of wine, if he
likes better. Then he is left alone, and presently the great clock in
the hall tells off slowly and reverently the midnight hour.

Violet stirs and opens her eyes. There is a light, and Mr. Grandon is
sitting here. What does it all mean? Her face flushes and she gives a
sudden start, half rising, and then drops back on the pillow, many
shades paler.

"I know now," she cries. "You came back to stay with me?"

There is a thrill of exultant joy in her tone. Does such a simple act
of duty give her pleasure, gratify her to the very soul? He is touched,
flattered, and then almost pained.

"You do not suppose I would leave you alone all night, my little
Violet?"

"It was good of you to come," she insists. "But are you going to sit
up? I am not really ill."

"Your back hurt you, though, when you stirred. I saw it in your face."

"It hurt only a little. I shall have to keep quiet, now," with a bright
smile.

"And your ankle must be bathed. I should have done it before but you
were sleeping so sweetly. Does your head ache, or is there any pain?"

"Only that in my back; but when I am still it goes away. My ankle feels
so tight. If the bandage could be loosened----"

"I think it best not." Then he bathes it with the gentlest handling,
until the thick layers have been penetrated. Will she have anything to
eat or to drink? Had she better take the second powder?

"Not unless I am restless, and I am not--very, am I?" with a soft
little inquiry.

"Not at all, I think," holding her wrist attentively.

"Are you going to sit up all night?" she asks.

"I am going to sit here awhile and put my head on your pillow, so,
unless you send me away."

"Send you away!" she echoes, in a tone that confesses unwittingly how
glad she is to have him.

Her hand is still in his, and he buries it in his soft beard, or bites
the fingers playfully. Her warm cheek is against his on the pillow, and
he can feel the flush come and go, the curious little heat that
bespeaks agitation. It is an odd, new knowledge, pleasing withal, and
though he is in some doubt about the wisdom, he hates even to move.

"You are quite sure you are comfortable?" he asks again.

"Oh, delightful!" There is a lingering cadence in her voice, as if
there might be more to say if she dared.

"You must go to sleep again, like a good child," he counsels, with a
sense of duty uppermost.

She breathes very regularly, but she is awake long after he fancies her
oblivious. She feels the kisses on her cheek and on her prisoned
fingers, and is very, very happy, so happy that the pain in her ankle
is as nothing to bear.

Dr. Hendricks makes a very good report in the morning. The patient's
back has been strained, and the ankle is bad enough, but good care will
soon overcome that. She must lie perfectly still for several days.

"When can she be moved?" Mr. Grandon asks.

"Moved? Why, she can't be moved at all! She is better off here than she
would be with a crowd around her bothering and wanting to wait on her,
as mothers and sisters invariably do," with a half-laughing nod at
Grandon. "Her back must get perfectly strong before she even sits up.
The diseases and accidents of life are not half as bad as the under or
over care, often most injudicious."

"Oh, do let me stay!" pleads Violet, with large, soft, beseeching eyes.

He has been planning how she shall be honored and cared for in her own
home, and does not like to yield. To have her out of the way here will
gratify all the others too much.

"Of course you will stay," the doctor says. "When a woman promises to
obey at the marriage altar, there is always an exception in the case of
that privileged and tyrannical person, the doctor."

Violet smiles, and is glad of the tyranny.

"She may see one or two guests and have a book to read, but she is not
to sit up."

The guest to-day is Cecil, but Denise makes the kitchen so altogether
attractive that Cecil's heart is very much divided. Mr. Grandon spends
part of the afternoon reading aloud, but his mellow, finely modulated
voice is so charming that Violet quite forgets the subject in the
delight of listening to him. Cecil would fain stay and wishes they
could all live with Denise.

Yes, there could be more real happiness in that little nest than in the
great house. Aunt Marcia's gift has not brought him very good luck,
even from the first.




CHAPTER XVI.

What is the use of so much talking? Is not the wild rose sweet without
a comment?--HAZZLIT.


Since there is no real alarm about Mrs. Floyd, arrangements go onward.
Madame Lepelletier and Mr. and Mrs. Delancy come up on the appointed
day, and madame is led to the lovely guest chamber where she reigned
before. This is Monday, and on Tuesday the elite of Grandon Park and
a select few of the crême of Westbrook are invited to dinner. Laura
is the star of the occasion, but madame is its grace, its surprise, its
charm. The few who have seen her are delighted to renew the
acquaintance, others are charmed, fascinated.

There has been no little undercurrent of curiosity concerning Mr. Floyd
Grandon's wife. The feeling has gone abroad that there is something
about it "not quite, you know." Mrs. Grandon has not concealed her
chagrin and disappointment; Marcia's descriptions are wavering and
unreliable, as well as her regard. This is such an excellent
opportunity for everybody to see and to judge according to individual
preference or favor, and behold there is nothing to see. Mrs. Floyd has
sprained her ankle and is a prisoner in that queer, lonely little
cottage, where her father lived like a hermit. The impression gains
ground that Mr. St. Vincent was something of an adventurer, and that
his connection with the business has been an immense misfortune for the
Grandons; that his daughter is a wild, hoydenish creature, who climbs
rocks and scales fences, and is quite unpresentable in society, though
she may know how to sit still in church.

Floyd Grandon would very much like to escape this dinner, but he
cannot. His position as head of the house, his own house, too, his
coming fame, his prestige as a traveller, make him too important an
object to be able to consult his own wishes. Then there are old
neighbors, who hold out a hand of cordial welcome, who are interested
in his success, and whom he has no disposition to slight.

He takes madame in to dinner, who is regal in velvet and lace. There is
a little whisper about the old love, a suspicion if something that
cannot quite be explained had not happened with the St. Vincent girl,
the "old love" would be on again. There is a delicate impression that
madame was persuaded into her French marriage very much against her
will. She is charming, fascinating, perfection. She distances other
women so far that she even extinguishes jealousy.

It certainly is a delightful dinner party, and Mrs. Grandon is in her
glory. She almost forgives Violet her existence for the opportuneness
of the accident. She is just as much mistress as ever, and to be
important is Mrs. Grandon's great delight. She hates secondary
positions. To be a dowager without the duchess is the great cross of
her life. If Mr. Grandon could have left her wealthy, the sting of his
death would not be half so bitter.

It is late when the guests disperse. Violet has insisted that he shall
not give her an anxious thought, but he is a man, and he does some
incipient envying on her account. Of course to have her up-stairs, an
invalid, would not better the position, but to have her here, bright
and well and joyous, full of quaint little charms, and he has never
known how full, how over-brimming she was with all manner of
fascinating devices until the last few days. If his mother could
realize that under this courteous and attentive exterior, the breeding
of the polished man of the world, he is thinking only of Violet in
white wrappers, with a cluster of flowers at her throat, she would be
more than ever amazed at his idiocy.

There is to be a small company at Mrs. Brade's the next evening, a
reception to "dear Laura."

"You must come," declares Mrs. Brade, emphatically. "We ought to
have a chance at our old friend, and you and the boys grew up together.
Do you remember how you used to roast corn and apples at the kitchen
fire, and go over your Latin? Why, it seems only yesterday, and all my
children are married and gone, save Lucia."

"I shall have to be excused," Floyd Grandon says, in a quiet tone, but
with a smile that is fully as decisive. "I shall owe to-morrow evening
to my wife, who cannot yet leave her room."

"How very sad and unfortunate! Are we never to have a sight of her, Mr.
Grandon, except the glimpses in the carriage and at church?"

"Certainly," he answers. "Circumstances have kept us from society, and
I have really had no time for its claims, but I hope to have more
presently for it, as well as for her."

"We shall be glad to see you, never doubt that. Lucia will be so
disappointed to-morrow evening."

Grandon bows. Is there anything more to say proper to the occasion? He
has heard so much during the last three months that he has grown quite
nervous on the subject of society etiquette.

On the morrow Violet is anxious to hear about the dinner. She is young
and full of interest in gay doings, in spite of her early sorrow. He
makes blunders over the dresses, and they both laugh gayly; he
describes the guests and the old friends, and the complimentary
inquiries about her.

"I wish you could be there on Thursday evening," he says, regretfully.
"That is to be a party with dancing, and plenty of young
people,--Laura's companions."

"And I have never been to a real party in all my life!" she cries. "I
suppose I couldn't dance, but I could look on, and there is my lovely
dress!"

"You shall have a party for your own self, and all the dancing you
want," he answers.

"Can you waltz, Mr. Grandon?" she asks, after a moment's thought.

He laughs. The idea of Floyd Grandon, traveller and explorer, whirling
round in a giddy waltz!

"It isn't so ridiculous," she says, her face full of lovely, girlish
resentment. "At school we learned to waltz, but it was with girls,
and--I couldn't ever waltz with any one but you, because--because----"
and her eyes fill up with tears.

"No," he answers, quickly, "I shouldn't ever want you to. I will--I
mean we will both practise up. I did waltz when I was first in India,
but my dancing days came to an end."

She remembers. There was the long sea-voyage and the death of Cecil's
mother.

"My darling," he says, distressed at her grave face and not dreaming of
what is in her thoughts, "when you are well once again, and the right
time comes, you shall dance to your heart's content. I will take you to
a ball,--to dozens of them,--for you have had no real young-girl life.
And now, as soon as you can endure the fatigue, we will go to the city
to operas and theatres. I was thinking, that first night you were hurt,
what a little hermit you had been, and that we would give the
proprieties the go-by for once."

He is leaning over her reclining chair, looking down into her velvety
eyes and watching the restless sweep of the long bronze lashes. The
whole face is electrified with delicious rapture, and she stretches up
her arms to clasp him about the neck.

"Oh, you thought of me, then!" she cries, with a tremulous joy. "You
were planning pleasures for me, and I just laid and slept,"
remorsefully.

"But if you had not slept I should have been ill at ease, and could
have planned no pleasures. It was your bounden duty."

He kisses her fondly. It is quite a new delight. Is he really falling
in love with her? as the phrase goes. It will be delightful to have
duty and inclination join.

"I shall be so careful," she says, when they come back to a
reasonable composure. "Dr. Hendricks said if I was very careful and not
impatient to get about, my ankle would be just as strong as ever. I
want it to be--perfect, so I can dance all night; people do sometimes.
Oh, if I had hurt myself so that I never could get well!" and her face
is pale with terror.

"Don't think of it, my darling."

Cecil comes up, full of importance and in a Holland apron that covers
her from chin almost to ankles. "I have made a cake," she announces,
"and we have just put it in the oven. It is for lunch. You will surely
stay, papa!"

"Surely, surely! Who dressed you up, Cecil?" and he smiles.

"This used to be mamma's," she says, with great dignity. "Denise made
it when she lived with her and used to help her work. There is another
one, trimmed with red, and I am going to have that also."

Violet smiles and holds out her hand; Cecil takes that and slips on her
father's knee, and the love-making is interrupted. But there is a
strange stir and tumult in the young wife's soul and a shyness comes
over her; she feels her husband's eyes upon her, and they seem to go
through every pulse. What is it that so stops her breath, that sends a
sudden heat to her face and then a vague shiver that is not coldness or
terror?

Then he wonders when the professor, who has gone on a brief lecturing
experience, will be back; they are counting on him for the party, and
will be extremely disappointed if he should not reach Grandon Park in
time.

"And he will be surprised to find that some one else has come in and
taken possession," says Violet.

"He is so nice!" remarks Cecil, gravely. "I like him so much better
than I do Uncle Eugene. What makes him my uncle?" with a puzzled frown
on the bright face and a resentful inflection in her voice.

"Fate," answers her father, which proves a still more difficult enigma
to her and keeps her silent many moments.

The lunch is up-stairs, for Violet is not allowed to leave the room,
though all bruises and strains are well and the ankle is gaining every
day. The father, mother, and child get on without any trouble, though
Cecil is rather imperious at times. Denise will not have any one to
help her, and she is in a little heaven of delight as she watches the
two. Floyd Grandon loves his wife, as is meet and right, and she is
learning to love him in a modest, careful way, as a young wife should.
Such a bride as Laura would shock Denise.

Floyd absents himself from the great house, and sends Eugene, who is
nothing loth, to wait upon the ladies and perform their behests. Laura
does not care so much, and Mrs. Grandon is in her element, but madame
feels that as the child was her bête noire in the summer, so is the
wife now,--a something that keeps him preoccupied. She is very anxious
to see the husband and wife together, but every hour seems so filled,
and she cannot ask Floyd to take her. "After the party," says Laura,
"there will be plenty of time. She is nothing to see, but, of course,
we will pay her the compliment."

This evening reception is really a great thing to Laura, who feels that
it is particularly for her glory, as the dinner was an honor to her
mother. It is not cold weather yet, and the lawn is to be hung with
colored lanterns, the rooms are to put on all their bravery; she wants
to say to the world, her little world, "This is the house Arthur
Delancy took me from, even if I had no great fortune. I can vie with
the rest of you."

Gertrude comes up to the cottage in the morning for a little quiet and
rest. She is the only one who has paid Violet the compliment of a call.
"And I don't at all care for the fuss and crowd," she says. "I shall be
so glad when it is over and one isn't routed from room to room. Oh, how
lovely and cosey you are here!"

"Mr. Grandon," Violet begins, with entreaty in tone and eyes, "couldn't
we have the professor's chair up to-day, just for Gertrude; it is so
deliciously restful. It is shocking for me to indulge in comfort and
see other people sitting in uneasy chairs."

Floyd brings it up. Gertrude is so tall that it seems made for her. The
soft, thick silk of the cushions, with a curious Eastern fragrance, the
springs to raise and to lower, to sleep and to lounge, are perfection.
Gertrude sinks into it with her graceful languor, and for once looks
neither old nor faded, but delicate and high-bred. Her complexion has
certainly improved,--it is less sallow and has lost the sodden look;
and her eyes are pensive when she smiles.

She proves very entertaining. Perhaps a little cynicism is mixed with
her descriptions of the guests and their raiment, but it adds a
piquancy in which Floyd has been utterly deficient. Silks and satins,
and point and Venetian seem real laces when a woman talks about them.
And the prospect for to-night is like a bit of enchantment.

"Oh, I should like to see it!" Violet cries, eagerly. "I wonder if it
will ever look so lovely again. And the orchestra! I wish I could be
down in the pretty summer-house looking and listening. Will they dance
any out of doors, think?"

"We used to waltz on the long balconies. I dare say they will again.
Laura had a delightful ball just before papa was taken ill, when she
and Arthur were first engaged. Why, it is just about a year ago, but it
seems so long since then," and Gertrude sighs. "Floyd ought to give you
a ball when you begin to go into society. Marcia and I had balls when
we were eighteen."

"I shall not be eighteen until next June," says Violet.

"Oh, how young you are! Why, I must seem--And think how much older
Floyd is!"

"You seem pleasant and lovely to me. What does a few years signify?"
protests Violet.

Gertrude watches her curiously for some seconds. "I hope you will
always be very happy, and that Floyd will be fond of you."

"Of course he will," returns Violet, with a sudden flush. He is fond of
her now, she is quite sure. She can remember so many deliciously sweet
moments that she could tell to no one, and her heart beats with quick
bounds.

Gertrude knows more of the world and is silent. What if some day Floyd
should become suddenly blinded by madame's fascinations? It is always
so in novels.

Somewhere about mid-afternoon there is a breezy voice in the house, and
a step comes up the stair which is not Grandon's. A light tap, and the
partly open door is pushed wider.

"Mr. Grandon allows me the privilege of making a call of condolence,"
the professor says, with his cheery smile, that wrinkles his face in
good-humored lines. "My dear Mrs. Grandon, did you really forget you
had no wings when you attempted to fly? Accept my sympathies, my very
warmest, for I was once laid up in the same way, without the excuse of
the stairs. Ah, Miss Grandon," and he holds out his hand to her, "have
you given up the pleasure at the park?"

"I wouldn't let her give up the reception," interrupts Violet. "No one
is to give it up for me," and she remembers suddenly that no one has
offered.

"I should be a great deal happier and better pleased to remain here,"
responds Gertrude, "but Laura would be vexed. After all, it is a good
deal to her and madame. Mrs. Floyd Grandon will take her turn next
year, when she arrives at legal age. She is yet a mere child."

"It is so, mignonne, and you could not dance with a lame foot."

"You are going?" Violet says.

"Yes, I hurried back. Mrs. Delancy was so kind as to send a note. And I
had a desire to see my friend's house on this occasion. But why were
you not moved?" and he turns his questioning eyes on Violet.

"The doctor forbade it," answers Violet. "And I want to get thoroughly
well, so I obey."

"That is good, that is good," replies the professor, in a tone of the
utmost commendation.

They have a most agreeable chat until Mr. Grandon comes in, when Denise
sends up some tea and wafer biscuits that would tempt an anchorite. The
carriage is at the door for Gertrude, and an urgent note for Floyd, who
has been deep in business all the afternoon, making up Eugene's
shortcomings.

"You must go," Violet says, but it is half questioningly.

"Yes. Gertrude, I shall be very glad to have you keep me in
countenance. We will discourse cynically upon the follies of the day
and young people in general."

"No," Violet says, with pretty peremptoriness. "Gertrude is going to be
young to-night. Oh, what will you wear?"

"There is nothing but black silk," answers Gertrude, "and that never
was especially becoming, as I can indulge in no accessories. But
Laura's dress is perfection. The palest, loveliest pink you can
imagine, and no end of lace. Luckily, Mr. Delancy has not his fortune
to make."

Floyd kisses his wife tenderly and whispers some hurried words of
comfort. When they are gone the professor drops into his own luxurious
chair and does not allow Mrs. Grandon time for despondency. He has an
Old World charm; he has, too, the other charm of a young and fresh
heart when he is not digging into antiquities.

Some way the talk comes around to Gertrude. She is so delicate, so
melancholy, she shrinks so away from all the happy confusion that most
women love. "Is it her grief for her father?" he asks.

"I don't think it all that," says Violet, with a most beguiling flush.
"There was another sorrow in her life, a--she loved some one very much.
If he had died it would not have been as bad, but--oh, I wonder if I
ought to tell?" and she finds so much encouragement in his eyes that
she goes on. "He was--very unworthy."

"Ah!" The professor strokes and fondles his long, sunny beard. "But she
should cast him out, she should not keep pale and thin, and in ill
health, and brood over the trouble."

"I do not believe her life is--well, you see they all have other
pursuits and are fond of society, and she stays too much alone,"
explains Violet, with a perplexed brow. "She is so good to me, I like
her."

"Who could help being good to thee, mignonne?" and the look with
which he studies the flower-like face brings a soft flush to it.
Torture would not make her complain, but she feels in her inmost soul
that Gertrude, alone, has been even kind. And she wishes somehow she
could make him like her better than any of the others, even the
beautiful madame, about whom he is enthusiastic.

"Bah!" he says. "Why should one go mourning for an unworthy love? When
it is done and over there is the end. When you are once disenchanted,
how can you believe?"

"But you are not disenchanted," says Violet, stoutly. "You have
believed and loved, you have made a little world of your own, and even
if it does go down in the great ocean you can never quite forget it was
there."

"But there are other worlds. See, Mrs. Grandon, when I was
two-and-twenty I loved to madness. She was eighteen and adorable, but
her mother would not hear to a betrothment. I had all my fortune yet to
make. I threw up my hopes and aims and took to commercial pursuits,
which I hated. We exchanged vows and promised to wait, and the end of
it was that she married a handsome young fellow with a fortune. I went
back to my books. A few years afterward I saw her, stout, rosy, and
happy, with her two children, and then--well, I did not want her. The
life she delighted in would have been ashes in my mouth. It was better,
much better. People are not all wise at two-and-twenty."

"If Gertrude had something to do," says Violet, "and that is where men
are fortunate. They can try so many things."

The professor goes on stroking his head, and drops into a revery. "Yes,
it is hard," he says, "it is hard." And he wonders not at the colorless
life.

