deepening into wilder and weirder tracts of solitude. The party resolved
itself into twos and threes, and these straggled far apart, out of
conversational reach of one another. Mrs. Pasmer found herself walking
and talking with John Munt.

“Mr. Pasmer hasn’t much interest in these excursions,” he suggested.

“No; he never goes,” she answered, and, by one of the agile intellectual
processes natural to women, she arrived at the question, “You and the
Maverings are old friends, Mr. Munt?”

“I can’t say about the son, but I’m his father’s friend, and I suppose
that I’m his friend too. Everybody seems to be so,” suggested Munt.

“Oh Yes,” Mrs. Pasmer assented; “he appears to be a universal
favourite.”

“We used to expect great things of Elbridge Mavering in college. We were
rather more romantic than the Harvard men are nowadays, and we believed
in one another more than they do. Perhaps we idealised one another. But,
anyway, our class thought Mavering could do anything. You know about his
taste for etchings?”

“Yes,” said Mrs. Pasmer, with a sigh of deep appreciation. “What gifted
people!”

“I understand that the son inherits all his father’s talent.”

“He sketches delightfully.”

“And Mavering wrote. Why, he was our class poet!” cried Munt,
remembering the fact with surprise and gratification to himself. “He was
a tremendous satirist.”

“Really? And he seems so amiable now.”

“Oh, it was only on paper.”

“Perhaps he still keeps it up--on wall-paper?” suggested Mrs. Pasmer.

Munt laughed at the little joke with a good-will that flattered the
veteran flatterer. “I should like to ask him that some time. Will you
lend it to me?”

“Yes, if such a sayer of good things will deign to borrow--”

“Oh, Mrs. Pasmer!” cried Munt, otherwise speechless.

“And the mother? Do you know Mrs. Mavering?”

“Mrs. Mavering I’ve never seen.”

“Oh!” said Mrs. Pasmer, with a disappointment for which Munt tried to
console her.

“I’ve never even been at their place. He asked me once a great while
ago; but you know how those things are. I’ve heard that she used to be
very pretty and very gay. They went about a great deal, to Saratoga and
Cape May and such places--rather out of our beat.”

“And now?”

“And now she’s been an invalid for a great many years. Bedridden, I
believe. Paralysis, I think.”

“Yes; Mrs. Saintsbury said something of the kind.”

“Well,” said Munt, anxious to add to the store of knowledge which this
remark let him understand he had not materially increased, “I think Mrs.
Mavering was the origin of the wall-paper--or her money. Mavering was
poor; her father had started it, and Mavering turned in his talent.”

“How very interesting! And is that the reason--its being ancestral--that
Mr. Mavering wishes his son to go into it?”

“Is he going into it?” asked Munt.

“He’s come up here to think about it.”

“I should suppose it would be a very good thing,” said Munt.

“What a very remarkable forest!” said Mrs. Pasmer, examining it on
either side, and turning quite round. This gave her, from her place
in the van of the straggling procession, a glimpse of Alice and Dan
Mavering far in the rear.

“Don’t you know,” he was saying to the girl at the same moment, “it’s
like some of those Dore illustrations to the Inferno, or the Wandering
Jew.”

“Oh yes. I was trying to think what it was made me think I had seen it
before,” she answered. “It must be that. But how strange it is!” she
exclaimed, “that sensation of having been there before--in some place
before where you can’t possibly have been.”

“And do you feel it here?” he asked, as vividly interested as if
they two had been the first to notice the phenomenon which has been a
psychical consolation to so many young observers.

“Yes,” she cried.

“I hope I was with you,” he said, with a sudden turn of levity, which
did not displease her, for there seemed to be a tender earnestness
lurking in it. “I couldn’t bear to think of your being alone in such a
howling wilderness.”

“Oh, I was with a large picnic,” she retorted gaily. “You might have
been among the rest. I didn’t notice.”

“Well, the next time, I wish you’d look closer. I don’t like being left
out.” They were so far behind the rest that he devoted himself entirely
to her, and they had grown more and more confidential.

They came to a narrow foot-bridge over a deep gorge. The hand-rail had
fallen away. He sprang forward and gave her his hand for the passage.
“Who helped you over here?” he demanded. “Don’t say I didn’t.”

“Perhaps it was you,” she murmured, letting him keep the fingers to
which he clung a moment after they had crossed the bridge. Then she took
them away, and said: “But I can’t be sure. There were so many others.”

“Other fellows?” he demanded, placing himself before her on the narrow
path, so that she could not get by. “Try to remember, Miss Pasmer. This
is very important. It would break my heart if it was really some one
else.” She stole a glance at his face, but it was smiling, though his
voice was so earnest. “I want to help you over all the bad places, and I
don’t want any one else to have a hand in it.”

The voice and the face still belied each other, and between them the
girl chose to feel herself trifled with by the artistic temperament. “If
you’ll please step out of the way, Mr. Mavering,” she said severely, “I
shall not need anybody’s help just here.”

He instantly moved aside, and they were both silent, till she said, as
she quickened her pace to overtake the others in front, “I don’t see how
you can help liking nature in such a place as this.”

“I can’t--human nature,” he said. It was mere folly; and an abstract
folly at that; but the face that she held down and away from him flushed
with sweet consciousness as she laughed.

On the cliff beetling above the bay, where she sat to look out over the
sad northern sea, lit with the fishing sail they had seen before, and
the surge washed into the rocky coves far beneath them, he threw himself
at her feet, and made her alone in the company that came and went and
tried this view and that from the different points where the picnic
hostess insisted they should enjoy it. She left the young couple to
themselves, and Mrs. Pasmer seemed to have forgotten that she had bidden
Alice to be a little more with her.

Alice had forgotten it too. She sat listening to Mavering’s talk with a
certain fascination, but not so much apparently because the meaning of
the words pleased her as the sound of his voice, the motion of his lips
in speaking, charmed her. At first he was serious, and even melancholy,
as if he were afraid he had offended her; but apparently he soon
believed that he had been forgiven, and began to burlesque his own mood,
but still with a deference and a watchful observance of her changes of
feeling which was delicately flattering in its way. Now and then when
she answered something it was not always to the purpose; he accused her
of not hearing what he said, but she would have it that she did, and
then he tried to test her by proofs and questions. It did not matter
for anything that was spoken or done; speech and action of whatever sort
were mere masks of their young joy in each other, so that when he said,
after he had quoted some lines befitting the scene they looked out on;
“Now was that from Tennyson or from Tupper?” and she answered, “Neither;
it was from Shakespeare,” they joined, in the same happy laugh, and they
laughed now and then without saying anything. Neither this nor that made
them more glad or less; they were in a trance, vulnerable to nothing but
the summons which must come to leave their dream behind, and issue into
the waking world.

In hope or in experience such a moment has come to all, and it is so
pretty to those who recognise it from the outside that no one has the
heart to hurry it away while it can be helped. The affair between Alice
and Mavering had evidently her mother’s sanction, and all the rest were
eager to help it on. When the party had started to return, they called
to them, and let them come behind together. At the carriages they had
what Miss Anderson called a new deal, and Alice and Mavering found
themselves together in the rear seat of the last.

The fog began to come in from the sea, and followed them through the
woods. When they emerged upon the highway it wrapped them densely round,
and formed a little world, cosy, intimate, where they two dwelt alone
with these friends of theirs, each of whom they praised for delightful
qualities. The horses beat along through the mist, in which there seemed
no progress, and they lived in a blissful arrest of time. Miss Anderson
called back from the front seat, “My ear buyns; you’re talkin’ about
me.”

“Which ear?” cried Mavering.

“Oh, the left, of couyse.”

“Then it’s merely habit, Julie. You ought to have heard the nice things
we were saying about you,” Alice called.

“I’d like to hear all the nice things you’ve been saying.”

This seemed the last effect of subtle wit. Mavering broke out in his
laugh, and Alice’s laugh rang above it.

Mrs. Pasmer looked involuntarily round from the carriage ahead.

“They seem to be having a good time,” said Mrs. Brinkley at her side.

“Yes; I hope Alice isn’t overdoing.”

“I’m afraid you’re dreadfully tired,” said Mavering to the girl, in a
low voice, as he lifted her from her place when they reached the hotel
through the provisional darkness, and found that after all it was only
dinner-time.

“Oh no. I feel as if the picnic were just beginning.”

“Then you will come to-night?”

“I will see what mamma says.”

“Shall I ask her?”

“Oh, perhaps not,” said the girl, repressing his ardour, but not
severely.




XVIII.

They were going to have some theatricals at one of the cottages, and the
lady at whose house they were to be given made haste to invite all the
picnic party before it dispersed. Mrs. Pasmer accepted with a mental
reservation, meaning to send an excuse later if she chose; and before
she decided the point she kept her husband from going after dinner into
the reading-room, where he spent nearly all his time over a paper and a
cigar, or in sitting absolutely silent and unoccupied, and made him go
to their own room with her.

“There is something that I must speak to you about,” she said, closing
the door, “and you must decide for yourself whether you wish to let it
go any further.”

“What go any further?” asked Mr. Pasmer, sitting down and putting his
hand to the pocket that held his cigar-case with the same series of
motions.

“No, don’t smoke,” she said, staying his hand impatiently. “I want you
to think.”

“How can I think if I don’t smoke?”

“Very well; smoke, then. Do you want this affair with young Mavering to
go any farther?”

“Oh!” said Pasmer, “I thought you had been looking after that.” He had
in fact relegated that to the company of the great questions exterior to
his personal comfort which she always decided.

“I have been looking after it, but now the time has come when you must,
as a father, take some interest in it.”

Pasmer’s noble mask of a face, from the point of his full white beard to
his fine forehead, crossed by his impressive black eyebrows, expressed
all the dignified concern which a father ought to feel in such an
affair; but what he was really feeling was a grave reluctance to have to
intervene in any way. “What do you want me to say to him?” he asked.

“Why, I don’t know that he’s going to ask you anything. I don’t know
whether he’s said anything to Alice yet,” said Mrs. Pasmer, with some
exasperation.

Her husband was silent, but his silence insinuated a degree of wonder
that she should approach him prematurely on such a point.

“They have been thrown together all day, and there is no use to conceal
from ourselves that they are very much taken with each other?”

“I thought,” Pasmer said, “that you said that from the beginning. Didn’t
you want them to be taken with each other?”

“That is what you are to decide.”

Pasmer silently refused to assume the responsibility.

“Well?” demanded his wife, after waiting for him to speak.

“Well what?”

“What do you decide?”

“What is the use of deciding a thing when it is all over?”

“It isn’t over at all. It can be broken off at any moment.”

“Well, break it off, then, if you like.”

Mrs. Pasmer resumed the responsibility with a sigh. She felt the burden,
the penalty, of power, after having so long enjoyed its sweets, and she
would willingly have abdicated the sovereignty which she had spent her
whole married life in establishing. But there was no one to take it up.
“No, I shall not break it off,” she said resentfully; “I shall let it go
on.” Then seeing that her husband was not shaken by her threat from his
long-confirmed subjection, she added: “It isn’t an ideal affair, but I
think it will be a very good thing for Alice. He is not what I expected,
but he is thoroughly nice, and I should think his family was nice. I’ve
been talking with Mr. Munt about them to-day, and he confirms all
that Etta Saintsbury said. I don’t think there can be any doubt of his
intentions in coming here. He isn’t a particularly artless young man,
but he’s been sufficiently frank about Alice since he’s been here.” Her
husband smoked on. “His father seems to have taken up the business from
the artistic side, and Mr. Mavering won’t be expected to enter into
the commercial part at once. If it wasn’t for Alice, I don’t believe he
would think of the business for a moment; he would study law. Of course
it’s a little embarrassing to have her engaged at once before she’s seen
anything of society here, but perhaps it’s all for the best, after all:
the main thing is that she should be satisfied, and I can see that
she’s only too much so. Yes, she’s very much taken with him; and I don’t
wonder. He is charming.”

It was not the first time that Mrs. Pasmer had reasoned in this round;
but the utterance of her thoughts seemed to throw a new light on them,
and she took a courage from them that they did not always impart. She
arrived at the final opinion expressed, with a throb of tenderness for
the young fellow whom she believed eager to take her daughter from her,
and now for the first time she experienced a desolation in the prospect,
as if it were an accomplished fact. She was morally a bundle of
finesses, but at the bottom of her heart her daughter was all the world
to her. She had made the girl her idol, and if, like some other heathen,
she had not always used her idol with the greatest deference, if she
had often expected the impossible from it, and made it pay for her
disappointment, still she had never swerved from her worship of it. She
suddenly asked herself, What if this young fellow, so charming and so
good, should so wholly monopolise her child that she should no longer
have any share in her? What if Alice, who had so long formed her first
care and chief object in life, should contentedly lose herself in the
love and care of another, and both should ignore her right to her? She
answered herself with a pang that this might happen with any one Alice
married, and that it would be no worse, at the worst, with Dan Mavering
than with another, while her husband remained impartially silent. Always
keeping within the lines to which his wife’s supremacy had driven him,
he felt safe there, and was not to be easily coaxed out of them.

Mrs. Pasmer rose and left him, with his perfect acquiescence, and went
into her daughter’s room. She found Alice there, with a pretty evening
dress laid out on her bed. Mrs. Pasmer was very fond of that dress, and
at the thought of Alice in it her spirits rose again.

“Oh, are you going, Alice?”

“Why, yes,” answered the girl. “Didn’t you accept?”

“Why, yes,” Mrs. Pasmer admitted. “But aren’t you tired?”

“Oh, not in the least. I feel as fresh as I did this morning. Don’t you
want me to go?”

“Oh yes, certainly, I want you to go--if you think you’ll enjoy it.”

“Enjoy it? Why, why shouldn’t I enjoy it, mamma!”

“What are you thinking about? It’s going to be the greatest kind of
fun.”

“But do you think you ought to look at everything simply as fun?” asked
the mother, with unwonted didacticism.

“How everything? What are you thinking about, mamma?”

“Oh, nothing! I’m so glad you’re going to wear that dress.”

“Why, of course! It’s my best. But what are you driving at, mamma?”

Mrs. Pasmer was really seeking in her daughter that comfort of a
distinct volition which she had failed to find in her husband, and she
wished to assure herself of it more and more, that she might share with
some one the responsibility which he had refused any part in.

“Nothing. But I’m glad you wish so much to go.” The girl dropped her
hands and stared. “You must have enjoyed yourself to-day,” she added, as
if that were an explanation.

“Of course I enjoyed myself! But what has that to do with my wanting to
go to-night?”

“Oh, nothing. But I hope, Alice, that there is one thing you have looked
fully in the face.”

“What thing?” faltered the girl, and now showed herself unable to
confront it by dropping her eyes.

“Well, whatever you may have heard or seen, nobody else is in doubt
about it. What do you suppose has brought Mr. Mavering here!”

“I don’t know.” The denial not only confessed that she did know, but it
informed her mother that all was as yet tacit between the young people.

“Very well, then, I know,” said Mrs. Pasmer; “and there is one thing
that you must know before long, Alice.”

“What?” she asked faintly.

“Your own mind,” said her mother. “I don’t ask you what it is, and I
shall wait till you tell me. Of course I shouldn’t have let him stay
here if I had objected--”

“O mamma!” murmured the girl, dyed with shame to have the facts so
boldly touched, but not, probably, too deeply displeased.

“Yes. And I know that he would never have thought of going into that
business if he had not expected--hoped--”

“Mamma!”

“And you ought to consider--”

“Oh, don’t! don’t! don’t!” implored the girl.

“That’s all,” said her mother, turning from Alice, who had hidden her
face in her hands, to inspect the costume on the bed. She lifted one
piece of it after another, turned it over, looked at it, and laid it
down. “You can never get such a dress in this country.”

She went out of the room, as the girl dropped her face in the pillow.
An hour later they met equipped for the evening’s pleasure. To the keen
glance that her mother gave her, the daughter’s eyes had the brightness
of eyes that have been weeping, but they were also bright with that
knowledge of her own mind which Mrs. Pasmer had desired for her. She
met her mother’s glance fearlessly, even proudly, and she carried her
stylish costume with a splendour to which only occasions could stimulate
her. They dramatised a perfect unconsciousness to each other, but Mrs.
Pasmer was by no means satisfied with the decision which she had read
in her daughter’s looks. Somehow it did not relieve her of the
responsibility, and it did not change the nature of the case. It was
gratifying, of course, to see Alice the object of a passion so sincere
and so ardent; so far the triumph was complete, and there was really
nothing objectionable in the young man and his circumstances, though
there was nothing very distinguished. But the affair was altogether
different from anything that Mrs. Pasmer had imagined. She had supposed
and intended that Alice should meet some one in Boston, and go through
a course of society before reaching any decisive step. There was to be a
whole season in which to look the ground carefully over, and the ground
was to be all within certain well-ascertained and guarded precincts. But
this that had happened was outside of these precincts, of at least on
their mere outskirts. Class Day, of course, was all right; and she could
not say that the summer colony at Campobello was not thoroughly and
essentially Boston; and yet she felt that certain influences, certain
sanctions, were absent. To tell the truth, she would not have cared for
the feelings of Mavering’s family in regard to the matter, except as
they might afterward concern Alice, and the time had not come when she
could recognise their existence in regard to the affair; and yet she
could have wished that even as it was his family could have seen and
approved it from the start. It would have been more regular.

With Alice it was a simpler matter, and of course deeper. For her it
was only a question of himself and herself; no one else existed to the
sublime egotism of her love. She did not call it by that name; she did
not permit it to assert itself by any name; it was a mere formless joy
in her soul, a trustful and blissful expectance, which she now no more
believed he could disappoint than that she could die within that hour.
All the rebellion that she had sometimes felt at the anomalous attitude
exacted of her sex in regard to such matters was gone. She no longer
thought it strange that a girl should be expected to ignore the
admiration of a young man till he explicitly declared it, and should
then be fully possessed of all the materials of a decision on the most
momentous question in life; for she knew that this state of ignorance
could never really exist; she had known from the first moment that he
had thought her beautiful. To-night she was radiant for him. Her eyes
shone with the look in which they should meet and give themselves to
each other before they spoke--the look in which they had met already, in
which they had lived that whole day.




XIX.

The evening’s entertainment was something that must fail before an
audience which was not very kind. They were to present a burlesque of
classic fable, and the parts, with their general intention, had been
distributed to the different actors; but nothing had been written down,
and, beyond the situations and a few points of dialogue, all had to
be improvised. The costumes and properties had been invented from such
things as came to hand. Sheets sculpturesquely draped the deities who
took part; a fox-pelt from the hearth did duty as the leopard skin of
Bacchus; a feather duster served Neptune for a trident; the lyre of
Apollo was a dust-pan; a gull’s breast furnished Jove with his grey
beard.

The fable was adapted to modern life, and the scene had been laid in
Campobello, the peculiarities of which were to be satirised throughout.
The principal situation was to be a passage between Jupiter, represented
by Mavering, and Juno, whom Miss Anderson personated; it was to be
a scene of conjugal reproaches and reprisals, and to end in
reconciliation, in which the father of the gods sacrificed himself
on the altar of domestic peace by promising to bring his family to
Campobello every year.

This was to be followed by a sketch of the Judgment of Paris, in
which Juno and Pallas were to be personated by two young men, and Miss
Anderson took the part of Venus.

The pretty drawing-room of the Trevors--young people from Albany, and
cousins of Miss Anderson--was curtained off at one end for a stage, and
beyond the sliding doors which divided it in half were set chairs for
the spectators. People had come in whatever dress they liked; the men
were mostly in morning coats; the ladies had generally made some attempt
at evening toilet, but they joined in admiring Alice Pasmer’s costume,
and one of them said that they would let it represent them all, and
express what each might have done if she would. There was not much time
for their tributes; all the lamps were presently taken away and set
along the floor in front of the curtain as foot-lights, leaving the
company in a darkness which Mrs. Brinkley pronounced sepulchral. She
made her reproaches to the master of the house, who had effected this
transposition of the lamps. “I was just thinking some very pretty and
valuable things about your charming cottage, Mr. Trevor: a rug on a
bare floor, a trim of varnished pine, a wall with half a dozen simple
etchings on it, an open fire, and a mantelpiece without bric-a-brac,
how entirely satisfying it all is! And how it upbraids us for heaping up
upholstery as we do in town!”

“Go on,” said the host. “Those are beautiful thoughts.”

“But I can’t go on in the dark,” retorted Mrs. Brinkley. “You can’t
think in the dark, much less talk! Can you, Mrs. Pasmer?” Mrs. Pasmer,
with Alice next to her, sat just in front of Mrs. Brinkley.

“No,” she assented; “but if I could--YOU can thick anywhere, Mrs.
Brinkley--Mrs. Trevor’s lovely house would inspire me to it.”

“Two birds with one stone--thank you, Mrs. Pasmer, for my part of the
compliment. Pick yourself up, Mr. Trevor.”

“Oh, thank you, I’m all right,” said Trevor, panting after the ladies’
meanings, as a man must. “I suppose thinking and talking in the dark is
a good deal like smoking in the dark.”

“No; thinking and talking are not at all like smoking under any
conditions. Why in the world should they be?”

“Oh, I can’t get any fun out of a cigar unless I can see the smoke,” the
host explained.

“Do you follow him, Mrs. Pasmer?”

“Yes, perfectly.”

“Thank you, Mrs. Pasmer,” said Trevor.

“I’ll get you to tell me how you did it some time,” said Mrs. Brinkley.
“But your house is a gem, Mr. Trevor.”

“Isn’t it?” cried Trevor. “I want my wife to live here the year round.”
 It was the Trevors’ first summer in their cottage, and the experienced
reader will easily recognise his mood. “But she’s such a worldly spirit,
she won’t.”

“Oh, I don’t know about the year round. Do you, Mrs. Pasmer?”

“I should,” said Alice, with the suddenness of youth, breaking into the
talk which she had not been supposed to take any interest in.

“Is it proper to kiss a young lady’s hand?” said Trevor gratefully,
appealing to Mrs. Brinkley.

“It isn’t very customary in the nineteenth century,” said Mrs. Brinkley.
“But you might kiss her fan. He might kiss her fan, mightn’t he, Mrs.
Pasmer?”

“Certainly. Alice, hold out your fan instantly.”

The girl humoured the joke, laughing.

Trevor pressed his lips to the perfumed sticks. “I will tell Mrs.
Trevor,” he said, “and that will decide her.”

“It will decide her not to come here at all next year if you tell her
all.”

“He never tells me all,” said Mrs. Trevor, catching so much of the talk
as she came in from some hospitable cares in the dining-room. “They’re
incapable of it. What has he been doing now?”

“Nothing. Or I will tell you when we are alone, Mrs. Trevor,” said Mrs.
Brinkley, with burlesque sympathy. “We oughtn’t to have a scene on both
sides of the foot-lights.”

A boyish face, all excitement, was thrust out between the curtains
forming the proscenium of the little theatre. “All ready, Mrs. Trevor?”

“Yes, all ready, Jim.”

He dashed the curtains apart, and marred the effect of his own
disappearance from the scene by tripping over the long legs of Jove,
stretched out to the front, where he sat on Mrs. Trevor’s richest rug,
propped with sofa cushions on either hand.

“So perish all the impious race of titans, enemies of the gods!” said
Mavering solemnly, as the boy fell sprawling. “Pick the earth-born giant
up, Vulcan, my son.”

The boy was very small for his age; every one saw that the accident had
not been premeditated, and when Vulcan appeared, with an exaggerated
limp, and carried the boy off, a burst of laughter went up from the
company.

It did not matter what the play was to have been after that; it all
turned upon the accident. Juno came on, and began to reproach Jupiter
for his carelessness. “I’ve sent Mercury upstairs for the aynica; but
he says it’s no use: that boy won’t be able to pass ball for a week.
How often have I told you not to sit with your feet out that way! I knew
you’d hurt somebody.”

“I didn’t have my feet out,” retorted Jupiter. “Besides,” he added, with
dignity, and a burlesque of marital special pleading which every wife
and husband recognised, “I always sit with my feet out so, and I always
will, so long as I’ve the spirit of a god.”

“Isn’t he delicious?” buzzed Mrs. Pasmer, leaning backward to whisper to
Mrs. Brinkley; it was not that she thought what Dan had just said was so
very fanny, but people are immoderately applausive of amateur dramatics,
and she was feeling very fond of the young fellow.

The improvisation went wildly and adventurously on, and the curtains
dropped together amidst the facile acclaim of the audience:

“It’s very well for Jupiter that he happened to think of the curtain,”
 said Mrs. Brinkley. “They couldn’t have kept it up at that level much
longer.”

“Oh, do you think so?” softly murmured Mrs. Pasmer. “It seemed as if
they could have kept it up all night if they liked.”

“I doubt it. Mr. Trevor,” said Mrs. Brinkley to the host, who had
come up for her congratulations, “do you always have such brilliant
performances?”

“Well, we have so far,” he answered modestly; and Mrs. Brinkley laughed
with him. This was the first entertainment at Trevor cottage.

“‘Sh!” went up all round them, and Mrs. Trevor called across the
room, in a reproachful whisper loud enough for every one to hear, “My
dear!--enjoying yourself!” while Mavering stood between the parted
curtains waiting for the attention of the company.

“On account of an accident to the call-boy and the mental exhaustion of
some of the deities, the next piece will be omitted, and the performance
will begin with the one after. While the audience is waiting, Mercury
will go round and take up a collection for the victim of the recent
accident, who will probably be indisposed for life. The collector will
be accompanied by a policeman, and may be safely trusted.”

He disappeared behind the curtain with a pas and r swirl of his
draperies like the Lord Chancellor in Iolanthe, and the audience again
abandoned itself to applause.

“How very witty he is!” said Miss Cotton, who sat near John Munt. “Don’t
you think he’s really witty?”

“Yes,” Munt assented critically. “But you should have known his father.”

“Oh, do you know his father?”

“I was in college with him.”

“Oh, do tell me about him, and all Mr. Mavering’s family. We’re so
interested, you know, on account of--Isn’t it pretty to have that
little love idyl going on here? I wonder--I’ve been wondering all the
time--what she thinks of all this. Do you suppose she quite likes it?
His costume is so very remarkable!” Miss Cotton, in the absence of any
lady of her intimate circle, was appealing confidentially to John Munt.

“Why, do you think there’s anything serious between them?” he asked,
dropping his head forward as people do in church when they wish to
whisper to some one in the same pew.

“Why, yes, it seems so,” murmured Miss Cotton. “His admiration is quite
undisguised, isn’t it?”

“A man never can tell,” said Munt. “We have to leave those things to you
ladies.”

“Oh, every one’s talking of it, I assure you. And you know his family?”

“I knew his father once rather better than anybody else.”

“Indeed!”

“Yes.” Munt sketched rather a flattered portrait of the elder Mavering,
his ability, his goodness, his shyness, which he had always had to make
such a hard fight with. Munt was sensible of an access of popularity in
knowing Dan Mavering’s people, and he did not spare his colours.

“Then it isn’t from his father that he gets everything. He isn’t in the
least shy,” said Miss Cotton.

“That must be the mother.”

“And the mother?”

“The mother I don’t know.”

Miss Cotton sighed. “Sometimes I wish that he did show a little more
trepidation. It would seem as if he were more alive to the great
difference that there is between Alice Pasmer and other girls.”

Munt laughed a man’s laugh. “I guess he’s pretty well alive to that, if
he’s in love with her.”

“Oh, in a certain way, of course, but not in the highest way. Now, for
instance, if he felt all her fineness as--as we do, I don’t believe he’d
be willing to appear before her just like that.” The father of the gods
wore a damask tablecloth of a pale golden hue and a classic pattern;
his arms were bare, and rather absurdly white; on his feet a pair of
lawn-tennis shoes had a very striking effect of sandals.

“It seems to me,” Miss Cotton pursued; “that if he really appreciated
her in the highest way, he would wish never to do an undignified or
trivial thing in her presence.”

“Oh, perhaps it’s that that pleases her in him. They say we’re always
taken with opposites.”

“Yes--do you think so?” asked Miss Cotton.

The curtains were flung apart, and the Judgment of Paris followed rather
tamely upon what had gone before, though the two young fellows who did
Juno and Minerva were very amusing, and the dialogue was full of hits.
Some of the audience, an appreciative minority, were of opinion that
Mavering and Miss Anderson surpassed themselves in it; she promised him
the most beautiful and cultured wife in Greece. “That settles it,” he
answered. They came out arm in arm, and Paris, having put on a striped
tennis coat over his short-sleeved Greek tunic, moved round among the
company for their congratulations, Venus ostentatiously showing the
apple she had won.

“I can haydly keep from eating it,” she explained to Alice; before whom
she dropped Mavering’s arm. “I’m awfully hungry. It’s hayd woyk.”

Alice stood with her head drawn back, looking at the excited girl with a
smile, in which seemed to hover somewhere a latent bitterness.

Mavering, with a flushed face and a flying tongue, was exchanging
sallies with her mother, who smothered him in flatteries.

Mrs. Trevor came toward the group, and announced supper. “Mr. Paris,
will you take Miss Aphrodite out?”

Miss Anderson swept a low bow of renunciation, and tacitly relinquished
Mavering to Alice.

“Oh, no, no!” said Alice, shrinking back from him, with an
intensification of her uncertain smile. “A mere mortal?”

“Oh, how very good!” said Mrs. Trevor.

There began to be, without any one’s intending it, that sort of tacit
misunderstanding which is all the worse because it can only follow upon
a tacit understanding like that which had established itself between
Alice and Mavering. They laughed and joked together gaily about all
that went on; they were perfectly good friends; he saw that she and her
mother were promptly served; he brought them salad and ice-cream and
coffee himself, only waiting officially upon Miss Anderson first, and
Alice thanked him, with the politest deprecation of his devotion; but
if their eyes met, it was defensively, and the security between them was
gone. Mavering vaguely felt the loss, without knowing how to retrieve
it, and it made him go on more desperately with Miss Anderson. He
laughed and joked recklessly, and Alice began to mark a more explicit
displeasure with her. She made her mother go rather early.

On her part, Miss Anderson seemed to find reason for resentment in
Alice’s bearing toward her. As if she had said to herself that her frank
loyalty had been thrown away upon a cold and unresponsive nature,
and that her harmless follies in the play had been met with unjust
suspicions, she began to make reprisals, she began in dead earnest to
flirt with Mavering. Before the evening passed she had made him seem
taken with her; but how justly she had done this, and with how much
fault of his, no one could have said. There were some who did not notice
it at all, but these were not people who knew Mavering, or knew Alice
very well.




XX.

The next morning Alice was walking slowly along the road toward the
fishing village, when she heard rapid, plunging strides down the wooded
hillside on her right. She knew them for Mavering’s, and she did not
affect surprise when he made a final leap into the road, and shortened
his pace beside her.

“May I join you, Miss Pasmer?”

“I am only going down to the herring-houses,” she began.

“And you’ll let me go with you?” said the young fellow. “The fact
is--you’re always so frank that you make everything else seem
silly--I’ve been waiting up there in the woods for you to come by.
Mrs. Pasmer told me you had started this way, and I cut across lots to
overtake you, and then, when you came in sight, I had to let you pass
before I could screw my courage up to the point of running after you.
