
Eve pursued her investigations; she sent a boy to town for provisions,
and waited to see a meal prepared. Mrs. Halley, still wet and ragged,
but now refreshed by joy, moved about rapidly; at last there was nothing
more to do but to sit down and wait. "She was the prettiest of all my
children," she remarked, indicating the sleeping girl with a motion of
her head.

"She is still pretty," Eve answered.

"Yet you never saw her making eyes at gentlemen like some; there's a
great deal of making eyes at Potterpins. Rose Bonham, now--she got a
silk dress out of Mr. Tennant no longer ago as last March."

"Mr. Tennant?"

"Yes; the gentleman who superintends the mine. Not that I have anything
to say against him; gentlemen has their priviluges. All I say
is--girls hasn't!"

Eve had risen. "I must go; I will come again soon."

"Oh, miss," said the woman, dropping her gossip, and returning to her
gratitude (which was genuine)--"oh, miss, mayn't I know your name? I
want to put it in me prayers. There was just three cents in the house,
miss, when you came; and Lyddy she couldn't eat the last meal I got for
her--a cracker and a piece of mackerel."

"You can pray for me without a name," said Eve, going out.

She felt as though there were hot coals in her throat, she could
scarcely breathe. She went towards the forest, and, entering it by a
cart-track, walked rapidly on. Rose Bonham was the daughter of the
butter-woman. Bonham had a forest farm about five miles from Port aux
Pins on the road to Betsy Lake, and his wife kept Paul's cottage
supplied with butter. Eve had seen the daughter several times; she was a
very beautiful girl. Eve and Cicely thought her bold; but the women who
eat the butter are apt to think so of those who bring it, if the
bringers have sparkling eyes, peach-like complexions, and the gait of
Hebe.

And Paul himself had suggested the spending the night there--an entirely
unnecessary thing--under the pretence of gaining thereby an earlier
start in the morning.

She came to a little pool of clear water; pausing beside it, half
unconsciously, she beheld the reflection of her face in its mirror, and
something seemed to say to her, "What is your education, your culture,
your senseless pride worth, when compared with the peach-like bloom of
that young girl?" Her own image looked up at her, pale, cold, and stern;
it did not seem to her to have a trace of beauty. She took a stone, and,
casting it in the pool, shattered the picture. "I wish I were beautiful
beyond words! I could be beautiful if I had everything; if nothing but
the finest lace ever touched me, if I never raised my hand to do
anything for myself, if I had only dainty and delicate and beautiful
things about me, I should be beautiful--I know I should. Bad women have
those things, they say; why haven't they the best of it?"

She began to walk on again. She had not given much thought to the
direction her steps were taking; now it came to her that the road to
Lake Betsy, and therefore to Bonham's, was not far away, and she crossed
the wood towards it. When she reached it, she turned towards Bonham's.
Five miles. It was now after five o'clock.

When she came in sight of the low roof and scattered out-buildings a
sudden realization of what she was doing came to her, and she stopped.
Why was she there? If they should see her, any of them, what would they
think? What could she say? As though they were already upon her, she
took refuge hastily behind the high bushes with which the road was
bordered. "Oh, what have I come here for? Humiliating! Let me get back
home!--let me get back home!" She returned towards Port aux Pins by the
fields, avoiding the road; the shadows were dense now; it was almost
night.

She had gone more than a mile when she stopped. An irresistible force
impelled her, and she retraced her steps. When she reached Bonham's the
second time, lights were shining from the windows. The roughly-built
house rose directly from the road. Blinds and curtains were evidently
considered superfluous. With breathless eagerness she drew near; the
evening was cool, and the windows were closed; through the small
wrinkled panes she could distinguish a wrinkled Cicely, a wrinkled
judge, a Hollis much askew, and a Paul Tennant with a dislocated jaw;
they were playing a game. After some moments she recognized that it was
whist; she almost laughed aloud, a bitter laugh at herself; she had
walked five miles to see a game of whist.

A dog barked, she turned away and began her long journey homeward.

But the thought came to her, and would not leave her. "After the game is
over, and the others have gone to bed, he will see that girl somehow!"

She did not find the road a long one. Passion made it short, a passion
of jealous despair.

Reaching the town at last, she passed an ephemeral ice-cream saloon with
a large window; seated within, accompanied by a Port aux Pins youth of
the hobbledehoy species, was Rose Bonham, eating ice-cream.

The next evening at six the excursion party returned. At seven they were
seated at the tea-table. The little door-bell jangled loudly in the near
hall, there was a sound of voices; Paul, who was nearest the door, rose
and went to see what it was.

After a long delay he came back and looked in. They had all left the
table, and Cicely had gone to her room; Paul beckoned Eve out silently.
His face had a look that made her heart stop beating; in the narrow
hall, under the small lamp, he gave her, one by one, three telegraphic
despatches, open.

    The first:                      "Monday.
    "Break it to Cicely.   Dear Ferdie died at dawn.
                              "SABRINA ABERCROMBIE."

    The second:                     "Monday.
    "Morrison died this morning. Telegraph your wishes.
                              "EDWARD KNOX, M.D."

    The third:                      "Wednesday.

    "Morrison buried this afternoon. Address me, Charleston
    Hotel, Charleston.
                              "EDWARD KNOX, M.D."

"I ought to have had them two days ago," said Paul. He stood with his
lips slightly apart looking at her, but without seeing her or seeing
anything.




XXII.


    "Up the airy mountain,
      Down the rushy glen,
    We daren't go a-hunting,
      For fear of little men:
    Wee folk, good folk,
      Trooping all together;
    Green jacket, red cap,
      And white owl's feather!"

So, in a sweet little thread of a voice, sang Cicely; her tones, though
clear, were so faint that they seemed to come from far away. She was
sitting in an easy-chair, with pillows behind her, her hands laid on the
arms of the chair, her feet on a footstool. Her eyes wandered over the
opposite wall, and presently she began again, beating time with her hand
on the arm of the chair:

    "Down along the rocky shore
      Some make their home;
    They live on crispy pancakes
      Of yellow tide foam;
    Some in the reeds
      Of the black mountain lake,
    With frogs for their watch-dogs,
      All night awake--awake."

She laughed.

The judge left the room. He walked on tiptoe; but he might have worn
hobnailed shoes, and made all the noise possible--Cicely would not have
noticed it. "I can't stand it!" he said to Paul, outside.

"How it must feel--to be as stiff and old as that!" was the thought
that passed through the younger man's mind. For the judge's features
were no longer able to express the sorrows that lay beneath; even while
speaking his despair his face remained immovable, like a mask.

"But it's merciful, after all," Paul had answered, aloud.

"Merciful?"

"Yes. Come to my room and I'll tell you why."

Straw was laid down before Paul's cottage. Within, all was absolutely
quiet; even little Jack had been sent away. He had been sent to Hollis,
who was taking care of him so elaborately, with so many ingenious
devices for his entertainment, that Porley was wildly idle; there was
nothing for her to do.

Standing beside the white-pine table in Paul's bare bedroom, the two men
held their conference. Paul's explanation lasted three minutes. "Ferdie
was entangled with her long before he ever saw Cicely," he concluded,
"and he always liked her; that was her hold upon him--he liked her, and
she knew it; he didn't drop her even after he was married."

From the rigid old face there came a hot imprecation.

"Let him alone--will you?--now he's dead," suggested Paul, curtly. "I
don't suppose that you yourself have been so immaculate all your life
that you can afford to set up as a pattern?"

"But my wife, sir--Nothing ever touched her."

"You mean that you arranged things so that she shouldn't know. All
decent men do that, I suppose, and Ferdie didn't in the least intend
that Cicely should know, either. He told her to stay here; if she had
persisted in going down there against his wish, and against his
arrangements also, fancy what she would have put her head into! I
couldn't let her do that, of course. But though I told her enough to
give her some clew, she hadn't the least suspicion of the whole truth,
and now she need never know."

"She won't have time, she's dying," answered the grandfather.

Cicely's state was alarming. A violent attack of brain-fever had been
followed by the present condition of comparative quiet; she recognized
no one; much of the time she sang to herself gayly. The doctor feared
that the paroxysms would return. They had been terrible to witness; Paul
had held her, and he had exerted all the force of his strong arms to
keep her from injuring herself, her fragile little form had thrown
itself about so wildly, like a bird beating its life out against the
bars of its cage.

No one in this desolate cottage had time to think of the accumulation of
troubles that had come upon them: the silence, broken only by Cicely's
strange singing, the grief of Paul for his brother, the dumb despair of
the old man, the absence of little Jack, the near presence of Death. But
of the four faces, that of Eve expressed the deepest hopelessness. She
stayed constantly in the room where Cicely was, but she did nothing;
from the first she had not offered to help in any way, and the doctor,
seeing that she was to be of no use, had sent a nurse. On the fourth
day, Paul said: "You must have some sleep, Eve. Go to your room; I will
have you called if she grows worse."

"No; I must stay here."

"Why? There is nothing for you to do."

"You mean that I do nothing. I know it; but I must stay."

On the seventh evening he spoke again; Cicely's quiet state had now
lasted twenty-four hours. "Lying on a lounge is no good, Eve; to-night
you must go to bed. Otherwise we shall have you breaking down too."

"Do I look as though I should break down?"

They had happened to meet in the hall outside of Cicely's door; the
sunset light, coming through a small window, flooded the place with
gold.

"If you put it in that way, I must say you do not."

"I knew it. I am very strong."

"You speak as though you regretted it."

"I do regret it." She put out her hand to open the door.--"Don't think
that I am trying to be sensational," she pleaded.

"All I think is that you are an obstinate girl; and one very much in
need of rest, too."

Her eyes filled, he had spoken as one speaks to a tired child; but she
turned her head so that he should not see her face, and left him,
entering Cicely's room, and closing the door behind her; her manner and
the movement, as he saw them, were distinctly repellent.

Cicely did not notice her entrance; the nurse, who had some knitting in
her hand in order not to appear too watchful, but who in reality saw the
rise and fall of her patient's every breath, was near. Eve went to the
place where she often sat--a chair partially screened by the projection
of a large wardrobe; she could see only a towel-stand opposite, and the
ingrain carpet, in ugly octagons of red and green, at her feet. The
silence was profound.

"I am a murderer, it is a murderer who is sitting here. If people only
knew! But it is enough for me to know.

--"They said he was getting better. Instead of that he is dead,--he is
dead, and I shot him; I lifted the pistol and fired. At the time it
didn't seem wrong. But this is what it means to kill, I suppose;--this
awful agony.

--"I have never been one of the afraid kind. I wish now that I had been;
then this wouldn't have happened; the baby might have been horribly
hurt, Cicely too; but at least I shouldn't have been a murderer. For if
you kill you are a murderer, no matter whether the person you kill is
good or bad, or what you do it for; you have killed some one, you have
made his life come to a sudden stop, and for that you must take the
responsibility.

--"Oh, God! it is too dreadful! I cannot bear it. Sometimes, when I have
been unhappy, I have waked and found it was only a dream; couldn't
this be a dream?

--"I was really going to tell, I was going to tell Cicely. But I thought
I would wait until he was well--as every one said he would be soon--so
that she wouldn't hate me quite so much. If she should die without
coming to her senses, I shouldn't be able to tell her.

--"Hypocrite! even to myself. In reality I don't want her to come to her
senses; I have sat here for days, afraid to leave her, watching every
moment lest she should begin to talk rationally. For then I should have
to tell her; and she would tell Paul. Oh, I cannot have him know--I
cannot."

Made stupid by her misery, she sat gazing at the floor, her eyes fixed,
her lips slightly apart.

She was exhausted; for the same thoughts had besieged her ever since she
had read the despatch, "Morrison died this morning,"--an unending
repetition of exactly the same sentences, constantly following each
other, and constantly beginning again; even in sleep they continued,
like a long nightmare, so that she woke weeping. And now without a
moment's respite, while she sat there with her eyes on the carpet, the
involuntary recital began anew: "I am a murderer, it is a murderer who
is sitting here. If people only knew!"

    "They may rail at this life; from the hour I began it
    I've found it a life full of kindness and bliss;
    And until you can show me some happier planet,
    More social, more gay, I'll content me with this,"

chanted Cicely, sweetly.

"The song of last Christmas at Romney," Eve's thoughts went on. "Oh, how
changed I am since then--how changed! That night I thought only of my
brother. Now I have almost forgotten him;--Jack, do you care? All I
think of is Paul, Paul, Paul. How beautiful it was in that gray-green
wood! But what am I dreaming about? How can the person who killed his
brother be anything to him?

--"Once he said--he told me himself--'I care for Ferdie more than for
anything in the world.' It's Ferdie I have killed.

--"'Morrison buried this afternoon. Address me Charleston Hotel,
Charleston.' He put those despatches in his pocket and went into the
back room. He sat down by the table, and laid his head upon his arms.
His shoulders shook, I know he was crying, he was crying for his
brother. Oh, I will go down-stairs and tell him the whole; I will go
this moment." She rose.

On the stairs she met the judge. "Is she worse?" he asked, alarmed at
seeing her outside of the room.

"No; the same."

She found Paul in the lower hall. "Is she worse?" he said.

"No. How constantly you think of her!"

"Of course."

"Can I speak to you for a moment?" She led the way to the small back
room where he had sat with his head on his arms. "I want to tell you--"
she began. Then she stopped.

His face had a worn look, his eyes were dull--a dullness caused by
sorrow and the pressure of care. But to her, as he stood there, he was
supreme, her whole heart went out to him. "How I love him!" The feeling
swept over her like a flood, overwhelming everything else.

"What is it you wish to tell me?" Paul asked, seeing that she still
remained silent.

"How can I do it!--how can I do it!" she said to herself.

"Don't tell me, then, if it troubles you," he added, his voice taking
the kindly tones she dreaded.

Her courage vanished. "Another time," she said hurriedly, and, turning,
she left the room.

But as she went up the stairs she knew that there would be no other
time. "Never! never! I shall never tell him. What do I care for
truthfulness, or courage, compared with one word of his spoken in that
tone!"




XXIII.


MISS SABRINA'S first letters had been so full of grief that they had
been vague; to her there had been but the one fact: Ferdie was dead.

She had become much attached to him. There was nothing strange in this;
both as boy and as man, Ferdinand Morrison had been deeply loved by
many. The poor woman knew his fault (she thought it his only one), for
the judge had written an account of all that had happened, and the
reasons for Cicely's flight. Nevertheless she loved this prodigal as the
prodigal is often so dearly loved by the woman whose heart is pierced
the most deeply by his excesses--his mother. And Miss Sabrina, as
regarded her devotion, might indeed have been Ferdie's mother; something
in him roused the dormant maternal feeling--the maternal passion--which
existed in her heart unknown to herself. She did not comprehend what it
was that was disturbing her so much, and yet at the same time making her
so happy--she did not comprehend that it was stifled nature asserting
itself at this late day; the circumstances of her life had made her a
gentle, conciliatory old maid; she was not in the least aware that as a
mother she could have been a tigress in the defence of her sons. For she
was a woman who would have rejoiced in her sons; daughters would never
have been important to her.

She thought that she was perfectly reasonable about Ferdie. No, Cicely
must not come back to him for the present; baby too--darling little
boy!--he must be kept away; and oh! how terrible that flight through the
woods, and the escape in the boat; she thought of it every night with
tremors. Yet, in spite of all, she loved the man who had caused these
griefs. His illness made him dependent upon her, and his voice calling
her name in peremptory tones, like those of a spoiled child--this was
the sweetest sound her ears had ever heard. He would reform, all her
hopes and plans were based upon that; she went about with prayer on her
lips from morning till night--prayer for him.

When his last breath had been drawn, it seemed to her as if the daily
life of the world must have stopped too, outside of the darkened
chamber; as if people could not go on eating and drinking, and the sun
go on shining, with Ferdie dead. She was able to keep her place at the
head of the household until after the funeral; then she became the prey
of an illness which, though quiet and unobtrusive, like everything else
connected with her, was yet sufficiently persistent to confine her to
her bed. Nanny Singleton, who had come to Romney every day, rowed by
Boliver, now came again, this time to stay; she took possession of the
melancholy house, re-established order after her inexact fashion, and
then devoted herself to nursing her friend.

Two of Nanny Singleton's letters.

Letter number one:


    "ROMNEY, Friday evening.

    "DEAR JUDGE,--I feel that we have been very remiss in
    not sending to you sooner the details of this heart-breaking
    event. But we have been so afflicted ourselves with the unexpectedness
    of it all, with the funeral, and with dear Sabrina's
    illness, that we have been somewhat negligent. We feel,
    Rupert and I, that we have lost not only one who was personally
    dear to us, but also the most fascinating, the most brilliant,
    the most thoroughly engaging young man whom it has
    ever been our good-fortune to meet. Such a death is a public
    calamity, and you, his nearest and dearest, must admit us
    (as well as many, many others) to that circle of mourning
    friends who esteemed him highly, admired him inexpressibly,
    and loved him sincerely for the unusually charming qualities
    he possessed.

    "Our dearest Sabrina told us all the particulars the morning
    after his death, for of course we came directly to her as
    soon as we heard what had happened. He had been making,
    as you probably know, a visit in Savannah; Dr. Knox had
    accompanied him, or perhaps it was that he joined him there;
    at any rate, it was Dr. Knox who brought him home. It
    seems that he had overestimated his strength--so natural in
    a young man!--and he arrived much exhausted; so much so,
    indeed, that the doctor thought it better that dear Sabrina
    should not see him that evening. And the next day she only
    saw him once, and from across the room; he was alarmingly
    pale, and did not open his eyes; Dr. Knox said that he must
    not try to speak. It was the next morning at dawn that the
    doctor came to her door and told Powlyne to waken her.
    (But she was not asleep.) 'He is going, if you wish to come;'
    this was all he said. Dear Sabrina, greatly agitated, threw
    on her wrapper over her night-dress, and hastened to the bedside
    of the dear boy. He lay in a stupor, he did not know
    her; and in less than half an hour his breath ceased. She
    prayed for him during the interval, she knelt down and prayed
    aloud; it was a wonder that she had the strength to do it
    when a soul so dear to her was passing. When it had taken
    flight, she closed his eyes, and made all orderly about him.
    And she kissed him for Cicely, she told me.

    "The funeral she arranged herself in every detail. Receiving
    no replies to her despatches to you, she was obliged
    to use her own judgment; she had confessed to me in the beginning
    that she much wished to have him buried here at
    Romney, in the little circle of her loved ones, and not hearing
    from you to the contrary, she decided to do this; he lies beside
    your brother Marmaduke. Our friends came from all
    the islands near and far; there must have been sixty persons
    in all, many bringing flowers. Dr. Knox stayed with us until
    after the funeral--that is, until day before yesterday; then
    he took his leave of us, and went to Charleston by the evening
    boat. He seems a most excellent young man. And if he
    strikes us as a little cold, no doubt it is simply that, being a
    Northerner, and not a man of much cultivation, he could not
    appreciate fully Ferdie's very remarkable qualities. Dear old
    Dr. Daniels, who has been in Virginia for several weeks, has
    now returned; he comes over every day to see Sabrina. He
    tells me that her malady is intermittent fever--a mild form;
    the only point is to keep her strength up, and this we endeavor
    to do with chickens. I will remain here as long as I
    can be of the slightest service, and you may rest assured that
    everything possible is being done.

    "I trust darling Cicely is not burdened by the many letters
    we have written to her--my own four, and Rupert's three,
    as well as those of her other friends on the islands about here.
    All wished to write, and we did not know how to say no.

    "With love to Miss Bruce, I am, dear judge, your attached
    and sorrowing friend, NANNY SINGLETON."

Letter number two:

    "ROMNEY, Saturday Morning.

    "MY DEAR MR. TENNANT,--My husband has just received
    your letter, and as he is much crippled by his rheumatism this
    morning, he desires me to answer it immediately, so that there
    may be no delay.

    "We both supposed that Dr. Knox had written to you.
    Probably while he was here there were so many things to
    take up his time that he could not; and I happen to know
    that as soon as he reached Charleston, day before yesterday,
    he was met by this unexpected proposition to join a private
    yacht for a cruise of several months; one of the conditions
    was that he was to go on board immediately (they sailed the
    same evening), and I dare say he had time for nothing but
    his own preparations, and that you will hear from him later.
    My husband says, however, that he can give you all the details
    of the case, which was a simple one. Your brother overestimated
    his strength, he should not have attempted that
    journey to Savannah; it was too soon, for his wound had
    not healed, and the fatigue brought on a dangerous relapse,
    from which he could not rally. He died from the effects of
    that cruel shot, Mr. Tennant; his valuable life has fallen a
    sacrifice (in my husband's opinion) to the present miserable
    condition of our poor State, where the blacks, our servants,
    who are like little children and need to be led as such,--where
    these poor ignorant creatures are put over us, their former
    masters; are rewarded with office; are intrusted with dangerous
    weapons--a liberty which in this case has proved fatal
    to one of the higher race. It seems to my husband as if the
    death of Ferdinand Morrison should be held up as a marked
    warning to the entire North; this very superior, talented, and
    engaging young man has fallen by the bullet of a negro, and
    my husband says that in his opinion the tale should be told
    everywhere, on the steps of court-houses and in churches, and
    the question should be solemnly asked, Shall such things continue?
    --shall
    the servant rule his lord?

    "We are much alarmed by the few words in Judge Abercrombie's
    letter (received this morning) concerning our darling
    Cicely, and we beg you to send us a line daily. Or perhaps
    Miss Bruce would do it, knowing our anxiety? I pray that
    the dear child, whom we all so fondly love, may be better very
    soon; but I will be anxious until I hear.

    "As I sent a long letter to the judge last evening, I will
    not add more to this. Our sympathy, dear Mr. Tennant,
    with your irreparable loss is heartfelt; you do not need our
    assurances of that, I know.

    "Mr. Singleton desires me to present his respects. And I
    beg to remain your obedient servant, N. SINGLETON."




XXIV.


Midsummer at Port aux Pins. The day was very hot; there was no feeling
of dampness, such as belongs sometimes to the lower-lake towns in the
dog-days, up here the air remained dry and clear and pure; but the
splendid sunshine had almost the temperature of flame; it seemed as if
the miles of forest must take fire, as from a burning-glass.

Eve stood at the open window of Paul's little parlor. A figure passed in
the road outside, but she did not notice it. Reappearing, it opened the
gate and came in. "Many happy returns--of cooler weather! We ought to
pity the Eyetalians; what must their sufferings be on such a day as
this!"

Eve gazed at the speaker unseeingly. Then recognition arrived;--"Oh, Mr.
Hollis."

Hollis came into the house; he joined her in the parlor. "My best
respects. Can't help thinking of the miserable Eyetalians." Eve made no
reply. "Just heard a piece of news," Hollis went on. "Paul has sold his
Clay County iron. He would have made five times as much by holding on.
But he has been so jammed lately by unexpected demands made upon him
that he had no other course; all his brother's South American
speculations have come to grief, and the creditors have come down on
him like a thousand of brick!"

"Will he have to pay much?" asked Eve, her lassitude gone.

"More than he's got," answered Hollis, putting his hands still more
deeply into his trousers pockets, his long, lean, fish-like figure
projecting itself forward into space from the sixth rib. "I don't get
this from Paul, you may depend; he don't blab. But the law sharks who
came up here to get hold of whatever they could (for you see Paul has
always been a partner in his brother's enterprises, so that gives 'em a
chance), these scamps talked to me some. So I know. But even the sale of
his Clay County iron won't clear Paul--he will have to guarantee other
debts; it will take him years to clear it all off, unless he has
something better than his present salary to do it with."

"You ought to have told me. I have money."

"I guess he wouldn't take it. He's had pretty hard lines all round; he
wanted terribly bad to go straight to Ferdie, as soon as he heard he was
shot. But Mrs. Morrison--she had come here, you know; and he had all
Ferdie's expenses to think of too, so that kept him grinding along. But
he wanted awfully to go; he thought the world and all of Ferdie."

"I know he did," said Eve. And now her face was like a tragic
mask--deadly white, with a frown, the eyes under her straight brows
looking at him fixedly.

"Oh, eheu!" thought Hollis distressfully, disgustedly. "You screw
yourself up to tell her all these things about him, because you think it
will please her; and this is the way she takes 'em!"

He looked at her again; she gave no sign. Feeling painfully
insignificant and helpless, he turned and left the room.

A few minutes later Paul came in. "You have sold your Clay County iron!"
said Eve.

"I have always intended to sell it."

"Not at a sacrifice."

"One does as one can--a business transaction."

"How much money have you sent to your brother all these years?"

"I don't know that it is--I don't know what interest you can have in
it," Paul answered.

"You mean that it is not my business. Oh, don't be so hard! Say three
words just for once."

"Why, I'll say as many as you like, Eve. Ferdie was one of the most
brilliant fellows in the world; if he had lived, all his investments
would have turned out finely, he was sure of a fortune some time."

"And, in the meanwhile, you supported him; you have always done it."

"You are mistaken. I advanced him money now and then when he happened to
be short, but it was always for the time being only; he would have paid
me back if he had lived."

The door opened, and the judge came in. "I'm glad you're here," said
Paul; "now we can decide, we three, upon what is best to be done. The
doctor says that while this heat is very bad for Cicely, travel would be
still worse; she cannot go anywhere by train, and hardly by
steamer--though that is better; there would be no use, then, in trying
to take her south."

"It's ten times hotter here to-day than I ever saw it at Romney,"
interposed the judge. "It's a tophet--this town of yours!"

"I was thinking also of Miss Abercrombie's illness," Paul went on.
"Though her fever is light, her room is still a sick-room, and that
would depress Cicely, I feel sure. But, meanwhile, the poor girl is
hourly growing weaker, and so this is what I have thought of: we will go
into camp in the pines near Jupiter Light. Don't you remember how much
good camp-life did her before?"

Six days later they were living in the pine woods at Jupiter. This time
lodges had been built; the nurse accompanied Cicely; they were a party
of eight, without counting the cook and the Indians.

At first Cicely remained in much the same state, she recognized no one
but Jack.

Jack continued to be his mother's most constant adorer; he climbed often
into her lap, and, putting his arms round her neck, "loved" her with his
cheek against hers, and with all his little heart; he came trotting up
many times a day, to stroke her face with his dimpled hand. Cicely
looked at him, but did not answer. After ten days in the beneficent
forest, however, her strength began to revive, and their immediate fears
were calmed. One evening she asked for her grandfather, and when he came
hastily in and bent over her couch, she smiled and kissed him. He sat
down beside her, holding her hand; after a while she fell into a sleep.
The old man went softly out, he went to the camp-fire, and made it
blaze, throwing on fresh pine-cones recklessly.

"Sixty-five in the shade," remarked Hollis.

"This Northern air is always abominable. Will you make me a taste of
something spicy? I feel the need of it. Miss Bruce,--Eve--Cicely knows
me!"

Eve looked at his brightened face, at the blazing fire, the rough table
with the tumblers, the flask, and the lemons. Hollis had gone to the
kitchen to get hot water.

"She knows me," repeated the judge, triumphantly. "She sent for me
herself."

Paul now appeared, and the good news was again told. Paul had just come
from Port aux Pins. After establishing them at Jupiter, he had been
obliged to return to town immediately, and he had remained there closely
occupied for more than a week. He sat down, refusing Hollis's proffered
glass. The nurse came out, and walked to and fro before Cicely's lodge,
breathing the aromatic air; this meant that Cicely still slept. Eve had
seated herself a little apart from the fire; her figure was in the
shadow. Her mind was filled with but one thought: "Cicely better? Then
must I tell her?" By-and-by the conversation of the others came to her.

"Hanging is too good for them," said the judge.

"But wasn't it supposed to be a chance shot?" remarked Hollis. "Not
intentional, exactly?"

"That makes no difference. You may call it absolute chance, if you like;
but the negro who dares to lift a pistol against a white man should not
be left alive five minutes afterwards," declared the old planter,
implacably.

"You'd ought to have lived in the days of religious wars," drawled
Hollis. "I don't know anything else carnivorous enough to suit you."

"You must be a Quaker, sir! Tennant feels as I do, he'd shoot at sight."

"Oh no, he wouldn't," said Hollis. "He ain't a Southerner."

"Tennant can speak for himself," said the judge, confidently.

"I'd shoot the man who shot my brother," answered Paul. "I'd go down
there to-morrow--I should have gone long ago--if I thought there was the
least chance of finding him." A dark flush rose in his face. "I'm
afraid--even if it was an unintentional shot--that I should want to
kill that man just the same; I should be a regular savage!"

"Would you never forgive him?" asked Eve's voice from the shadow.

"Blood for blood!" responded Paul, hotly. "No, not unless I killed him;
then I might."

Eve rose.

Paul got up. "Oh, are you going?" But she did not hear him; she had gone
to her lodge. He sat down again. She did not reappear that night.

The next morning she went off for a solitary walk. By chance her steps
took the direction of a small promontory that jutted sharply into the
lake, its perpendicular face rising to a height of forty feet from the
deep water below; she had been here several times before, and knew the
place well; it was about a mile from the camp. As she sat there, Paul's
figure appeared through the trees. He came straight to her. "I have been
looking for you, I tried to find you last night." He paused a moment.
"Eve, don't you see what I've come for? Right in the midst of all this
grief and trouble I've found out something. It's just this, Eve: I love
you."

She tried to rise, but he put his hand on her shoulder to keep her where
she was. "Oh, but I do, you needn't doubt it," he went on, with an
amused smile--amused at himself; "in some way or other the thing has
come about, I may say, in spite of me. I never thought it would. But
here 'tis--with a vengeance! I think of you constantly, I can't help
thinking of you; I recognize, at last, that the thing is unchangeable,
that it's for life; have you I must." The words were despotic, but the
tone was entreating; and the eyes, looking down upon her, were
caressing--imploring. "Yes, I'm as helpless as any one," Paul went on,
smiling as he said it; "I can't sleep, even. Come, take me; I'm not such
a bad fellow, after all--I really think I'm not. And as regards my
feeling for you, you need not be troubled; it's strong enough!"

She quailed under his ardor.

"I haven't spoken before because there has been so much to do," Paul
continued; "there has been Cicely, and then I've been harassed about
business; I've been in a box, and trying to get out. Besides, I wasn't
perfectly sure that my time had come." He laughed. "I'm sure now." He
took her in his arms. "Don't let us make any delays, Eve; we're not so
young, either of us. Not that you need be afraid that you're to be the
less happy on that account; I'll see to that!"

She broke from him.

But again he came to her, he took her hands, and, kneeling, laid his
forehead upon them. "I will be as humble as you like; only--be good to
me. I long for it, I must have it."

A sob rose in her throat. He sprang up. "Don't do that! Why, I want to
make you absolutely happy, if I can. We shall have troubles enough, and
perhaps we shall have sorrows, but at least we shall be together; you
must never leave me, and I will do all I can to be less rough. But on
your side there's one thing, Eve: you must love me." These last words
were murmured in her ear.

She drew herself away from him. The expression of her face was almost
like death.

"You look as though you were afraid of me! I thought you loved me, Eve?"

"I do."

"Pretend you are a man, then, long enough to say 'yes' without any more
circumlocution. We will be married at Port aux Pins. Then we can take
care of Cicely together."

"I shall never marry."

"Yes, you will."

"I do not wish to leave Cicely."
