called his attention to the groom, he laughed a little, and well he
might. "Don't mind him," he murmured; "he is deaf."

In earlier conversations he had rarely spoken of himself, and, when he
had, it had been in that remote fashion which leaves the personal
pronoun at the door. There is nothing better qualified to weary the
indifferent than the speech in which the I jumps out; and knowing this,
he knew too that that very self-effacement before one whose interest is
aroused excites that interest to still higher degrees. The Moi seul est
haïssable is an old maxim, one that we apprehend more or less to our
cost no doubt, and after many a sin of egotism; but when it is learned
by rote, few others serve us in better stead. In Roland's relations
with Justine thus far it had served him well. It had filled her mind
with questions which she did not feel she had the right to ask, and in
so filling it had occupied her thoughts with him. It was through arts of
this kind that Machiavelli earned his fame.

But at present circumstances had changed. She had placed her hand in
his; she had avowed her love. The I could now appear; its welcome was
assured. And as they drove along the sand-hills she told him of herself,
and drew out confidences in exchange. And such confidences! Had the
groom not been deaf they might have given him food for thought. But they
must have satisfied Justine, for when they reached the hotel again her
eyes were so full of meaning that, had Mrs. Metuchen met her in a pantry
instead of on the verandah, she could have seen unspectacled that the
girl was fairly intoxicated--drunk with that headiest cup of love which
is brewed not by the contact of two epiderms, but through communion of
spirit and unison of heart.

That evening, when supper was done, Mrs. Metuchen, to whom any breath of
night was synonymous with miasmas and microbes, settled herself in the
parlor, and in the company of her friends from School Lane discussed
that inexhaustible topic--Who Was and Who Was Not.

But the verandah, deserted at this hour by the consumptives, had
attractions for Justine, for Roland as well; and presently, in a corner
of it that leaned to the south, both were seated, and, at the moment,
both were dumb. On the horizon, vague now and undiscerned, the
peach-blossoms and ochres of sunset had long since disappeared; but from
above rained down the light and messages of other worlds; the sky was
populous with stars that seemed larger and nearer than they do in the
north; Venus in particular shone like a neighborly sun that had strayed
afar, and in pursuit of her was a moon, a new one, so slender and
yellow you would have said, a feather that a breath might blow away. In
the air were the same inviting odors, the scent of heliotrope and of
violets, the invocations of the woodlands, the whispers of the pines.
The musicians had been hushed, or else dismissed, for no sound came from
them that night.

Roland had not sought the feverish night to squander it in
contemplation. His hand moved and caught Justine's. It resisted a
little, then lay docile in his own. For she was new to love. Like every
other girl that has passed into the twenties, she had a romance in her
life, two perhaps, but romances immaterial as children's dreams, and
from which she had awaked surprised, noting the rhythm yet seeking the
reason in vain. They had passed from her as fancies do; and, just as she
was settling down into leisurely acceptance of her cousin, Roland had
appeared, and when she saw him a bird within her burst into song, and
she knew that all her life she had awaited his approach. To her he was
the fabulous prince that arouses the sleeper to the truth, to the
meaning, of love. He had brought with him new currents, wider vistas,
and horizons solid and real. He differed so from other men that her mind
was pleasured with the thought he had descended from a larger sphere.
She idealized him as girls untrained in life will do. He was the lover
unawaited yet not wholly undivined, tender-hearted, impeccable,
magnificent, incapable of wrong--the lover of whom she may never have
dreamed, yet who at last had come. And into his keeping she gave her
heart, and was glad, regretting only it was not more to give. She had no
fears; her confidence was assured as Might, and had you or I or any
other logician passed that way and demonstrated as clearly as a = a
that she was imbecile in her love, she would not have thanked either of
us for our pains. When a woman loves--and whatever the cynic may
affirm, civilization has made her monandrous--she differs from man in
this: she gives either the first-fruits of her affection, or else the
semblance of an after-growth. There are men, there are husbands and
lovers even, who will accept that after-growth and regard it as the
verdure of an enduring spring. But who, save a lover, is ever as stupid
as a husband? Man, on the other hand, is constant never. Civilization
has not improved him in the least. And when on his honor he swears he
has never loved before, his honor goes unscathed, for he may never yet
have loved a woman as he loves the one to whom he swears.

With Justine this was the primal verdure. Had she not met Roland
Mistrial, she might, and in all probability would, have exhibited
constancy in affection, but love would have been uncomprehended still.
As it was, she had come into her own; she was confident in it and
secure; and now, though by nature she was rebellious enough, as he
caught her hand her being went out to him, and as it went it thrilled.

"I love you," he said; and his voice was so flexible that it would have
been difficult to deny that he really did. "I will love you always, my
whole life through."

The words caressed her so well she could have pointed to the sky and
repeated with Dona Sol:

    "Regarde: plus de feux, plus de bruit. Tout se tait.
    La lune tout à l'heure à l'horizon montait:
    Tandis que tu parlais, sa lumière qui tremble
    Et ta voix, toutes deux m'allaient au coeur ensemble:
    Je me sentais joyeuse et calme, ô mon amant!
    Et j'aurais bien voulu mourir en ce moment."

But at once some premonition seemed to visit her. "Roland," she
murmured, "what if we leave our happiness here?"

And Roland, bending toward her, whispered sagely: "We shall know then
where to find it."




VI.


New York meanwhile, in its effeminateness, had forgotten the snow, and
was listening to the sun. And the day after the return from Aiken, as
Roland, in accordance with an agreement of which the locus sigilli had
a kiss for token, went down to knock at Mr. Dunellen's office door, the
sky was as fair as it had been in the South. Yet to him it was
unobtrusive. His mind was occupied with fancies that had a birth, a
little span of life, and which in passing away were succeeded by others
as ephemeral as themselves--thoughts about nothing at all that came and
went unnoticed: a man he had met in Corfu, and whom a face in the street
recalled; the glisten of silk in a window that took him back to
Japan;--but beneath them was a purpose settled and dominant, a
resolution to trick Fate and outwit it--one which, during the journey
from Aiken, had so possessed him that, in attending to the wants of Mrs.
Metuchen or in ministering to Justine, at times he had been
quasi-somnambulistic, at others wholly vague. But now, as he gave his
card to an office-boy, to all outward intent he was confident and at
ease; he picked up a paper and affected to lose himself in its columns.
Presently the boy returned, and he was ushered into the room which he
had previously visited. On this occasion Mr. Dunellen was not seated,
but standing, his back to the door. As Roland entered he turned, and the
young man stepped forward, his hand outstretched.

To his contentment, and a little also to his surprise, in answer to that
outstretched hand Honest Paul extended his, and Roland had the pleasure
of holding three apparently docile fingers in his own; but in a moment
they withdrew themselves, and he felt called upon to speak.

"Mr. Dunellen," he began, with that confident air a creditor has who
comes to claim his due, "Mr. Dunellen, I have ventured to interrupt you
again. And again I am a suppliant. But this time it is of your daughter,
not of my father, that--"

He hesitated, and well he might. Mr. Dunellen, who had remained
standing, and who in so doing had prevented Roland from sitting down,
now assumed the suspicious appearance of one who detects an unpleasant
smell; his features contracted, and for no other reason, apparently,
than that of intimidating the suppliant in his prayer.

But Roland was not to be abashed; he recovered himself, and continued
glibly enough: "The matter is this. I am sincerely attached to your
daughter, and I am come to ask your consent to our marriage."

"That is the purpose of your visit, is it?"

"It is."

"My daughter is aware of it, I suppose?"

"She is."

"And she consented, did she?"

"Perfectly."

"H'm! My daughter has made a mistake. I told her as much last night.
There can be no question of marriage. You will do me the favor to let
the matter drop."

"I am hot a rich man, Mr. Dunellen, but--"

"So I am informed. But that has nothing to do with it. There are other
things that I take into consideration, and in view of them I insist that
this matter be dropped."

"Mr. Dunellen, I love your daughter; I have reason to believe that she
cares for me. We became engaged a few days ago. I came here now to ask
your consent. If you refuse it, I have at least the right to ask what
your objection is."

"Rather unnecessary, don't you think?"

"I cannot imagine, sir, what you mean." And Roland, holding himself
unaffectedly straight, without the symptom of a pose, looked the old man
in the eyes.

That look Mr. Dunellen returned. "Take a seat," he said; and, motioning
Roland to a chair, he sat down himself.

"All this is needless," he announced; "but since you are anxious for an
explanation, I will give it. In the first place, when you were at my
house you remember that my nephew Dr. Thorold happened in. The other day
I mentioned to him that you were at Aiken. He then informed me of a
certain incident in your career, one which you have not forgotten, and
of which I do not care to speak. I may say, however, that it utterly
precludes the possibility of any further intercourse between my daughter
and yourself."

And the old man, still gazing at his guest, added: "This explanation
should, it seems to me, suffice." But he made no attempt to rise, or to
signify that the interview was at an end, and Roland, who was shrewd,
interpreted this in his own favor. "He is not altogether positive," he
reflected, "but he can be so to-morrow," and with a show of shame that
did him credit he hung his head.

"I had thought the incident to which you refer was forgotten," he
murmured, penitently enough.

"Forgotten? Do you suppose Thorold forgets? Do you suppose any man could
forget a thing like that--a sister's death, a mother's insanity? No, you
did not think it was forgotten. What you thought was this: you thought
that my nephew would hesitate to speak; and indeed even to me for ten
years he has kept silent. But now--there, you need not fear a criminal
charge. It was that you feared once, I understand, and it was on that
account you went abroad. At this date, of course, no proof is possible;
and, even were it otherwise, a charge would not be brought. Linen of
that kind is better washed at home."

"Mr. Dunellen, if you could know! It is the regret of my life."

"That I can believe; but I believe also that our natures never vary. We
may mould and shape them to our uses, but beneath the surface they
remain unchanged. I say this parenthetically. In regard to this incident
there are in one particular certain excuses you might allege--youth for
instance, inexperience, common attraction, love even. If you did, I
could enter into them. I have been young myself, and I have no wish to
imply that through the temptations of youth I passed unscathed. The man
who asserts he has reminds me of the horseman who declares he has never
been thrown. Nor because your victim happened to be my niece am I
actuated by retrospective indignation. I am too old for that; and,
moreover, the incident is too stale. No: my reason for forbidding my
daughter to receive you, as I have done, is this: the man that can
seduce a girl, and then, to conceal the effect, permit her to be
butchered by a quack, especially when he could have protected her by
marriage--that man, Mr. Mistrial, I tell you very plainly, is a
scoundrel, and being a scoundrel will never be anything else." And as
Honest Paul made this assertion he stood up and nodded affirmatively at
his guest.

"You are very hard, Mr. Dunellen."

"I may be, but so is justice."

"If I could tell you all. It was so sudden, so unpremeditated even, at
the first idea of a possibility of a catastrophe I lost my head."

"It was your honor you lost."

"Yes, and for years I have tried to recover it."

"That I am glad to learn, and I hope you have succeeded; but--"

"And will you not aid me?"

"In my sight you can never appear an honest man."

At this reproach, Roland, who had sat like Abjection, one hand
supporting his head, his eyes lowered and his body bent, sprang to his
feet.

"There are several forms of honesty," he exclaimed, "and frankness I
believe is counted among them. That you evidently possess. Let me
emulate you in it. I intend that your daughter shall be my wife. If you
don't care to come to the wedding your presence can be dispensed with."
And without any show of anger, but with an inclination of the head that
was insolent in its deference, he picked up his hat and left the room.

Presently he found himself in the street. "Who is ever as stupid as a
wise man?" he queried, and laughed a little to himself--"unless"--and he
fell to wondering whether Dunellen could have told his daughter all. On
the corner a cab was loitering; he hailed and entered it. A little later
he was ringing at the door of Honest Paul's abode.

Yes, Miss Dunellen was at home. And as the servant drew the portière to
the drawing-room aside, Roland was visited by that emotion the gambler
knows who waits the turning of a card. Another second, and the
expression of the girl's face would tell him what the future held. The
drawing-room, however, happened to be untenanted, and as he paced its
spacious splendors he still wondered was she or was she not informed. In
a corner was a landscape signed Courbet--a green ravine shut down by
bluest sky. The coloring was so true, it jarred. In another was a
statue--a cloaked and hooded figure of Death supporting a naked girl. As
he contemplated it, he heard the tinkle of the portière rings. It was
she, he knew; he turned, and at once his heart gave an exultant throb;
in her eyes was an invitation; he put his arms about her, and for a
moment held her so.

She does not know, he told himself, and to her he murmured, "I have
come to say good-bye."

"Wait, Roland." She led him to a seat. "Wait; I spoke to father last
night; he has some objection--"

"I told you I was poor--"

"It is that, I suppose; he did not say--"

"He will never consent, unless--"

"There, Roland. I know him best." She closed her eyes, and as he gazed
at her it seemed to him she had done so to shut some memory out. "It is
money with him always; you do not know--" And between her parted lips
she drew a breath he heard. "Last night he told me I must never see you
again. Hitherto his will has ruled: it is my turn to-day."

With this there came a splendor to her he had never marked before; she
looked defiant, and resolute as well. There was strength in her face,
and beauty too.

"He is unjust," she added. "It was my duty to tell him, and there my
duty ends. I am not a school-girl. I know my mind; better, perhaps,
than he knows his own. I have obeyed him always. It is easy to obey, but
now I will act for myself."

"He will never give his consent," Roland repeated.

"He may keep it, then."

Within her something seemed to rankle; and as Roland, mindful of the
slightest change in her expression, detected this, he wondered what it
could portend.

"Sweetheart," he ventured, "I have these two arms; they are all in all
for you."

At this Justine awoke at once. "If I did not know it--feel it; if I were
not sure of it, do you think I would speak to you as I do? No, Roland. I
have something of my own; when we are married, believe me, his consent
will come at once."

"It is not his consent I want--you know that; it is yours."

"You have it, Roland; I gave it you among the pines."

"Where is your hat, then? Let us go."

He caught her to him again, then suffered her to leave the room. And as
the portière which he had drawn that she might pass fell back into its
former folds, for a moment he stood perplexed. Somewhere a screw was
loose, he could have sworn. But where? Could it be that Honest Paul was
supporting a separate establishment? or did Justine think he wished to
mate her to some plutocrat of his choice? The first supposition was
manifestly absurd; the second troubled him so little that he turned and
occupied himself with the naked girl swooning in the arms of Death.

"I am ready, Roland." It was Justine, bonneted and veiled, buttoning her
glove.

"I have a cab," he answered, and followed her to the door.




VII.


When Roland and Justine re-entered the drawing-room that afternoon they
found Mr. Dunellen there. With him was Guy Thorold.

During the infant days of photography family groups were so much in
vogue that anyone with an old album in reach can find them there in
plenty. They are faded, no doubt; the cut of the garments is absurd;
even the faces seem to have that antique look which is peculiar to the
miniatures of people dead and departed: yet the impression they convey
is admirably exalting. That gentleman in the wonderful coat must have
been magnificent in every sphere of life: his mere pose, his attitude,
is convincing as a memoir. And that lady in the camel's-hair shawl--how
bewitchingly lovable she surely was! There is her daughter, who might be
her niece, so prettily does she seem inclined to behave; and there is
the son, a trifle effaced perhaps, yet with the makings of a man
manifest even in that effacement. Oh, good people! let us hope you were
really as amiable as you look: the picture is all we have of you; even
your names are forgot; and truly it were discomforting to have the
impression you convey disturbed in its slightest suggestion. We love you
best as you are; we prefer you so. I, for one, will have none of that
cynicism which hints that had a snap camera caught you unprepared the
charm would disappear.

Yet now, in the present instance, as Mr. Dunellen and his nephew stood
facing Roland and Justine, a photographer who had happened there could
have taken a family group which would in no manner have resembled those
which our albums hold.

"I told you last night," Mr. Dunellen was shrieking, "that I forbade you
to see that man."

And Justine, raising her veil, answered, "He was not my husband then."

"Husband!" The old man stared at his daughter, his face distorted and
livid with rage. "If you--"

But whatever threat he may have intended to make, Thorold interrupted.

"He is married already," he cried; "he is no more your husband than I."

At this announcement Mr. Dunellen let an arm he had outstretched fall to
his side; he turned to Thorold, and Justine looked wonderingly in
Roland's face.

"What does he mean?" she asked.

Roland shrugged his shoulders, "God knows," he answered. "He must be
screwed."

"You are married," Thorold called out. "You needn't attempt to deny it
here."

"I don't in the least: this lady has just done me the honor to become my
wife."

"But you have another--you told me so yourself."

Roland, who had been really perplexed, could not now conceal a smile.
He remembered that he had indeed told Thorold he was married, but he had
done so merely as an easy way of diverting the suspicions which that
gentleman displayed.

Justine, still looking at him, caught the smile.

"Why don't you speak?" she asked.

"What is there to say?" he answered. "It is false as an obituary."

"Then tell him so."

But for that there was no time. Mr. Dunellen, trained in procedure, had
already questioned Thorold, and found that save Mistrial's word he had
nothing to grapple on.

"Leave the house, sir," he shouted, and pointed to the door.

"When he goes, father, I go too."

"Then go." And raising his arms above his head as though to invoke the
testimony of heaven, he bawled at her, "I disown you."

"There's Christian forbearance," muttered Mistrial; and he might have
asserted as much, but Justine had lowered her veil.

"Come," she said.

And as she and her husband passed from the room the old man roared
impotently "I disinherit you--you are no longer my child."

"Didn't you tell me he had been used to having his own way?" Roland
asked, as he put Justine in the cab; and without waiting for an answer
he told the driver to go to the Brunswick, and took a seat at her side.

In certain crises the beauty of an old adage asserts itself even to the
stupidest. Roland had taken the bull by the horns and got tossed for his
pains; yet even while he was in the air he kept assuring himself that he
would land on his feet. The next morning the memory of the old man's
anger affected him not at all. Passion, he knew, burns itself out, and
its threats subside into ashes. The relentless parent was a spectacle
with which the stage had made him so familiar that he needed no
prompter's book to tell him that when the curtain fell it would be on a
tableau of awaited forgiveness. And even though Mr. Dunellen and the
traditional father might differ, yet on the subject of wills and
bequests he understood that the legislature had in its wisdom prevented
a testator from devising more than one-half his property to the
detriment of kith and of kin. If things came to the worst Justine would
get five million instead of ten; and five million, though not elastic
enough, as Jones had said, to entertain with, still represented an
income that sufficed for the necessaries of life. On that score his mind
was at rest. Moreover, it was manifestly impossible for Justine's father
to live forever: there was an odor of fresh earth about him which to his
own keen nostrils long since had betokened the grave; and if meanwhile
he chose to keep the purse-strings drawn, Justine had enough from her
mother's estate to last till the strings were loosed.

Rents are high in New York, and to those bred in certain of its manors
there is a choice between urban palaces and suburban flats. But Paris is
less fastidious. In that lovely city a thousand-franc note need not be
spent in a day; and in Italy the possibilities of the lira are great.

In view of these things, Roland and his wife one week later took ship
and sailed for France.




PART II.




I.


To those that have suffered certain things there are forms of
entertainment which neither amuse nor bore, but which pain. And this
evening, as Justine sat in the stalls, the play which was being given,
and which, as plays go, was endurable enough, caused her no pleasure, no
weariness even, only a longing to get away and be alone. Now and then a
shudder visited her, her hand tightened on her fan, and at times she
would close her eyes, dull her hearing, and try to fancy that her
girlhood was recovered, that she was free again, that she was dead, that
her husband was--anything imaginable in fact, save the knowledge that
she was there, side-by-side with him, and that presently they would
return together to the hideousness of their uptown flat.

She had been married now a little more than two years, and during the
latter portion of that time life had held for her that precise dose of
misery which is just insufficient to produce uncertainties of thought in
a mind naturally exalted. There had indeed been moments in which the
possibility of insanity had presented itself, and there had been moments
also in which she would have welcomed that possibility as a grateful
release: but those moments had passed, the possibility with them; and
this evening as she sat in the stalls her outward appearance was much
such as it had been two years before. But within, where her heart had
been, was a cemetery.

Among our friends and acquaintances there are always those who to our
knowledge have tombstones of their own. But there are others that evolve
a world--one that glows, subsides, and dies away unknown to any save
themselves. The solitudes of space appall; the solitudes of the heart
can be as endless as they. In those which Justine concealed, a universe
had had its being and its subsidence; a universe with gem-like hopes for
stars--one in which the sun had been so eager its rays had made her
blind. There had been comets gorgeous and tangential as aspirations ever
are; there had been the colorless ether of which dreams are made; and
for cosmic matter there was love. But now it was all dispersed; there
was nothing left, one altar merely--the petrefaction of a prayer erected
long since in the depths of her distress, and which for conscience' sake
now and then she tended still.

And now, as the play at which she assisted unrolled before her unseeing
eyes, one by one scenes from another drama rose unsummoned in its stead.
First was the meeting with Mistrial at Tuxedo, then the episode at
Aiken, the marriage that followed, and the banishment that ensued: a
banishment, parenthetically, which at the time being she was powerless
to understand. Her father's anger had indeed weighed on her; but it was
not wholly that--she was too much in love to let it be more than a
shadow on her delight; nor was it because of unfamiliar lands: it was
that little by little, through incidents originally misunderstood and
then more completely grasped, the discovery, avoided yet ever returning,
came to her, stayed with her, and made her its own--that the man whom
she had loved and the man whom she had married were separate and
distinct.

The psychologist of woman has yet to appear, and if he keep us waiting
may it not be because every woman he analyzes has a sister who differs
from her? The moment he formulates a rule it is over-weighted by
exceptions. Woman often varies, the old song says; but not alone in her
affections does she do so: she varies in temperament as well. And, after
all, is it not the temperament that makes or mars a life? Justine, in
discovering that the man she married and the man whom she loved were
separate and distinct, instead of being disgusted with herself and with
him, as you, madam, might have been, tried her utmost to forget the
lover and love the husband that had come in his place. In this effort
she had pride for an aid. The humiliation which the knowledge of
self-deception brings is great, but when that knowledge becomes common
property the humiliation is increased. The world--not the world that
ought to be, but the world as it is--is more apt to smile than condole.
There may be much joy in heaven over the sinner that repents: on earth
the joy is at his downfall. And according to the canons we have made for
ourselves, Justine, in listening to the dictates of her heart instead of
to those of her father, had sinned, so grievously even that that father
had bid her begone from his sight. She was aware of this, and in
consequence felt it needful to hold her head the higher. And so for a
while she made pride serve as fig-leaf to her nakedness. If abashed at
heart, at least the world should be uninformed of that abashment.

This effort on her part Mistrial hindered to the best of his ability.
Whether or not he loved her, whether save himself he was capable of
loving anyone, who shall say? Men too are difficult to decipher. There
were hours when after some écart he would come to her so penitent, so
pleasant to the eye, and seemingly so afflicted at his own misconduct,
that Justine found the strength--or the weakness, was it?--to forgive
and to forget anew.

During this period they lived not sumptuously, perhaps, but in that
large and liberal fashion which requires a ponderable rent-roll to
support; and at that time, however Mistrial comported himself elsewhere,
in her presence he had the decency to seem considerate, and affectionate
as well. But meanwhile, through constant demands, the value of the
letter of credit into which he had converted the better part of her
mother's estate became impaired. Retrenchment was necessary, and that is
never a pleasant thing. The man that passes out of poverty into wealth
finds the passage so easy, so Lethean even, that he is apt to forget
what poverty was; but when, as sometimes happens, he is obliged to
retrace his steps, he walks bare of foot through a path of thorns. To
count gold, instead of strewing it, is irritating to anyone not a sage,
and Mistrial, who was not a sage, was irritated; and having, a wife
within beck and call he vented that irritation on her.

It was at this time that Justine began to feel the full force of the
banishment. That her husband was, and in all probability would continue
to be, unfaithful to her, was a matter which she ended by accepting with
a degree of good sense which is more common than is generally supposed.
At first she had been indeed indignant, and when in that indignation her
anger developed into a heat that was white and sentiable, Mistrial
experienced no remorse whatever, only a desire to applaud. He liked the
force and splendor of her arraignment; it took him out of himself; it
made him feel that he was appreciated--feared even; that a word from
him, and a tempest was loosened or enchained.

But what is there to which we cannot accustom ourselves? Justine ended,
not by a full understanding of the fact that man is naturally
polygamous; but little by little, through channels undiscerned even by
herself, the idea came to her that, if the man she loved could find
pleasure in the society of other women, it was because she was less
attractive than they. It was this that brought her patience, the more
readily even in that, at her first paroxysm, Mistrial, a trifle alarmed
lest she might leave him, had caught her in his arms, and sworn in a
whisper breathed in her ear, that of all the world he loved her best.

Madam, you who do the present writer the honor to read this page are
convinced, he is sure, that your husband would rather his tongue cleaved
to the roof of his mouth than break the vow which bound you to him. But
you, madam, have married a man faithful and tried. You know very well
with what dismay he tells you of Robinson's scandalous conduct, and you
know also how he pities Robinson's poor little wife; yet when, in your
sorrow at what that poor little woman has to put up with, you are
tempted to go and condole with her, pause, madam--Mrs. Robinson may be
equally tempted to condole with You.

There are--in Brooklyn, in Boston, and in other recondite regions--a
number of clever people who have been brought up with the idea that
Divorce was instituted for just such a thing as this. Yet in one hundred
cases out of a hundred-and-one a woman who appeals to the law never does
so because her husband has broken a certain commandment. If his
derelictions are confined to that particular offence she may bewail,
and we all bewail with her; but if she wants the sympathy of judge, of
jury, and of newspaper-public too, she must be prepared to allege other
grievances. She must show that her husband is unkind, that he is
sarcastic, that he is given to big words and short sentences; in brief,
that he has developed traits which render life in common no longer to be
endured.

It was traits of this description that Mistrial unexpectedly developed,
and it was during their development that the sense of banishment visited
Justine. She was unable to make further transference of her affections;
the lover had disappeared; the husband she had tried to love in his
place had gone as well. For sole companion she had a man who had worn a
mask and dropped it; where he had been considerate, he was selfish; when
he spoke, it was to find fault; now that he could no longer throw her
money out of the windows, he threw his amiability in its stead. By day
he was taciturn, insultingly dumb; at night he was drunk.

Mistrial had served his novitiate where the pochard is rare. It is we
that drink, and with us the English, the Slavs, and Teutons; but in the
East and among the Latins sobriety is less a matter of habit than of
instinct. And in lands where man prefers to keep his head clear,
Mistrial, at that age, which is one of the most impressionable of all,
had seen no reason to lose his own. But presently the small irritations
of enforced economy affected his manners, and his habits as well. He
took to absinthe in the morning, and, as he happened to be in France, he
drank at night that brutal brandy they give you there. Not continuously,
it is true. There were days when the man for whom Justine had forsaken
her home returned so completely she could almost fancy he had never
gone. Then, without a word of warning, at the very moment when Faith was
gaining fresh foothold, the tragi-comedy would be renewed; he was off
again, no one knew whither, returning only when the candle had been
utterly consumed.

Such things are enough to affect any woman's patience, and Justine's
became wholly warped. It was unaccountable to her that he could treat
her as he did. She watched the gradual transformation of the perfect
lover into the perfect beast with a species of sorrow--a dual sorrow in
whose component parts there was pity for herself and for him as well.

The idea that he had married her uniquely because of her father's
wealth, that he was impatient to get it, and that when he got it he
would squander all he could on other women, occurred to her only in the
remotest ways, and then only through some expression which, in his
exasperation of the diminishing bank account and the unreasonable time
which it took her father to forgive her, fell from him now and then by
chance. For Mistrial had indeed counted on that forgiveness. He had even
counted on receiving it by cable, of finding that it had preceded and
awaited them before their ship reached France. And when, to use an idiom
of that land, it made itself expected, he was confident that the longer
it delayed the completer it would be. At the utmost he had not dreamed
that the old man would detain it more than a few months; but when
twenty-four went by, and not only no forgiveness was manifest, but
through his own improvidence the funds ran low,--so low, in fact, that
unless forgiveness were presently forthcoming they would be in straits
indeed,--he dictated a letter, penitent and humble, one in which
impending poverty stood out as clearly as though it had been engraved,
and which it revolted her to send. Its inspiration, however, must have
been patent to Mr. Dunellen, for that gentlemen's reply, expressed in
the third person, was to the effect that if his daughter returned to him
he would provide for her as he had always done, but in no other
circumstances could he assist.

Had Justine been anyone but herself she might have acted on the
invitation: but the tone of it hurt her; she was annoyed at having
permitted herself to send the letter Mistrial had dictated, and to which
this was the reply. Her pride was up--all the more surely because she
knew her father had been right; and there is just this about pride--as a
matter of penitence it forces us to suffer those consequences of our own
wrongdoing which through a simple confession it were easy to escape. To
Justine such confession was impossible. She had left her father in the
full certainty that he was wrong, and when she found he was not, death
to her were preferable to any admission of the grievousness of her own
mistake.

At this juncture Mistrial's aunt assisted at the funeral of a sister
spinster, sat in a draught, caught cold in her throat, and, the glottis
enlarging, strangled one night in her bed. By her will the St. Nicholas
Hospital received the bulk of her property. The rest of her estate was
divided among relatives; to her nephew Roland Mistrial--3d no
longer--was bequeathed the princely sum of ten thousand dollars in cash.
At the news of this munificence Roland swore and grit his teeth. Had his
circumstances been different it is probable that the ten thousand,
together with some enduring insult, he would have flung after her to the
eternal purgatory where he prayed she had gone. As it was, the modicity
of the bequest sobered him. Through some impalpable logic he had counted
but little on any inheritance at all; he had indeed hoped vaguely that
she might die and leave him what she had; and it may even be that, had
he learned that her will was in his favor, and had a suitable
opportunity presented itself, in some perfectly decorous manner he would
have hastened his aunt's demise. But concerning her will he had no
information; moreover, during his visit to the States the old lady saw
as little of him as she could help; and when she did see him, in spite
of gout and the ailments of advancing years there was such a rigidity in
her manner that the nephew told himself she might live long enough to
see him hanged. As a consequence he had expected nothing. But when the
news of her death reached him, together with the intelligence that
instead of the competence he might possibly have had he was mentioned
merely to the tune of ten thousand dollars,--this outrage, in
conjunction with Dunellen's relentlessness, sobered him to that degree,
that for a day and a night he gave himself to a debauch of thought. From
this orgy he issued with clearer mind. It may be--though the idea
advanced is one that can only be hazarded--it may be that had his aunt
disposed of her estate in his favor he would there and then have washed
his hands of the job he had undertaken, and left his wife to her own
devices. As it was, he saw that, to keep his head above water, the only
possible plank was one that Mr. Dunellen might send in his reach; and it
was with the knowledge that before the present scanty windfall
disappeared some conquest of Honest Paul's affection should be attempted
that he determined to return to New York. Once there again, who knew
what might happen? Surely, if the preceding year Mr. Dunellen had
strength for violence, to the naked eye he was even then manifestly
infirm. There was no gainsaying the matter--he at least would not live
very long. As to the disposition of his property after death Mistrial
was still assured. Whatever his attitude might be for the present, in
the end he could not wholly disinherit Justine--at least one-half the
property must come to her. On that fact Mistrial would have staked his
life; after all, it was the one hope he had left; and an ultimate hope,
we all know, is the thing we part with last.

Thereupon he recovered himself. He became amiable and considerate--a
change of demeanor which gave Justine a chill. She consented
nevertheless to the return trip, and the day after arriving called at
her father's house. When she got back to the hotel where they had put up
Mistrial was waiting for her. In answer to his questions she told him
that her father was willing to receive her, but her alone. "You must
take your choice," he had said, she repeated--"You must take your
choice."

"And what is that choice?" Mistrial had asked.

"I have made it," she answered, "and by it I will abide."

But at this he had expostulated; and when, seeing at last what he
meant--understanding that he would have her feign a compliance for the
sake of coin which at her father's death she could come back and share
with him--when, divining the infamy of his thought, she refused, he had
struck her in the face.

Because a man is not Chesterfield, it does not follow he is Sykes.
Mistrial had never struck a woman before, and in this initial assault it
is probable that he was actuated less by a desire to punish than by that
force which overmasters him who has ceased to be master of himself. By
instinct he was not a gentleman; for some time past he had not even
taken the trouble to appear one; yet at that moment, dancing in derision
before him, he saw the letters that form the monosyllable Cad. The sense
of abasement he displayed was so immediate and sincere, that Justine,
who, trembling with anger and disgust, stood staring in his face, read
it there and understood. Instead of separating them forever, the blow
reunited their hands. During the week that followed they were nearer to
each other than they had been for months before. The reconciliation was
seemingly complete. Mistrial made himself the lover again, and Justine
permitted herself to be wooed. They left their hotel and found a
flat--a furnished apartment in the neighborhood of Central Park; and
there the storm departing placed a rainbow in its stead.

A rainbow, however, is not a fixture, and this one went its way. While
Justine closed her eyes Mistrial's were alert. He had no intention of
suffering her to be disinherited, and though it was well enough to rely
on the courts it was better still not to be forced to do so. Rather than
run an avoidable risk he would have abandoned his wife, and forced her
through that abandonment to return to her father's house, convinced that
afterwards he could win her together with the estate back again to him.
Meanwhile another interview could not in any way jeopardize the chances
to which he clung. On the contrary, it might be highly serviceable. Mr.
Dunellen, he had learned, was much broken; he had given up his practice,
the the world even, everything in fact save perhaps the devil that was
in him, and sat uncompanioned in the desolate and spacious emptiness of
his house. It was only natural that he should wish to coerce his
daughter into obedience; yet now that he saw she was steadfast, her
pride unhumbled still, it was not improbable that he would yield; it was
presumable even that he was then waiting, weak of heart, prepared at her
next advance to welcome and forgive.

