do they go? Do they starve to death?"

"They generally go to the poorhouse, my daughter."

"Oh, mamma!" quavered the little voice, "don't you think that is
dreadful?"

"Very dreadful, darling! Now go to sleep."

To sleep! How could she, with the grim doors of the home for the
county paupers yawning blackly to receive her? All through the night
was the horror upon her, and to this day she remembers the sickening
thrill that swept over her while playing with a little friend, when
the thought occurred:

"If this girl's mother knew that we were going to the poorhouse, she
would not let her play with me."

Little by little the impression wore off, aided in the dissipation by
the sight of numerous rolls of bills which papa occasionally drew from
his pocket. But not once in all that time did the child relax the
strict guard set upon her lips, and sob out her fear to her mother.
She does not now know why she did not do it, except that she could
not.

An otherwise judicious father talks over all his business difficulties
with his seven-year-old son. The grown man does not know what a strain
the anxiety and uncertainty of his father's ventures are to the embryo
financier. Not long ago the father announced to him:

"Well, Harold, that man I was telling you of has failed--lost his
money--and one thousand dollars of mine have gone with it."

The boy's white, set face would have alarmed a more observant man.

"Oh, papa! what shall we do!"

"Get along somehow, my boy!" was the unsatisfactory answer.

Then, as the boy sadly and slowly left the room, the man to whom one
thousand dollars were no more than one dime to this anxious child,
explained, laughingly, to a friend, that "that little fellow was
really wonderful; he understood business, and was as much interested
in it as a man of forty could be."

We fathers and mothers have no right to make our children old before
their time. Each age has its own trials, which are as great as any one
person should bear. We know that the troubles that come to our babies
are only baby troubles, but they are as large to them as our griefs
are to us. A promised drive, which does not "materialize," proves as
great a disappointment to your tiny girl as the unfulfilled promise of
a week in the country would to you, her sensible mother. Of course our
children must learn to bear their trials. My plea is that they may not
be forced to bear our anxieties also. If a thing is an annoyance to
you, it will be an agony to your little child, who has not a tenth of
your experience, philosophy and knowledge of life.

There is something cowardly and weak in the man or woman who has so
little self-control that he or she must press a child's tender
shoulders into service in bearing burdens. Teach your children to be
careful, teach them prudence and economy, but let them be taught as
children.

The forcing of a child's sympathies sometimes produces a hardening
effect, as in the case of a small boy whose mother was one of the
sickly-sentimental sort. She had drawn too often upon her child's
sensibilities.

"Charlie," she said, plaintively, to her youngest boy, "what would you
do if poor mamma were to get very sick?"

"Send for the doctor."

"But, Charlie, suppose poor, dear mamma should die! Then, what would
you do?"

"I'd go to the funeral!" was the cheerful response.

To my mind this mother had the son ordained for her from the beginning
of the world.

Many boys are all love and sympathy for their mothers. Mamma appeals
to all that is tender and chivalrous in the nature of the man that is
to be. The maternal tenderness ought to be too strong to impose upon
this sacred feeling.

Perhaps one of the prettiest of Bunner's "Airs from Arcady" is that
entitled, "In School Hours," in which he thus describes the woe of the
thirteen-year-old girl when she receives the cruel letter from the boy
of her admiration. The poet tells us this sorrow "were tragic at
thirty," and asks, "Why is it trivial at thirteen!"

   "Trivial! what shall eclipse
     The pain of our childish woes?
   The rose-bud pales its lips
     When a very small zephyr blows.
   You smile, O Dian bland,
     If Endymion's glance is cold:
   But Despair seems close at hand
     To that hapless thirteen-year old!"




CHAPTER XXI.

OUR YOUNG PERSON.


I well remember a girl's tearful appeal to me when she was stigmatized
and reproved for her "giddy youth!" "It is not my fault that I was
born young! And I am not responsible for the fact that I entered upon
existence seventeen, instead of seventy, years ago. At all events, it
was not a sin even if I was guilty of such a folly!"

Perhaps we older people are too prone to forget that youth is not a
sin to be condemned, or even a folly to be sneered at. "Wad some power
the giftie gie us" to remember that we were not always cool-headed,
clear-seeing and middle-aged! Trouble and responsibility come so soon
to all, that we err in forcing young heads to bow, and strong
shoulders to bend, beneath a load which should not be laid upon them
for many years. As we advance in age, our weaknesses and temptations
change, and no longer take the form of heedlessness, intolerance,
extravagance, and most trying of all to the critical and dignified
observer,--freshness.

We may describe this last-named quality somewhat after the fashion of
the little boy who defined salt as "What makes potatoes taste bad
when they don't put any on 'em!"

So "freshness" is that which makes youth delightful by its absence.

Unfortunately, it is almost inseparable from this period, and while
there are girls, and even boys, in whom the offending quality is
nearly, if not entirely, lacking, they are almost as the red herring
of the wood, and the strawberry of the sea, in nursery rhyme.

Freshness takes many and varied forms, the most common being that of
self-conceit and the desire to appear original and eccentric in
feelings, moods, likes and dislikes. Like the fellows of the club of
which Bertie, in "The Henrietta," was an illustrious member, the
average boy winks, nods, looks wise and "makes the other fellows think
that he is a Harry of a fellow,--but he isn't!"

The desire to be considered worldly-wise--"tough"--is rampant in the
masculine mind between the ages of fifteen and twenty. The boy who has
been to a strict preparatory boarding-school and is just entering upon
his college course, whose theatre-goings have been limited to the
"shows" to which his father has given him tickets, or to which he has
escorted his mother or sisters, and whose wildest dissipations have
consisted in a surreptitious cigarette and glass of beer, neither of
which he enjoyed, but both of which he pretended to revel in for the
sake of being "mannish,"--will talk knowingly of "the latest
soubrette," "a jolly little ballet-dancer," "the wicked ways of this
world," and "the dens of iniquity in our large cities." Dickens tells
us that "when Mr. Feeder spoke of the dark mysteries of London, and
told Mr. Toots that he was going to observe it himself closely in all
its ramifications in the approaching holidays, and for that purpose
had made arrangements to board with two old maiden aunts at Peckham,
Paul regarded him as if he were the hero of some book of travel or
wild adventure, and was almost afraid of such a slashing person."

Why it is considered manly to be "tough" is one of the unsolved
mysteries of the boyish mind. Any uneducated, weak fool can go wrong.
It takes a man to be strong enough to keep himself pure and good.

Another "fresh" characteristic of this age is the pretence of doubt. A
fellow under twenty-one is likely to have doubts, to find articles in
the creed of his church "to which he cannot agree. That kind of thing
is well enough for women and children, but for a man of the
world,"--and then follows an expressive pause, accompanied by a shrug
of the shoulders and lift of the brows.

With a girl this trying age is often given over to sentimental musings
and blues. She is convinced that nobody understands her, her mother
least of all, that she is too sensitive for this harsh world, that she
will never receive the love and consideration due her. Cynicism
becomes her main characteristic, and she bitterly sneers at friendship
and gratitude, declaring that true, disinterested affection exists
only in the imagination. Is it any wonder that mothers sometimes
become discouraged? Poor mothers! whose combined comfort and distress
is the knowledge that the time is fast approaching when their boys and
girls will blush for shame at the remembrance of their "salad days,
when they were green in judgment."

Parents have need of vast patience, and let them, before uttering
condemnation, carefully consider if they themselves are not a little
to blame for the state of their children's minds; if over-indulgence
and unwise consideration have not had much to do with the trouble. One
excellent woman has made of her son an insufferable boor by constantly
deferring to him, no matter in what company, and by allowing him to
see that she considers his very ordinary intellect far above the
average. In a parlor full of educated men and women she went out of
her way to tell what remarkable views "Charlie" had upon certain
religious subjects, and, after attracting the attention of the
assembled company, called upon "Charlie" to give vent to his
sentiments that all present might observe how original they were.
Whereupon the hulk of a son, consequential and patronizing, discoursed
bunglingly, and at length, on his opinions and beliefs, until he was
inflated to speechlessness by conceit, and his hearers disgusted into
responsive silence.

If your girl is clever, do not tell her so, or repeat to others in her
presence her bright observations. But, on the other hand, do not snub
her, or allow her to feel that her intellect is of an inferior order.
The best way to make a fool of the Young Person is to tell him that he
is a fool. Stimulate your child by all the love and appreciation at
your command, but let it be intelligent appreciation, not blind
admiration or prejudiced disapproval. Do you recollect how you felt
and dreamed and gushed when you were a girl, the pages of sentimental
twaddle (as you now call it) which you confided to the diary which you
burned in disgust at twenty-one? Do you remember how genuine your
distresses then seemed? You can smile at the girl you once were, but
still you find it in your heart to pity her, poor, silly child,
foolishly sobbing late into the night over some broken friendship or
imaginary heart-trouble. Perhaps she had no mother to whom to go, or
perhaps her mother "did not understand." See that you do not make the
same mistake, but, while you recognize the folly of the trouble, think
of the heartache back of it all. When your girl was a tiny child, you
petted and comforted her as she wailed over her broken dolly. Was that
grief so much more sensible than this, or do you love her less now?
When your four-year-old boy came to you with his stories of what he
would do when he was "a great big man," you drew him close to you and
encouraged him to "talk it all out." Now, when he is a head taller
than you, and tells you of his hopes and aspirations, you sigh that
"boys are so fresh and visionary!"

It is not necessary to condone or to condemn all. What would you say
to the gardener who let your choice young vines run in straggling
lines all over the ground and in all directions,--or who ruthlessly
cut off all the stalks within an inch of the roots? Young people need
training, encouragement and urging in some directions, repression and
pruning in others. Above all, they need tender forbearance.

Another trying feature of the Young Person is his wholesale
intolerance of everything and everybody. Only himself and perhaps one
or two of his own friends escape his censure. These being covered
with the mantle of his approbation, are beyond criticism. This habit
of uncharitableness is such an odious one that our boy or girl should
avoid it carefully.

If you would acquire the custom of saying no evil, it is advisable to
guard against thinking it. Difficult as it may seem, it is quite
possible to put such a guard upon the mind as to accustom it to look
on the best side of persons and things. Nobody is wholly bad, or, at
least, few people are so entirely given over to disagreeable traits as
the Young Person would lead us to think. Only a few days ago a young
man was speaking in my presence of another fellow, who was, as far as
I know, a respectable, well-bred boy.

"Oh!" said the Young Person, when his name was mentioned, "he is no
good."

"Why not?" queried I. "Is he bad?"

"He is too much of a fool to be bad."

"Is he such a fool? I thought he was considered rather bright?"

"Well, he thinks himself awfully bright. He is a regular donkey."

"Are his manners disagreeable?"

"No-o-o, I don't know that they are. In fact, I believe he prides
himself on the reputation he has acquired for gentlemanliness."

"Then, what is so disagreeable about him?"

"Perhaps," dryly suggested the father of the Young Person, "he is not
particularly fond of you, and that it why you disapprove of him."

"No, sir!" was the indignant rejoinder, "that is not it. To be sure,
he never troubles himself to pay me any marked attention. Nor do I
care to have him do so. He is a low fellow."

Deny it as he might, the reason my young friend disliked the "low
fellow" was because the tiny thorn of neglect had wounded his vanity
and pricked and rankled into a fester. This is human nature, but as we
advance in years, we appreciate that people may be really excellent in
many respects, and yet have no great fondness for us. Youth still has
much to learn.

Ten girls whom I know formed a society for the repression of unkind
criticism. The members pledged themselves to try, as far as in them
lay, to speak kindly of people when it was possible for them to do so,
and when impossible to say nothing. At first it was hard, for
self-conceit would intrude, and it is hard for one girl to praise
another who dislikes her. Little by little the tiny seed of effort
grew into a habit of kindly speech.

What volumes it argues for a woman's gentle ladyhood and Christianity
when it can truthfully be said of her, "She never speaks uncharitably
of anybody!"

Let us older people set an example of tolerance and charitable speech.
Too often our children are but reproductions, perhaps somewhat highly
colored, of ourselves, our virtues, and our faults. And this is
especially true of the mothers. John Jarndyce gives us a word of
encouragement when he says--

    "I think it must somewhere be written that the virtues of the
    mothers shall occasionally be visited upon the children, as
    well as the sins of the father."

Such being the case, let us children of a larger growth show such
tact, unselfishness and tender charity, that our children, seeing
these virtues, may copy them, and thereby aid in removing the
disagreeable traits of, at least, our Young Persons.




CHAPTER XXII.

OUR BOY.


The following is a bona fide letter. It is written in such genuine
earnest, and so clearly voices the sentiments of many young men of the
present day, that I am glad to have an opportunity to answer it.

1. Why should I, a fast-growing, hard-working youth of eighteen, who
go every morning, four miles by street-car, to my office, and the same
back at night, often so weary and faint as to be hardly able to sit,
not to say stand, be obliged to give up my seat to any flighty, flashy
girl who has come down-town to shop, or frolic, or do nothing? Isn't
she as able to "swing corners" holding on to a strap as I? and to hold
her own perpendicular in the aisle?

2. Why isn't it as rude for her and her companions to giggle and whisper
and stare, the objects of amusement being her fellow-passengers, as it
would be for me and my fellows? Yet we would be "roughs"--and she and
her crew must be "treated with the deference due the gentler sex." And
why am I a boor if I do not give her my seat, while she is considered a
lady if she takes it without thanking me?

3. Are girls, take them as a rule, as well-bred as boys?

Judging by appearances, it would seem that many men share in the
feeling expressed in your first query. I am not a "flighty, flashy
girl," but I crossed the city the other night in a horse-car in which
there were twenty men and two women--one of them being myself. I
stood, while the score of men sat and lounged comfortably behind their
newspapers. They were tired after a hard day's work, and would have
been wearied still more by standing. A well woman was worn out and a
delicate woman would have been made ill, by this exertion.

My dear boy! let me ask you one question. Why should you, no matter
how tired you are, spring eagerly forward to prevent your sister from
lifting a piece of furniture, or carrying a trunk upstairs? Why not
let her do it? I can imagine your look of indignant surprise. "Why?
because she is a woman! It would nearly kill her!" Exactly so; but you
will swing the burden on your broad, strong shoulders, bear it to its
destination, and the next minute run lightly down-stairs,--perhaps, as
you would say, "a little winded," but not one whit strained in nerve
or muscle.

There lies the difference. The good Lord who made us women had His own
excellent reason for making us physically weaker than men. Perhaps
because, had we their strength, we would be too ambitious. However
that may be, men, as the stronger sex, should help us in our weakness.
Standing in the horse-car that is jostling over a rough track, holding
on with up-stretched arm to a strap and "swinging corners" during a
two-mile ride, would do more harm to a girl of your own age than you
would suffer were you to stand while making a twenty-mile trip. For
humanity's sake, then, if your gallantry does not prompt you to make
sacrifice, do not allow any woman, old or young, to "hold her
perpendicular in the aisle" when you can offer her a seat and while
you have a pair of capable legs upon which to depend for support.

A true gentleman is always unselfish, be he old or young, rested or
weary; and such being the case, the foreign day-laborer, in blue
blouse and hob-nailed boots, who rises and gives a lady his place in
car or omnibus, is the superior of the several-times-a-millionaire, in
finest broadcloth, spotless linen, patent leathers and silk hat, who
sits still, taking refuge behind his newspaper, in which he is
seemingly so deeply absorbed as to be blind to the fact that a woman,
old enough to be his mother, stands near him. With one gentlemanliness
is instinctive, with the other it is, like his largest diamond stud,
worn for show, and even then is a little "off color." I hope it is
hardly necessary to remind you that true courtesy does not stay to
distinguish between a rich or a poor woman, or to notice whether she
is a pretty young girl, fashionably attired, or a decrepit laundress
taking home the week's wash. She is a woman! That should be sufficient
to arouse your manliness.

This is the truthful reply to query No. 1. Not a pleasant answer
perhaps, but an honest one. To make the advice more palatable, take
it with a plentiful seasoning of gratitude for the gift of physical
strength which makes you a man.

And now for No. 2. Here you are right, and your suggestion has had my
serious consideration. Possibly, thoughtlessness may account for the
foolish "whispering and giggling" you mention, but stares and amused
comments upon fellow-passengers are nothing less than acts of
rudeness, be they perpetrated by boy or girl. But two wrongs never yet
made a right, and because a girl is discourteous is no reason why you
should put yourself on the same footing with her, and fail to observe
towards her "the deference due" all women. If you are in a car with a
profane drunkard, you do not copy his actions, or, if obliged to
address him, adopt his style of language.

The glaring defect in the manners and voice of the American girl is
that she is "loud." German Gretchen or Irish Bridget is more likely to
speak softly in public than her rich young mistress. It is often a
shock to the observer when sweet sixteen seated opposite him in the
horse-car, begins conversation with her companion. Her face is gentle,
her whole mien refined,--but, her voice! She talks loudly and laughs
constantly. One beautiful woman whom I have met,--wealthy and
well-educated, always reminds me of a peacock. You doubtless have seen
and heard peafowls often enough to understand the comparison. The
graceful motion and gorgeous plumage demand our admiration, until the
creature, becoming accustomed to our presence, raises his voice in a
piercing call, something between a hoot and a shriek, which causes us
to cover our ears. After such an experience, we turn with relief to
the sober hens who are contented to cluck peacefully through life,
reserving their cackling until they have done something of which to
boast, and wish to inform us that the egg they have laid is at our
disposal.

As a rule the girl who is prononcée in a public conveyance is not
well-bred, and she who laughs loudly and talks noisily, meanwhile
passing comments on those persons who are so unfortunate as to be her
traveling companions, has no claim to the much-abused title of "lady."
But you can hardly compare your manners and those of your friends with
the deportment of low-born, ill-bred girls. I fancy that you would
find that everyone would pronounce sentence as severe upon them as
upon you, were your actions the same.

I have been amazed before this at what I have been told, and at what I
have myself noticed, of the failure of women to thank men who rise and
offer them seats.

It would seem incredible that any person should so far neglect all
semblance of civility as to accept a place thus offered as a matter of
course. It is a kindness on the part of a man, and should always be
met by some acknowledgment. If, when you rise, and lifting your hat,
resign your place to a woman, and she, without a word, accepts it as
her due, your only consolation will be to fall back on the comforting
thought that you have behaved like a gentleman, and that any
discourtesy of hers cannot detract from the merit of your action. You
did not do it for the thanks you might receive, but because it is
right. It is not pessimistic to assert that all through life, we are
working on this principle--not that we may receive the credit for what
we do, but doing good for the good's sake. Do not be so rash as to say
bitterly--"So much for sacrificing my own comfort!" "Catch me giving a
woman my seat again!" and those other foolish, because angry, things
which a vexed boy is tempted to say under such circumstances. Continue
in the good way, hoping that "next time" you may have the pleasure of
doing a favor to a lady who has the breeding to appreciate and be
grateful for an act of courtesy.

Your third question is one difficult to answer. Are girls as well bred
as boys--Yes--and no! Their training lies along different lines. A
few days ago I was talking with a young man who had a grievance. A
girl of his acquaintance had, the night before, been at a reception
which he had also attended. Feeling a little weary she retired to a
comfortable corner of the room, and sat there during the entire
evening. She "did not feel like dancing," and told her hostess "she
would rather sit still." My young friend had a severe headache, but,
although suffering, his appreciation of les convenances would not
allow him to sit down in a secluded niche for fifteen minutes, during
the entire evening. His "grievance" was that had he done this he would
have been voted a boor, while the girl's action was condoned by
hostess and guests. One thing must always be considered--namely, that
a woman's part is, in many points of etiquette, passive. It is the man
who takes the initiative, and who is made such a prominent figure that
all eyes are drawn to him. Have you ever noticed it? Man proposes,
woman accepts. Man stands, woman remains seated. Man lifts his hat,
woman merely bows. Man acts as escort, woman as the escorted. So, when
a man is careless or thoughtless, it is all the more evident. For this
reason, begin as a boy, to observe all the small, sweet courtesies of
life. I often wish there were any one point in which a woman could
show her genuine ladyhood as a man displays his gentlehood by the
management of his hat,--raising it entirely from the head on meeting a
woman, lifting it when the lady with whom he is walking bows to an
acquaintance, or when his man-companion meets a friend, baring his
head on meeting, parting from, or kissing mother, sister or wife.
These, with other points, such as rising when a woman enters the room,
and remaining standing until she is seated, giving her the precedence
in passing in or out of a door, and picking up the handkerchief or
glove she lets fall--are sure indices of the gentleman, or, by their
absence, mark the boor.

But our girl should not think that she can afford to overlook the acts
of tactful courtesy which are her duty as well as her brother's.
Prominent among these she should place the deference due those who are
older than herself. Her temptation is often to exercise a patronizing
toleration toward her elders, and, while she is not actually
disrespectful, she still has the air of a very superior young being
holding converse with a person who has the advantage merely in the
accident of years. Did she realize how ridiculous these very youthful,
foolish manners are, she would blush for herself. She will--when she
has attained the age of discretion.

Another of our girls' mistakes is that of imagining that brusqueness
and pertness are wit. There is no other error more common with girls
from fifteen to eighteen; they generally choose a boy as the butt of
their sarcastic remarks--and, to their shame be it said, they
frequently select a lad who is too courteous to retort in kind.

But these faults in boy and girl alike are evidences of a "freshness"
which wears off as the years roll on, as the green husk, when touched
by the frost, falls away, leaving exposed the glossy brown shell
enclosing the ripe, sweet kernel of the nut.

If this answer to your letter reads like a sermon, pardon one who is
interested in young people, and who, well remembering when she was
young herself, would fain hold out a helping hand to those who are
stumbling on in the path she trod in years gone by.




CHAPTER XXIII.

THAT SPOILED CHILD.


I was the other day one of many passengers in a railroad train in
which a small girl of four or five years of age was making a journey,
accompanied by her mother and an aunt. The child was beautiful, with a
mass of golden curls. Her velvet coat and the felt hat trimmed
elaborately with ostrich plumes were faultless in their style; her
behavior would compare unfavorably with the manners of a young
Comanche Indian. She insisted upon standing in the centre of the
aisle, where she effectually blocked all passage, and, as the train
was going rapidly, ran a great risk of being thrown violently against
the seats. When remonstrated with by her guardians, she slapped her
aunt full in the face, pulled herself free from her mother's
restraining grasp, and, in a frenzy of rage, threw herself down right
across the aisle. There she lay for a full half hour. When her mother
would have raised her to her feet she uttered shriek after shriek,
until her fellow-travelers' ears rang. After this triumph of young
America over the rule and command of tyrannizing mamma, the innocent
babe was allowed to remain prostrate in her chosen resting-place,
while brakemen, conductor and passengers stepped gingerly over the
recumbent form. She varied the monotony of the situation by occasional
wrathful kicks in the direction of her mother or at some would-be
passer-by.

"It is best to let sleeping dogs lie," sighed the mother of this
prodigy to her sister. "When she gets one of these attacks (and she
has them quite often) I just leave her alone until she becomes
ashamed of it. She can't bear to be crossed in anything."

When I stepped from the train at my destination the humiliation for
which her attendants longed was still a stranger to the willful child.

Trouble-fearing persons have a belief to the effect that it is, in the
long run, easier to let a child have his own sweet way until he has
attained the age of discretion,--say at fourteen or fifteen
years,--when his innate sense of propriety will convince him of the
error of his ways. Such a theorist was a dear old gentleman who, many
years ago, remonstrated with me upon the pains and time I spent in
training my first born. The children of this aged saint had been
reared according to the old-fashioned notion, but when they had babies
of their own they departed from it, and the rising generation had full
and free sway. Their grandparent, albeit frequently the victim of
their pranks, loved them dearly. He now assured me that--

"While they are regular little barbarians, my dear, still they have
all that freedom and wild liberty which should accompany childhood.
They eat when and what they please, go to bed when they feel like it,
rise early or late as the whim seizes them, and know no prescribed
rules for diet and deportment. But they come of good stock and will
turn out all right."

They did come of good, honest parents, and this may have been what saved
their moral, while their physical being has suffered from the course
pursued during their infancy and early youth. There were six children;
now there are four. One died when a mere baby from cold contracted from
running about the house in winter weather in her bare feet. She was so
fond of doing this that her mother could not bear to put shoes and
stockings on the dear little tot. The other, a sweet, affectionate boy,
suffered at regular intervals during the fifteen years of his life from
acute indigestion. Directly after one of these attacks, he, as was his
habit, followed the cravings of an undisciplined appetite, and attended,
late at night, a pea-nut-and-candy supper, almost immediately after
which he was taken violently ill and died in three days. The four
remaining children do not, all told, possess enough constitution to make
one strong man. They are all delicate and constant sufferers.

In this case judicious care might have averted the above-mentioned
evils. Would the game have been worth the candle?

This is a question which parents cannot afford to disregard. It is
expedient for them to consider seriously whether or not the stock on
both sides of the family, of which their children come, is so good as
to warrant neglect or to justify over-indulgence.

Our mother-tongue does not offer us a phrase by which we may express
what we mean by l'enfant terrible. But our father-land produces many
living examples which may serve as translations of the French words.
Such an one was the small boy who, while eagerly devouring grapes,
threw the skins, one after another, into the lap of my new light silk
gown. His mother entered a smilingly gentle protest in the form of--

"Oh, Frankie dear! do you think it is pretty to do that?" to which he
paid as much attention as to my look of distress. The reader who
believes in "lending a hand" in righting the minor evils of society
must have more temerity and a larger share of what the boy of the
period denominates "nerve" than I possess, if she interferes with a
child while in the presence of the mother. It is as unsafe as the
proverbial act of inserting the digits between the bark and the tree.
It is, moreover, a liberty which I should never permit the dearest
friend to take. In fact, so strong is my feeling on this subject, that
I should have allowed "Frankie dear" to make a fruit-plate and
finger-bowl of the shimmering folds of my gown rather than utter a
feeble objection before his doting mamma.

The practice of spoiling a child is unjust to the little one and to
the parent. The latter suffers tenfold more than if she, day by day,
inculcated the line-upon-line, protest-upon-protest system. That she
does not do this is sometimes due to mistaken kindness, but oftener to
self-indulgence or dread of disagreeable scenes, that brings a harvest
of misery as surely as he who sows the wind will reap the whirlwind.

A spoiled child is an undutiful child. This must be true. The constant
humoring and considering of one's whims will, in course of time,
produce a stunted, warped and essentially selfish character, that
considers the claims of gratitude and affection as nil compared with
the furtherance of personal aims and desires. Never having learned
self-control or obedience, parents and their timid remonstrances must
go to the wall before the passions or longings which these same
parents in days gone by have fostered. "Only mother" or "nobody but
father" are phrases that are so frequent as to become habitual, while
the "you yourself used to let me do this or that" is the burden of
many an excuse for misdemeanors. And after all the years of parental
indulgence, what is your reward? The spring is gone from your own
being, while your children will not let you live your life over again
in theirs.

We all recall Æsop's fable of the young man about to be executed, who
begged on the scaffold for a last word with his mother, and when the
wish was granted, stooped to her and bit off the tip of her ear, that
the pain and disfigurement might serve as a constant reminder of the
hatred he felt for the over-indulgence and lack of discipline which
had brought him to this shameful death. The hurt which the mother's
heart feels at the thought of causing her child's downfall is pain too
great to be endured.

The letting-alone principle is a short-sighted one. Even in infancy a
spoiled child may make such a nuisance of himself as to produce a
disagreeable impression upon all who know him,--an impression which it
takes many years of model behavior to eradicate. It is actual cruelty
to throw upon the child the work the parent should have performed. It
is easy to train the growing plant, but after the bark is tough and
the fibre strong it is a terrible strain upon grain and vitality to
bend it in a direction to which it is unaccustomed.

Much of the insubordination to be found in the children of the present
day is due to the growing habit of entrusting the little ones to
servants whose own wills and tempers are uncontrolled and untrained. A
child knows that his nurse has no right to insist upon obedience, and
he takes advantage of the knowledge until he is a small tyrant who is
conscious of no law beyond that of his own inclinations.

The prime rule in the training of children should be implicit
obedience. The child is happier for knowing that when a command or
prohibition is stated there is no appeal from the sentence, and that
coaxing avails naught. Uncertainty is as trying to small men and women
as to us who are more advanced in the school of life.

So much depends upon this great principle of obedience, that it is
marvelous that parents ever disregard it. I have known in my own
experience three cases in which it was impossible to make a child take
medicine, and death has followed in consequence. One of the most
painful recollections I have is of seeing a child six years old forced
to swallow a febrifuge that was not unpalatable in itself. The mother,
father, and nurse held the struggling boy, while the physician pried
open the set teeth and poured the liquid down his throat. Under these
circumstances it is probable that the remedy proved worse than the
disease.

I have not space to do more than touch upon the great influence of
early training on the future life. All my days I have been thankful
for the gentle but firm hand that, as a child, taught me moral
courage, self-denial and submission. The temptations of life have been
more easily resisted, the trials more lightly borne, because of the
years in which I was in training for the race set before me. We do not
want to enter our children on the course as unbroken, "soft" and wild
colts, whose spirits must be crushed before they will submit to the
work assigned them. They may be young, yet strong; spirited, yet
gentle; patient, yet resolute.




CHAPTER XXIV.

GETTING ALONG IN YEARS.


"Does your husband think a full beard becoming to him?" asked I of a
young wife.

Her twenty-three-year-old lord, whose good-looking face had been
adorned and made positively handsome by a sweeping brown moustache,
had, since our last meeting, "raised" an uneven crop of reddish
whiskers that shortened a face somewhat too round, and altogether
vulgarized what had been refined.

"No, indeed! He knows, as I do, that it disfigures him. It is a
business necessity to which he sacrificed vanity. The appearance of
maturity carries weight in the commercial world. His beard adds ten
years to his real age."

Being in an audience collected to hear an eminent clergyman last
summer, I heard an astonished gasp behind me, as the orator arose:

"Why he has shaved off his beard! How like a round oily man of God he
looks!"

"True," said another, "but fifteen years younger. He is getting along
in years, you see, and wants to hide the fact."

The last speaker sat opposite to me at the hotel table that day, and
in discussing the leader of the morning service, repeated the phrase
that had jarred upon my ear.

"It is fatal to a clergyman's popularity and to a woman's hopes to be
suspected of getting along in years."

I told the story of my bearded youth and asked:

"Where then is the safe ground? When is it altogether reputable for
one to declare his real age?"

"Oh, anywhere from thirty to forty-five! Before and after that term
life can hardly be said to be worth the living."

I smiled, as the rattler meant I should. But the words have stayed by
me, the more persistently that observation bears me out in the
suspicion that the merry speaker only uttered the thought of many
others.

"The years of man's life are three-score-and-ten," says the Word of
Him who made man and knew what was in man. The wearer of a body that,
with tolerably good treatment ought to last for seventy years, must
then, according to popular judgment, spend nearly half of that time in
learning how to play his part in the world, barely a fifth in carrying
out God's designs in and for him, and then remain for a quarter of a
century a cumberer of the home and earth. Such waste of strength, time
and accumulated capital would be cried out upon as wretched
mismanagement were the scheme of human devising.

The French proverb that "a woman" (and presumably a man) "is just as
old as she chooses to be," comes so much nearer what I believe was our
Creator's wise and merciful purpose in giving us life, that I turn
thankfully and hopefully to this side of the subject.

The best way to avoid growing old is not to be afraid of getting along
in years. To come down to "hard pan"--whence originates this
unwholesome dread of ripeness and maturity? It surely is not a fear of
death that makes us blanch and shrink back at the oft-recurring
mile-stones in the journey of life that brings all of us nearer the
goal towards which we are bound.

I once heard a young woman say, seriously:

"I hope that when I am forty-five, I may quietly die. I do not dread
death, but I do shudder at the idea of being laid on the shelf."

I do not mean to be severe when I assert that, nine times out of ten,
it is the victim's own fault that she is pushed out of the way, or, as
our slangy youth of to-day put it, "is not in it." It is your business
and mine to be in it, heart, soul, and body, and to keep our places
there by every effort in our power. A fear of that which is high, or
mental or physical inertia, or, to be less euphemistic and more exact,
laziness--should not deter us. This object is not to be accomplished
by adopting juvenile dress and kittenish ways. We should beautify old
age, not accentuate it by artificial means. When your roadster,
advanced in years and woefully stiff in the joints, makes a lame
attempt to imitate a gamboling colt, and feebly elevates his hind
legs, and pretends to shy at a piece of paper in the road, you smile
with contemptuous amusement and say:

"The old fool is in his dotage!"

But if he keeps on steadily to his work, doing the best he can, your
comment is sure to be somewhat after this fashion:

"This is truly a wonderful horse! He is just as good as on the day I
bought him, fifteen years ago!"

Let us determine to face the situation, when it is necessary, calmly
and sensibly. For, unlike the aforesaid horse, we do not expect to be
knocked on the head with a club, or quietly chloroformed out of
existence at a stated period. We would do well to follow our
optimistic principles, and look at the many benefits which, in the
words of the old catechism, "do accompany and flow from" this state.
If you have lived well, fifty is better than thirty, as the
sun-and-frost-kissed (not bitten) Catawba grape is better than the
tiny green sphere of June, and as maturity is nearer perfection than
crude youth. The tedious routine of the life-school, the hours spent
in acquiring knowledge for which you had no immediate use, are past.
The wisdom that must come with time and experience is yours.

Another of the great advantages in being near the top of the mountain
