It is very easy, for she happens to be here and I have just seen her."

"Oh, I know she is here!" cried Miss Wimpole.  "I know it to my cost!
She and that--and her son, you know."

"Yes, I knew.  But what is the matter? What is the trouble?"

"Oh, Richard!  You are so sensitive about anything that has to do with
Mrs. Harmon!"

"I?"  The colonel looked at her quietly.

"Yes.  Of course you are, and it is quite natural and I quite
understand, and I do not blame you in the least.  But such a dreadful
thing has happened.  I hardly know how I can tell you about it.  It is
really too dreadful for words."

Wimpole sat down and fanned himself slowly with the Paris Herald.  He
was still rather pale, for his nerves had been shaken.

"Rachel, my dear," he said mildly, "don’t be silly.  Tell me what is the
matter."

Miss Wimpole walked slowly once round the room, stopped at the window
and looked through the blinds, and at last turned and faced her brother
with all the energy of her seasoned character.

"Richard," she began, "don’t call me silly till you hear.  It’s awful.
That boy suddenly appeared in a shop where Sylvia was buying a hat, and
paid for it and vanished."

"Eh?  What’s that?" asked Wimpole, opening his eyes wide.  "I don’t
think I quite understood, Rachel.  I must have been thinking of
something else, just then."

"I daresay you were," replied his sister, severely.  "You are growing
dreadfully absent-minded.  You really should correct it.  I say that
when Sylvia was buying a hat, just now, Archie Harmon suddenly appeared
in the shop and spoke to us.  Then he asked Sylvia whether she liked the
hat she was trying on, and she said she did.  Then he went off, and when
we wished to pay we were told that the hat had been paid for by the
young gentleman.  Now--"

The colonel interrupted and startled his sister by laughing aloud at
this point.  He could not help it, though he had not felt in the least
as though he could laugh at anything for a long time, when he had
entered the room.  Miss Wimpole was annoyed.

"Richard," she said solemnly, "you surprise me."

"Does it not strike you as funny?" asked the colonel, recovering.

"No.  It is--it is almost tragic.  But perhaps," she continued, with a
fine point of irony, "since you make so light of the matter, you will be
good enough to return to Mrs. Harmon the price of the hat purchased by
her half-witted boy for your ward."

"Don’t call him half-witted, Rachel," said the colonel.  "It’s not so
bad as that, you know."

"I cannot agree with you," replied his sister. "Only an idiot would
think of rushing into a shop where a lady is buying something, and
suddenly paying for it.  You must admit that, Richard.  Only an idiot
could do such a thing."

"I have done just such a thing myself," observed Wimpole, thoughtfully,
for he remembered the miniature he had bought for Helen that afternoon.
"I suppose I was an idiot, since you say--"

"I said nothing of the kind, my dear!  How can you accuse me of calling
you an idiot? Really, Richard, you behave very strangely to-day!  I
don’t know what can be the matter with you.  First, you manage to make
Sylvia cry her eyes out--Heaven knows what dreadful thing you said to
her!  And now you deliberately accuse me of calling you an idiot.  If
this sort of thing goes on much longer, there will be an end of our
family happiness."

"This is not one of my lucky days," said the colonel, resignedly, and he
laid down the folded newspaper.  "How much did the hat cost? I will
return the money to Mrs. Harmon, and explain."

Miss Wimpole looked at him with gratitude and admiration in her face.

"It was eighty francs," she answered.  "Richard, I did not call you an
idiot.  In the first place, it would have been totally untrue, and in
the second place, it would have been--what shall I say?  It would have
been very vulgar to call you an idiot, Richard.  It is a vulgar
expression."

"It might have been true, my dear, but I certainly never knew you to say
anything vulgar.  On the other hand, I really did not assert that you
applied the epithet to me.  I applied it to myself, rather
experimentally.  And poor Archie Harmon is not so bad as that, either."

"If he is not idiotic--or--or something like it, why do you say ’poor’
Archie?"

"Because I am sorry for him," returned the colonel.  "And so are you,"
he added presently.

Miss Wimpole considered the matter for a few seconds; then she slowly
nodded, and came up to him.

"I am," she said.  "Richard, kiss me."

That was always the proclamation of peace, not after strife, for they
never quarrelled, but at the close of an argument.  It was done in this
way.  The colonel rose, and stood before his sister; then both bent
their heads a little, and as their cool grey cheeks touched, each kissed
the air somewhere in the neighbourhood of the other’s ear.  They had
been little children together, and their mother had taught them to ’kiss
and make friends,’ as good children should, whenever there had been any
difference; and now they were growing old together, but they had never
forgotten, in nearly fifty years, to ’kiss and make friends’ when they
had disagreed.  What is childlike is not always childish.

The colonel resumed his seat, and there was silence for a few minutes.
The folded newspaper lay on the table unread, and he looked at it,
scarcely aware that he saw it.

"I think Archie Harmon must have fallen in love with Sylvia," he said at
last.  "That is the only possible explanation.  She has grown up since
he saw her last, and so has he, though his mind has not developed much,
I suppose."

"Not at all, I should say," answered Miss Wimpole.  "But I wish you
would not suggest such things.  The mere idea makes me uncomfortable."

"Yes," assented the colonel, thoughtfully. "We will not talk about it."

Suddenly he knew what he was looking at, and he read the first
head-lines on the paper, just visible above the folded edge.  The words
were ’Harmon Sane,’ printed in large capitals. In a moment he had spread
out the sheet.

The big letters only referred to a short telegram, lower down.  "It is
reported on good authority that Henry Harmon, who has been an inmate of
the Bloomingdale Insane Asylum for some years, is recovering rapidly,
and will shortly be able to return to his numerous friends in perfect
mental health."

That was all.  The colonel searched the paper from beginning to end, in
the vain hope of finding something more, and read the little paragraph
over and over again.  There was no possibility of a mistake.  There had
never been but one Henry Harmon, and there could certainly be but one in
the Bloomingdale asylum. The news was so sudden that Wimpole felt his
heart stand still when he first read it, and as he thought of it he grew
cold, and shivered as though he had an ague.

It had been easier to think of Harmon’s possible recovery before he had
seen that scar on Helen’s forehead.  For many years he had borne the
thought that the woman he had silently loved so long was bound to a man
little better than a beast; but it had never occurred to him that she
might have had much to bear of which he had known nothing, even to
violence and physical danger.  The knowledge had changed him within the
last hour, and the news about Harmon now hardened him all at once in his
anger, as hot steel is chilled when it has just reached the cutting
temper, and does not change after that.

The colonel was as honourable a man as ever shielded a woman’s good
name, or rode to meet an enemy in fair fight.  He was chivalrous with
all the world, and quixotic with himself.  He had charity for the ways
of other men, for he had seen enough to know that many things were done
by men whom no one would dare to call dishonourable, which he would not
have done to save his own life.  He understood that such a lasting love
as his was stronger than himself, yet he himself had been so strong that
he had never yielded even to its thoughts, nor ever allowed the longing
for a final union with Helen at all costs to steal upon his unguarded
imagination.

He was not tempted beyond his strength, indeed, and in his apparent
perfection, that must be remembered.  In all those years of his devoted
friendship Helen had never let him guess that she could have loved him
once, much less that she loved him now, as he did her, with the same
resolution to hide from her inward eyes what she could not tear from her
inmost heart.  But it is never fair to say that if a man had been placed
in a certain imaginary position, he might have been weak.  So long as he
has not broken down under the trials and burdens of real life, he has a
right to be called strong.

The colonel set no barrier, however, against the devotion to Helen’s
welfare which he might honourably feel and show.  In day-dreams over old
books he had envied those clean knights of a younger time, who fought
for wives not theirs so openly and bravely, and so honestly that the
spotless women for whom they faced death took lustre of more honour from
such unselfish love. And for Helen’s sake he had longed for some true
circumstance of mortal danger in which to prove once more how well and
silently an honest man can die to save an innocent woman.

But those were dreams.  In acts he had done much, though never half of
what he had always wished to do.  The trouble had all come little by
little in Helen’s existence, and there had not been one great deciding
moment in which his hand or head could have saved her happiness.

Now it seemed as though the time were full, and as if he might at last,
by one deed, cast the balance by the scale of happiness.  He did not
know how to do it, nor whither to turn, but he felt, as he sat by the
table with the little newspaper in his hand, that unless he could
prevent Harmon from coming back to his wife, his own existence was to
turn out a miserable failure, his love a lie, and his long devotion but
a worthless word.

His first impulse was to leave Lucerne that night and reach home in the
shortest possible time.  He would see Harmon and tell him what he
thought, and force from him a promise to leave Helen in peace, some
unbreakable promise which the man should not be able to deny, some sort
of bond that should have weight in law.

The colonel’s nostrils quivered, and his steady grey eyes fixed
themselves and turned very light as he thought of the interview and of
the quiet, hard words he would select.  Each one of them should be a
retribution in itself.  He was the gentlest of men, but under great
provocation he could be relentless.

What would Harmon answer?  The colonel grew thoughtful again.  Harmon
would ask him, with an intonation that would be an insult to Helen, what
right Wimpole had acquired to take Helen’s part against him, her lawful
husband.  It would be hard to answer that, having no right of his own to
fight her battles, least of all against the man she had married.

He might answer by reminding Harmon of old times.  He might say that he
at least resigned the hope of that right, when Harmon had been his
friend, because he had believed that it was for Helen’s happiness.

That would be but a miserably unsatisfactory answer, though it would be
the truth.  The colonel did not remember that he had ever wished to
strike a man with a whip until the present moment.  But the sight of the
cut on Helen’s forehead had changed him very quickly. He was not sure
that he could keep his hands from Harmon if he should see him.  And
slowly a sort of cold and wrathful glow rose in his face, and he felt as
though his long, thin fingers were turning into steel springs.

Miss Wimpole had taken up a book and was reading.  She heard him move in
his chair, and looked up and saw his expression.

"What is the matter with you, Richard?" she enquired, in surprise.

"Why?" He started nervously.

"You look like the destroying angel," she observed calmly.  "I suppose
you are gradually beginning to be angry about Sylvia’s hat, as I was.  I
don’t wonder."

"Oh yes--Sylvia’s hat; yes, yes, I remember."  The colonel passed his
hand over his eyes.  "I mean, it is perhaps the heat.  It’s a warm day.
I’ll go to my room for a while."

"Yes, do, my dear.  You behave so strangely to-day--as if you were going
to be ill."

But the colonel was already gone, and was stalking down the corridor
with his head high, his eyes as hard as polished grey stones, and his
nervous hands clenched as they swung a little with his gait.

His sister shook her head energetically, then slowly and sadly, as she
watched him in the distance.

"How much more gracefully we grow old than men!" she said aloud, and
took up her book again.




                               CHAPTER VI


Helen had not seen the paragraph about Harmon.  She rarely read
newspapers, and generally trusted to other people to learn what they
contained.  The majority read papers for amusement, or for the sort of
excitement produced on nervous minds by short, strong shocks often
repeated.  There are persons who ponder the paper daily for half an hour
in absorbed silence, and then lift up their voices and cackle out all
they have read, as a hen runs about and cackles when she has laid an
egg.  They fly at every one they see, an unnatural excitement in every
tone and gesture, and ask in turn whether each friend has heard that
this one is engaged to be married, and that another is dead and has left
all his money to a hospital.  When they have asked all the questions
they can think of, without waiting for an answer, they relapse into
their normal condition, and become again as other men and women are.
Very few really read the papers in order to follow the course of events
for the mere sake of information. Mrs. Harmon was more or less
indifferent to things that neither directly concerned her nor appealed
to her tastes and sympathies.

Her letters were brought to her before she had left the sitting-room
after the colonel had gone away, and she looked at the addresses on them
carelessly, passing them from one hand to the other as one passes cards.
One arrested her attention, among the half-dozen or so which she had
received.  It was the regular report from the asylum, posted on the
first of the month. But it was thicker than usual; and when she tore
open the envelope, rather nervously and with a sudden anticipation of
trouble, a second sealed letter dropped from the single folded sheet
contained in the first.  But even that one sheet was full, instead of
bearing only the few lines she always received to tell her that there
was no change in her husband’s condition.

There had been a change, and a great one. Since last writing, said the
doctor, Harmon had suddenly begun to improve.  At first he had merely
seemed more quiet and patient than formerly; then, in the course of a
few days, he had begun to ask intelligent questions, and had clearly
understood that he had been insane for some time and was still in an
asylum.  He had rapidly learned the names of the people about him, and
had not afterwards confused them, but remembered them with remarkable
accuracy.  Day by day he had improved, and was still improving.  He had
enquired about the state of his affairs, and had wished to see one or
two of his old friends.  More than once he had asked after his wife, and
had evidently been glad to hear that she was well.  Then he had written
a letter to her, which the doctor immediately forwarded.  So far as it
was possible to form a judgment in the case, the improvement seemed to
promise permanent recovery; though no one could tell, of course, whether
a return to the world might not mean also a return to the unfortunate
habit which had originally unbalanced Harmon’s mind, but from which he
was safe as long as he remained where he was.

It was not easy for Helen to read to the end of such a letter: it shook
in her hands as she went on from one sentence to the next, and the
sealed envelope slipped from her knees to the floor while she was
reading.  When she had got to the end, she stared a moment at the
signature, and then folded the sheet, almost unconsciously, and drew her
nail sharply along the folds, as though she would make the paper feel
what she felt, and suffer as she suffered, in every nerve of her body,
and in every secret fibre of her soul.

She had not believed a recovery possible.  Now that it was a fact, she
knew how utterly beyond probability she had thought it; and immediately
the great problem rose before her, confusing, vast, terrifying.  But
before she faced it she must read Harmon’s letter.

It had fallen to the floor, and she had to look for it and find it and
pick it up.  The handwriting was large, somewhat ornamental, yet heavy
in parts and not always regular.  As she glanced at the address, she
remembered how she had disliked the writing when she had first seen it,
at a time when she had seen much to admire in Harmon himself.  Now she
did not like to touch the envelope on which he had written her name, and
she unreasoningly feared the contact of the sheet it held, as of
something that might defile her and must surely hurt her cruelly.  The
hand that had traced the characters on the paper was the hand that had
struck her and left its mark for all her life. And as she remembered the
rest, an enormous loathing of the man who was still her husband took
possession of her, so that she could not open the letter for a few
moments.

It was at once a loathing of bodily disgust, like a sickness, and a
mental horror of a creature who was so far from her natural nobility
that it frightened her to know how she hated him, and she began to fear
the letter itself, lest it should make some great change in her for
which she should at last hate herself also.  The spasm ran all through
her, as the sight of some very disgusting evil thing violently disturbs
body and mind at the same time.

The temptation to destroy the letter unread came upon her with all
possible force, and the vision of a return to peace was before her eyes,
as though the writing were already burned and beyond her power to
recover.  But that would be cowardly, and she was brave.  With drawn
lips, pale cheeks, and knitted brows she opened it, took out the folded
contents, and began to read.  As though to remind her of the place where
he was, and of all the circumstances from first to last, the name of the
asylum was printed at the head of each sheet in small, businesslike
letters.

She began to read:


MY DEAR HELEN,--You will be surprised to hear directly from me, I
suppose, and I can hardly expect that you will be pleased, though you
are too good not to be glad that I am better after my long illness.  I
have a great many things to write to you, and no particular right to
hope that you will read them.  Will you?  I hope so, for I do not mean
to write again until I get an answer to this letter.  But if you do read
this one, please believe that I am quite in my right senses again, and
that I mean all I say.  Besides, the doctor has written to you.  He
considers me almost ’safe’ now.  I mean, safe to remain as I am.

It is not easy for me to write to you.  You must hate me, of course.
God knows, I have given you reason enough to wish that I might stay here
for the rest of my life.  You are a very good woman, and perhaps you
will forgive me for all I have done to hurt you.  That is the main thing
I wanted to say.  I want to ask your pardon and forgiveness for
everything, from beginning to end.

’Everything’ is a big word, I know.  There has been a great deal during
these many years,--a great deal more than I like to think of; for the
more I think of it, the less I see how you can forgive even the half,
much less forget it.

I was not myself, Helen.  You have a right to say that it was my fault
if I was not myself.  I drank hard. That is not an excuse, I know; but
it was the cause of most of the things I did.  No woman can ever
understand how a man feels who drinks, and has got so far that he cannot
give it up.  How should she?  But you know that most men cannot give it
up, and that it is a sort of disease, and can be treated scientifically.
But I do not mean to make excuses.  I only ask your forgiveness, and in
order to forgive me you will find better excuses for me than I could
invent for myself.  I throw myself upon your kindness, for that is the
only thing I can do.

They say that it would not be quite safe for me to leave the asylum for
another month or two, and I am quite resigned to that; for the life is
quiet here, and I feel quiet myself and hate the idea of excitement.  I
suppose I have had too much of it.

But by and by they will insist upon my leaving, when I am considered
quite cured; and then I want to go back to you, and try to make you
happy, and do my best to make up to you for all the harm I have done
you. Perhaps you think it is impossible, but I am very much changed
since you saw me.

I know what I am asking, dear Helen.  Do not think I ask it as though it
were a mere trifle.  But I know what you are and what you have done.
You could have got a divorce over and over again, and I believe you
could now if you liked.  It is pretty easy in some states, and I suppose
I could not find much to say in defence.  Yet you have not done it.  I
do not know whether you have ever thought of it.

If you think of it now that I want to come back to you and try to do
better, and make you happy, for God’s sake give me another chance before
you take any step. Give me one more chance, Helen, for the sake of old
times.  You used to like me once, and we were very happy at first.
Then--well, it was all my fault, it was every bit of it my fault, and I
would give my soul to undo it.  If you will forgive me, we can try
together and begin over again, and it shall all be different, for I will
be different.

Can we not try?  Will you try?  It will be easy if you will only let us
begin.  It is not as if we should have other troubles to deal with, for
we have plenty of friends and plenty of money, and I will do the rest.
I solemnly promise that I will, if you will forgive me and begin over
again.  I know it must seem almost impossible. It would be quite
impossible for any other woman, though you can do it if you will.

I shall wait for your answer, before I write again, though it will seem
a very long time, and I am very anxious about it.  If it is what I hope
it will be, perhaps you will cable a few words, even one word.
’Forgiven’ is only one word.  Will you not say it?  Will you not give me
one chance more?  Oh, Helen dear, for God’s sake, do!  H.


Helen read the letter to the end, through every phrase and every
repetition.  Then the fight began, and it was long and bitter, a battle
to death, of which she could not see the issue.

The man wrote in earnest, and sincerely meant what he said.  No one
could read the words and doubt that.  Helen believed all he had written,
so far as his intention was concerned, but she could not cut his life in
two and leave out of the question the man he had been, in order to
receive without fear or disgust the man he professed himself to be.
That was too much to ask of any woman who had suffered what she had of
neglect, of violence, of shame.

’No one could tell,’ the doctor wrote, ’whether a return to the world
might not mean also a return to the unfortunate habit’--no one could
tell that.  And Harmon himself wrote that most men could not give it up,
that it was a disease, and that no woman could understand it.  What
possible surety could he give that it should never get hold of him
again? None.  But that was only a small matter in the whole question.

If she had ever loved him, perhaps if she could have felt that he had
ever loved her truly, it would have been different.  But she could not.
Why had he married her?  For her beauty.  The shame of it rose in her
eyes as she sat alone, and she could not help turning her face from the
light.

For love’s sake, even for an old love, outraged long ago and scarred
past recognizing, she could have forgiven much.  Old memories, suddenly
touched, are always more tender than we have thought they were, till the
tears rise for them, and the roots of the old life stir in the heart.

Helen had nothing of that.  She had made the great mistake of marrying a
man whom she had not loved, but whom she had admired, and perhaps
believed in, more than she understood. She had married him because he
seemed to love her very much, and the thought of being so loved was
pleasant.  She had soon found out what such love meant, and by and by
she had seen how traces of it survived in Henry Harmon, when all thought
of honouring her, or even of respecting her, was utterly gone.

A bitter laugh rang through the quiet room, and she started, for it was
her own voice.  She was to forgive!  Did he know what he was asking, and
for what things he was praying forgiveness?  Yet when he was sober he
had generally remembered what he had done when he had been drunk.  That
is to say, he had seemed to have the faculty of remembering what he
chose to recall, and of forgetting everything else.  She was to forgive
what he chose to remember!

’Oh, Helen dear, for God’s sake, do!’  She could see the last written
words of his letter before her eyes, though the sheet was folded and
bent double in her tightly closed hand.  He meant it, and it was an
appeal for mercy.  She hated herself for having laughed so cruelly a
moment earlier.  There was a cry in the words, quite different from all
he had written before them.  It did not touch her, it hardly appealed to
her at all, but somehow it gave him the right to be heard, for it was
human.

Then she went over all he said, though it hurt her.  She was not a woman
of quick impulses, and she knew that what was left of her life was in
the balance.  Even he seemed to acknowledge that, for he spoke of a
possibility of freedom for her by divorce.  To speak so easily of it, he
must have thought of it often, and that meant that it was really an easy
matter, as Colonel Wimpole had said.  It was in her power, and she had
free will.  He knew that she had a choice, and that she could either
take him back, now that he was cured, or make it utterly out of the
question for him to approach her.  He said as much, when he implored her
to give him one more chance ’before taking any step.’  She went over and
over it all, for hours. In the cool of the evening she opened the
blinds, collected her letters, and then sat down again, no nearer to a
decision than she had been at first.  A servant came and told her that
Colonel Wimpole was downstairs.  He had written a word on his card,
asking to see her again.

Her first impulse was the natural one.  She would let him come in and
she would lay the whole matter before him, as before the best friend she
had in the world, and ask him how she should act.  There was not in all
the world a man more honourable and just.  She would let him come to
her.

The words were on her lips, while the servant stood in the open door,
waiting for her answer. She checked herself with an effort.  She wrote a
line and gave it to the man.

She would not see Wimpole just then, for it would not be fair to him nor
perhaps quite just to Harmon.  Wimpole loved her, though he was quite
unaware that she knew it.  She believed firmly that when he had advised
her that very afternoon to divorce her husband, he was thinking only of
her happiness; but he had advised it, all the same, just because he
believed that Harmon might recover.  He could not change his mind now
that what he feared for her was taking place.  How could he?  He would
use every argument in his power, and he would find many good ones,
against her returning to her husband.  He could influence her against
her free will, and far more than he could guess, because she loved him
secretly as much as he loved her.  It was bitter not to see him, and
tell him, and ask his help; it was desperately hard, but as soon as she
saw that it was right, she wrote the words that must send him away,
before she could have time to hesitate.  Deep in her heart, too, there
was a thought for him. Loving her as he did, it would not be easy for
him, either, to go into the whole matter.  His honour and his love would
have to fight it out. So she sent him away.

Then Archie came into the room, vague and childish at first, but with an
odd look in his eyes, and he began to talk to her about Sylvia Strahan
in a way that frightened her, little by little, as he went on.

"Marry me to her, mother," he said at last, as though asking for the
simplest thing.  "I want to be married, and I want Sylvia.  I never saw
any other girl whom I wanted."




                              CHAPTER VII


There are times when trouble accumulates as an avalanche, or like water
in one of those natural intermittent springs that break out plentifully,
and dry up altogether in a sort of alternation.  But the spring has its
regular period, and trouble has not, and in an avalanche of disasters it
is impossible to say at any moment whether the big boulders have all
passed in the sliding drift of smaller stuff, or whether the biggest of
all may not be yet coming.

There are days in a lifetime which decide all the rest, and sometimes
explain all that has gone before, happy days, or days of tears, as the
case may be.  Perhaps they are the most interesting days to describe,
after all, for they are the ones which generally terminate a period in
existence.  But many say that in real life situations, as they are
called, never have any satisfactory termination, and that the story
which is most true of men and women is that one which has neither
beginning nor end.  The fact is that what appears to be the beginning is
often in reality the termination of a long series of events.  Novels
often end in marriage, yet real life frequently begins there.  There is
a very old proverb to that effect.

On such days all sorts of things happen that never occurred before and
perhaps never occur again, and every one who has had one or two such
short and eventful periods of confusion can remember how a host of
unforeseen trifles thrust themselves forward to disturb him.  It was as
though nothing could turn out right, as if nobody could take a message
without a mistake, as if the post and the telegraph had conspired
together to send letters and telegrams to wrong addresses, and
altogether all things, including the most sober and reliable
institutions, seem to work backwards against results instead of for
them.  Those are bad times. When they last long, people come to grief.
When they are soon over, people laugh at them.  When they decide a whole
life, as they sometimes do, people can afterwards trace the causes of
happiness or disaster to some very small lucky coincidence or
unfortunate mistake over which they themselves had no control.

When Colonel Wimpole had left Helen so abruptly, he had looked upon his
going away as a mere interruption of his visit, necessary, because he
could not be sure of controlling himself just then, but not meant to
last any length of time.  But after so suddenly learning the change in
Harmon’s condition, he would have waited till the evening before going
back, if his sister had not been so absurdly nervous about the price of
the hat, insisting that he should go at once and return the money.  He
had gone to his own room in a disturbed state of mind and had stayed
there an hour, after which Miss Wimpole, judging that he must be
sufficiently rested, had knocked at his door and urged him to go at once
to see Mrs. Harmon.  As he had no very good reason to give for refusing
to do so, he had made the attempt and had been refused admittance. He
went for a walk along the lake and came back again after an hour, and
wrote on his card a special request.

"May I see you now?  It is about a rather awkward little matter."

It was growing late.  Helen reflected that he could not stay long before
his own dinner time and hers, that he evidently had something especial
to say, and that she was certainly strong enough to keep her own counsel
for a quarter of an hour if she made up her mind to do so. Besides, it
must seem strange to him to be refused a second time; he would infer
that something was wrong and would ask questions when they next met.
She decided to see him.

His face was grave, and he was quite calm again.  As he took her hand
and spoke, there was a sort of quiet tenderness in his manner and tone,
a little beyond what he usually showed, perceptible to her, who longed
for it, though it could hardly have been noticed by any one else.

"It is rather an awkward little matter," he said, repeating the words he
had written.

Then he saw her face in the twilight, and he guessed that she had seen
the newspaper.

"You are in trouble," he said quickly.

She hesitated and turned from him, for she had forgotten that her face
must betray her distress.

"Yes," she answered, but she said no more than that.

"Can I help you?" he asked after a short pause.

"Please do not ask me."

She sat down, and Wimpole sighed audibly as he took his seat at a little
distance from her. He knew that she must have seen the paragraph about
Harmon’s recovery.

"Then I will explain my errand," he said.  "May I?"

It seemed rather a relief to have so small a matter ready to hand.

"Yes.  It will not take long, will it?" she asked rather nervously, for
she felt how his presence tempted her to confidence.  "It--it will soon
be dinner time, you know."

"I shall not stay long," said the colonel, quietly.  "It is rather an
awkward little matter.  You know Archie was with you this morning when I
saw you in the shop and got that miniature."

Helen looked at him suddenly with a change of expression, expecting some
new trouble.

"Yes, Archie was with us.  What is it?"  Her voice was full of a new
anxiety.

"It is nothing of any great importance," answered Wimpole, quickly, for
he saw that she was nervous.  "Only, he went out by himself afterwards,
and came across my sister and Sylvia in a milliner’s shop--"

"What was he doing in a milliner’s shop?" interrupted Helen, in
surprise.

"I don’t know," said the colonel.  "I fancy he saw them through the
window and went in to speak to them.  Sylvia was trying on a hat, you
know, and she liked it, and Archie, without saying anything, out of pure
goodness of heart, I suppose--"

He hesitated.  On any other day he would have smiled, but just now he
was as deeply disturbed as Helen herself, and the absurd incident of the
hat assumed a tremendous importance.

"Well?  What did he do?"  Helen’s nerves were on edge, and she spoke
almost sharply.

"He paid for the hat," answered Wimpole, with an air of profound sorrow,
and even penitence, as if it had been all his fault.  "And then he went
off, before they knew it."

Helen bit her lip, for it trembled.  He had not told the story very
clearly or connectedly, but she understood.  Archie had just been
talking to her strangely about Sylvia, and she had seen that he had
fallen in love with his old playmate, and she was afraid.  And now, she
was horribly ashamed for him.  It was so stupid, so pitifully stupid.

The colonel, guessing what greater torment was tearing at her heart, sat
still in a rather dejected attitude, waiting for her to speak, but not
watching her.

The matter which had brought him was certainly not very terrible in
itself, but it stirred and quickened all the ever-growing pain for her
son which was a part of her daily life.  It knitted its strength to that
of all the rest, to hurt her cruelly, and the torture was more than she
could bear.

She turned suddenly in her seat and half buried her face against the
back of the chair, so that Wimpole could not see it, and she bit the
coarse velvet savagely, trying to be silent and tearless till he should
go away.  But he knew what she was doing.  If he had not spoken, she
could still have kept back the scalding tears awhile.  But he did speak,
and very gently.

"Helen--dear Helen--what is it?"

"My heart is breaking," she said, almost quietly.

But then the tears came, and she shook once or twice, like an animal
that has a deep wound but cannot die.  The tears came slowly, and burned
her like drops of fire.  She kept her face turned away.

Wimpole was beside her and held her passive hand.  It twitched painfully
as it lay in his, and every agonized movement of it shot through him,
but he could not say anything at first. Besides, she knew he was there
and would help her if he could.  At last he spoke his thought.

"I will keep him from you," he said.  "He shall not come near you."

Her hand tightened upon his, instantly, and she sat up in her chair,
turning her face to him, quite white in the dusk, by the open window.

"Then you know?" she asked.

"Yes.  It is in the Paris paper to-day.  But it is only a report.  I do
not believe it is true."

She rose, mastering herself, as she withdrew her hand, and steadied
herself a moment against the chair beside him.

"It is true," she said.  "He has recovered. He has written to me."

Wimpole felt as if he had been condemned to death without warning.

"When?" he managed to ask.

"I got the letter this afternoon."

Their voices answered each other, dull and colourless in the gloom, and
for some moments neither spoke.  Helen went to the window and leaned
upon the broad marble sill, breathing the evening air from the lake, and
Wimpole followed her.  The electric lamps were lighted in the street,
glaring coldly out of the grey dusk, and many people were moving slowly
along the pavement below, in little parties, some gay, some silent.

"That is why I did not let you come up," said Helen, after a long time.
"But now--since you know--"  She stopped, still hesitating, and he tried
to see her expression, but there was not enough light.

"Yes?" he said, with a question, not pressing her, but waiting.

"Since you know," she answered at last, "you can guess the rest."

A spasm of pain half choked her, and Wimpole put out his hand to lay it
gently upon her arm, but drew it back again.  He had never done even
that much in all those years, and he would not do it now.

"I will keep him from you," he said again.

"No.  You must not do that."  Her voice was steady again.  "He will not
come to me against my will."

Wimpole turned sharply as he leaned on the window-sill beside her, for
he did not understand.

"You cannot possibly be thinking of writing to him, of letting him come
back?"

"Yes," she said.  "That is what I am thinking of doing."

She hardly dared think that she still could hesitate, now that Wimpole
was beside her.  If he had not come, it might have been different. But
he was close to her now, and she knew how long and well he had loved
her.  Alone, she could have found reasons for refusing ever to see
Harmon again, but they lost their look of honour now that this man, who
was everything to her, was standing at her elbow.  Exaggerating her
danger, she feared lest Wimpole should influence her, even
unintentionally, if she left the question open.  And he, for her own
happiness and honourably setting all thoughts of himself aside, believed
that he ought to use whatever influence he had, to the utmost.

"You must not do it," he said.  "I implore you not to think of it.  You
will wreck your life."

She did not move, for she had known what he would say.

"If you are my friend," she answered, after a pause, "you should wish me
to do what is right."

It was a trite commonplace, but she never tried to be original, at any
time, and just then the words exactly expressed her thought.  He
resented it.

"You have done more than enough of that sort of right already.  It is
time you thought a little of yourself.  I do not mean only of your
happiness, but of your safety.  You are not safe with that man.  He will
drink again, and he may kill you."

She turned her white face deliberately towards him in the gloom.

"And do you think I am afraid of that?" she asked slowly.

There was a sort of reproach in the tone, and a great good pride with
it.  Wimpole did not know what to say, and merely bent his head gravely.
