itself into an alien temple, invaded by theology and the breath of an
unknown world. But though sobered, they were not cast down; for the
occasion was enlivened, in their case, by a heaven-defying profligacy of
intent. Every one of them knew that Sammy Forbes had in his pocket a
pack of cards, which he meant to drop, by wicked but careless design,
just when Deacon Pitts led in prayer, and that Tom Drake was master of a
concealed pea-shooter, which he had sworn, with all the asseverations
held sacred by boys, to use at some dramatic moment. All the band were
aware that neither of these daring deeds would be done. The prospective
actors themselves knew it; but it was a darling joy to contemplate the
remote possibility thereof.

Deacon Pitts opened the meeting, reminding his neighbors how precious a
privilege it is for two or three to be gathered together. His companion
had not been able to come. (The entire neighborhood knew that Mrs.
Pitts had been laid low by an attack of erysipelas, and that she was, at
the moment, in a dark bedroom at home, helpless under elderblow.)

"She lays there on a bed of pain," said the deacon. "But she says to me,
'You go. Better the house o' mournin' than the house o' feastin',' she
says. Oh, my friends! what can be more blessed than the counsel of an
aged and feeble companion?"

The deacon sat down, and Tom Drake, his finger on the pea-shooter,
assured himself, in acute mental triumph, that he had almost done it
that time.

Then followed certain incidents eminently pleasing to the boys. To their
unbounded relief, Sarah Frances Giles rose to speak, weeping as she
began. She always wept at prayer meeting, though at the very moment of
asserting her joy that she cherished a hope, and her gratitude that she
was so nearly at an end of this earthly pilgrimage and ready to take her
stand on the sea of glass mingled with fire. The boys reveled in her
testimony. They were in a state of bitter uneasiness before she rose,
and gnawed with a consuming impatience until she began to cry. Then they
wondered if she could possibly leave out the sea of glass; and when it
duly came, they gave a sigh of satiated bliss and sank into acquiescence
in whatever might happen. This was a rich occasion to their souls, for
Silas Marden, who was seldom moved by the spirit, fell upon his knees to
pray; but at the same unlucky instant, his sister-in-law, for whom he
cherished an unbounded scorn, rose (being "nigh-eyed" and ignorant of
his priority) and began to speak. For a moment, the two held on
together, "neck and neck," as the happy boys afterward remembered, and
then Silas got up, dusted his knees, and sat down, not to rise again at
any spiritual call. "An' a madder man you never see," cried all the
Hollow next day, in shocked but gleeful memory.

Taking it all in all, the meeting had thus far mirrored others of its
class. If the droning experiences were devoid of all human passion, it
was chiefly because they had to be expressed in the phrases of strict
theological usage. There was an unspoken agreement that feelings of this
sort should be described in a certain way. They were not the affairs of
the hearth and market; they were matters pertaining to that awful entity
called the soul, and must be dressed in the fine linen which she had
herself elected to wear.

Suddenly, in a wearisome pause, when minds had begun to stray toward the
hayfield and to-morrow's churning, the door was pushed open, and the
Widow Prime walked in. She was quite unused to seeking her kind, and the
little assembly at once awoke, under the stimulus of surprise. They
knew quite well where she had been walking: to Sudleigh Jail, to visit
her only son, lying there for the third time, not, as usual, for
drunkenness, but for house-breaking. She was a wiry woman, a mass of
muscles animated by an eager energy. Her very hands seemed knotted with
clenching themselves in nervous spasms. Her eyes were black, seeking,
and passionate, and her face had been scored by fine wrinkles, the marks
of anxiety and grief. Her chocolate calico was very clean, and her
palm-leaf shawl and black bonnet were decent in their poverty. The vague
excitement created by her coming continued in a rustling like that of
leaves. The troubles of Hannah Prime's life had been very bitter--so
bitter that she had, as Deacon Pitts once said, after undertaking her
conversion, turned from "me and the house of God." A quickening thought
sprang up now in the little assembly that she was "under conviction,"
and that it had become the present duty of every professor to lead her
to the throne of grace. This was an exigency for which none were
prepared. At so strenuous a challenge, the old conventional ways of
speech fell down and collapsed before them, like creatures filled with
air. Who should minister to one set outside their own comfortable lives
by bitter sorrow and wounded pride? What could they offer a woman who
had, in one way or another, sworn to curse God and die? It was Deacon
Pitts who spoke, but in a tone hushed to the key of the unexpected.

"Has any one an experience to offer? Will any brother or sister lead in
prayer?"

The silence was growing into a thing to be recognized and conquered,
when, to the wonder of her neighbors, Hannah Prime herself rose. She
looked slowly about the room, gazing into every face as if to challenge
an honest understanding. Then she began speaking in a low voice thrilled
by an emotion not yet explained. Unused to expressing herself in public,
she seemed to be feeling her way. The silence, pride, endurance, which
had been her armor for many years, were no longer apparent; she had
thrown down all her defenses with a grave composure, as if life suddenly
summoned her to higher issues.

"I dunno's I've got an experience to offer," she said. "I dunno's it's
religion. I dunno what 't is. Mebbe you'd say it don't belong to a
meetin'. But when I come by an' see you all settin' here, it come over
me I'd like to tell somebody. Two weeks ago I was most crazy"--She
paused of necessity, for something broke in her voice.

"That's the afternoon Jim was took," whispered a woman to her neighbor.
Hannah Prime went on.

"I jest as soon tell it now. I can tell ye all together what I couldn't
say to one on ye alone; an' if anybody speaks to me about it
arterwards, they'll wish they hadn't. I was all by myself in the house.
I set down in my clock-room, about three in the arternoon, an' there I
set. I didn't git no supper. I couldn't. I set there an' heard the clock
tick. Byme-by it struck seven, an' that waked me up. I thought I'd gone
crazy. The figgers on the wall-paper provoked me most to death; an' that
red-an'-white tidy I made, the winter I was laid up, seemed to be
talkin' out loud. I got up an' run outdoor jest as fast as I could go. I
run out behind the house an' down the cart-path to that pile o' rocks
that overlooks the lake; an' there I got out o' breath an' dropped down
on a big rock. An' there I set, jest as still as I'd been settin' when I
was in the house."

Here a little girl stirred in her seat, and her mother leaned forward
and shook her, with alarming energy. "I never was so hard with Mary L.
afore," she explained the next day, "but I was as nervous as a witch. I
thought, if I heard a pin drop, I should scream."

"I dunno how long I set there," went on Hannah Prime, "but byme-by it
begun to come over me how still the lake was. 'Twas like glass; an' way
over where it runs in 'tween them islands, it burnt like fire. Then I
looked up a little further, to see what kind of a sky there was. 'T was
light green, with clouds in it, all fire, an' it begun to seem to me as
if it was a kind o' land an' water up there--like our'n, on'y not
solid. I set there an' looked at it; an' I picked out islands, an'
ma'sh-land, an' p'ints running out into the yeller-green sea. An'
everything grew stiller an' stiller. The loons struck up, down on the
lake, with that kind of a lonesome whinner; but that on'y made the rest
of it seem quieter. An' it begun to grow dark all 'round me. I dunno's I
ever noticed before jest how the dark comes. It sifted down like snow,
on'y you couldn't see it. Well, I set there, an' I tried to keep stiller
an' stiller, like everything else. Seemed as if I must. An' pretty soon
I knew suthin' was walkin' towards me over the lot. I kep' my eyes on
the sky; for I knew 'twould break suthin' if I turned my head, an' I
felt as if I couldn't bear to. An' It come walkin', walkin', without
takin' any steps or makin' any noise, till It come right up 'side o' me
an' stood still. I didn't turn round. I knew I mustn't. I dunno whether
It touched me; I dunno whether It said anything--but I know It made me a
new creatur'. I knew then I shouldn't be afraid o' things no more--nor
sorry. I found out 't was all right. 'I'm glad I'm alive,' I said. 'I'm
thankful!' Seemed to me I'd been dead for the last twenty year. I'd come
alive.

"An' so I set there an' held my breath, for fear 'twould go. I dunno how
long, but the moon riz up over my left shoulder, an' the sky begun to
fade. An' then it come over me 'twas goin'. I knew 'twas terrible tender
of me, an' sorry, an' lovin', an' so I says, 'Don't you mind; I won't
forgit!' An' then It went. But that broke suthin', an' I turned an' see
my own shadder on the grass; an' I thought I see another, 'side of it.
Somehow that scairt me, an' I jumped up an' whipped it home without
lookin' behind me. Now that's my experience," said Hannah Prime, looking
her neighbors again in the face, with dauntless eyes. "I dunno what
'twas, but it's goin' to last. I ain't afraid no more, an' I ain't goin'
to be. There ain't nuthin' to worry about. Everything's bigger'n we
think." She folded her shawl more closely about her and moved toward the
door. There she again turned to her neighbors.

"Good-night!" she said, and was gone.

They sat quite still until the tread of her feet had ceased its beating
on the dusty road. Then, by one consent, they rose and moved slowly out.
There was no prayer that night, and "Lord dismiss us" was not sung.




HONEY AND MYRRH


The neighborhood, the township, and the world had been snowed in. Snow
drifted the road in hills and hollows, and hung in little eddying
wreaths, where the wind took it, on the pasture slopes. It made solid
banks in the dooryards, and buried the stone walls out of sight. The
lacework of its fantasy became daintily apparent in the conceits with
which it broidered over all the common objects familiar in homely lives.
The pump, in yards where that had supplanted the old-fashioned curb,
wore a heavy mob-cap. The vane on the barn was delicately sifted over,
and the top of every picket in the high front-yard fence had a fluffy
peak. But it was chiefly in the woods that the rapture and flavor of the
time ran riot in making beauty. There every fir branch swayed under a
tuft of white, and the brown refuse of the year was all hidden away.

That morning, no one in Tiverton Hollow had gone out of the house, save
to shovel paths and do the necessary chores. The road lay untouched
until ten o'clock, when a selectman gave notice that it was an occasion
for "breakin' out," by starting with his team, and gathering oxen by
the way until a conquering procession ground through the drifts, the men
shoveling at intervals where the snow lay deepest, the oxen walking
swayingly, head to the earth, and the faint wreath of their breath
ascending and cooling on the air. It was "high times" in Tiverton Hollow
when a road needed opening; some idea of the old primitive way of
battling with the untouched forces of nature roused the people to an
exhilaration dashed by no uncertainty of victory.

By afternoon, the excitement had quieted. The men had come in, reddened
by cold, and eaten their noon dinner in high spirits, retailing to the
less fortunate women-folk the stories swapped on the march. Then, as one
man, they succumbed to the drowsiness induced by a morning of wind in
the face, and sat by the stove under some pretense of reading the county
paper, but really to nod and doze, waking only to put another stick of
wood on the fire. So passed all the day before Christmas, and in the
evening the shining lamps were lighted (each with a strip of red flannel
in the oil, to give color), and the neighborhood rested in the tranquil
certainty that something had really come to pass, and that their
communication with the world was reëstablished.

Susan Peavey sat by the fire, knitting on a red mitten, and the young
schoolmaster presided over the other hearth corner, reading very hard,
at intervals, and again sinking into a drowsy study of the flames. There
was an impression abroad in Tiverton that the schoolmaster was going to
be somebody, some time. He wrote for the papers. He was always receiving
through the mail envelopes marked "author's proofs," which, the
postmistress said, indicated that he was an author, whatever proofs
might be. She had an idea they might have something to do with
photographs; perhaps his picture was going into a book. It was very well
understood that teaching school at the Hollow, at seven dollars a week,
was an interlude in the life of one who would some day write a
spelling-book, or exercise senatorial rights at Washington. He was a
long-legged, pleasant looking youth, with a pale cheek, dark eyes, and
thick black hair, one lock of which, hanging low over his forehead, he
twisted while he read. He kept glancing up at Miss Susan and smiling at
her, whenever he could look away from his book and the fire, and she
smiled back. At last, after many such wordless messages, he spoke.

"What lots of red mittens you do knit! Do you send them all away to that
society?"

Miss Susan's needles clicked.

"Every one," said she.

She was a tall, large woman, well-knit, with no superfluous flesh. Her
head was finely set, and she carried it with a simple unconsciousness
better than dignity. Everybody in Tiverton thought it had been a great
cross to Susan Peavey to be so overgrown. They conceded that it was a
mystery she had not turned out "gormin'." But that was because Susan had
left her vanity behind with early youth, in the days when, all legs and
arms, she had given up the idea of beauty. Her face was strong-featured,
overspread by a healthy color, and her eyes looked frankly out, as if
assured of finding a very pleasant world. The sick always delighted in
Susan's nearness; her magnificent health and presence were like a
supporting tide, and she seemed to carry outdoor air in her very
garments. The schoolmaster still watched her. She rested and fascinated
him at once by her strength and homely charm.

"I shall call you the Orphans' Friend," said he.

She laid down her work.

"Don't you say one word," she answered, with an air of abject
confession. "It don't interest me a mite! I give because it's my bounden
duty, but I'll be whipped if I want to knit warm mittens all my life,
an' fill poor barrels. Sometimes I wisht I could git a chance to provide
folks with what they don't need ruther'n what they do."

"I don't see what you mean," said the schoolmaster. "Tell me."

Miss Susan was looking at the hearth. A warmer flush than that of
firelight alone lay on her cheek. She bent forward and threw on a pine
knot. It blazed richly. Then she drew the cricket more securely under
her feet, and settled herself to gossip.

"Anybody'd think I'd most talked myself out sence you come here to
board," said she, "but you're the beatemest for tolin' anybody on. I
never knew I had so much to say. But there! I guess we all have, if
there's anybody 't wants to listen. I never've said this to a livin'
soul, an' I guess it's sort o' heathenish to think, but I'm tired to
death o' fightin' ag'inst poverty, poverty! I s'pose it's there, fast
enough, though we're all so well on 't we don't realize it; an' I'm
goin' to do my part, an' be glad to, while I'm above ground. But I guess
heaven'll be a spot where we don't give folks what they need, but what
they don't."

"There is something in your Bible," began the schoolmaster hesitatingly,
"about a box of precious ointment." He always said "your Bible," as if
church members held a proprietary right.

"That's it!" replied Miss Susan, brightening. "That's what I al'ays
thought. Spill it all out, I say, an' make the world smell as sweet as
honey. My! but I do have great projicks settin' here by the fire alone!
Great projicks!"

"Tell me some!"

"Well, I dunno's I can, all of a piece, so to speak; but when it gits
along towards eight o'clock, an' the room's all simmerin', an' the moon
lays out on the snow, it does seem as if we made a pretty poor spec' out
o' life. We don't seem to have no color in it. Why, don't you remember
'Solomon in all his glory'? I guess 't wouldn't ha' been put in jest
that way if there wa'n't somethin' in it. I s'pose he had crowns an'
rings an' purple velvet coats an' brocade satin weskits, an' all manner
o' things. Sometimes seems as I could see him walkin' straight in
through that door there." She was running a knitting needle back and
forth through her ball of yarn as she spoke, without noticing that some
one had been stamping the snow from his feet on the doorstone outside.
The door, after making some bluster of refusal, was pushed open, and on
the heels of her speech a man walked in.

"My land!" cried Miss Susan, aghast. Then she and the schoolmaster, by
one accord, began to laugh.

But the man did not look at them until he had scrupulously wiped his
feet on the husk mat, and stamped them anew. Then he turned down the
legs of his trousers, and carefully examined the lank green carpet-bag
he had been carrying.

"I guess I trailed it through some o' the drifts," he remarked. "The
road's pretty narrer, this season o' the year."

"You give us a real start," said Susan. "We thought be sure 't was
Solomon, an' mebbe the Queen o' Sheba follerin' arter. Why, Solon Slade,
you ain't walked way over to Tiverton Street!"

"Yes, I have," asserted Solon. He was a slender, sad-colored man,
possibly of her own age, and he spoke in a very soft voice. He was
Susan's widowed brother-in-law, and the neighbors said he was clever,
but hadn't no more spunk'n a wet rag.

Susan had risen and laid down her knitting. She approached the table and
rested one hand on it, a hawk-like brightness in her eyes.

"What you got in that bag?" asked she.

Solon was enjoying his certainty that he held the key to the situation.

"I got a mite o' cheese," he answered, approaching the fire and
spreading his hands to the blaze.

"You got anything else? Now, Solon, don't you keep me here on
tenter-hooks! You got a letter?"

"Well," said Solon, "I thought I might as well look into the post-office
an' see."

"You thought so! You went a-purpose! An' you walked because you al'ays
was half shackled about takin' horses out in bad goin'. You hand me over
that letter!"

Solon approached the table, a furtive twinkle in his blue eyes. He
lifted the bag and opened it slowly. First, he took out a wedge-shaped
package.

"That's the cheese," said he. "Herb."

"My land!" ejaculated Miss Susan, while the schoolmaster looked on and
smiled. "You better ha' come to me for cheese. I've got a plenty, tansy
an' sage, an' you know it. I see it! There! you gi' me holt on 't!" It
was a fugitive white gleam in the bottom of the bag; she pounced upon it
and brought up a letter. Midway in the act of tearing it open, she
paused and looked at Solon with droll entreaty. "It's your letter, by
rights!" she added tentatively.

"Law!" said he, "I dunno who it's directed to, but I guess it's as much
your'n as anybody's."

Miss Susan spread open the sheets with an air of breathless delight. She
bent nearer the lamp. "'Dear father and auntie,'" she began.

"There!" remarked Solon, in quiet satisfaction, still warming his hands
at the blaze. "There! you see 't is to both."

"My! how she does run the words together! Here!" Miss Susan passed it to
the schoolmaster. "You read it. It's from Jenny. You know she's away to
school, an' we didn't think best for her to come home Christmas. I knew
she'd write for Christmas. Solon, I told you so!"

The schoolmaster took the letter, and read it aloud. It was a simple
little message, full of contentment and love and a girl's new delight in
life. When he had finished, the two older people busied themselves a
moment without speaking, Solon in picking up a chip from the hearth, and
Susan in mechanically smoothing the mammoth roses on the side of the
carpet-bag.

"Well, I 'most wish we'd had her come home," said he at last, clearing
his throat.

"No, you don't either," answered Miss Susan promptly. "Not with this
snow, an' comin' out of a house where it's het up, into cold beds an'
all. Now I'm goin' to git you a mite o' pie an' some hot tea."

She set forth a prodigal supper on a leaf of the table, and Solon
silently worked his will upon it, the schoolmaster eating a bit for
company. Then Solon took his way home to the house across the yard, and
she watched at the window till she saw the light blaze up through his
panes. That accomplished, she turned back with a long breath and began
clearing up.

"I'm worried to death to have him over there all by himself," said she.
"S'pose he should be sick in the night!"

"You'd go over," answered the schoolmaster easily.

"Well, s'pose he couldn't git me no word?"

"Oh, you'd know it! You're that sort."

Miss Susan laughed softly, and so seemed to put away her recurrent
anxiety. She came back to her knitting.

"How long has his wife been dead?" asked the schoolmaster.

"Two year. He an' Jenny got along real well together, but sence
September, when she went away, I guess he's found it pretty dull
pickin'. I do all I can, but land! 't ain't like havin' a woman in the
house from sunrise to set."

"There's nothing like that," agreed the wise young schoolmaster. "Now
let's play some more. Let's plan what we'd like to do to-morrow for all
the folks we know, and let's not give them a thing they need, but just
the ones they'd like."

Miss Susan put down her knitting again. She never could talk to the
schoolmaster and keep at work. It made her dreamy, exactly as it did to
sit in the hot summer sunshine, with the droning of bees in the air.

"Well," said she, "there's old Ann Wheeler that lives over on the
turnpike. She don't want for nothin', but she keeps her things packed
away up garret, an' lives like a pig."

"'Sold her bed and lay in the straw.'"

"That's it, on'y she won't sell nuthin'. I'd give her a house all
winders, so 't she couldn't help lookin' out, an' velvet carpets 't
she'd got to walk on."

"Well, there's Cap'n Ben. The boys say he's out of his head a good deal
now; he fancies himself at sea and in foreign countries."

"Yes, so they say. Well, I'd let him set down a spell in Solomon's
temple an' look round him. My sake! do you remember about the temple?
Why, the nails was all gold. Don't you wish we'd lived in them times?
Jest think about the wood they had--cedars o' Lebanon an' fir-trees. You
know how he set folks to workin' in the mountains. I've al'ays thought
I'd like to ben up on them mountains an' heard the axes ringin' an'
listened to the talk. An' then there was pomegranates an' cherubim, an'
as for silver an' gold, they were as common as dirt. When I was a little
girl, I learnt them chapters, an' sometimes now, when I'm settin' by the
fire, I say over that verse about the 'man of Tyre, skillful to work in
gold, and in silver, in brass, in iron, in stone, and in timber, in
purple, in blue, and in fine linen, and in crimson.' My! ain't it rich?"

She drew a long breath of surfeited enjoyment. The schoolmaster's eyes
burned under his heavy brows.

"Then things smelt so good in them days," continued Miss Susan. "They
had myrrh an' frankincense, an' I dunno what all. I never make my
mincemeat 'thout snuffin' at the spice-box to freshen up my mind. No
matter where I start, some way or another I al'ays git back to Solomon.
Well, if Cap'n Ben wants to see foreign countries, I guess he'd be glad
to set a spell in the temple. Le's have on another stick--that big one
there by you. My! it's the night afore Christmas, ain't it? Seems if I
couldn't git a big enough blaze. Pile it on. I guess I'd as soon set the
chimbly afire as not!"

There was something overflowing and heady in her enjoyment. It
exhilarated the schoolmaster, and he lavished stick after stick on the
ravening flames. The maple hardened into coals brighter than its own
panoply of autumn; the delicate bark of the birch flared up and
perished.

"Miss Susan," said he, "don't you want to see all the people in the
world?"

"Oh, I dunno! I'd full as lieves set here an' think about 'em. I can fix
'em up full as well in my mind, an' perhaps they suit me better'n if I
could see 'em. Sometimes I set 'em walkin' through this kitchen, kings
an' queens an' all. My! how they do shine, all over precious stones. I
never see a di'mond, but I guess I know pretty well how 't would look."

"Suppose we could give a Christmas dinner,--what should we have?"

"We'd have oxen roasted whole, an' honey--an'--but that's as fur as I
can git."

The schoolmaster had a treasury of which she had never learned, and he
said musically:--

... "'a heap Of candied apple, quince, and plum, and gourd; With jellies
soother than the creamy curd, And lucid syrops, tinct with cinnamon;
Manna and dates, in argosy transferr'd From Fez; and spicéd dainties,
every one, From silken Samarcand to cedar'd Lebanon.'"

"Yes, that has a real nice sound. It ain't like the Bible, but it's
nice."

They sat and dreamed and the fire flared up into living arabesques and
burnt blue in corners. A stick parted and fell into ash, and Miss Susan
came awake. She had the air of rousing herself with vigor.

"There!" said she, "sometimes I think it's most sinful to make believe,
it's so hard to wake yourself up. Arter all this, I dunno but when Solon
comes for the pigs' kittle to-morrer, I shall ketch myself sayin',
'Here's the frankincense!'"

They laughed together, and the schoolmaster rose to light his lamp. He
paused on his way to the stairs, and came back to set it down again.

"There are lots of people we haven't provided for," he said. "We haven't
even thought what we'd give Jenny."

"I guess Jenny's got her heart's desire." Miss Susan nodded sagely.
"I've sent her a box, with a fruit-cake an' pickles and cheese. She's
all fixed out."

The schoolmaster hesitated, and turned the lamp-wick up and down. Then
he spoke, somewhat timidly, "What should you like to give her father?"

Miss Susan's face clouded with that dreamy look which sometimes settled
upon her eyes like haze.

"Well," said she, "I guess whatever I should give him 'd only make him
laugh."

"Flowers--and velvet--and honey--and myrrh?"

"Yes," answered Miss Susan with gravity. "Perhaps it's jest as well some
things ain't to be had at the shops."

The schoolmaster took up his lamp again and walked to the door.

"We never can tell," he said. "It may be people want things awfully
without knowing it. And suppose they do laugh! They'd better laugh than
cry. I should give all I could. Good-night."

Miss Susan banked up the fire and set her rising of dough on the hearth,
after a discriminating peep to see whether it was getting on too fast.
After that, she covered her plants by the window and blew out the light,
so that the moon should have its way. She lingered for a moment, looking
out into a glittering world. Not a breath stirred. The visible universe
lay asleep, and only beauty waked. She was aching with a tumultuous
emotion--the sense that life might be very fair and shining, if we only
dared to shape it as it seems to us in dreams. The loveliness and
repose of the earth appealed to her like a challenge; they alone made it
seem possible for her also to dare.

Next morning, she rose earlier than usual, while the schoolmaster was
still fast bound in sleep. She stayed only to start her kitchen fire,
and then stood motionless a moment for a last decision. The great white
day was beginning outside with slow, unconscious royalty. The pale
winter dawn yielded to a flush of rose; nothing in the aspect of the
heavens contradicted the promise of the night before. It seemed to her a
wonderful day, dramatic, visible in peace, because, on that morning, all
the world was thinking of the world and not of individual desires. She
went to the bureau drawer in the sitting-room and looked, a little
scornfully, at two packages hidden there. Handkerchiefs for the
schoolmaster, stockings and gloves for Solon! Shutting the drawer, she
hurried out into the kitchen, snatching her scissors from the
work-basket by the way. She gave herself no time to think, but went up
to her flower-stand and began to cut the geranium blossoms and the rose.
The fuchsias hung in flaunting grace. They were dearer to her than all.
She snipped them recklessly, and because the bunch seemed meagre still,
broke the top from her sweet-scented geranium and disposed the flowers
hastily in the midst. Her posy was sweet-smelling and good; it spoke to
the heart. Putting a shawl over her head, she rolled the flowers in her
apron from the frost, and stepped out into the brilliant day. The little
cross-track between her house and the other was snowed up; but she took
the road and, hurrying between banks of carven whiteness, went up
Solon's path to the side door. She walked in upon him where he was
standing over the kitchen stove, warming his hands at the first blaze.
Susan's cheeks were red with the challenge of the stinging air, but she
had the look of one who, living by a larger law, has banished the
foolishness of fear. She walked straight up to him and proffered him her
flowers.

"Here, Solon," she said, "it's Christmas. I brought you these."

Solon looked at her and at them, in slow surprise. He put out both hands
and took them awkwardly.

"Well!" he said. "Well!"

Susan was smiling at him. It seemed to her at that moment that the world
was a very rich place, because you may take all you want and give all
you choose, while nobody is the wiser.

"Well," remarked Solon again, "I guess I'll put 'em into water." He laid
them down on a chair. "Susan, do you remember that time I walked over to
Pine Hill to pick you some mayflowers, when you was gittin' over the
lung fever?"

She nodded.

"Susan," said he desperately, "what if I should ask you to forgit old
scores an' begin all over?"

"I ain't laid up anything," answered Susan, looking him full in the face
with her brilliant smile.

"There's suthin' I've wanted to tell ye, this two year. I never s'posed
you knew, but that night I kissed your sister in the entry an' asked
her, I thought 'twas you."

"Yes, I knew that well enough. I was in the buttery and heard it all.
There, le's not talk about it."

Solon came a step nearer.

"But will you, Susan?" he persisted. "Will you? I know Jenny'd like it."

"I guess she would, too," said Susan. "There! we don't need to talk no
further! You come over to breakfast, won't you? I'm goin' to fry
chicken. It's Christmas mornin'." She nodded at him and went out,
walking perhaps more proudly than usual down the shining path. Solon,
regardless of his cooling kitchen, stood at the door and watched her.
Solon never said very much, but he felt as if life were beginning all
over again, just as he had wished to make it at the very start. He
forgot his gray hair and furrowed face, just as he forgot the cold and
snow. It was the spring of the year.

When Miss Susan entered her kitchen, the schoolmaster had come down and
was putting a stick of wood into the stove.

"Merry Christmas!" he called, "and here's something for you."

A long white package lay on the table at the end where her plate was
always set. She opened it with delicate touches, it seemed so precious.

"My sake!" said she. "It's a fan!" She lifted it out, and the fragrance
of an Eastern wood filled all the room. She swept open the feathers.
They were white and wonderful.

"It was never used except by one very beautiful woman," said the
schoolmaster, without looking at her. "She was a good deal older than I;
but somehow she seemed to belong to me. She died, and I thought I should
like to have you keep this."

Susan was waving it back and forth before her face, stirring the air to
fragrance. Her eyes were full of dreams. "My! ain't it rich!" she
murmured. "The Queen o' Sheba never had no better. An' Solon's comin'
over to breakfast."




A SECOND MARRIAGE


Amelia Porter sat by her great open fireplace, where the round,
consequential black kettle hung from the crane, and breathed out a
steamy cloud to be at once licked up and absorbed by the heat from a
snatching flame below. It was exactly a year and a day since her
husband's death, and she had packed herself away in his own corner of
the settle, her hands clasped across her knees, and her red-brown eyes
brooding on the nearer embers. She was not definitely speculating on her
future, nor had she any heart for retracing the dull and gentle past.
She had simply relaxed hold on her mind; and so, escaping her, it had
gone wandering off into shadowy prophecies of the immediate years. For,
as Amelia had been telling herself for the last three months, since she
had begun to outgrow the habit of a dual life, she was not old. Whenever
she looked in the glass, she could not help noting how free from
wrinkles her swarthy face had been kept, and that the line of her mouth
was still scarlet over white, even teeth. Her crisp black hair, curling
in those tight fine rolls which a bashful admirer had once commended as
"full of little jerks," showed not a trace of gray. All this evidence
of her senses read her a fair tale of the possibilities of the morrow;
and without once saying, "I will take up a new life," she did tacitly
acknowledge that life was not over.

It was a "snapping cold" night of early spring, so misplaced as to bring
with it a certain dramatic excitement. The roads were frozen hard, and
shone like silver in the ruts. All day sleds had gone creaking past, set
to that fine groaning which belongs to the music of the year. The
drivers' breath ascended in steam, the while they stamped down the
probability of freezing, and yelled to Buck and Broad until that inner
fervor raised them one degree in warmth. The smoking cattle held their
noses low, and swayed beneath the yoke.

Amelia, shut snugly in her winter-tight house, had felt the power of the
day without sharing its discomforts; and her eyes deepened and burned
with a sense of the movement and warmth of living. To-night, under the
spell of some vague expectancy, she had sat still for a long time, her
sewing laid aside and her room scrupulously in order. She was waiting
for what was not to be acknowledged even to her own intimate self. But
as the clock struck nine, she roused herself, and shook off her mood in
impatience and a disappointment which she would not own. She looked
about the room, as she often had of late, and began to enumerate its
possibilities in case she should desire to have it changed. Amelia never
went so far as to say that change should be; she only felt that she had
still a right to speculate upon it, as she had done for many years, as a
form of harmless enjoyment. While every other house in the neighborhood
had gone from the consistently good to the prosperously bad in the
matter of refurnishing, John Porter had kept his precisely as his
grandfather had left it to him. Amelia had never once complained; she
had observed toward her husband an unfailing deference, due, she felt,
to his twenty years' seniority; perhaps, also, it stood in her own mind
as the only amends she could offer him for having married him without
love. It was her father who made the match; and Amelia had succumbed,
not through the obedience claimed by parents of an elder day, but from
hot jealousy and the pique inevitably born of it. Laurie Morse had kept
the singing-school that winter. He had loved Amelia; he had bound
himself to her by all the most holy vows sworn from aforetime, and then,
in some wanton exhibit of power--gone home with another girl. And for
Amelia's responsive throb of feminine anger, she had spent fifteen years
of sober country living with a man who had wrapped her about with the
quiet tenderness of a strong nature, but who was not of her own
generation either in mind or in habit; and Laurie had kept a
music-store in Saltash, seven miles away, and remained unmarried.

Now Amelia looked about the room, and mentally displaced the furniture,
as she had done so many times while she and her husband sat there
together. The settle could be taken to the attic. She had not the heart
to carry out one secret resolve indulged in moments of impatient
bitterness,--to split it up for firewood. But it could at least be
exiled. She would have a good cook-stove, and the great fireplace should
be walled up. The tin kitchen, sitting now beside the hearth in shining
quaintness, should also go into the attic. The old clock--But at that
instant the clash of bells shivered the frosty air, and Amelia threw her
vain imaginings aside like a garment, and sprang to her feet. She
clasped her hands in a spontaneous gesture of rapt attention; and when
the sound paused at her gate, with one or two sweet, lingering clingles,
"I knew it!" she said aloud. Yet she did not go to the window to look
into the moonlit night. Standing there in the middle of the room, she
awaited the knock which was not long in coming. It was imperative,
insistent. Amelia, who had a spirit responsive to the dramatic
exigencies of life, felt a little flush spring into her face, so hot
that, on the way to the door, she involuntarily put her hand to her
cheek and held it there. The door came open grumblingly. It sagged upon
the hinges, but, well-used to its vagaries, she overcame it with a
regardless haste.

"Come in," she said, at once, to the man on the step. "It's cold. Oh,
come in!"

He stepped inside the entry, removing his fur cap, and disclosing a
youthful face charged with that radiance which made him, at thirty-five,
almost the counterpart of his former self. It may have come only from
the combination of curly brown hair, blue eyes, and an aspiring lift of
the chin, but it always seemed to mean a great deal more. In the
kitchen, he threw off his heavy coat, while Amelia, bright-eyed and
breathing quickly, stood by, quite silent. Then he looked at her.

"You expected me, didn't you?" he asked.

A warmer color surged into her cheeks. "I didn't know," she said
perversely.

"I guess you did. It's one day over a year. You knew I'd wait a year."

"It ain't a year over the services," said Amelia, trying to keep the
note of vital expectancy out of her voice. "It won't be that till
Friday."

"Well, Saturday I'll come again." He went over to the fire and stretched
out his hands to the blaze. "Come here," he said imperatively, "while I
talk to you."

Amelia stepped forward obediently, like a good little child. The old
fascination was still as dominant as at its birth, sixteen years ago.
She realized, with a strong, splendid sense of the eternity of things,
that always, even while it would have been treason to recognize it, she
had known how ready it was to rise and live again. All through her
married years, she had sternly drugged it and kept it sleeping. Now it
had a right to breathe, and she gloried in it.

"I said to myself I wouldn't come to-day," went on Laurie, without
looking at her. A new and excited note had come into his voice,
responsive to her own. He gazed down at the fire, musing the while he
spoke. "Then I found I couldn't help it. That's why I'm so late. I
stayed in the shop till seven, and some fellows come in and wanted me to
play. I took up the fiddle, and begun. But I hadn't more'n drew a note
before I laid it down and put for the door. 'Dick, you keep shop,' says
I. And I harnessed up, and drove like the devil."

Amelia felt warm with life and hope; she was taking up her youth just
where the story ended.

"You ain't stopped swearin' yet!" she remarked, with a little excited
laugh. Then, from an undercurrent of exhilaration, it occurred to her
that she had never laughed so in all these years.

"Well," said Laurie abruptly, turning upon her, "how am I goin' to start
out? Shall we hark back to old scores? I know what come between us. So
do you. Have we got to talk it out, or can we begin now?"

"Begin now," replied Amelia faintly. Her breath choked her. He stretched
out his arms to her in sudden passion. His hands touched her sleeves
and, with an answering rapidity of motion, she drew back. She shrank
within herself, and her face gathered a look of fright. "No! no! no!"
she cried strenuously.

His arms fell at his sides, and he looked at her in amazement.

"What's the matter?" he demanded.

Amelia had retreated, until she stood now with one hand on the table.
She could not look at him, and when she answered, her voice shook.

"There's nothin' the matter," she answered. "Only you mustn't--yet."

A shade of relief passed over his face, and he smiled.

"There, there!" he said, "never you mind. I understand. But if I come
over the last of the week, I guess it will be different. Won't it be
different, Milly?"

