any consequence, but, if you let the idea permeate you, ultimately
perhaps it may. By the way, that is a new man you have, isn't it?"

In the wreckage amid which Annandale was floundering the question was
like a rope; he caught at it and swam up.

"Who? Harris? Yes, the other poor devil I had was run over and died in
an ambulance."

Orr tapped at his foot with his stick. "I may be in error," he said,
"but I think I have seen him before."

"Then it must have been in London. He has been here only a short time.
He tells me he used to be with Catty."

Catty was a relative of Annandale, a New York girl who had married the
Duke of Kincardine.

"Possibly," said Orr. "Well," he added, reverting to the episode that
had brought him there, "I am sorry for all this. I know you are. I
will write to Sylvia and tell her so."

"Please do."

Annandale stood up and accompanied him to the door. When he turned
life seemed blank as the blanks of the night.




CHAPTER VII

SWEET-AND-TWENTY


What Sylvia replied to Orr's communication, whether indeed she replied
at all, Annandale was not informed. He himself wrote to her. The
letter was long; it was also abject. But he got no answer. He wrote
again. The result was the same.

Then both at her and at himself he rebelled. He had supped on
humiliations. He had no appetite for more. With some bravery, yet
without bravado, he tore a leaf from his life and on it wrote Finis.
The epitaph was figurative, but he thought it final. He thought that
he could dictate to Fate. It is a mistake that many make.

Presently it surprised him to find how laborious is the task of
putting people out of your life. If you have cared for them they will
come back. In the pages of a book, in the pauses of speech, suddenly
you behold them. In sleep they will not let you be. When you awake,
there they are. However detestable their behavior may have been, in
dream they visit and caress you. It takes time and vigilance; it takes
more, it takes other faces to disperse them.

In spite of the Finis, Sylvia Waldron declined to be dismissed. She
haunted Annandale. To memories of her he could not always show the
door. Sometimes they were masked. Occasionally they reproached him.
Again they seemed to say that did he but find out how, all might yet
be well between them. But usually they came and stood gazing at him in
love and grief eternal.

Then he would start. But what could he do? Besides, there was the
Finis.

June meanwhile had come and gone. Summer with a frenzy quasi-maniacal
had battened on the town. It is said that the hottest place in the
world is a port on the Persian Gulf. But it is wrong to believe
everything we hear. When New York decides to be hot, the temperature
of the Persian port must be agreeable by comparison.

One fetid noon Annandale fled. When he stopped it was at Narragansett.

Before August comes and with it the mob, Narragansett is charming.
There is a mile of empty hotels, a stretch of sand fine as face
powder, a heaving, heavenly desert of blue and an atmosphere charged
with ozone and desire.

In August the hotels are packed. The stretch of sand is a stage. Every
day a ballet is given there. The coryph√©es are the prettiest girls in
the world--girls from Baltimore, girls from Philadelphia, girls from
everywhere, girls with the Occident in their eyes and lips that say
"Drink me."

At high noon, from the greenroom of the bath-houses, Sweet-and-twenty
floats down, clasps the sea to the hum of harps, breasts the waves to
the laugh of brass and re-emerges to the sound of trumpets.

After the dip, other diversions. Primarily flirtations on the lawns;
later, polo at the Country Club; at night, dancing in the ballrooms,
more flirtations on the galleries of the Casino, supper on the terrace
below.

The terrace resembles, or, more exactly, on this particular summer did
resemble, a roof garden on the ground floor. From a kiosk a band of
Hungarians distributed selections of popular rot, sometimes their own
delirious czardas. There, circled by variegated lights, fanned by the
violins, girls and men sat beneath the high, wide, flowerful umbrellas
of Japan.

Sometimes some of them, wearying of that, wandered into silences and
shadows and lingered there, occupied with the crops, with strikes and
other subjects of national interest which young people always discuss
when holding hands in the dark.

To Newport, which squats disdainfully over the way, this is all too
free and easy. To Annandale, it was distressing. Everywhere there was
love, yet none for him. He had come to the Pier, as Narragansett is
locally termed, because of Newport's propinquity. If Sylvia so much as
signaled he could join her at once.

As yet no signaling was apparent. In its place was an influx of a
reflection of fashion. The influx made Annandale swear. He hated to be
seen stalking moodily about. He hated still more to have the rupture
of his engagement discussed. The ballet on the beach irritated him. He
told himself that he had come to the wrong shop. One day he thought of
joining friends in Canada. The next he thought of joining friends who
had gone abroad. The day after he thought that still he might be
signaled.

In these uncertainties he loitered, annoyed but sober. Since the visit
from Orr he had not touched a drop. Then, it so fell about that one
evening he looked in at a dance at the Casino. Madness was in the air.
The savors of the sea, the tonic of the dip, the stare of the harvest
moon, go to the head, stir the heart, excite the pulse in a manner
really Boccaccian.

Madness is contagious. It seemed particularly catching that night. The
hall was filled, the gallery flushed. On a stage, at the end of the
ballroom, musicians were tossing out in trailing rhythm the sorcery of
"Il Bacio," the invitation of the "Cent Vierges," the muffled riot of
"El Capitan."

To these incentives couples turned. Beneath the gallery where
Annandale stood there was a vision of white arms, bare necks, slender
waists circled by the blackness of men's sleeves. Three hundred girls
and men were waltzing together, interchanging partners, clasping
hands, gazing into each other's eyes.

Behind Annandale a group had gathered. They were talking, yet of what
he did not heed. But, presently, into the conversation filtered the
freshness of another voice.

"I quite believe, you know," the voice was saying, "that a girl who
stops here this summer will stop at nothing next."

At the jest Annandale turned. There, pretty as a peach but rather more
amusing, stood Fanny Price.

"Hamlet!" she exclaimed.

Annandale resembled the Dane as little as he did the devil. He was
fully aware of that. But he was equally aware that he must seem blue.
He straightened himself and smiled. Then at once it occurred to him
that Fanny might be a signal bearer.

"How do you do?" he said. "Don't you want to come and sit on the
terrace? When did you get here?"

"Just now. I am over from Newport. They told me there that I ought to
come in disguise. They call it slumming."

"Yes," Annandale inanely and eagerly replied. Of the little speech he
had caught but one word--Newport.

"Now, if I go with you, will you give me something pink, something
with raspberries in it?"

Fanny, as she spoke, disengaged herself from the people with whom she
had come.

"You saw Sylvia, didn't you?" he asked, when at last through coils of
girls and men they reached the terrace below.

Fanny nodded. "Suppose we sit here," she said, indicating a table from
which grew a big parasol.

"Did she say anything?"

Fanny sat down. Annandale seated himself by her. "You know? Don't
you----?"

"Oh, yes," Fanny interrupted. "But then----"

"Then what?"

"Nothing. Only it is so much better so, don't you think?"

"Better!" Annandale fiercely repeated.

"Why, yes. You and Sylvia were totally unsuited for each other. She is
the best and dearest girl in the world. But--here is the waiter. Will
you tell him to fetch me a lemon squash?"

Annandale gave the order.

"With raspberries in it," Fanny called at the waiter's retreating
back. "Aren't you going to take anything?"

In deep gloom Annandale shook his head.

Fanny laughed. "Drink delights you not; no, nor woman either."

"You see----"

"Yes, yes, yes. Of course I see. But why cannot you? Why can't you see
that you and Sylvia stood as much chance of hitting it off as though
you both spoke a different language? A break was bound to come."

But now the man appeared with the squash. Fanny looked at it. "Only
two raspberries," she cried. "And such little ones."

"Bring a dish of them," said Annandale. "I suppose," he resumed as the
waiter again retreated, "I suppose she will find somebody with whom
she can hit it off."

"Yes, of course. There is me and there are other girls. But the men
will be few. They will be elderly, I think, and I think, too, tame
enough to eat out of her hand."

"You think, then, that I am out of the running?"

Fanny did not answer. She was drinking the squash. When she put it
down she put with it the subject. It bored her.

"Are you going to be here long?" she asked. Until a moment before
Annandale had been wavering. But now his mind was made up. Or he
thought it was.

"No. I am off tomorrow."

"Where to?"

"The North Woods, perhaps. I am not sure."

"If you are not sure, you cannot be in any very tearing haste. Why not
stop a day or two longer and take me about?"

Annandale looked at her. In the look was surprise; inquiry, too.

"Yes. Why not?"

Annandale's look deepened into a stare.

"Now, don't be stupid," said Fanny, to whom such stares were familiar.
"I am not trying to get up a flirtation with you. But I must have
someone to talk to."

"I like to hear you talk."

"Yes; men always like nonsense."

"Only from a pretty girl, though."

"Do you know," said Fanny, rising from beneath the big parasol, "the
waiter didn't bring the raspberries. No matter now, though. I must go
and find mother. This is no place for her to be out alone."




CHAPTER VIII

TWO IN A TURRET


From a back gallery of the Casino a narrow stair leads to a tower. Up
that stair Annandale one afternoon invited Fanny Price.

A fortnight had gone, two weeks of dressing and undressing, of
dinners, dances and dips; a succession of mellow mornings; long, green
afternoons, dusks stabbed by sudden stars and nights lit by a moon
that painted the ocean, penetrated the shadows, checkered the
underbrush with silver spots.

But now, though the mornings were as mellow and the afternoons as
green, though in the air the same madness subsisted and the nights
were as languid as before, verandas were emptying, there were wide
spaces where once were thick crowds. The end of the season had come.

In the procession of these things Annandale had put the North Woods
from him; he had put, too, the thought of journeying abroad. With
them he had put also any hope that Sylvia would signal him back.

For awhile the hope had persisted, as the light of a candle persists.
Then it had dwindled, flickered and sunk. That is the way with hope.
Though sometimes it is snuffed. You are in darkness. But through that
darkness occasionally another light will be upheld. It may not,
perhaps, be intended for you, but it may enable you to see.

Aided by another light, Annandale had begun to discern his way. He
should, of course, have remained in darkness. To darkness, were this
fiction, he would be condemned. But this is not fiction. The drama
with which these pages deal is documented from life. It was Fanny who
held the light.

During the month that had gone he had been almost constantly at her
side. The fact that one light may be replaced by another had not at
first occurred to him. Presently the ease with which such substitution
can be effected had mystified him very much. He was not prepared for
anything of the kind. He had arranged to be a gloomy, disappointed
man. He kept telling himself that if Sylvia had stuck to him he would
have been true to her his whole life through. But she had not stuck to
him, and the withdrawal of herself had left existence so empty that,
unknown even to him, Nature had been filling the vacuum which she
abhors.

In this, Nature had been greatly aided. Fanny Price was a remarkably
fetching young girl. To a man out of court and consequently out of
sorts the companionship of a pocket Venus is tonifying in the extreme.
It is not merely that, it is recuperative. It banishes the blues. It
establishes a new court, and with it a new code of its own.

The censorious allege that this is all wrong. It may be that they are
right. But Nature is not censorious. Nature is not even ethical. She
has no standards of right, no canons of wrong. What she does have is
her way. A saint may defy her. Annandale was not that by a long shot.
He was simply a human being, one that had been punished, and, as he
thought, unjustly punished, for that which might have been condoned.
Injustice humiliates. Saints may welcome humiliation, but human beings
resent it.

Over the emptiness which Sylvia had created there brooded therefore
two things. One was darkness, the other pique. In the light which
Fanny upheld it seemed to Annandale that they might be dispersed. This
idea, which he regarded as his very own, and consequently as highly
original, was not his in the least. It was Nature prompting him to
fill the vacuum which she so dislikes.

Instigated by her, Annandale invited Fanny up a stair and into a
tower, a place remote, aloof, furnished with seats for just two.

Fanny had not been there before. She had heard, though, of its
aloofness; it was regarded as a dangerous spot. But Fanny was a brave
girl. Besides, Annandale was at his worst, and even at his best was
not very alarming.

The ascent effected, Fanny peeped from a casement. "Why," she
exclaimed, "you can see everywhere!" She looked about. "But no one can
see you."

Assured of that, she produced a little gold box. On the back were her
initials in jewels. She opened it, took a cigarette and lit it. "Will
you have one?" she asked.

"This is a deuced nice case," said Annandale.

Fanny puffed and smiled.

"A present, I suppose."

"Yes. But you must not ask from whom."

Annandale looked out at the landscape, then in at the girl. "There is
something else I want to ask."

So grave was his tone that Fanny deployed for action.

"Will you marry me?"

Though Fanny had deployed, the shot bowled her over. Into one of the
chairs she dropped. Already Annandale had captured the other.

"Will you?"

But Fanny was recovering. With an air of vexation in which there was
amusement, she puffed at her cigarette and then at him.

"Now, honestly, have I ever given you the slightest encouragement to
ask me that?" She hesitated a moment, puffed again and added: "We have
been friends, I think; let us remain so."

Annandale, who was in loose white flannels, contemplated his tight
white shoes. Then his eyes sought hers. "Are you interested in
Loftus?"

"That is none of your business," Fanny proudly and promptly replied.
As she spoke she got from her seat, approached the casement, gazed out
and away.

"I do not believe you are," Annandale announced to her slender waist.
"But if I am wrong, it is hardly disloyalty to him to say that he is
not good enough for you."

Beneath the tower was a tennis court. Fanny made a face at it. But the
face must have been insufficient. Looking over her shoulder at
Annandale, she showed her teeth.

"Do you fancy a girl cares for a man because he is or is not good
enough? When a girl cares she cares because she cannot help herself."

"I know that is the way with a man, or at least with me. I cannot help
caring for you."

"Nor could you help caring for Sylvia."

"She is so different."

"Yes," said Fanny dreamily, "and so are you." Though to whom she
referred she did not say, nor did Annandale ask. She gave him no
chance. "Next month you will not be able to help caring for some other
girl."

"Not if you would take me."

"But, you see, I don't care for you."

"But couldn't you?" Annandale persisted. "Couldn't you if you tried?
Of course, in saying that Loftus is not good enough for you I don't
mean that I am. But if you could try I would."

At this program Fanny laughed. "We should be a pair of Christian
Endeavorers, shouldn't we?"

To the levity of that Annandale found no immediate reply. Yet
presently, with an irrelevance more obvious than real, he threw out:
"He has gone abroad, you know."

"Who? Loftus?"

"Yes, for a year, I believe."

Fanny turned to the tennis court again. It was, though, not that which
she saw, but a hope that was slipping away, sinking away, sinking down
into death dishonored. For a moment she was very still. A movement of
Annandale's aroused her.

"Come," she said. "It is hot here. Let us go."

Gathering a fold of her skirt, Fanny descended the stair. Annandale
filed after. On a balcony below a lady with faded hair and gimlet eyes
pounced at her.

"I have been hunting for you everywhere," the lady exclaimed. "Aren't
you going to dress?" Then she nodded to Annandale.

Annandale touched his cap. "How do you do, Mrs. Price?"

He would have lingered, but Fanny dismissed him.

"Good-bye," she said. "I may see you this evening."

As he ambled off Mrs. Price returned to the charge. "Where have you
been?"

Fanny patted a yawn. "Listening to sweet nothings."

"From him? Why, he hasn't anything, has he? What did you do?"

Fanny patted another yawn or else another sigh. "I fell on his neck
and sobbed for joy."

"Nonsense. Has he anything, tell me?"

"Not enough to entertain on. Twenty-five thousand a year, I think."

"The impertinence of it!" said the lady.

Had her daughter been an heiress a duke would hardly have satisfied
her. As things were, or more exactly, since the girl began to grow in
beauty she had dreamed for her but one dream--a brilliant match. To
Mrs. Price there could be no brilliance if the party of the second
part had a dollar less than ten million.

"You might have had Loftus," she declared at last. "Where is he, do
you know?"

"Abroad, I hear."

"With that creature?"

Mrs. Price in common with many others had heard of Marie Leroy. But
though others in hearing had not heeded, Mrs. Price took it as a
personal affront.

"Then it is your fault," she snarled. "You could have had him if you
had wanted. Don't tell me. He was in love with you. I could see it."

Fanny was looking at the ocean. A white sail was fainting in the
distance. Like it, a hope she had had was fading away. She watched it
go. It had been very fair, very dear, more dear and fair than any she
had known. But it was going. It was out of reach and now out of
sight. She could not beckon to it.

"What are you staring at?" Mrs. Price asked.

"A sail out there," the girl answered.

Then presently mother and daughter passed into an adjoining corridor
where they had rooms.




CHAPTER IX

FANNY CHANGES HER CLOTHES


Fanny did not appear that evening. In search of her Annandale prowled
vainly around. But on the morrow he ran into her on the beach.

It was still as fine as powder. To have found elbow room there a few
days previous you would have had to go out to sea. Now, in and on it
children were making hillocks and holes. Near them a few groups of
older people loitered. But the coryph√©es that had danced there were
migrating. Already the Rockingham, a big hotel which faced the beach,
had closed. Sweet-and-twenty was packing her trunk.

The morning itself was of the quality which Lowell has catalogued as
from the Gulf adrift. In the air was a caress. Fanny, in a frock the
color of pale pastel pink, a wide hat in which that color was
repeated, her eyes blue as the sea and bluer, added to its charm.

As Annandale approached she smiled and gave him a finger. But at once
the smile fell from her. With the finger which he had released she
pointed at the big hotel. Annandale turned. Other people were turning.
Some were running. A child that had been at play in the sand jumped
and clapped his hands. About one side of the hotel a sheet of flame
was climbing, crackling in and out. A cry of "Fire!" caught up and
renewed, mounted in the crystalline air.

"Damn!" said Annandale. "If that goes----"

Fanny said nothing. Her eyes widened. Through the windows that front
the beach more flames were leaping. From the side the first flames
passed to shops over the way, passed back with fresh ones created and
joined the others beyond. Above was smoke. Higher yet the tender blue
of the sky. But below was a whirlwind of ochre, scarlet and gamboge, a
fierce yet compact tornado of oscillant hues, shot with green and
shuttled with black. Then suddenly, with a roar, the tornado doubled,
the roof had fallen. The child that had jumped and clapped his hands,
feebly now was beginning to cry.

"It is glorious," said Fanny.

"I am afraid--" Annandale muttered.

Fanny glanced at him. Yet at once she understood. On the other side of
the hotel, across the road, the Casino stood. Her mother, of course,
would be safe. But her clothes! At thought of them her hand went to
her throat.

"Do you think the Casino will catch?" she gasped.

Annandale nodded.

"Oh," she continued, "I shan't have a stitch, not one."

"Yes, you shall," Annandale heroically retorted. "I will see to them.
But I must run. Find your mother if you can and take her to the Inn."

The Inn, a hotel half a mile away, was where Annandale lodged. At once
he was off. Shortly, by a detour, he got to the other side of the
fire. As he swung about he saw that the Casino's ballroom had caught.
But that part of the place was of wood. The other end, where Fanny
lodged, was of wood also, but it was also partly of stone. To this
part as yet the flames had not reached.

As Annandale ran he told himself that he would have time to get in and
get out, but he told himself too that it was a ridiculous job. Fanny's
clothes a stroke of his pen could replace. But now the crowd impeded
him. Lines had formed. Buckets were being passed. There were throngs
of natives and resorters. Through them he pushed.

At the further entrance to the Casino, above which he knew the Prices
lodged, a fat policeman stood, blocking the way. Annandale shoved him
aside, sprang up the stairs, reached the room, fumbled with the door.
It was locked.

Annandale swore deeply, tried the door with his shoulder, kicked at it
till it cracked, kicked again, throwing himself against it with all
his weight, then, not the door, but the fastenings of the lock broke
and he went sprawling in. Through the open window he could see the
flames, he could hear them, he could hear too the cries of the crowd.
But he had no time to waste. He tore around the room.

In one corner was a deep closet, full of clothes. He took them and
threw them in armfuls on the bed. In another corner was a bureau, the
drawers packed with scented lingerie. These on the bed he emptied
also. What else did women wear? he wondered. Oh, yes, he remembered;
hats certainly and probably shoes. Around the room he tore again. But
already the bed was mountainous. He turned it all over on the floor,
gathered up as much as the coverlid would hold and made a hasty bundle
of it. Beneath was a blanket; he filled that, made a bundle of it
also, repeated the operation with a sheet. Into another sheet he threw
hats which meanwhile had loomed in boxes on a shelf, and dragging a
curtain down filled that with shoes which also he had found, changed
his mind and stuffed them into a pillow case, tossing in after them
articles from a dressing-table, brushes and combs, odds and ends,
helter skelter.

But in dragging the curtain from the window he had noticed a
writing-desk. After he had finished with the pillow case he returned
to it. Like the door it was locked. He kicked at it, kicked it open,
discovered in it loose money and trinkets, stuck them in his pockets,
grabbed at the bundles and dashed from the room just as with a roar
the flames leaped in.

In the corridor he tripped, but he was up again with the tightly tied
bundles and down the stair before the flames and the smoke of them
could catch him. Once on the road without he turned to look, but the
flames pirouetting in increasing size made it too hot to linger. Down
the road he went, not overweighted but impeded by the awkward bundles,
and staggered first into an engulfing, shouting crowd, then into a
convenient hack, in which he reached the Inn, minus his cap and
perspiring profusely.

The Prices as yet had not turned up. Annandale secured rooms for them,
had the bundles taken there, went to his own quarters, re-emerged
shortly fresh as paint, hungry as a wolf.

It was high noon. From beyond drifted the sound of cries, the smell
of smoke, the commotion of flight. The Rockingham had gone, the
adjacent shops and bath houses with it; the Casino had fallen.
Hurrying to the railway station beyond came people with handbags,
wagons with trunks. From the air the caress had passed. There was
panic in it.

But presently the flames showed less voluminous. After devouring all
that they conveniently could they were subsiding. It was apparent that
the worst was over. Then at last Fanny and her mother drove up.

From the veranda where he stood Annandale ran down to meet them. "I
have your things," he cried. "I have rooms for you also."

"Hobson is not in it with you," said Fanny, when the tale of the
bundles had been told. "I could kiss you. I would if mamma were not
here."

For that, ordinarily, Fanny would have been promptly sat upon. But
here was the exceptional. Mrs. Price recognized it or appeared to.
Instead of rebuking the girl and snubbing the man, Mrs. Price
condescended to tell Annandale that he was "too good."

This was very nice. Annandale felt over-rewarded. Then, shortly, the
midday meal ensuing, he conducted mother and daughter to the
restaurant, sat with them at table, ordered Ruinart cup and assumed
family airs. Later, in a motor, he took Fanny to view the ruins,
hummed her over the country and later still procured for her a lemon
squash with plenty of raspberries in it, which she consumed on the
porch, to the sound of the waves, by the light of the stars.

Meanwhile she had changed her pastel frock for another, which, if a
bit rumpled in transit, became her wonderfully well.

Annandale commented on it. "By the way," he suddenly interrupted
himself to remark, "I have more of your things. I stuffed them in my
pocket and forgot them entirely. I will go and fetch them now."

"Don't bother. Tomorrow will do. What are they, do you remember?"

"Money and jewelry. Rings and pins, I think. I am sure there were
pins. One of them stuck in me."

"Any clothes?"

"Clothes!" Annandale echoed in surprise. "Why, no, are any missing?"

"My mother's. They were in the room next to mine."

"The Lord forgive me, I never thought of it."

"It does not really matter. Only we will have to go to town tomorrow.
Mamma has not a stitch."

"The devil!" muttered Annandale in fierce self-reprobation. "Hang my
stupidity. I am a fool."

"You are nothing of the kind. If it were not for you I would not have
a stitch either."

"That is all very well. But I have bungled matters dreadfully. I don't
know what your mother can think of me. I do know, though, that I wish
she would let me replace the things which she has lost through my
fault."

In the sky a star was falling, swiftly, silently, like a drop of water
on a window-pane. Fanny watched it. She had been lolling back in a
chair. But at Annandale's suggestion she sat up. "That is absurd," she
announced.

"Well, then, it would be only nice and fair of you to put me in a
position where, without offense, I could do so."

But Fanny was rising. "It is late," she announced. "I must go."

Annandale caught at her. "Say 'Yes,'" he implored. "Or at least don't
say 'No.' Say something."

"Something, then. There, let me be."

At that Annandale, who still held her, held her yet tighter. "You are
the dearest girl in all the world."

Fanny gave him a little shove. "Don't do that, anyone might see you."

"Yes, and see too that you belong to me."

"I am not so sure."

"You shan't go then till you are." Annandale, as he spoke, planted
himself uncircuitously before her.

"Oh," said Fanny, in a little sugary, demure voice, "if you are going
to use brute force----"

"I am."

"Then I give in."

"For keeps?"

"Don't, there's my mother."

In the doorway beyond, Mrs. Price had loomed. Fanny joined her.
Annandale followed, denouncing himself to the lady for the oversight
that noon. Yet, whether because of that oversight of his or because of
some foresight of her own, so grim was Mrs. Price that Annandale,
concluding that it would be more cheerful elsewhere, turned tail,
ambled out to the road and across it to the sea wall, where he sat and
kicked his heels and told himself that he was engaged.

In the telling he lost himself in impossibilities and wondered how it
would fare with him and how with Sylvia could the past be mended and
the old plans mature. For though Fanny allured, Sylvia enchained.
Fanny was delicious. But he fancied that other men had found her so.
He fancied that her heart had been an inn, and he knew that Sylvia's
was a home. Yet from that he was barred. To those that lack homes
hotels are convenient.

Across the way meanwhile Mrs. Price was very busy. In looming on the
veranda it had seemed to her that her daughter and that man were
occupied with certain ceremonies. Regarding them she attacked the girl
at once.

"You have not taken him?" she began by way of reconnaissance.

That afternoon Fanny had visited ruins. There were others more
personal that she was viewing then, the ruins of fair things not dead
but destroyed.

"Answer me," Mrs. Price commanded.

The girl started. But she had been far away--in that lovely land where
dreams come true and then, it may be, turn into nightmares. Through
the dreams hand in hand with Loftus she had been strolling. Now she
must put them all away.

"Answer me," Mrs. Price repeated.

"I am afraid so."

Into a misty and deserted parlor of the Inn Mrs. Price pulled the girl
and there let fire.

"Afraid! You ought to be! What will your father say?"

The father here projected was a gentleman who resided abroad and who
seldom opened his mouth except to put something in it.

"And Fred!"

Fred was Fanny's brother, a young chap whose opinions were of no value
to anyone, himself included.

"And everybody!"

Everybody was the upper current of social life.

"And Sylvia!"

The earlier shots had not inflicted any visible damage, but this must
have told.

"I shall have to write to her," Fanny with unusual meekness replied.

"Yes, do. Do by all means. Tell her you have taken her leavings. And
why? Merciful heavens, why? If you were as staid and stiff as she I
could understand. But a girl like you, with your tastes, your
extravagances, a girl with a national reputation for beauty, to go and
accept twenty-five thousand a year is--is--sinful, that's what it is.
Your own father has that, and on it we are out at elbows. It is just
about enough for you to dress on. Oh, Fanny, Fanny!"

Hysterically the old lady waved her hands. "Oh, Fanny, I have so
prayed that you would make a brilliant match. I have scrimped and
saved that you might, and you go and take a blond beast of a pauper.
It is too cruel!"

Fanny winced. It was cruel. But the cruelty was not hers. It was
Fate's. She too had hoped for the very marriage her mother had so
ardently desired. But Loftus had not cared. Occupied elsewhere he had
sailed away. As well then Annandale as another.

"You see, you know," she said in a wretched effort at smoothing things
over, "he is quite a hero."

But this was too much. Mrs. Price shook her head like a battle horse
and fairly neighed.

