
"How d'ye do, Mrs. Ruthven; did you get my note? How d'ye do, Mrs. Fane;
awf'fly jolly to collide this way. Would you mind if--"

"You," interrupted Rosamund, "ought to be downtown--unless you've
concluded to retire and let Wall Street go to smash. What are you
pretending to do in Sherry's at this hour, you very dreadful infant?"

"I've been lunching with Mr. Neergard--and would you mind--"

"Yes, I would," began Rosamund, promptly, but Alixe interrupted: "Bring
him over, Gerald." And as the boy thanked her and turned back:

"I've a word to administer to that boy, Rosamund, so attack the Neergard
creature with moderation, please. You owe me that at least."

"No, I don't!" said Rosamund, disgusted; "I won't be afflicted with
a--"

"Nobody wants you to be too civil to him, silly! But Gerald is in his
office, and I want Gerald to do something for me. Please, Rosamund."

"Oh, well, if you--"

"Yes, I do. Here he is now; and don't be impossible and frighten him,
Rosamund."

The presentation of Neergard was accomplished without disaster to
anybody. On his thin nose the dew glistened, and his thick fat hands
were hot; but Rosamund was too bored to be rude to him, and Alixe turned
immediately to Gerald:

"Yes, I did get your note, but I'm not at home on Tuesday. Can't you
come--wait a moment!--what are you doing this afternoon?"

"Why, I'm going back to the office with Mr. Neergard--"

"Nonsense! Oh, Mr. Neergard, would you mind"--very sweetly--"if Mr.
Erroll did not go to the office this afternoon?"

Neergard looked at her--almost--a fixed and uncomfortable smirk on his
round, red face: "Not at all, Mrs. Ruthven, if you have anything better
for him--"

"I have--an allopathic dose of it. Thank you, Mr. Neergard.
Rosamund, we ought to start, you know: Gerald!"--with quiet
significance--"good-bye, Mr. Neergard. Please do not buy up the rest
of Long Island, because we need a new kitchen-garden very badly."

Rosamund scarcely nodded his dismissal. And the next moment Neergard
found himself quite alone, standing with the smirk still stamped on his
stiffened features, his hat-brim and gloves crushed in his rigid
fingers, his little black mousy eyes fixed on nothing, as usual.

A wandering head-waiter thought they were fixed on him and sidled up
hopeful of favours, but Neergard suddenly snarled in his face and moved
toward the door, wiping the perspiration from his nose with the most
splendid handkerchief ever displayed east of Sixth Avenue and west of
Third.

Mrs. Ruthven's motor moved up from its waiting station; Rosamund was
quite ready to enter when Alixe said cordially: "Where can we drop you,
dear? Do let us take you to the exchange if you are going there--"

Now Rosamund had meant to go wherever they were going, merely because
they evidently wished to be alone. The abruptness of the check both
irritated and amused her.

"If I knew anybody in the Bronx I'd make you take me there," she said
vindictively; "but as I don't you may drop me at the Orchils'--you
uncivil creatures. Gerald, I know you want me, anyway, because you've
promised to adore, honour, and obey me. . . . If you'll come with me now
I'll play double dummy with you. No? Well, of all ingratitude! . . .
Thank you, dear, I perceive that this is Fifth Avenue, and furthermore
that this ramshackle chassis of yours has apparently broken down at the
Orchils' curb. . . . Good-bye, Gerald; it never did run smooth, you
know. I mean the course of T.L. as well as this motor. Try to be a good
boy and keep moving; a rolling stone acquires a polish, and you are not
in the moss-growing business, I'm sure--"

"Rosamund! For goodness' sake!" protested Alixe, her gloved hands at her
ears.

"Dear!" said Rosamund cheerfully, "take your horrid little boy!"

And she smiled dazzlingly upon Gerald, then turned up her pretty nose at
him, but permitted him to attend her to the door.

When he returned to Alixe, and the car was speeding Parkward, he began
again, eagerly:

"Jack asked me to come up and, of course, I let you know, as I promised
I would. But it's all right, Mrs. Ruthven, because Jack said the stakes
will not be high this time--"

"You accepted!" demanded Alixe, in quick displeasure.

"Why, yes--as the stakes are not to amount to anything--"

"Gerald!"

"What?" he said uneasily.

"You promised me that you would not play again in my house!"

"I--I said, for more than I could afford--"

"No, you said you would not play; that is what you promised, Gerald."

"Well, I meant for high stakes; I--well, you don't want to drive me out
altogether--even from the perfectly harmless pleasure of playing for
nominal stakes--"

"Yes, I do!"

"W-why?" asked the boy in hurt surprise.

"Because it is dangerous sport, Gerald--"

"What! To play for a few cents a point--"

"Yes, to play for anything. And as far as that goes there will be no
such play as you imagine."

"Yes, there will--I beg your pardon--but Jack Ruthven said so--"

"Gerald, listen to me. A bo--a man like yourself has no business playing
with people whose losses never interfere with their appetites next day.
A business man has no right to play such a game, anyway. I wonder what
Mr. Neergard would say if he knew you--"

"Neergard! Why, he does know."

"You confessed to him?"

"Y-es; I had to. I was obliged to--to ask somebody for an advance--"

"You went to him? Why didn't you go to Captain Selwyn?--or to Mr.
Gerard?"

"I did!--not to Captain Selwyn--I was ashamed to. But I went to Austin
and he fired up and lit into me--and we had a muss-up--and I've stayed
away since."

"Oh, Gerald! And it simply proves me right."

"No, it doesn't; I did go to Neergard and made a clean breast of it. And
he let me have what I wanted like a good fellow--"

"And made you promise not to do it again!"

"No, he didn't; he only laughed. Besides, he said that he wished he had
been in the game--"

"What!" exclaimed Alixe.

"He's a first-rate fellow," insisted Gerald, reddening; "and it was very
nice of you to let me bring him over to-day. . . . And he knows
everybody downtown, too. He comes from a very old Dutch family, but he
had to work pretty hard and do without college. . . . I'd like it
awfully if you'd let me--if you wouldn't mind being civil to him--once
or twice, you know--"

Mrs. Ruthven lay back in her seat, thoroughly annoyed.

"My theory," insisted the boy with generous conviction, "is that a man
is what he makes himself. People talk about climbers and butters-in, but
where would anybody be in this town if nobody had ever butted in? It's
all rot, this aping the caste rules of established aristocracies; a
decent fellow ought to be encouraged. Anyway, I'm going to propose, him
for the Stuyvesant and the Proscenium. Why not?"

"I see. And now you propose to bring him to my house?"

"If you'll let me. I asked Jack and he seemed to think it might be all
right if you cared to ask him to play--"

"I won't!" cried Alixe, revolted. "I will not turn my drawing-rooms into
a clearing-house for every money-laden social derelict in town! I've had
enough of that; I've endured the accumulated wreckage too long!--weird
treasure-craft full of steel and oil and coal and wheat and Heaven knows
what!--I won't do it, Gerald; I'm sick of it all--sick! sick!"

The sudden, flushed outburst stunned the boy. Bewildered, he stared
round-eyed at the excited young matron who was growing more incensed and
more careless of what she exposed every second:

"I will not make a public gambling-hell out of my own house!" she
repeated, dark eyes very bright and cheeks afire; "I will not continue
to stand sponsor for a lot of queer people simply because they don't
care what they lose in Mrs. Ruthven's house! You babble to me of limits,
Gerald; this is the limit! Do you--or does anybody else suppose that I
don't know what is being said about us?--that play is too high in our
house?--that we are not too difficile in our choice of intimates as long
as they can stand the pace!"

"I--I never believed that," insisted the boy, miserable to see the tears
flash in her eyes and her mouth quiver.

"You may as well believe it for it's true!" she said, exasperated.

"T-true!--Mrs. Ruthven!"

"Yes, true, Gerald! I--I don't care whether you know it; I don't care,
as long as you stay away. I'm sick of it all, I tell you. Do you think I
was educated for this?--for the wife of a chevalier of industry--"

"M-Mrs. Ruthven!" he gasped; but she was absolutely reckless now--and
beneath it all, perhaps, lay a certainty of the boy's honour. She knew
he was to be trusted--was the safest receptacle for wrath so long
repressed. She let prudence go with a parting and vindictive slap, and
opened her heart to the astounded boy. The tempest lasted a few seconds;
then she ended as abruptly as she began.

To him she had always been what a pretty young matron usually is to a
well-bred but hare-brained youth just untethered. Their acquaintance
had been for him a combination of charming experiences diluted with
gratitude for her interest and a harmless soup√ßon of sentimentality.
In her particular case, however, there was a little something more--a
hint of the forbidden--a troubled enjoyment, because he knew, of course,
that Mrs. Ruthven was on no footing at all with the Gerards. So in her
friendship he savoured a piquancy not at all distasteful to a very young
man's palate.

But now!--he had never, never seen her like this--nor any woman, for
that matter--and he did not know where to look or what to do.

She was sitting back in the limousine, very limp and flushed; and the
quiver of her under lip and the slightest dimness of her averted brown
eyes distressed him dreadfully.

"Dear Mrs. Ruthven," he blurted out with clumsy sympathy, "you mustn't
think such things, b-because they're all rot, you see; and if any fellow
ever said those things to me I'd jolly soon--"

"Do you mean to say you've never heard us criticised?"

"I--well--everybody is--criticised, of course--"

"But not as we are! Do you read the papers? Well, then, do you
understand how a woman must feel to have her husband continually made
the butt of foolish, absurd, untrue stories--as though he were a
performing poodle! I--I'm sick of that, too, for another thing. Week
after week, month by month, unpleasant things have been accumulating;
and they're getting too heavy, Gerald--too crushing for my
shoulders. . . . Men call me restless. What wonder! Women link my name
with any man who is k-kind to me! Is there no excuse then for what they
call my restlessness? . . . What woman would not be restless whose
private affairs are the gossip of everybody? Was it not enough that I
endured terrific publicity when--when trouble overtook me two years
ago? . . . I suppose I'm a fool to talk like this; but a girl must do it
some time or burst!--and to whom am I to go? . . . There was only one
person; and I can't talk to--that one; he--that person knows too much
about me, anyway; which is not good for a woman, Gerald, not good for a
good woman. . . . I mean a pretty good woman; the kind people's sisters
can still talk to, you know. . . . For I'm nothing more interesting than
a divorc√©e, Gerald; nothing more dangerous than an unhappy little
fool. . . . I wish I were. . . . But I'm still at the wheel! . . . A
man I know calls it hard steering but assures me that there's anchorage
ahead. . . . He's a splendid fellow, Gerald; you ought to know
him--well--some day; he's just a clean-cut, human, blundering, erring,
unreasonable,lovable man whom any woman, who is not a fool herself,
could manage. . . . Some day I should like to have you know
him--intimately. He's good for people of your sort--even good for a
restless, purposeless woman of my sort. Peace to him!--if there's any
in the world. . . . Turn your back; I'm sniveling."

A moment afterward she had calmed completely; and now she stole a
curious side glance at the boy and blushed a little when he looked back
at her earnestly. Then she smiled and quietly withdrew the hand he had
been holding so tightly in both of his.

"So there we are, my poor friend," she concluded with a shrug; "the old
penny shocker, you know, 'Alone in a great city!'--I've dropped my
handkerchief."

"I want you to believe me your friend," said Gerald, in the low,
resolute voice of unintentional melodrama.

"Why, thank you; are you so sure you want that, Gerald?"

"Yes, as long as I live!" he declared, generous emotion in the
ascendant. A pretty woman upset him very easily even under normal
circumstances. But beauty in distress knocked him flat--as it does every
wholesome boy who is worth his salt.

And he said so in his own na√Øve fashion; and the more eloquent he grew
the more excited he grew and the deeper and blacker appeared her wrongs
to him.

At first she humoured him, and rather enjoyed his fresh, eager sympathy;
after a little his increasing ardour inclined her to laugh; but it was
very splendid and chivalrous and genuine ardour, and the inclination to
laugh died out, for emotion is contagious, and his earnestness not only
flattered her legitimately but stirred the slackened tension of her
heart-strings until, tightening again, they responded very faintly.

"I had no idea that you were lonely," he declared.

"Sometimes I am, a little, Gerald." She ought to have known better.
Perhaps she did.

"Well," he began, "couldn't I come and--"

"No, Gerald."

"I mean just to see you sometimes and have another of these jolly
talks--"

"Do you call this a jolly talk?"--with deep reproach.

"Why--not exactly; but I'm awfully interested, Mrs. Ruthven, and we
understand each other so well--"

"I don't understand you", she was imprudent enough to say.

This was delightful! Certainly he must be a particularly sad and subtle
dog if this clever but misunderstood young matron found him what in
romance is known as an "enigma."

So he protested with smiling humility that he was quite transparent; she
insisted on doubting him and contrived to look disturbed in her mind
concerning the probable darkness of that past so dear to any young man
who has had none.

As for Alixe, she also was mildly flattered--a trifle disdainfully
perhaps, but still genuinely pleased at the honesty of this crude
devotion. She was touched, too; and, besides, she trusted him; for he
was clearly as transparent as the spring air. Also most women lugged a
boy about with them; she had had several, but none as nice as Gerald. To
tie him up and tack his license on was therefore natural to her; and if
she hesitated to conclude his subjection in short order it was that, far
in a corner of her restless soul, there hid an ever-latent fear of
Selwyn; of his opinions concerning her fitness to act mentor to the boy
of whom he was fond, and whose devotion to him was unquestioned.

Yet now, in spite of that--perhaps even partly because of it, she
decided on the summary taming of Gerald; so she let her hand fall, by
accident, close to his on the cushioned seat, to see what he'd do about
it.

It took him some time to make up his mind; but when he did he held it so
gingerly, so respectfully, that she was obliged to look out of the
window. Clearly he was quite the safest and nicest of all the unfledged
she had ever possessed.

"Please, don't," she said sadly.

And by that token she took him for her own.

       

She was very light-hearted that evening when she dropped him at the
Stuyvesant Club and whizzed away to her own house, for he had promised
not to play again on her premises, and she had promised to be nice to
him and take him about when she was shy of an escort. She also repeated
that he was truly an "enigma" and that she was beginning to be a little
afraid of him, which was an economical way of making him very proud and
happy. Being his first case of beauty in distress, and his first
harmless love-affair with a married woman, he looked about him as he
entered the club and felt truly that he had already outgrown the young
and callow innocents who haunted it.

       

On her way home Alixe smilingly reviewed the episode until doubt of
Selwyn's approval crept in again; and her amused smile had faded when
she reached her home.

The house of Ruthven was a small but ultra-modern limestone affair,
between Madison and Fifth; a pocket-edition of the larger mansions of
their friends, but with less excuse for the overelaboration since the
dimensions were only twenty by a hundred. As a matter of fact its narrow
ornate facade presented not a single quiet space the eyes might rest on
after a tiring attempt to follow and codify the arabesques, foliations,
and intricate vermiculations of what some disrespectfully dubbed as
"near-aissance."

However, into this limestone bonbon-box tripped Mrs. Ruthven, mounted
the miniature stairs with a whirl of her scented skirts, peeped into the
drawing-room, but continued mounting until she whipped into her own
apartments, separated from those of her lord and master by a locked
door.

That is, the door had been locked for a long, long time; but presently,
to her intense surprise and annoyance, it slowly opened, and a little
man appeared in slippered feet.

He was a little man, and plump, and at first glance his face appeared
boyish and round and quite guiltless of hair or of any hope of it.

But, as he came into the electric light, the hardness of his features
was apparent; he was no boy; a strange idea that he had never been
assailed some people. His face was puffy and pallid and faint blue
shadows hinted of closest shaving; and the line from the wing of the
nostrils to the nerveless corners of his thin, hard mouth had been
deeply bitten by the acid of unrest.

For the remainder he wore pale-rose pajamas under a silk-and-silver
kimona, an obi pierced with a jewelled scarf-pin; and he was smoking a
cigarette as thin as a straw.

"Well!" said his young wife in astonished displeasure, instinctively
tucking her feet--from which her maid had just removed the shoes--under
her own chamber-robe.

"Send her out a moment," he said, with a nod of his head toward the
maid. His voice was agreeable and full--a trifle precise and
overcultivated, perhaps.

When the maid retired, Alixe sat up on the lounge, drawing her skirts
down over her small stockinged feet.

"What on earth is the matter?" she demanded.

"The matter is," he said, "that Gerald has just telephoned me from the
Stuyvesant that he isn't coming."

"Well?"

"No, it isn't well. This is some of your meddling."

"What if it is?" she retorted; but her breath was coming quicker.

"I'll tell you; you can get up and ring him up and tell him you expect
him to-night."

She shook her head, eyeing him all the while.

"I won't do it, Jack. What do you want him for? He can't play with the
people who play here; he doesn't know the rudiments of play. He's only a
boy; his money is so tied up that he has to borrow if he loses very
much. There's no sport in playing with a boy like that--"

"So you've said before, I believe, but I'm better qualified to judge
than you are. Are you going to call him up?"

"No, I am not."

He turned paler. "Get up and go to that telephone!"

"You little whippet," she said slowly, "I was once a soldier's wife--the
only decent thing I ever have been. This bullying ends now--here, at
this instant! If you've any dirty work to do, do it yourself. I've done
my share and I've finished."

He was astonished; that was plain enough. But it was the sudden
overwhelming access of fury that weakened him and made him turn, hand
outstretched, blindly seeking for a chair. Rage, even real anger, were
emotions he seldom had to reckon with, for he was a very tired and bored
and burned-out gentleman, and vivid emotion was not good for his
arteries, the doctors told him.

He found his chair, stood a moment with his back toward his wife, then
very slowly let himself down into the chair and sat facing her. There
was moisture on his soft, pallid skin, a nervous twitching of the under
lip; he passed one heavily ringed hand across his closely shaven jaw,
still staring at her.

"I want to tell you something," he said. "You've got to stop your
interference with my affairs, and stop it now."

"I am not interested in your affairs," she said unsteadily, still shaken
by her own revolt, still under the shock of her own arousing to a
resistance that had been long, long overdue. "If you mean," she went on,
"that the ruin of this boy is your affair, then I'll make it mine from
this moment. I've told you that he shall not play; and he shall not. And
while I'm about it I'll admit what you are preparing to accuse me of; I
did make Sandon Craig promise to keep away; I did try to make that
little fool Scott Innis promise, too; and when he wouldn't I informed
his father. . . . And every time you try your dirty bucket-shop methods
on boys like that, I'll do the same."

He swore at her quite calmly; she smiled, shrugged, and, imprisoning her
knees in her clasped hands, leaned back and looked at him.

"What a ninny I have been," she said, "to be afraid of you so long!"

A gleam crossed his faded eyes, but he let her remark pass for the
moment. Then, when he was quite sure that violent emotion had been
exhausted within him:

"Do you want your bills paid?" he asked. "Because, if you do, Fane,
Harmon & Co. are not going to pay them."

"We are living beyond our means?" she inquired disdainfully.

"Not if you will be good enough to mind your business, my friend. I've
managed this establishment on our winnings for two years. It's a detail;
but you might as well know it. My association with Fane, Harmon & Co.
runs the Newport end of it, and nothing more."

"What did you marry me for?" she asked curiously.

A slight colour came into his face: "Because that damned Rosamund Fane
lied about you."

"Oh! . . . You knew that in Manila? You'd heard about it, hadn't
you--the Western timber-lands? Rosamund didn't mean to lie--only the
titles were all wrong, you know. . . . And so you made a bad break,
Jack; is that it?"

"Yes, that is it."

"And it cost you a fortune, and me a--husband. Is that it, my friend?"

"I can afford you if you will stop your meddling," he said coolly.

"I see; I am to stop my meddling and you are to continue your downtown
gambling in your own house in the evenings."

"Precisely. It happens that I am sufficiently familiar with the
stock-market to make a decent living out of the Exchange; and it also
happens that I am sufficiently fortunate with cards to make the pleasure
of playing fairly remunerative. Any man who can put up proper margin has
a right to my services; any man whom I invite and who can take up his
notes, has a right to play under my roof. If his note goes to protest,
he forfeits that right. Now will you kindly explain to yourself exactly
how this matter can be of any interest to you?"

"I have explained it," she said wearily. "Will you please go, now?"

He sat a moment, then rose:

"You make a point of excluding Gerald?"

"Yes."

"Very well; I'll telephone Draymore. And"--he looked back from the door
of his own apartments--"I got Julius Neergard on the wire this afternoon
and he'll dine with us."

He gathered up his shimmering kimona, hesitated, halted, and again
looked back.

"When you're dressed," he drawled, "I've a word to say to you about the
game to-night, and another about Gerald."

"I shall not play," she retorted scornfully, "nor will Gerald."

"Oh, yes, you will--and play your best, too. And I'll expect him next
time."

"I shall not play!"

He said deliberately: "You will not only play, but play cleverly; and in
the interim, while dressing, you will reflect how much more agreeable it
is to play cards here than the fool at ten o'clock at night in the
bachelor apartments of your late lamented."

And he entered his room; and his wife, getting blindly to her feet,
every atom of colour gone from lip and cheek, stood rigid, both small
hands clutching the foot-board of the gilded bed.




CHAPTER VI

THE UNEXPECTED


Differences of opinion between himself and Neergard concerning the
ethics of good taste involved in forcing the Siowitha Club matter,
Gerald's decreasing attention to business and increasing intimacy with
the Fane-Ruthven coterie, began to make Selwyn very uncomfortable. The
boy's close relations with Neergard worried him most of all; and though
Neergard finally agreed to drop the Siowitha matter as a fixed policy in
which Selwyn had been expected to participate at some indefinite date,
the arrangement seemed only to cement the man's confidential
companionship with Gerald.

This added to Selwyn's restlessness; and one day in early spring he had
a long conference with Gerald--a most unsatisfactory one. Gerald, for
the first time, remained reticent; and when Selwyn, presuming on the
cordial understanding between them, pressed him a little, the boy turned
sullen; and Selwyn let the matter drop very quickly.

But neither tact nor caution seemed to serve now; Gerald, more and more
engrossed in occult social affairs of which he made no mention to
Selwyn, was still amiable and friendly, even at times cordial and
lovable; but he was no longer frank or even communicative; and Selwyn,
fearing to arouse him again to sullenness or perhaps even to suspicious
defiance, forbore to press him beyond the most tentative advances
toward the regaining of his confidence.

This, very naturally, grieved and mortified the elder man; but what
troubled him still more was that Gerald and Neergard were becoming so
amazingly companionable; for it was easy to see that they had in common
a number of personal interests which he did not share, and that their
silence concerning these interests amounted to a secrecy almost
offensive.

Again and again, coming unexpectedly upon them, he noticed that their
confab ceased with his appearance. Often, too, glances of warning
intelligence passed between them in his presence, which, no doubt, they
supposed were unnoticed by him.

They left the office together frequently, now; they often lunched
uptown. Whether they were in each other's company evenings, Selwyn did
not know, for Gerald no longer volunteered information as to his
whereabouts or doings. And all this hurt Selwyn, and alarmed him, too,
for he was slowly coming to the conclusion that he did not like
Neergard, that he would never sign articles of partnership with him, and
that even his formal associateship with the company was too close a
relation for his own peace of mind. But on Gerald's account he stayed
on; he did not like to leave the boy alone for his sister's sake as well
as for his own.

Matters drifted that way through early spring. He actually grew to
dislike both Neergard and the business of Neergard & Co.--for no one
particular reason, perhaps, but in general; though he did not yet care
to ask himself to be more precise in his unuttered criticisms.

However, detail and routine, the simpler alphabet of the business,
continued to occupy him. He consulted both Neergard and Gerald as usual;
they often consulted him or pretended to do so. Land was bought and
sold and resold, new projects discussed, new properties appraised, new
mortgage loans negotiated; and solely because of his desire to remain
near Gerald, this sort of thing might have continued indefinitely. But
Neergard broke his word to him.

And one morning, before he left his rooms at Mrs. Greeve's lodgings to
go downtown, Percy Draymore called him up on the telephone; and as that
overfed young man's usual rising hour was notoriously nearer noon than
eight o'clock, it surprised Selwyn to be asked to remain in his rooms
for a little while until Draymore and one or two friends could call on
him personally concerning a matter of importance.

He therefore breakfasted leisurely; and he was still scanning the real
estate columns of a morning paper when Mrs. Greeve came panting to his
door and ushered in a file of rather sleepy but important looking
gentlemen, evidently unaccustomed to being abroad so early, and bored to
death with their experience.

They were men he knew only formally, or, at best, merely as fellow club
members; men whom he met when a dance or dinner took him out of the less
pretentious sets he personally affected; men whom the newspapers and the
public knew too well to speak of as "well known."

First there was Percy Draymore, overgroomed for a gentleman, fat,
good-humoured, and fashionable--one of the famous Draymore family noted
solely for their money and their tight grip on it; then came Sanxon
Orchil, the famous banker and promoter, small, urbane, dark, with that
rich almost oriental coloring which he may have inherited from his
Cordova ancestors who found it necessary to dehumanise their names when
Rome offered them the choice with immediate eternity as alternative.

Then came a fox-faced young man, Phoenix Mottly, elegant arbiter of all
pertaining to polo and the hunt--slim-legged, hatchet-faced--and more
presentable in the saddle than out of it. He was followed by Bradley
Harmon, with his washed-out colouring of a consumptive Swede and his
corn-coloured beard; and, looming in the rear like an amiable
brontasaurus, George Fane, whose swaying neck carried his head as a
camel carries his, nodding as he walks.

"Well!" said Selwyn, perplexed but cordial as he exchanged amenities
with each gentleman who entered, "this is a killing combination of
pleasure and mortification--because I haven't any more breakfast to
offer you unless you'll wait until I ring for the Sultana--"

"Breakfast! Oh, damn! I've breakfasted on a pill and a glass of vichy
for ten years," protested Draymore, "and the others either have
swallowed their cocktails, or won't do it until luncheon. I say, Selwyn,
you must think this a devilishly unusual proceeding."

"Pleasantly unusual, Draymore. Is this a delegation to tend me the
nomination for the down-and-out club, perhaps?"

Fane spoke up languidly: "It rather looks as though we were the
down-and-out delegation at present; doesn't it, Orchil?"

"I don't know," said Orchil; "it seems a trifle more promising to me
since I've had the pleasure of seeing Captain Selwyn face to face. Go
on, Percy; let the horrid facts be known."

"Well--er--oh, hang it all!" blurted out Draymore, "we heard last night
how that fellow--how Neergard has been tampering with our farmers--what
underhand tricks he has been playing us; and I frankly admit to you
that we're a worried lot of near-sports. That's what this dismal matinee
signifies; and we've come to ask you what it all really means."

"We lost no time, you see," added Orchil, caressing the long pomaded
ends of his kinky moustache and trying to catch a glimpse of them out of
his languid oriental eyes. He had been trying to catch this glimpse for
thirty years; he was a persistent man with plenty of leisure.

"We lost no time," repeated Draymore, "because it's a devilish unsavoury
situation for us. The Siowitha Club fully realises it, Captain Selwyn,
and its members--some of 'em--thought that perhaps--er--you--ah--being
the sort of man who can--ah--understand the sort of language we
understand, it might not be amiss to--to--"

"Why did you not call on Mr. Neergard?" asked Selwyn coolly. Yet he was
taken completely by surprise, for he did not know that Neergard had gone
ahead and secured options on his own responsibility--which practically
amounted to a violation of the truce between them.

Draymore hesitated, then with the brutality characteristic of the
overfed: "I don't give a damn, Captain Selwyn, what Neergard thinks; but
I do want to know what a gentleman like yourself, accidentally
associated with that man, thinks of this questionable proceeding."

"Do you mean by 'questionable proceeding' your coming here?--or do you
refer to the firm's position in this matter?" asked Selwyn sharply.
"Because, Draymore, I am not very widely experienced in the customs and
usages of commercial life, and I do not know whether it is usual for an
associate member of a firm to express, unauthorised, his views on
matters concerning the firm to any Tom, Dick, and Harry who questions
him."

"But you know what is the policy of your own firm," suggested Harmon,
wincing, and displaying his teeth under his bright red lips; "and all we
wish to know is, what Neergard expects us to pay for this rascally
lesson in the a-b-c of Long Island realty."

"I don't know," replied Selwyn, bitterly annoyed, "what Mr. Neergard
proposes to do. And if I did I should refer you to him."

"May I ask," began Orchil, "whether the land will be ultimately for
sale?"

"Oh, everything's always for sale," broke in Mottly impatiently; "what's
the use of asking that? What you meant to inquire was the price we're
expected to pay for this masterly squeeze in realty."

"And to that," replied Selwyn more sharply still, "I must answer again
that I don't know. I know nothing about it; I did not know that Mr.
Neergard had acquired control of the property; I don't know what he
means to do with it. And, gentlemen, may I ask why you feel at liberty
to come to me instead of to Mr. Neergard?"

"A desire to deal with one of our own kind, I suppose," returned
Draymore bluntly. "And, for that matter," he said, turning to the
others, "we might have known that Captain Selwyn could have had no hand
in and no knowledge of such an underbred and dirty--"

Harmon plucked him by the sleeve, but Draymore shook him off, his little
piggish eyes sparkling.

"What do I care!" he sneered, losing his temper; "we're in the clutches
of a vulgar, skinflint Dutchman, and he'll wring us dry whether or
not we curse him out. Didn't I tell you that Philip Selwyn had nothing
to do with it? If he had, and I was wrong, our journey here might as
well have been made to Neergard's office. For any man who will do such a
filthy thing--"

"One moment, Draymore," cut in Selwyn; and his voice rang unpleasantly;
"if you are simply complaining because you have been outwitted, go
ahead; but if you think there has been any really dirty business in this
matter, go to Mr. Neergard. Otherwise, being his associate, I shall not
only decline to listen but also ask you to leave my apartments."

"Captain Selwyn is perfectly right," observed Orchil coolly. "Do you
think, Draymore, that it is very good taste in you to come into a man's
place and begin slanging and cursing a member of his firm for crooked
work?"

"Besides," added Mottly, "it's not crooked; it's only contemptible.
Anyway, we know with whom we have to deal, now; but some of you fellows
must do the dealing--I'd rather pay and keep away than ask Neergard to
go easy--and have him do it."

"I don't know," said Fane, grinning his saurian grin, "why you all
assume that Neergard is such a social outcast. I played cards with him
last week and he lost like a gentleman."

"I didn't say he was a social outcast," retorted Mottly--"because he's
never been inside of anything to be cast out, you know."

"He seems to be inside this deal," ventured Orchil with his suave smile.
And to Selwyn, who had been restlessly facing first one, then another:
"We came--it was the idea of several among us--to put the matter up to
you. Which was rather foolish, because you couldn't have engineered the
thing and remained what we know you to be. So--"

"Wait!" said Selwyn brusquely; "I do not admit for one moment that there
is anything dishonourable in this deal!--nor do I accept your right to
question it from that standpoint. As far as I can see, it is one of
those operations which is considered clever among business folk, and
which is admired and laughed over in reputable business circles. And I
have no doubt that hundreds of well-meaning business men do that sort of
thing daily--yes, thousands!" He shrugged his broad shoulders.
"Because I personally have not chosen to engage in matters of
this--ah--description, is no reason for condemning the deal or its
method--"

"Every reason!" said Orchil, laughing cordially--"every reason,
Captain Selwyn. Thank you; we know now exactly where we stand. It was
very good of you to let us come, and I'm sorry some of us had the bad
taste to show any temper--"

"He means me," added Draymore, offering his hand; "good-bye, Captain
Selwyn; I dare say we are up against it hard."

"Because we've got to buy in that property or close up the Siowitha,"
added Mottly, coming over to make his adieux. "By the way, Selwyn, you
ought to be one of us in the Siowitha--"

"Thank you, but isn't this rather an awkward time to suggest it?" said
