heiress after another--d√©butantes, some of them, exquisite and delicate
as butterflies--but under the surface as hard as chain-armour. All
their lives they had been trained to think of themselves as
representing money, and of every one who came near them as adventurers
seeking money. In every word they uttered, in every glance and motion,
one might read this meaning. And then he thought of Laura Hegan, with
the fortune she would inherit; and he pictured what her life must
be--the toadies and parasites and flatterers who would lay siege to
her--the scheming mammas and the affectionate sisters and cousins who
would plot to gain her confidence! For a man who was poor, and who
meant to keep his self-respect, was there any possible conclusion
except that she was entirely unknowable to him?




CHAPTER XVI


Montague came back to the city, and dug into his books again; while
Alice gave her spare hours to watching the progress of the new gown in
which she was to uphold the honour of the family at Mrs. Devon's
opening ball. The great event was due in the next week and Society was
as much excited about it as a family of children before Christmas. All
whom Montague met were invited and all were going unless they happened
to be in mourning. Their gossip was all of the disappointed ones, and
their bitterness and heartburning.

Mrs. Devon's mansion was thrown open early on the eventful evening, but
few would come until midnight. It was the fashion to attend the Opera
first, and previous to that half a dozen people would give big dinners.
He was a fortunate person who did not hear from his liver after this
occasion; for at one o'clock came Mrs. Devon's massive supper, and then
again at four o'clock another supper. To prepare these repasts a dozen
extra chefs had been imported into the Devon establishment for a
week--for it was part of the great lady's pride to permit no outside
caterer to prepare anything for her guests.

Montague had never been able to get over his wonder at the social
phenomenon known as Mrs. Devon. He came and took his chances in the
jostling throngs; and except that he got into casual conversation with
one of the numerous detectives whom he took for a guest he came off
fairly well. But all the time that he was being passed about and
introduced and danced with, he was looking about him and wondering. The
grand staircase and the hall and parlours had been turned into tropical
gardens, with palms and trailing vines, and azaleas and roses, and
great vases of scarlet poinsettia, with hundreds of lights glowing
through them. (It was said that this ball had exhausted the flower
supply of the country as far south as Atlanta.) And then in the
reception room one came upon the little old lady, standing' beneath a
bower of orchids. She was clad in a robe of royal purple trimmed with
silver, and girdled about with an armour-plate of gems. If one might
credit the papers, the diamonds that were worn at one of these balls
were valued at twenty million dollars.

The stranger was quite overwhelmed by all the splendour. There was a
cotillion danced by two hundred gorgeously clad women and their
partners--a scene so gay that one could only think of it as happening
in a fairy legend, or some old romance of knighthood. Four sets of
favours were given during this function, and jewels and objects of art
were showered forth as if from a magician's wand. Mrs. Devon herself
soon disappeared, but the riot of music and merry-making went on until
near morning, and during all this time the halls and rooms of the great
mansion were so crowded that one could scarcely move about.

Then one went home, and realized that all this splendour, and the human
effort which it represented, had been for nothing but a memory! Nor
would he get the full meaning of it if he failed to realize that it was
simply one of thousands--a pattern which every one there would strive
to follow in some function of his own. It was a signal bell, which told
the world that the "season" was open. It loosed the floodgates of
extravagance, and the torrent of dissipation poured forth. From then on
there would be a continuous round of gaieties; one might have three
banquets every single night--for a dinner and two suppers was now the
custom, at entertainments! And filling the rest of one's day were
receptions and teas and musicales--a person might take his choice among
a score of opportunities, and never leave the circle he met at Mrs.
Devon's. Nor was this counting the tens of thousands of aspirants and
imitators all over the city; nor in a host of other cities, each with
thousands of women who had nothing to do save to ape the ways of the
Metropolis. The mind could not realize the volume of this deluge of
destruction--it was a thing which stunned the senses, and thundered in
one's ears like Niagara.

The meaning of it all did not stop with the people who poured it forth;
its effects were to be traced through the whole country. There were
hordes of tradesmen and manufacturers who supplied what Society bought,
and whose study it was to induce people to buy as much as possible. And
so they devised what were called "fashions"--little eccentricities of
cut and material, which made everything go out of date quickly. There
had once been two seasons, but now there were four; and through window
displays and millions of advertisements the public was lured into the
trap. The "yellow" journals would give whole pages to describing "What
the 400 are wearing"; there were magazines with many millions of
readers, which existed for nothing save to propagate these ideas. And
everywhere, in all classes of Society, men and women were starving
their minds and hearts, and straining their energies to follow this
phantom of fashion; the masses were kept poor because of it, and the
youth and hope of the world was betrayed by it. In country villages
poor farmers' wives were trimming their bonnets over to be "stylish";
and servant-girls in the cities were wearing imitation sealskins, and
shop-clerks and sempstresses selling themselves into brothels for the
sake of ribbons and gilt jewellery.

It was the instinct of decoration, perverted by the money-lust. In the
Metropolis the sole test of excellence was money, and the possession of
money was the proof of power; and every natural desire of men and women
had been tainted by this influence. The love of beauty, the impulse to
hospitality, the joys of music and dancing and love--all these things
had become simply means to the demonstration of money-power! The men
were busy making more money--but their idle women had nothing in life
save this mad race in display. So it had come about that the woman who
could consume wealth most conspicuously--who was the most effective
instrument for the destroying of the labour and the lives of other
people--this was the woman who was most applauded and most noticed.

The most appalling fact about Society was this utter blind materialism.
Such expectations as Montague had brought with him had been derived
from the literature of Europe; in a grand monde such as this, he
expected to meet diplomats and statesmen, scientists and explorers,
philosophers and poets and painters. But one never heard anything about
such people in Society. It was a mark of eccentricity to be interested
in intellectual affairs, and one might go about for weeks and not meet
a person with an idea. When these people read, it was a sugar-candy
novel, and when they went to the play, it was a musical comedy. The one
single intellectual product which it could point to as its own, was a
rancid scandal-sheet, used mainly as a means of blackmail. Now and then
some aspiring young matron of the "elite" would try to set up a salon
after the fashion of the continent, and would gather a few feeble wits
about her for a time. But for the most part the intellectual workers of
the city held themselves severely aloof; and Society was left a little
clique of people whose fortunes had become historic in a decade or two,
and who got together in each other's palaces and gorged themselves, and
gambled and gossiped about each other, and wove about their
personalities a veil of awful and exclusive majesty.

Montague found himself thinking that perhaps it was not they who were
to blame. It was not they who had set up wealth as the end and goal of
things--it was the whole community, of which they were a part. It was
not their fault that they had been left with power and nothing to use
it for; it was not their fault that their sons and daughters found
themselves stranded in the world, deprived of all necessity, and of the
possibility of doing anything useful.

The most pitiful aspect of the whole thing to Montague was this "second
generation" who were coming upon the scene, with their lives all
poisoned in advance. No wrong which they could do to the world would
ever equal the wrong which the world had done them, in permitting them
to have money which they had not earned. They were cut off for ever
from reality, and from the possibility of understanding life; they had
big, healthy bodies, and they craved experience--and they had
absolutely nothing to do. That was the real meaning of all this orgy of
dissipation--this "social whirl" as it was called; it was the frantic
chase of some new thrill, some excitement that would stir the senses of
people who had nothing in the world to interest them. That was why they
were building palaces, and flinging largesses of banquets and balls,
and tearing about the country in automobiles, and travelling over the
earth in steam yachts and private trains.

And first and last, the lesson of their efforts was, that the chase
was futile; the jaded nerves would not thrill. The most conspicuous
fact about Society was its unutterable and agonizing boredom; of its
great solemn functions the shop-girl would read with greedy envy, but
the women who attended them would be half asleep behind their jewelled
fans. It was typified to Montague by Mrs. Billy Alden's yachting party
on the Nile; yawning in the face of the Sphinx, and playing bridge
beneath the shadow of the pyramids--and counting the crocodiles and
proposing to jump in by way of "changing the pain"!

People attended these ceaseless rounds of entertainments, simply
because they dreaded to be left alone. They wandered from place to
place, following like a herd of sheep whatever leader would inaugurate
a new diversion. One could have filled a volume with the list of their
"fads." There were new ones every week--if Society did not invent them,
the yellow journals invented them. There was a woman who had her teeth
filled with diamonds; and another who was driving a pair of zebras. One
heard of monkey dinners and pyjama dinners at Newport, of horseback
dinners and vegetable dances in New York. One heard of fashion-albums
and autograph-fans and talking crows and rare orchids and reindeer
meat; of bracelets for men and ankle rings for women; of "vanity-boxes"
at ten and twenty thousand dollars each; of weird and repulsive pets,
chameleons and lizards and king-snakes--there was one young woman who
wore a cat-snake as a necklace. One would take to slumming and another
to sniffing brandy through the nose; one had a table-cover made of
woven roses, and another was wearing perfumed flannel at sixteen
dollars a yard; one had inaugurated ice-skating in August, and another
had started a class for the study of Plato. Some were giving tennis
tournaments in bathing-suits, and playing leap-frog after dinner;
others had got dispensations from the Pope, so that they might have
private chapels and confessors; and yet others were giving "progressive
dinners," moving from one restaurant to another--a cocktail and
blue-points at Sherry's, a soup and Madeira at Delmonico's, some
terrapin with amontillado at the Waldorf--and so on.

One of the consequences of the furious pace was that people's health
broke down very quickly; and there were all sorts of bizarre ways of
restoring it. One person would be eating nothing but spinach, and
another would be living on grass. One would chew a mouthful of soup
thirty-two times; another would eat every two hours, and another only
once a week. Some went out in the early morning and walked bare-footed
in the grass, and others went hopping about the floor on their hands
and knees to take off fat. There were "rest cures" and "water cures,"
"new thought" and "metaphysical healing" and "Christian Science"; there
was an automatic horse, which one might ride indoors, with a register
showing the distance travelled. Montague met one man who had an
electric machine, which cost thirty thousand dollars, and which took
hold of his arms and feet and exercised him while he waited. He met a
woman who told him she was riding an electric camel!

Everywhere one went there were new people, spending their money in new
and incredible ways. Here was a man who had bought a chapel and turned
it into a theatre, and hired professional actors, and persuaded his
friends to come and see him act Shakespeare. Here was a woman who
costumed herself after figures in famous paintings, with arrangements
of roses and cherry leaves, and wreaths of ivy and laurel--and with
costumes for her pet dogs to match! Here was a man who paid six dollars
a day for a carnation four inches across; and a girl who wore a hat
trimmed with fresh morning-glories, and a ball costume with swarms of
real butterflies tied with silk threads; and another with a hat made of
woven silver, with ostrich plumes forty inches long made entirely of
silver films. Here was a man who hired a military company to drill all
day long to prepare a floor for dancing; and another who put up a
building at a cost of thirty thousand dollars to give a d√©butante dance
for his daughter, and then had it torn down the day after. Here was a
man who bred rattlesnakes and turned them loose by thousands, and had
driven everybody away from the North Carolina estate of one of the
Wallings. Here was a man who was building himself a yacht with a model
dairy and bakery on board, and a French laundry and a brass band. Here
was a million-dollar racing-yacht with auto-boats on it and a platoon
of marksmen, and some Chinese laundrymen, and two physicians for its
half-insane occupant. Here was a man who had bought a Rhine castle for
three-quarters of a million, and spent as much in restoring it, and
filled it with servants dressed in fourteenth-century costumes. Here
was a five-million-dollar art collection hidden away where nobody ever
saw it!

One saw the meaning of this madness most clearly in the young men of
Society. Some were killing themselves and other people in automobile
races at a hundred and twenty miles an hour. Some went in for
auto-boats, mere shells of things, shaped like a knife-blade, that tore
through the water at forty miles an hour. Some would hire professional
pugilists to knock them out; others would get up dog-fights and
bear-fights, and boxing matches with kangaroos. Montague was taken to
the home of one young man who had given his life to hunting wild game
in every corner of the globe, and would travel round the world for a
new species to add to his museum of trophies. He had heard that Baron
Rothschild had offered a thousand pounds for a "bongo," a huge
grass-eating animal, which no white man had ever seen; and he had taken
a year's trip into the interior, with a train of a hundred and thirty
natives, and had brought out the heads of forty different species,
including a bongo--which the Baron did not get! He met another who had
helped to organize a balloon club, and two twenty-four-hour trips in
the clouds. (This, by the way, was the latest sport--at Tuxedo they had
races between balloons and automobiles; and Montague met one young lady
who boasted that she had been up five times.) There was another young
millionaire who sat and patiently taught Sunday School, in the presence
of a host of reporters; there was another who set up a chain of
newspapers all over the country and made war upon his class. There were
others who went in for settlement work and Russian
revolutionists--there were even some who called themselves Socialists!
Montague thought that this was the strangest fad of all; and when he
met one of these young men at an afternoon tea, he gazed at him with
wonder and perplexity--thinking of the man he had heard ranting on the
street-corner.

This was the "second generation." Appalling as it was to think of,
there was a third growing up, and getting ready to take the stage. And
with wealth accumulating faster than ever, who could guess what they
might do? There were still in Society a few men and women who had
earned their money, and had some idea of the toil and suffering that it
stood for; but when the third generation had taken possession, these
would all be dead or forgotten, and there would no longer be any link
to connect them with reality!

In the light of this thought one was moved to watch the children of the
rich. Some of these had inherited scores of millions of dollars while
they were still in the cradle; now and then one of them would be
presented with a million-dollar house for a birthday gift. When such a
baby was born, the newspapers would give pages to describing its
layette, with baby dresses at a hundred dollars each, and lace
handkerchiefs at five dollars, and dressing-sets with tiny gold brushes
and powder-boxes; one might see a picture of the precious object in a
"Moses basket," covered with rare and wonderful Valenciennes lace.

This child would grow up in an atmosphere of luxury and
self-indulgence; it would be bullying the servants at the age of six,
and talking scandal and smoking cigarettes at twelve. It would be
petted and admired and stared at, and paraded about in state, dressed
up like a French doll; it would drink in snobbery and hatefulness with
the very air it breathed. One might meet in these great houses little
tots not yet in their teens whose talk was all of the cost of things,
and of the inferiority of their neighbours. There was nothing in the
world too good for them.--They had little miniature automobiles to ride
about the country in, and blooded Arabian ponies, and doll-houses in
real Louis Seize, with jewelled rugs and miniature electric lights. At
Mrs. Caroline Smythe's, Montague was introduced to a pale and
anaemic-looking youth of thirteen, who dined in solemn state alone when
the rest of the family was away, and insisted upon having all the
footmen in attendance; and his unfortunate aunt brought a storm about
her ears by forbidding the butler to take champagne upstairs into the
nursery before lunch.

A little remark stayed in Montague's mind as expressing the attitude of
Society toward such matters. Major Venable had chanced to remark
jestingly that children were coming to understand so much nowadays that
it was necessary for the ladies to be careful. To which Mrs. Vivie
Patton answered, with a sudden access of seriousness: "I don't know--do
you find that children have any morals? Mine haven't."

And then the fascinating Mrs. Vivie went on to tell the truth about her
own children. They were natural-born savages, and that was all there
was to it. They did as they pleased, and no one could stop them. The
Major replied that nowadays all the world was doing as it pleased, and
no one seemed to be able to stop it; and with that jest the
conversation was turned to other matters. But Montague sat in silence,
thinking about it--wondering what would happen to the world when it had
fallen under the sway of this generation of spoiled children, and had
adopted altogether the religion of doing as one pleased.

In the beginning people had simply done as they pleased spontaneously,
and without thinking about it; but now, Montague discovered, the custom
had spread to such an extent that it was developing a philosophy. There
was springing up a new cult, whose devotees were planning to make over
the world upon the plan of doing as one pleased. Because its members
were wealthy, and able to command the talent of the world, the cult was
developing an art, with a highly perfected technique, and a literature
which was subtle and exquisite and alluring. Europe had had such a
literature for a century, and England for a generation or two. And now
America was having it, too!

Montague had an amusing insight into this one day, when Mrs. Vivie
invited him to one of her "artistic evenings." Mrs. Vivie was in touch
with a special set which went in for intellectual things, and included
some amateur Bohemians and men of "genius." "Don't you come if you'll
be shocked," she had said to him--"for Strathcona will be there."

Montague deemed himself able to stand a good deal by this time. He
went, and found Mrs. Vivie and her Count (Mr. Vivie had apparently not
been invited) and also the young poet of Diabolism, whose work was just
then the talk of the town. He was a tall, slender youth with a white
face and melancholy black eyes, and black locks falling in cascades
about his ears; he sat in an Oriental corner, with a manuscript copied
in tiny handwriting upon delicately scented "art paper," and tied with
passionate purple ribbons. A young girl clad in white sat by his side
and held a candle, while he read from this manuscript his unprinted
(because unprintable) verses.

And between the readings the young poet talked. He talked about himself
and his work--apparently that was what he had come to talk about. His
words flowed like a swift stream, limpid, sparkling, incessant; leaping
from place to place--here, there, quick as the play of light upon the
water. Montague laboured to follow the speaker's ideas, until he found
his mind in a whirl and gave it up. Afterward, when he thought it over,
he laughed at himself; for Strathcona's ideas were not serious things,
having relationship to truth--they were epigrams put together to dazzle
the hearer, studies in paradox, with as much relation to life as
fireworks. He took the sum-total of the moral experience of the human
race, and turned it upside down and jumbled it about, and used it as
bits of glass in a kaleidoscope. And the hearers would gasp, and
whisper, "Diabolical!"

The motto of this "school" of poets was that there was neither good nor
evil, but that all things were "interesting." After listening to
Strathcona for half an hour, one felt like hiding his head, and denying
that he had ever thought of having any virtue; in a world where all
things were uncertain, it was presumptuous even to pretend to know what
virtue was. One could only be what one was; and did not that mean that
one must do as one pleased?

You could feel a shudder run through the company at his audacity. And
the worst of it was that you could not dismiss it with a laugh; for the
boy was really a poet--he had fire and passion, the gift of melodious
ecstacy. He was only twenty, and in his brief meteor flight he had run
the gamut of all experience; he had familiarized himself with all human
achievement--past, present, and future. There was nothing any one could
mention that he did not perfectly comprehend: the raptures of the
saints, the consecration of the martyrs--yes, he had known them;
likewise he had touched the depths of depravity, he had been lost in
the innermost passages of the caverns of hell. And all this had been
interesting--in its time; now he was sighing for new worlds of
experience--say for unrequited love, which should drive him to madness.

It was at this point that Montague dropped out of the race, and took to
studying from the outside the mechanism of this young poet's
conversation. Strathcona flouted the idea of a moral sense; but in
reality he was quite dependent upon it--his recipe for making epigrams
was to take what other people's moral sense made them respect, and
identify it with something which their moral sense made them abhor.
Thus, for instance, the tale which he told about one of the members of
his set, who was a relative of a bishop. The great man had occasion to
rebuke him for his profligate ways, declaring in the course of his
lecture that he was living off the reputation of his father; to which
the boy made the crushing rejoinder: "It may be bad to live off the
reputation of one's father, but it's better than living off the
reputation of God."--This was very subtle and it was necessary to
ponder it. God was dead; and the worthy bishop did not know it! But let
him take a new God, who had no reputation, and go out into the world
and make a living out of him!

Then Strathcona discussed literature. He paid his tribute to the
"Fleurs de Mal" and the "Songs before Sunrise"; but most, he said, he
owed to "the divine Oscar." This English poet of many poses and some
vices the law had seized and flung into jail; and since the law is a
thing so brutal and wicked that whoever is touched by it is made
thereby a martyr and a hero, there had grown up quite a cult about the
memory of "Oscar." All up-to-date poets imitated his style and his
attitude to life; and so the most revolting of vices had the cloak of
romance flung about them--were given long Greek and Latin names, and
discussed with parade of learning as revivals of Hellenic ideals. The
young men in Strathcona's set referred to each other as their "lovers";
and if one showed any perplexity over this, he was regarded, not with
contempt--for it was not aesthetic to feel contempt--but with a slight
lifting of the eyebrows, intended to annihilate.

One must not forget, of course, that these young people were poets, and
to that extent were protected from their own doctrines. They were
interested, not in life, but in making pretty verses about life; there
were some among them who lived as cheerful ascetics in garret rooms,
and gave melodious expression to devilish emotions. But, on the other
hand, for every poet, there were thousands who were not poets, but
people to whom life was real. And these lived out the creed, and
wrecked their lives; and with the aid of the poet's magic, the glamour
of melody and the fire divine, they wrecked the lives with which they
came into contact. The new generation of boys and girls were deriving
their spiritual sustenance from the poetry of Baudelaire and Wilde; and
rushing with the hot impulsiveness of youth into the dreadful traps
which the traders in vice prepared for them. One's heart bled to see
them, pink-cheeked and bright-eyed, pursuing the hem of the Muse's robe
in brothels and dens of infamy!




CHAPTER XVII


The social mill ground on for another month. Montague withdrew himself
as much as his brother would let him; but Alice, was on the go all
night and half the day. Oliver had sold his racing automobile to a
friend--he was a man of family now, he said, and his wild days were
over. He had got, instead, a limousine car for Alice; though she
declared she had no need of it--if ever she was going to any place,
Charlie Carter always begged her to use his. Charlie's siege was as
persistent as ever, as Montague noticed with annoyance.

The great law case was going forward. After weeks of study and
investigation, Montague felt that he had the matter well in hand; and
he had taken Mr. Hasbrook's memoranda as a basis for a new work of his
own, much more substantial. Bit by bit; as he dug into the subject, he
had discovered a state of affairs in the Fidelity Company, and, indeed,
in the whole insurance business and its allied realms of banking and
finance, which shocked him profoundly. It was impossible for him to
imagine how such conditions could exist and remain unknown to the
public--more especially as every one in Wall Street with whom he talked
seemed to know about them and to take them for granted.

His client's papers had provided him with references to the books;
Montague had taken this dry material and made of it a protest which had
the breath of life in it. It was a thing at which he toiled with deadly
earnestness; it was not merely a struggle of one man to get a few
thousand dollars, it was an appeal in behalf of millions of helpless
people whose trust had been betrayed. It was the first step in a long
campaign, which the young lawyer meant should force a great evil into
the light of day.

He went over his bill of complaint with Mr. Hasbrook, and he was glad
to see that the work he had done made its impression upon him. In fact,
his client was a little afraid that some of his arguments might be too
radical in tone--from the strictly legal point of view, he made haste
to explain. But Montague reassured him upon this point.

And then came the day when the great ship was ready for launching. The
news must have spread quickly, for a few hours after the papers in the
suit had been filed, Montague received a call from a newspaper
reporter, who told him of the excitement in financial circles, where
the thing had fallen like a bomb. Montague explained the purpose of the
suit, and gave the reporter a number of facts which he felt certain
would attract attention to the matter. When he picked up the paper the
next morning, however, he was surprised to find that only a few lines
had been given to the case, and that his interview had been replaced by
one with an unnamed official of the Fidelity, to the effect that the
attack upon the company was obviously for black-mailing purposes.

That was the only ripple which Montague's work produced upon the
surface of the pool; but there was a great commotion among the fish at
the bottom, about which he was soon to learn.

That evening, while he was hard at work in his study, he received a
telephone call from his brother. "I'm coming round to see you," said
Oliver. "Wait for me."

"All right," said the other, and added, "I thought you were dining at
the Wallings'."

"I'm there now," was the answer. "I'm leaving."

"What is the matter?" Montague asked.

"There's hell to pay," was the reply--and then silence.

When Oliver appeared, a few minutes later, he did not even stop to set
down his hat, but exclaimed, "Allan, what in heaven's name have you
been doing?"

"What do you mean?" asked the other.

"Why, that suit!"

"What about it?"

"Good God, man!" cried Oliver. "Do you mean that you really don't know
what you've done?"

Montague was staring at him. "I'm afraid I don't," said he.

"Why, you're turning the world upside down!" exclaimed the other.
"Everybody you know is crazy about it."

"Everybody I know!" echoed Montague. "What have they to do with it?"

"Why, you've stabbed them in the back!" half shouted Oliver. "I could
hardly believe my ears when they told me. Robbie Walling is simply
wild--I never had such a time in my life."

"I don't understand yet," said Montague, more and more amazed. "What
has he to do with it?"

"Why, man," cried Oliver, "his brother's a director in the Fidelity!
And his own interests--and all the other companies! You've struck at
the whole insurance business!"

Montague caught his breath. "Oh, I see!" he said.

"How could you think of such a thing?" cried the other, wildly. "You
promised to consult me about things--"

"I told you when I took this case," put in Montague, quickly.

"I know," said his brother. "But you didn't explain--and what did I
know about it? I thought I could leave it to your common sense not to
mix up in a thing like this."

"I'm very sorry," said Montague, gravely. "I had no idea of any such
result."

"That's what I told Robbie," said Oliver. "Good God, what a time I had!"

He took his hat and coat and laid them on the bed, and sat down and
began to tell about it. "I made him realize the disadvantage you were
under," he said, "being a stranger and not knowing the ground. I
believe he had an idea that you tried to get his confidence on purpose
to attack him. It was Mrs. Robbie, I guess--you know her fortune is all
in that quarter."

Oliver wiped the perspiration from his forehead. "My!" he said.--"And
fancy what old Wyman must be saying about this! And what a time poor
Betty must be having! And then Freddie Vandam--the air will be blue for
half a mile round his place! I must send him a wire and explain that it
was a mistake, and that we're getting out of it."

And he got up, to suit the action to the word. But half-way to the desk
he heard his brother say, "Wait."

He turned, and saw Montague, quite pale. "I suppose by 'getting out of
it,'" said the latter, "you mean dropping the case."

"Of course," was the answer.

"Well, then," he continued, very gravely,--"I can see that it's going
to be hard, and I'm sorry. But you might as well understand me at the
very beginning--I will never drop this case."

Oliver's jaw fell limp. "Allan!" he gasped.

There was a silence; and then the storm broke. Oliver knew his brother
well enough to realize just how thoroughly he meant what he said; and
so he got the full force of the shock all at once. He raved and swore
and wrung his hands, and declaimed at his brother, saying that he had
betrayed him, that he was ruining him--dumping himself and the whole
family into the ditch. They would be jeered at and insulted--they would
be blacklisted and thrown out of Society. Alice's career would be cut
short--every door would be closed to her. His own career would die
before it was born; he would never get into the clubs--he would be a
pariah--he would be bankrupted and penniless. Again and again Oliver
went over the situation, naming person after person who would be
outraged, and describing what that person would do; there were the
Wallings and the Venables and the Havens, the Vandams and the Todds and
the Wymans--they were all one regiment, and Montague had flung a bomb
into the centre of them!

It was very terrible to him to see his brother's rage and despair; but
he had seen his way clear through this matter, and he knew that there
was no turning back for him. "It is painful to learn that all one's
acquaintances are thieves," he said. "But that does not change my
opinion of stealing."

"But my God!" cried Oliver; "did you come to New York to preach
sermons?"

To which the other answered, "I came to practise law. And the lawyer
who will not fight injustice is a traitor to his profession."

Oliver threw up his hands in despair. What could one say to a sentiment
such as that?

--But then again he came to the charge, pointing out to his brother the
position in which he had placed himself with the Wallings. He had
accepted their hospitality; they had taken him and Alice in, and done
everything in the world for them--things for which no money could ever
repay them. And now he had struck them!

But the only effect of that was to make Montague regret that he had
ever had anything to do with the Wallings. If they expected to use
their friendship to tie his hands in such a matter, they were people he
would have left alone.

"But do you realize that it's not merely yourself you're ruining?"
cried Oliver. "Do you know what you're doing to Alice?"

"That is harder yet for me," the other replied. "But I am sure that
Alice would not ask me to stop."

Montague was firmly set in his own mind; but it seemed to be quite
impossible for his brother to realize that this was the case. He would
give up; but then, going back into his own mind, and facing the thought
of this person and that, and the impossibility of the situation which
would arise, he would return to the attack with new anguish in his
voice. He implored and scolded, and even wept; and then he would get
himself together again, and come and sit in front of his brother and
try to reason with him.

And so it was that in the small hours of the morning, Montague, pale
and nervous, but quite unshaken, was sitting and listening while his
brother unfolded before him a picture of the Metropolis as he had come
to see it. It was a city ruled by mighty forces--money-forces; great
families and fortunes, which had held their sway for generations, and
regarded the place, with all its swarming millions, as their
birthright. They possessed it utterly--they held it in the hollow of
their hands. Railroads and telegraphs and telephones--banks and
insurance and trust companies--all these they owned; and the political
machines and the legislatures, the courts and the newspapers, the
churches and the colleges. And their rule was for plunder; all the
streams of profit ran into their coffers. The stranger who came to
their city succeeded as he helped them in their purposes, and failed if
they could not use him. A great editor or bishop was a man who taught
their doctrines; a great statesman was a man who made the laws for
them; a great lawyer was one who helped them to outwit the public. Any
man who dared to oppose them, they would cast out and trample on, they
would slander and ridicule and ruin.

And Oliver came down to particulars--he named these powerful men, one
after one, and showed what they could do. If his brother would only be
a man of the world, and see the thing! Look at all the successful
lawyers! Oliver named them, one after one--shrewd devisers of
corporation trickery, with incomes of hundreds of thousands a year. He
could not name the men who had refused to play the game--for no one had
ever heard of them. But it was so evident what would happen in this
case! His friends would cast him off; his own client would get his
price--whatever it was--and then leave him in the lurch, and laugh at
him! "If you can't make up your mind to play the game," cried Oliver,
frantically, "at least you can give it up! There are plenty of other
ways of getting a living--if you'll let me, I'll take care of you
myself, rather than have you disgrace me. Tell me--will you do that?
Will you quit altogether?"

And Montague suddenly leaped to his feet, and brought his fist down
upon the desk with a bang. "No!" he cried; "by God, no!"

"Let me make you understand me once for all," he rushed on. "You've
shown me New York as you see it. I don't believe it's the truth--I
don't believe it for one single moment! But let me tell you this, I
shall stay here and find out--and if it is true, it won't stop me! I
shall stay here and defy those people! I shall stay and fight them till
the day I die! They may ruin me,--I'll go and live in a garret if I
have to,--but as sure as there's a God that made me, I'll never stop
till I've opened the eyes of the people to what they're doing!"

Montague towered over his brother, white-hot and terrible. Oliver
shrank from him--he never had seen such a burst of wrath from him
before. "Do you understand me now?" Montague cried; and he answered, in
a despairing voice, "Yes, yes."

"I see it's all up," he added weakly. "You and I can't pull together."

"No," exclaimed the other, passionately, "we can't. And we might as
well give up trying. You have chosen to be a time-server and a
lick-spittle, and I don't choose it! Do you think I've learned nothing
in the time I've been here? Why, man, you used to be daring and
clever--and now you never draw a breath without wondering if these rich
snobs will like the way you do it! And you want Alice to sell herself
to them--you want me to sell my career to them!"

There was a long pause. Oliver had turned very pale. And then suddenly
his brother caught himself together, and said: "I'm sorry. I didn't
mean to quarrel, but you've goaded me too much. I'm grateful for what
you have tried to do for me, and I'll pay you back as soon as I can.
But I can't go on with this game. I'll quit, and you can disown me to
your friends--tell them that I've run amuck, and to forget they ever
knew me. They'll hardly blame you for it--they know you too well for
that. And as for Alice, I'll talk it out with her to-morrow, and let
her decide for herself--if she wants to be a Society queen, she can put
herself in your hands, and I'll get out of her way. On the other hand,
if she approves of what I'm doing, why we'll both quit, and you won't
have to bother with either of us."

That was the basis upon which they parted for the night; but like most
resolutions taken at white heat, it was not followed literally. It was
very hard for Montague to have to confront Alice with such a choice;
and as for Oliver, when he went home and thought it over, he began to
discover gleams of hope. He might make it clear to every one that he
was not responsible for his brother's business vagaries, and take his
chances upon that basis. After all, there were wheels within wheels in
Society; and if the Robbie Wallings chose to break with him--why, they
had plenty of enemies. There might even be interests which would be
benefited by Allan's course, and would take him up.

Montague had resolved to write and break every engagement which he had
made, and to sever his connection with Society at one stroke. But the
next day his brother came again, with compromises and new
protestations. There was no use going to the other extreme: he, Oliver,
would have it out with the Wallings, and they might all go on their way
as if nothing had happened.

So Montague made his d√©but in the r√¥le of knight-errant. He went with
many qualms and misgivings, uncertain how each new person would take
it. The next evening he was promised for a theatre-party with Siegfried
Harvey; and they had supper in a private room at Delmonico's, and there
came Mrs. Winnie, resplendent as an apple tree in early April--and
murmuring with bated breath, "Oh, you dreadful man, what have you been
doing?"

"Have I been poaching on YOUR preserves?" he asked promptly.

"No, not mine," she said, "but--" and then she hesitated.

"On Mr. Duval's?" he asked.

"No," she said, "not his--but everybody else's! He was telling me about
it to-day--there's a most dreadful uproar. He wanted me to try to find
out what you were up to, and who was behind it."

Montague listened, wonderingly. Did Mrs. Winnie mean to imply that her
husband had asked her to try to worm his business secrets out of him?
That was what she seemed to imply. "I told him I never talked business
with my friends," she said. "He can ask you himself, if he chooses. But
what DOES it all mean, anyhow?"

Montague smiled at the naive inconsistency.

"It means nothing," said he, "except that I am trying to get justice
for a client."

"But can you afford to make so many powerful enemies?" she asked.

"I've taken my chances on that," he replied.

Mrs. Winnie answered nothing, but looked at him with wondering
admiration in her eyes. "You arc different from the men about you," she
remarked, after a while-and her tone gave Montague to understand that
there was one person who meant to stand by him.

But Mrs. Winnie Duval was not all Society. Montague was amused to
notice with what suddenness the stream of invitations slacked up; it
was necessary for Alice to give her calling list many revisions.
Freddie Vandam had promised to invite them to his place on Long Island,
and of course that invitation would never come; likewise they would
never again see the palace of the Lester Todds, upon the Jersey
mountain-top.

Oliver put in the next few days in calling upon people to explain his
embarrassing situation. He washed his hands of his brother's affairs,
he said; and his friends might do the same, if they saw fit. With the
Robbie Wallings he had a stormy half hour, about which he thought it
best to say little to the rest of the family. Robbie did not break with
him utterly, because of their Wall Street Alliance; but Mrs. Robbie's
feeling was so bitter, he said, that it would be best if Alice saw
nothing of her for a while. He had a long talk with Alice, and
explained the situation. The girl was utterly dumbfounded, for she was
deeply grateful to Mrs. Robbie, and fond of her as well; and she could
not believe that a friend could be so cruelly unjust to her.

The upshot of the whole situation was a very painful episode. A few
days later Alice met Mrs. Robbie at a reception; and she took the lady
aside, and tried to tell her how distressed and helpless she was. And
the result was that Mrs. Robbie flew into a passion and railed at her,
declaring in the presence of several people that she had sponged upon
her and abused her hospitality! And so poor Alice came home, weeping
and half hysterical.

All of which, of course, was like oil upon a fire; the heavens were
lighted up with the conflagration. The next development was a paragraph
in Society's scandal-sheet--telling with infinite gusto how a certain
ultra-fashionable matron had taken up a family of stranded waifs from a
far State, and introduced them into the best circles, and even gone so
far as to give a magnificent dance in their honour; and how the
discovery had been made that the head of the family had been secretly
preparing an attack upon their business interests; and of the tearing
of hair and gnashing of teeth which had followed--and the violent
quarrel in a public place. The paragraph concluded with the prediction
that the strangers would find themselves the centre of a merry social
