mind like a story I have read with a bad ending."

"You are a brave girl, Daffodil."

"I don't know why I should be really unhappy. I have so many to love
me. And it doesn't matter if I should never marry."

Mrs. Forbes laughed at that, but made no reply. Here was the young
lieutenant, who was taking heart of grace again, though he did not
push himself forward.

On the whole it was not an unhappy summer for Daffodil. She found a
great interest in helping Felix though he was not a booky boy. Always
his mind seemed running on some kind of machinery, something that
would save time and labor.

"Now, if you were to do so," he would say to his father, "you see it
would bring about this result and save a good deal of time. Why
doesn't some one see----"

"You get through with your books and try it yourself. There's plenty
of space in the world for real improvements."

Daffodil went up to the old trysting place one day. How still and
lonesome it seemed. Had the squirrels forgotten her? They no longer
ran up her arm and peered into her eyes. He was at Hurst Abbey and
that arrogant, imperious woman was queening it as my lady. Was all
this satisfying him?

It was the right thing to do even if his motives were not of the
highest. To comfort his father in the deep sorrow, and there was his
little son.

"No," she said to herself, "I should not want to come here often. The
old remembrances had better die out."

She had written to her guardian explaining the broken marriage, and he
wondered a little at the high courage with which she had accepted all
the events. He had sent her a most kindly answer. And now came another
letter from him.

There had been inquiries about leasing some property at Allegheny.
Also there were several improvements to be made in view of
establishing a future city. His health would not admit of the journey
and the necessary going about, so he had decided to send his partner,
Mr. Bartram, whom she must remember, and whom he could trust to study
the interests of his ward. And what he wanted to ask now was another
visit from her, though he was well aware she was no longer the little
girl he had known and whose brightness he had enjoyed so much. He was
not exactly an invalid, but now he had to be careful in the winter and
stay in the house a good deal. Sometimes the days were long and
lonesome and he wondered if out of the goodness of her heart she could
spare him a few months and if her parents would spare her.
Philadelphia had improved greatly and was now the Capitol of the
country, though it was still staid and had not lost all of its old
nice formality. Couldn't she take pity on him and come and read to
him, talk over books and happenings, drive out now and then and be
like a granddaughter as she was to his friend Duvernay?

"Oh, mother, read it," and she laid the letter in her mother's lap.
Did she want to go? She had been so undecided before.

Bernard Carrick had received a letter also. Mr. Bartram was to start
in a short time, as it seemed necessary that some one should look
after Daffodil's estate and he wished to make her father co-trustee if
at any time he should be disabled, or pass out of life. He could
depend upon the uprightness and good judgment of Mr. Bartram in every
respect. And he put in a very earnest plea for the loan of his
daughter awhile in the winter.

"Oh, I should let her go by all means," declared Mrs. Forbes. "You see
that unlucky marriage service has put her rather out of gear with
gayeties and when she comes back she will be something fresh and they
will all be eager to have her and hear about the President and Lady
Washington. And it will cheer her up immensely. She must not grow old
too fast."

Daffodil went to tea at Mrs. Ramsen's and there was to be a card party
with some of the young men from the Fort. Mrs. Forbes and the captain
were at tea and the Major's wife. They talked over the great rush of
everything, the treasures that were turning up from the earth, the
boats going to and fro. Booms had not come in as a word applicable to
this ferment, but certainly Pittsburg had a boom and her people would
have been struck dumb if the vision of fifty or a hundred years had
been unrolled. Lieutenant Langdale came in to the card playing. They
really were very merry, and he thought Daffodil was not so much
changed after all, nor heartbroken. He was very glad. And then he
asked and was granted permission to see her home. He wanted to say
something sympathetic and friendly without seeming officious, yet he
did not know how to begin. They talked of his mother, of Archie and
how well he was doing.

"And at times I wish I had not enlisted," he remarked in a rather
dissatisfied tone. "Not that the feeling of heroism has died out--it
is a grand thing to know you stand ready at any call for your
country's defence, but now we are dropping into humdrum ways except
for the Indian skirmishes. And it gets monotonous. Then there's no
chance of making money. I didn't think much of that, it seemed to me
rather ignoble, but now when I see some of those stupid fellows
turning their money over and over,--and there's that Joe Sanders; do
you remember the wedding feast and his going off to Cincinnati with
his new wife, who was a very ordinary girl?" and Ned gave an almost
bitter laugh. "Now he owns his boat and is captain of it and trades
all the way to New Orleans."

"Oh, yes." She gave a soft little laugh as the vision rose before her.

"I remember how sweet you looked that night. And I had to be dancing
attendance on her sister. How many changes there have been."

"Yes; I suppose that is life. The older people say so. Otherwise
existence would be monotonous as you said. But you did admire military
life."

"Well, I like it still, only there seem so few chances of
advancement."

"But you wouldn't want real war?"

"I'd like an opportunity to do something worth while, or else go back
to business."

If she had expressed a little enthusiasm about that he would have
taken it as an interest in his future, but she said--

"You have a very warm friend in Captain Forbes."

"Oh, yes;" rather languidly.

Then they talked of the improvements her father had made in the house.
There had been two rooms added before the wedding. And the trees had
grown so, the garden was bright with flowering shrubs.

"I wonder if I might drop in and see you occasionally," he said rather
awkwardly, as they paused at the gate. "We used to be such friends."

"Why, yes;" with girlish frankness. "Father takes a warm interest in
you two boys."

Her mother sat knitting. Barbe Carrick hated to be idle. Her father
was dozing in his chair.

"Did you have a nice time, little one?"

"Oh, yes. But I am not an enthusiastic card player. I like the bright
bits of talk and that leads to carelessness;" laughing. "Mrs. Remsen
is charming."

Then she kissed them both and went her way.

"She is getting over her sorrow," admitted her father. "Still I think
a change will be good for her, only we shall miss her very much."

"She has been a brave girl. But it was the thought of his insincerity,
his holding back the fact that would have rendered him only the merest
acquaintance. She has the old French love of honor and truth."

"And the Scotch are not far behind."

Lieutenant Langdale tried his luck one evening. Mr. Carrick welcomed
him cordially, and Felix was very insistent that he should share the
conversation. He wanted to know about the Fort and old Fort Duquesne,
and why the French were driven out. Didn't they have as good right as
any other nation to settle in America? And hadn't France been a
splendid friend to us? And why should the French and English be
continually at war?

"It would take a whole history to answer you and that hasn't been
written yet," subjoined his father.

Ned had stolen glances at the fair girl, who was sitting under
grandmother Bradin's wing, knitting a purse that was beaded, and she
had to look down frequently to count the beads. Yes, she had grown
prettier. There was a fine sweetness in her face that gave poise to
her character. Had she really loved that detestable Englishman?

They made ready for Mr. Bartram. Not but what there were tolerable
inns now, but taking him in as a friend seemed so much more
hospitable. Daffodil wondered a little. He had not made much of an
impression on her as a girl. Sometimes he had fallen into good-natured
teasing ways, at others barely noticed her. Of course she was such a
child. And when the talk that had alarmed her so much and inflamed her
childish temper recurred to her she laughed with a sense of wholesome
amusement. She knew now a man must have some preference. The old
French people betrothed their children without a demur on their part,
but here each one had a right to his or her own most sacred feelings.

Mr. Bartram was nearing thirty at this period. Daffodil felt that she
really had forgotten how he looked. He had grown stouter and now had a
firm, compact figure, a fine dignified face that was gentle and kindly
as well, and the sort of manliness that would lead one to depend upon
him whether in an emergency or not.

Her father brought him home and they all gave him a cordial welcome
for M. de Ronville's sake first, and then for his own. He had the
refined and easy adaptiveness that marked the true gentleman.

They talked of the journey. So many improvements had been made and
towns had sprung up along the route that afforded comfortable
accommodations. Harrisburg had grown to be a thriving town and was the
seat of government. He had spent two very entertaining days within its
borders.

"Yes, M. de Ronville was in failing health, but his mind was clear and
bright and had gone back to the delights and entertainments of his
early youth. He had a fine library which was to go largely to that
started in the city for the general public. He kept a great deal of
interest in and ambition for the city that had been a real home.
Through the summer he took many outside pleasures, but now the
winters confined him largely to the house.

"I do what I can in the way of entertainment, but now that I have all
the business matters to attend to, I can only devote evenings to him
and not always those, but friends drop in frequently. He has been like
a father to me and I ought to pay him a son's devotion and regard,
which it is not only my duty, but my pleasure as well. But he has a
warm remembrance of the little girl he found so entertaining."

"Was I entertaining?" Daffodil glanced at him with a charming laugh.
"Everybody, it seems, was devoted to me, and my pleasure was being
consulted all the time. Mrs. Jarvis was so good and kindly. And Jane!
Why, it appears now as if I must have been a spoiled child, and
spoiled children I have heard are disagreeable."

"I do not recall anything of that. And Jane is married to a
sober-going Quaker and wears gray with great complacency, but she
stumbles over the thees and thous. Our new maid is very nice,
however."

"Oh, that is funny. And Jane was so fond of gay attire and bows in my
hair and shoulder knots and buckles on slippers. Why, it is all like a
happy dream, a fairy story," and her eyes shone as she recalled her
visit.

They still kept to the old living room, but now there was an outside
kitchen for cooking. And some logs were piled up in the wide
fire-place to be handy for the first cold evening.

"M. de Ronville talked about an old chair that came from France," Mr.
Bartram said as he rose from the table. "His old friend used to sit in
it----"

"It's this," and Daffodil placed her hand on the high back. "Won't you
take it? Yes, great-grandfather used it always and after he was gone I
used to creep up in it and shut my eyes and talk to him. What curious
things you can see with eyes shut! And I often sat here on the arm
while he taught me French."

"I suppose it is sacred now?" He looked at it rather wistfully.

"Oh, you may try it," with her gay smile. "Father has quite fallen
heir to it. Grandfather Bradin insists it is too big for him."

"I'm always wanting a chair by the light stand so that I can see to
read or make fish-nets," said that grandfather.

The room was put in order presently and the ladies brought out their
work. Daffodil saw with a smile how comfortably the guest adapted
himself to the old chair while her father talked to him about the town
and its prospects, and Allegheny across the river that was coming
rapidly to the attention of business men. What a picture it made,
Aldis Bartram thought, and, the pretty golden-haired girl glancing up
now and then with smiling eyes.




CHAPTER XV

ANOTHER FLITTING


Mr. Carrick convoyed his guest around Pittsburg the next day, through
the Fort and the historical point of Braddock's defeat, that still
rankled in men's minds. A survey of the three rivers that would always
make it commercially attractive, and the land over opposite. Then they
looked up the parties who were quite impatient for the lease which was
to comprise a tract of the water front. And by that time it was too
late to go over.

"Well, you certainly have a fair prospect. And the iron mines are
enough to make the fortune of a town. But the other is a fine
patrimony for a girl."

"There was no boy then," said Bernard Carrick. "And she was the idol
of great-grandfather. She does not come in possession of it until she
is twenty-five and that is quite a long while yet."

They discussed it during the evening and the next day went over the
river with a surveyor, and Bartram was astonished at its
possibilities. There were many points to be considered for a ten
years' lease, which was the utmost M. de Ronville would consent to.

Meanwhile Aldis Bartram became very much interested in the family
life, which was extremely simple without being coarse or common. Yet
it had changed somewhat since M. de Ronville's visit.

"And enlarged its borders," explained Daffodil. "There are three more
rooms. And now we have all windows of real glass. You see there were
board shutters to fasten tight as soon as cold weather came, and thick
blankets were hung on the inside. And now we have a chimney in the
best room and keep fire in the winter, and another small one in the
kitchen."

"It is this room I know best. It seems as if I must have been here and
seen your great-grandfather sitting here and you on the arm of his
chair. I suppose it was because you talked about it so much."

"Oh, did I?" she interrupted, and her face was scarlet, her
down-dropped eyelids quivered.

"Please do not misunderstand me. M. de Ronville was very fond of your
home descriptions and brought them out by his questions. And you were
such an eager enthusiastic child when you chose, and at others prim
and stiff as a Quaker. Those moods amused me. I think I used to tease
you."

"You did;" resentfully, then forgiving it.

"Well, I beg your pardon now for all my naughty ways;" smiling a
little. "What was I saying? Oh, you know he brought home so many
reminiscences. And he loves to talk them over."

"And bore you with them?"

"No; they gave me a feeling of going through a picture gallery and
examining interiors. When I see one with a delicate white-haired old
man, it suggests Mr. Felix Duvernay. I had a brief journey over to
Paris and found one of these that I brought home to my best friend and
I can not tell you how delighted he was. And because we have talked it
over so much, this room had no surprises for me. I am glad to find it
so little changed."

"We are--what the papers call, primitive people. It seemed queer and
funny to me when I came back. But the ones I love were here."

She paused suddenly and blushed with what seemed to him uncalled for
vividness. She thought how she had been offered to him and he had
declined her. It was like a sharp, sudden sting.

"I'm glad you don't----" Then she stopped short again with drooping
eyes. The brown lashes were like a fringe of finest silk. How
beautiful the lids were!

"Don't what?" It was a curious tone, quite as if he meant to be
answered.

"Why--why--not despise us exactly, but think we are ignorant and
unformed;" and she winked hard as if tears were not far off.

"My child--pardon me, you brought back the little girl that came to
visit us. I do not think anything derogatory. I admire your father and
he is a man that would be appreciated anywhere. And your grandparents.
Your mother is a well-bred lady. I can find queer and outré people
not far from us at home, all towns have them, but I should not class
the Carricks nor the Bradins with them."

"Grandad is queer," she admitted. "He is Scotch-Irish. And Norry is
Irish altogether, but she's the dearest, kindliest, most generous and
helpful body I know. Oh, she made my childhood just one delightful
fairy story with her legends and her fun, and she taught me to dance,
to sing. I should want to strike any one who laughed at her!"

"Do you remember Mistress Betty Wharton?" His tone was quite serious
now. "She was one of the favorites of our town. And she was charmed
with you. If you hadn't been worthy of taking about, do you suppose
she would have presented you among her friends and paid you so much
attention? She considered you a very charming little girl. Oh, don't
think any one could despise you or yours. And if you could understand
how M. de Ronville longs for you, and how much pleasure another visit
from you would give him, I do not think you would be hard to
persuade."

He had laid the matter before her mother, who had said as before that
the choice must be left with her.

He and Felix had become great friends. The boy's insatiable curiosity
was devoted to really knowledgeable subjects, and was never pert or
pretentious.

When he decided, since he was so near, to visit Cincinnati, Felix
said--

"When I get to be a man like you, I mean to travel about and see what
people are doing and bring home new ideas if they are any better than
ours."

"That is the way to do. And the best citizen is he who desires to
improve his own town, not he who believes it better than any other.
Now, do you suppose your father would trust you with me for the
journey? I should like to have you for a companion."

"Would you, really?" and the boy's face flushed with delight. "Oh, I
am almost sure he would. That's awful good of you."

"We'll see, my boy."

"If you won't find him too troublesome. I meant to take him on the
journey some time when urgent business called me thither. You are very
kind," said Bernard Carrick.

"You see you're not going to have it all," Felix said to Daffodil. "I
just wish you had been a boy, we would have such fun. For another boy
isn't quite like some one belonging to you."

The child was in such a fever of delight that he could hardly contain
himself. His mother gave him many cautions about obeying Mr. Bartram
and not making trouble.

"Oh, you will hear a good account of me;" with a resolute nod.

Meanwhile the business went on and papers were ready to sign when the
two enthusiastic travellers returned. Mr. Carrick was to be joint
trustee with Mr. Bartram in Daffodil's affairs.

"It is a pity we cannot take in Felix as well," Mr. Bartram said. "He
will make a very earnest business man, and I look to see him an
inventor of some kind."

Felix had been wonderfully interested in the model of William Ramsey's
boat forty years before of a wheel enclosed in a box to be worked by
one man sitting in the end, treading on treadles with his feet that
set the wheel going and worked two paddles, saving the labor of one or
two men. It was to be brought to perfection later on.

Meanwhile Daffodil and her mother discussed the plan for her visit. It
would last all winter. Could they spare her? Did she want to stay that
long? Yet she felt she would like the change to her life.

There was another happening that disturbed her not a little. This was
Lieutenant Langdale's visit. When he came in the evening the whole
family were around and each one did a share of the entertaining. And
if she took a pleasure walk she always asked some friend to accompany
her. Mrs. Carrick was not averse to a serious ending. Daffodil had
reached a stage of content, was even happy, but the unfortunate
circumstance was rarely touched upon between them. It seemed as if she
had quite resolved to have no real lovers. What if an untoward fate
should send the man back again. The thought haunted the mother, though
there was no possible likelihood of it. And her sympathies went out to
the lieutenant.

If she went away, he would realize that there was no hope of
rekindling love out of an old friendship. It would pain her very much
to deny him.

They spoke of her going one evening, quite to his surprise.

"Oh," he said regretfully, "can you not be content here? I am sure
they all need you, we all do. Mrs. Forbes will be lost without you.
You are quite a star in the Fort society."

"In spite of my poor card-playing," she laughed.

"But you dance. That's more real pleasure than the cards. And we will
try to have a gay winter for you. But after all we cannot compete with
Philadelphia. I believe I shall try to get transferred from this dull
little hole."

"I do not expect to be gay. The great friend I made before married and
went to Paris. And M. de Ronville is an invalid, confined mostly to
the house during the winter. I am going to be a sort of companion to
him. He begs so to have me come."

Archie would be there. A sudden unreasoning anger flamed up in his
heart and then dropped down to the white ashes of despair. Was there
any use caring for a woman who would not or could not care for you?
There were other girls----

"You have really decided to go?" her mother said afterward.

"Oh, I hate to leave you." Her arms were about her mother's neck. "Yet
for some things it seems best. And the old story will be the more
easily forgotten. I may make it appear of less importance to myself.
It has grown quite dreamlike to me."

"Yes," answered the mother under her breath.

So the fact was accepted. "You will never regret giving a few months
to an old man near his journey's end," said Mr. Bartram. "And I am
very glad for his sake."

Then preparations were made for the journey.

"You must not want for anything, nor be dependent on your good
friend," said her father. "And have all the pleasures you can. Youth
is the time to enjoy them."

It gave them a heartache to let her go. Mrs. Craig wished she could be
her companion again, but she was too old to take such a journey. And
now travelling was a more usual occurrence, and she found two ladies
who were going to Harrisburg, and who had travelled a great deal, even
been to Paris. Aldis Bartram was much relieved, for he hardly knew
how to entertain a being who was one hour a child and the next a
serious woman. The last two years he had sought mostly the society of
men. There were many grave questions to discuss, for the affairs of
the country were by no means settled.

It was a very pleasant journey in the early autumn. She enjoyed
everything with so much spirit and delight, but she was never
tiresomely effusive. The ladies had come from New Orleans and were
full of amazement at the rapid strides the country was making, and the
towns that were growing up along the route. Their stay in Pittsburg
had been brief and they were much amused at some of the descriptions
of the earlier days the little girl could recall, the memories of the
French great-grandfather, who had lived almost a hundred years, and
grandad, who in his earlier years had been what we should call an
athlete and was a master hand at games of all sorts. They were much in
vogue yet, since there were no play-houses to draw people together for
social enjoyment.

Mr. Bartram used to watch her with growing interest. Yes, she would be
invaluable to M. de Ronville, and a great relief to him this winter.
How had she so easily overlived the great blow of her wedding day! She
was a very child then, and truly knew nothing about love.

"We shall be in Philadelphia sometime before Christmas," explained
Mrs. Danvers, who was a widow. "We are thinking of settling ourselves
there, or in New York, and we shall be glad to take up the
acquaintance again. We have enjoyed your society very much, and truly
we are indebted to Mr. Bartram for many favors that a maid is apt to
blunder over. Women never get quite used to the rougher ways of the
world."

"And I shall be glad to see you again," the girl said with unaffected
pleasure. "I have enjoyed the journey with you very much."

How did she know just what to say without awkwardness, Mr. Bartram
wondered.

The quiet street and the old house seemed to give her a cordial and
familiar greeting. Mrs. Jarvis herself came to the door.

"Oh, my dear, we are so glad to have you back again," she cried with
emotion. "But how tall you are! You are no longer a little girl."

"I have the same heart after all that has happened;" and though she
smiled there were tears in her eyes.

A slow step came through the hall, and then she was held close to the
heart of her guardian, who had longed for her as one longs for a
child.

Yes, he was quite an old man. Pale now, with snowy hair and beard, and
a complexion full of fine wrinkles, but his eyes were soft and tender,
and had the glow of life in them.

"Oh," he exclaimed, "you still have the golden hair, and the peachy
cheeks, and smiling mouth. I was almost afraid you had changed and
grown grave. And your voice has the same ring. I am so thankful to
your parents for sparing you again. And, Aldis, you must not mind me,
for the business has fallen so behind that I shall not feel neglected
if you go to the office at once. We will devote the evening to talk.
Are you very tired with your journey?" That to Daffodil.

"No, it was so pleasant and entertaining, and some of it beautiful.
Then I do not tire easily."

M. de Ronville held her hand as if he was afraid she might escape, and
his longing eyes touched her very heart. But Mrs. Jarvis stepped up on
the stairs, and giving him a tender smile, she followed.

Nothing had been changed. Why, she might have left it only yesterday.

As if Mrs. Jarvis had a similar thought about her she said, "My dear,
you are just the same, only grown up."

"And everything here is the same. I am very glad; it is like home."

There was the pretty dark blue-and-white toilette set, where the blue
looked as if somehow it had melted a little and run over the white.
She smiled, thinking how she used to wonder about it.

"This is Susan, our new maid. Mr. Bartram may have told you that Jane
was married. She has a good husband and a nice home. But Susan fills
the place very well, and now she will wait upon you with pleasure,"
announced Mrs. Jarvis.

Susan courtesied and smiled. She was younger than Jane, a fresh,
fair-looking girl, who had the appearance of having been scrubbed from
top to toe.

"And now, when you are ready, come down to the library and have a cup
of tea. Oh, I remember, you didn't care for tea, that's an old ladies'
comfort. Well, there are other refreshing things that will stay you
until supper. We have our dinner now in the middle of the day. M. de
Ronville likes it better. Feel thoroughly at home, child."

Susan unpacked her belongings and put them in drawers and the spacious
closet, where Daffodil thought they must feel lonesome.

She went downstairs presently, fresh and bright, having chosen her
simplest frock, and tied her curls in a bunch behind, instead of
putting them high on her head with a comb. On her pretty neck she wore
the chain and pendant M. de Ronville had given her. She looked very
sweet and youthful.

He motioned her to the sofa beside him.

"I understand how it is, that children and grandchildren keep one
young," he began. "It is the new flow of life that vivifies the old
pulses. And I advise all young men to marry;" smiling a little.
"After awhile business loses its keen interest, and when you have
made enough, why should you go on toiling and moiling? Then comes the
time you want to take an interest in younger lives. And now tell me
about your mother and father, who is prospering greatly, Aldis has
written. And the little brother."

She was in full flow of eager talk when Susan brought in the tray with
some tea and dainty biscuits, and golden-hearted cake, and Mrs. Jarvis
followed her and drew up the little table.

"You see, I am quite pampered. I like a cup of tea at mid-afternoon,
for the reason that it makes a break in a rather lonely time. I go out
in the morning, when I can, but I take the garden and the porch in the
afternoon, and in the evening friends drop in."

Daffodil had a glass of milk. There were some delightful sandwiches,
and she was really hungry, as they had not stopped for much dinner at
noon. And as she glanced around she saw more cases had been added, and
were filled with books, and two or three paintings and beautiful
vases. The room did have a cosy aspect, with some easy chairs that
were just coming in for elderly people. Young people were expected to
sit up straight.

Afterward they walked in the garden. There were choice late roses in
bloom, and flowers she had never seen before. Smooth paths of sand
beaten hard, here a way of fine white gravel that looked like a snowy
ribbon between the green. How beautiful it was! This was what money
and education and taste could do. Pittsburg was beginning to have the
money, to prosper and boast, but all things seemed in a muddle,
compared to this.

She was merry and sweet, and yet it did not seem to her as if it came
from a true heart. Was she sorry she had come. Was not her place back
there! Was it not her duty not to outgrow Pittsburg, for there she
must live her life out. And when she was an old lady there would be
Felix, who would marry and have children growing up, true Duvernays,
for he would take the name, not her husband.

When they went in the paper had come, and she read that to him. She
had stepped so naturally into the old place. Susan began to arrange
the table, Mr. Bartram came in looking really fagged out, but
cordially attentive and chatty with the happenings.

It was a sort of high tea, and there was an air about everything
different from their simplicity at home, but Mr. Bartram had adapted
himself so readily to that. Was it out of kindly consideration?

"Now, I am going to dismiss you, my little dear," exclaimed the old
man gently, "for I want to hear what Aldis has to say. And you have
been very sweet and patient. Promise that you will not disappear in
the night."

"Oh, I promise. I am not a bird that I could fly back in the night,
and then I think only evil birds fly at that period."

He kissed her on the forehead. She sat on the porch awhile with Mrs.
Jarvis, and then went to bed in the room that was sweet with rose and
lavender. Well, so was her pillow at home. But it was so still here.
Even the insects seemed to have modulated their shrillness. She buried
her face in the softness and cried. Was she regretting the change? Was
some gladness, some hope, lost out of her life, that could never come
again?

It was bright morning when she woke. Even the very sun seemed to shine
in gladness. Susan came, bringing her some water, and wished her
good-morning. Yes, it should be a good morning and a good day.

They went to drive when the mists of the night had blown away. Oh, how
gay everything looked! Stores had increased, beautiful buildings had
gone up, and there was the President's residence. Lady Washington, as
many people still called her, came out with her maid and her black
servant, with a huge basket. There were others doing the same thing,
for it was quite a fashion of the day, though some people were
beginning to be waited on by the market men. Ladies in carriages and
men walking or riding bowed to M. de Ronville, and wondered who the
pretty girl beside him could be. He quite enjoyed the surprised look
they gave her.

Then he took a rest on the sofa, and begged her to tell him of the
changes they had made in the house, and the boats her father was
building, and what new industries had been started. And was grandad as
bright and merry as ever? And the ignoble whiskey insurrection; the
soldiers at the Fort!

Everything had so much interest for him, and the time passed so
rapidly, that Mr. Bartram came home before they hardly thought of
dinner. He asked with a smile if she was homesick yet, and although
she shook her head with vague amusement, she wondered why she had
cried last night? They had some bright talk and then M. de Ronville
asked her if she did not want to go shopping with Mrs. Jarvis, who
would like very much to have her. Mr. Bartram had brought some papers
that must be looked over and signed. But she must not stay out too
late for his cup of afternoon tea.

The shopping was really a great diversion. They met several people,
who remembered her. And how funny it seemed to pay away so much money
for an article, but then there seemed plenty of paper money.

Chestnut Street was gay with riders, both men and women, and some of
the latter looked fine in their dark-green habits and gilt buttons.
There were many promenading, dressed in the quaint style of the day,
and not a few Friends in silvery-gray, with the close-fitting
scuttle-shaped bonnets.

"I am so glad you have come," was Susan's greeting. "There are two
ladies waiting to see you, Miss Daffodil, and M. de Ronville would
make me bring in the tea for them."

"Oh, what are their names?" cried the girl eagerly.

"I was not to tell you;" and a smile lurked behind Susan's lips.

She ran upstairs and took off her hat and mantle, and came into the
library wondering.

"Oh;" pausing to think for a moment. "It's Miss Pemberton, and--is it
Belinda?"

"Oh, you haven't changed a bit, except to grow tall;" and Belinda
almost hugged her. "But Mary is Mrs. Hassel, and has the darlingest
little boy you ever saw. Oh, do you remember our party out on the
lawn, and our picnic? I'm so glad you have come again. I'm the only
girl home now;" and then Belinda blushed deeply.

"And Mr. de Ronville would have us share his tea. I've heard it's a
kind of English fashion, which he ought not countenance, since he is
French, I tell him," said Mrs. Hassel jestingly. "But it is
delightful. I think I'll start it. A cup of tea seems to loosen one's
tongue."

"Do women really need the lubrication?" asked M. de Ronville with a
smile.

"Yes, they do. Think of three or four different women hardly knowing
what to say to each other, and after a few sips of tea they are as
chatty as you please. But I must say I was so delighted with his
charming news that I would have waited until dark for the chance of
seeing you."

"Oh, thank you;" and Daffodil blushed prettily.

"And we know a friend of yours, at least Jack does, a young doctor,
who is going to be great some day, and who is from Pittsburg, Dr.
Langdale."

"Oh, yes, I knew he was studying here."

"And he has made one or two remarkable discoveries about something or
other. Dr. Rush considers him one of the coming men."

"I am very glad to hear that. Oh, we all seemed children together. And
his older brother is a lieutenant at Fort Pitt."

"Can't he get a furlough? I'd like to see him," said Belinda gayly.

"He's tired of dull Fort Pitt, and was talking of getting exchanged.
That isn't quite right, I believe; it sounds as if he was a prisoner."

"We must go," insisted Mrs. Hassel. "We will hardly have time for
another call. M. de Ronville has been so fascinating."

"Oh, did I hold out a fascination?" mischievously.

"It was both," admitted Belinda. "And now we want to see ever so much
of you. Mary, give us a regular tea party; she only lives round in
Arch Street. And you will want to see the baby."

"Of course I will," said the young girl.

Then they made their adieus. Susan took away the tea-things.

"Was the shopping nice?" enquired her guardian.

"Oh, there are so many lovely things! I didn't mean to buy anything,
you know, but we looked at such an elegant pelisse. Only everything
costs so much!"

"Oh, economical little girl!"

"And the shopwoman would try on such a splendid white beaver that had
just come in with a beautiful long plume and a white satin bow on top.
Why, I felt as if I had just arrived from Paris!"

M. de Ronville leaned back and laughed. She looked so pretty and
spirited, standing here. He could imagine her in the white beaver and
handsome pelisse.

"How about the French?" he asked. "Have you forgotten it all?"

"Oh, no. Grandmere and I talk sometimes."

"We must have a little reading. Why, we could talk as well. I
sometimes get rusty."

"It was very nice of the Pembertons to remember me," she said
reflectively.

"I had said you were likely to come, and they heard Mr. Bartram had
returned. So they came at once."
