"I happen to be," he said pleasantly, "an officer in a certain branch of
the Italian Army."

"Military Intelligence!" exclaimed Clelia.  "And we were warned by
Monsieur Venizelos!"

Thusis flung out her arms in a passionate gesture: "We offer the King of
Italy two royal scoundrels! And he refuses.  We offer the King of Italy
two islands?  And you tell us he refuses.  When we were in Rome he
laughed at us, teased us as though we had been two school-girls bringing
him some crazy plan to end the war.  And now when we are practically
ready to prove our plan possible—ready to consummate the affair and give
him the two most dangerous royal rascals in Europe—restore to Italy two
islands stolen from her centuries ago—the King of Italy turns timid and
sends a gentleman to ruin everything!"

"Because," said Smith pleasantly, "although King Constantine and Queen
Sophia have been deposed, yet, were you to seize them and carry them
across this frontier into France, Greece would resent it. So also would
Switzerland.  And the Allies would merely make two enemies out of an
Allied country and a neutral one for the sake of a few odd kings and
queens.

"And, moreover, if you should proceed, as you had planned, to the
Cyclades; and if you succeed in fomenting a revolution in Naxos and
Tenedos, and induce these two islands to declare themselves part of
Italy, because seven hundred years ago a Venetian conquered them, then
you turn Greece into a bitter enemy of Italy and of the Allies.  And
that is what you accomplish in exchange for a couple of little islands
in the Ægean which Italy does not want."

"Then," retorted Thusis violently, "why did Monsieur Venizelos suggest
that we attempt these things? Is the greatest patriot on earth a traitor
or a fool?"

"No, but Constantine of Greece is.  And the boche is his tutor.  Oh,
Thusis—Thusis!  Can’t you see you have been tricked?  Can’t you
understand that Venizelos had no knowledge of these things you are
attempting in all sincerity?—that you have been deluded by the treachery
of the hun—that those who counseled you to this came secretly from Tino
and the Kaiser, not from Venizelos?"

Thusis gazed at him bewildered.  Clelia, too, seemed almost stunned.

"Do—do you mean to tell me," stammered Thusis, "that these kings know
that Clelia and I are here to try to kidnap them?"

"No," said Smith coolly, "because I censored their mail in Berne.  Their
agents in Rome had warned them, in detail, by letter."

"Had those agents penetrated our identity?"

"They seemed to have no notion of it.  But they described you both
minutely."

Clelia seemed to come out of her trance.  She turned to Thusis and said
in a naïve, bewildered way:

"It’s rather extraordinary, Thusis, that nobody seems to have found out
who we really are....  It’s almost as though we are not of as much
importance as we have been brought up to suppose."

Thusis blushed hotly: "Because," she said, "nobody has discovered our
incognito, is no reason for us to underrate our positions in Europe."

"Still—it is extraordinary that nobody recognizes us.  And we use our
own names, too.  I can’t account for it," she added honestly, "unless we
are of much less importance than we have been accustomed to consider
ourselves——"

Her voice was lost in a fearful scream from the house.

"Good Heavens!" said I, "what has happened?"

At that moment the door flew open and King Ferdinand waddled out in his
wrapper and slippers.

"Help!" he shouted, "help!  Is there a physician in the Alps?"

"I’m one," said Smith, coolly, "among other things."

And we all started hastily for the house.




                                *XVIII*

                            *THE GANGSTERS*


The Tsar of all the Bulgars, wearing a green and yellow wrapper, and
bright blue slippers over his enormous flat feet, exhibited considerable
nervousness as we entered the house.

"I wasn’t doing anything," he said; "I trust that nobody will
misunderstand me.  Heaven is my witness——"

"What’s the matter?" asked Smith tersely.

"The Princess Pudelstoff is screaming.  I don’t know why; I didn’t go
near her——"

We hurried up stairs.  The door of the Princess’ room was open, the
light burning.  The Princess sat up in bed, tears rolling down her
gross, fat face, screaming at the top of her voice; while beside her, in
Phrygian night-cap and pajamas, stood King Constantine.

He had her by the elbow and was jerking her arm and shouting at her:
"Shut your fool head!  Stop it!  There’s nothing the matter with you.
You’ve been dreaming!"

Smith went straight to the bed, shoved Constantine aside, and laid a
soothing hand on the Princess’ shoulder.

"I’m a physician," he said in his pleasant, reassuring voice.  "What is
the trouble, Princess?"

"There’s turrible doin’s in this here house!" she bawled.  "I peeked
through the key-hole!  Them there Bolsheviki next door is fixin’ to blow
us all up.  I seen the bomb a-sizzlin’ and a-fizzlin’ on the floor like
it was just ready to bust!  And then I run and got into bed and I let
out a screech——"

"It’s all right," said Smith kindly.  "It was just a bad dream.  There
isn’t any bomb.  Nobody is going to harm you——"

"I didn’t dream it!  I——"

"Yes, you did.  Calm yourself, Princess.  You have eaten something which
has disagreed with you."

She ceased her screaming at that suggestion and considered it, the tears
still streaming over her features.  Then she began to blubber again and
shook her head.

"I ain’t et hoggish," she insisted.  "If I had et hoggish I’d think I
drempt it.  But I ain’t et hoggish.  That wasn’t no dream.  No, sir!  I
had went to bed, but I was fidgety, like I had a load of coal onto my
stummick.  And by and by I heard them Bolsheviki next door whisperin’.
And by and by I heard a fizzlin’ noise like they was makin’ highballs in
there.

"Thinks I to myself that sounds good if true.  So I gets up and I lights
up and I peeks through the key hole.  And I seen King—I mean Monsieur
Xenos, and Monsieur Itchenuff, and Puppsky and Wildkatz and a long,
black box on the floor in the room next door, and somethin’ sticking out
of it which fizzled without smokin’——"

"It was all a dream, madame," interposed Smith soothingly.  And to my
surprise, he took from his inner breast-pocket a small, flat medicine
case.

"A glass of water and two spoons, please," he said to Clelia.  And she
went away to fetch them.

There was another glass on the wash-stand.  In this he rinsed a clinical
thermometer and inserted it under the tongue of the sobbing Princess.

Thusis and I stood near him, silent.  King Constantine and the Bulgarian
Tsar appeared to be unsympathetic and at the same time slightly nervous.

"If she’d stop gorging herself," remarked Tino, "she’d have no
nightmares."

"I seen you in there!  Yes I did!" retorted the Princess in another
access of wrath and fright, the thermometer wagging wildly between her
lips.  "And I seen you too!" she went on, pointing at King Ferdinand,
who stared wildly back at her out of his eyes of an alarmed pig and
wrinkled his enormous nose at her.

"Don’t tell me I was dreamin’," she added scornfully, "nothing like
that."

Clelia came with the two spoons and glass of water; Smith selected a
phial, mixed the dose, withdrew the thermometer, shook it, examined it,
washed it at the basin, and, returning to his patient, administered a
teaspoonful of medicine.

Then, in the other glass, he dissolved a powder, gave her three
teaspoonfuls of that, and placed the two glasses on the night table
beside her bed.

"If you happen to awake," he said gently, "take a teaspoonful of each.
But I think you’ll sleep, madame.  And in the morning you’ll be all
right."

He turned on King Constantine and the Tsar so suddenly that they both
took impulsive steps backward as though apprehensive of being kicked.

"The Princess needs quiet and rest, gentlemen," said Smith.  "Kindly
retire."

"Perhaps I’d better sit beside her for a while," began Constantine, but
Smith interrupted him:

"I’ll call you into consultation if I want you, Monsieur Xenos."  His
voice had a very slight ring to it; the ex-King of Greece looked at him
for a moment, then winced and backed out of the room, followed by King
Ferdinand who seemed to be in a hurry and crowded on his heels like an
agitated pachyderm.

Clelia, who had remained mute and motionless, looking at Smith all the
while, now came toward him. And in the girl’s altered face I saw,
reflected, deeper emotions than I had supposed her youthful heart could
harbor.

"Do you need me?" she asked.  "I am at your service."

"Thank you, there is nothing more," said Smith pleasantly.  He turned to
include Thusis in kindly but unmistakable dismissal.

Clelia gave him a long, slow look of exquisite submission; Thusis sent
an odd, irresolute glance at me.  As she passed me, following her
sister, her lips formed the message: "I wish to see you to-night."

When they had gone Smith shut and locked the door, and with a slight
motion to me to accompany him, walked over to the bed, seated himself
beside it, and took the fat hand of the Princess Pudelstoff in his as
though to test her pulse.

The lady rolled her eyes at us but lay still, her mottled cheeks still
glistening with partly dried tears.

"What’s on your mind, Princess?" inquired Smith in a soft, caressing
voice.

"Hey?" she exclaimed in visible alarm, and evidently preparing to scream
again.

"Hush.  Don’t excite yourself, madame," he said in his pleasant,
reassuring way.  "There is no occasion for alarm at all."

"Am I a sick woman?" she demanded anxiously. "Is that what you’re
a-goin’ to hand me?  Is it?"

"No, you’re not physically ill.  You have no temperature except as much
as might be due to sudden shock."

"I got the scare of my young life all right," she muttered.  "Say, Doc,
was it a dream?  On the level now, was it?"

"Probably——"

"Honest to God?" she insisted.

"Why do you think it was not a dream, Princess?" he asked gently.

"Why?  Well, I’ve run with Rooshians enough to know a infernal machine
when I see one.  And I never dream plain, that way.  I can see that darn
thing yet—and hear it!  And I can see them men in there all a settin’
onto chairs in a circle like, and a-watching that there bomb sizzling.
It made a blue light but no smoke and no smell.  How could I have drempt
all that so plain, Doc?"

"Princess!  You’re not afraid of me, are you?"

She looked up into his clean-cut, pleasant American face.

"No, I ain’t," she said.  "You come from God’s country"—she suddenly
began to beat her pudgy fists on the sheets—"and whyinhell I ever was
crazy enough to leave little old Noo York I don’t know excep’ I was
damfoolenough to do it!"

Smith smiled at her: "You sure were some peach," he said, dropping
gracefully into the vernacular, "when you played with Nazimova in that
Eastside theater."

The Princess flushed all over, and the radiance of her smile
transfigured her amazingly.

"Did you see me in them days, Doc?"

"You betcha!"

"Well-f’r-God’s-sake!" she gasped in wonder and delight.  "Say, you had
me fooled, Doc.  I understood you was a Norsky—a sort of tree-peddlin’
guy.  But, thinks I to myself, he looks like a Yank. I says so to my
brother, Leo Puppsky——"

"Don’t say it to him again, Princess.  Or to anybody."

At that the Princess fixed her shrewd little eyes on Smith, shifted them
for an instant to me, then resumed her scrutiny of his serene and
smiling features.

"What’s the idea?" she asked at last.

"I’m going to lay all my cards down for you, Princess,—faces up.  I am
an American serving in the Italian army."

"The-hell-you-say!"  There was a silence that lasted a full minute.
Then, suddenly, the Princess began to laugh.  Soft, fat chuckles
agitated her tremendous bosom; a seismic disturbance seemed to shake her
ample bulk beneath the bed-clothes.

"Tabs!" she exclaimed.  "You’re keepin’ tabs on these here
down-and-outers!  That’s what you’re a doin’ of!  Am I right?"

"And what are you doing here in Switzerland, Princess?" he inquired
smilingly.

"Say!  I’m their goat!  Now, do you get me?"

"Not exactly——"

"Well listen.  Puppsky’s my brother.  He was in the suit and cloak
business in Noo York before the Rooshian revolution.  Then he beat it
for Petrograd—workin’ for his own pocket same’s you and me, Doc; and
seein’ pickin’s—Trotzky bein’ a friend of ours, and Lenine a relation. I
was in Stockholm fixin’ to go to Noo York, when that poor fish,
Wildkatz, comes in and talks me into this game.  And look at me now,
Doc! Here I am financin’ this here bunch o’ homeless kings, sittin’ into
a con game, holdin’ all the dirty cards they deal me—busted flushes,
nigger straights, and all like that!  And what," she demanded
passionately, "is there in it for me?  Tino, he says I’ll be a Greek
duchess an’ rule a island called Naxos!—And, Gawd help me, I fell fur
it.  And wherethehell is Naxos?  And is it as big as Coney Island?
Wasn’t I the big dill-pickle to stake ’em to a Greek revolution?  And me
a princess!  Sure, I know a Rooshian princess ain’t much of a swell, and
the Duchy of Naxos looked good to me.

"But the more I mix in with these here kings the wiser I get.
Four-flushers is four-flushers wherever you find ’em.  And these guys is
all alike—old Admiral bushy-whiskers, Bummelzug, General Droly and that
sore-eyed little Gizzler!—all want to sell me gold bricks for real
money!"

She waved her short, fat arms in furious recollection of her wrongs.

"Say, even the Greek Queen ain’t too particular about chousing the
long-green outer me!  She wants to hand me the order of the Red
Chicken!—costs ten thousand plunks!  What do you know about that, Doc?"

I don’t know whether Smith was as amazed as was I by these revelations
in argot.  He smiled his kindly, undisturbed smile and patted her hand
encouragingly; while from depths long plugged burst the excited recital
of the woes of the Pudelstoffs.

"I’m through," she said.  "I got enough.  And I told ’em so at the
meeting after dinner to-night. They talked rough to me, they did.
Puppsky, he got riled and tells me I’m no sister of his.  And the Greek
Queen she was crazy and called me a kike in German.  Which upset my
dinner.

"Say, Doc, the Gophers and Gas-house gangs ain’t one-two-three with this
bunch.  I’m scared stiff they’ll get me—that Ferdie has croaked more
guys ’n people know.  I’m scared Sophy sticks me.  They say she stuck a
hat-pin into Tino.  You bet she knows how to make that big stiff behave!
And she’s got a way of lookin’ at you!—Me, I quit ’em cold to-night.
’Nothing like that,’ says I; ’no revolution in Greece at $250,000 a
revolute!  No Naxos!  No Red Chicken!  Me, I’m on my way via Berne,
Berlin, Christiania, and Noo York!’"

"You’ve quarreled with them, Princess?" asked Smith.

"I sure did.  Say, I don’t have to stand for no rough stuff from
Wildkatz neither.  We ain’t in Petrograd.  But, mind you, I don’t put it
past him to try his dirty tricks on me with bombs!"

"But why——"

"They’re like all gun-men!  Once in you can’t get out, or they’ll try to
get you.  If you’ve got enough and try to quit peaceable they think
you’ve been bought out.  You’re a squealer to them."

"You believe they might offer you violence?" I asked, incredulously.

"How do I know?  What was they doin’ with that bomb?  They’re sore on
me.  They know they’re gettin’ no more dough outen me.  They know I’ve
quit and I’m goin’ back to God’s country."

"But Leo Puppsky is your own brother!" I exclaimed, horrified.

The Princess shrugged her fat shoulders.

"He’s a Red, too.  Bolsheviks is Bolsheviks.  You don’t know ’em.  You
don’t know what they done in Rooshia.  No boche is bloodier.  Call ’em
what you like—call ’em all sons of boches—and you won’t be wrong."

Her flabby features had grown somber; suddenly a shudder possessed her,
and she opened her mouth to scream; but Smith instantly filled the
gaping orifice with medicine, and only a coughing fit followed.

To me he said: "Please leave me alone with her now.  It will be all
right, Michael."

And he turned tenderly to the convulsed Princess and patted her vast
back.




                                 *XIX*

                             *CONFIDENCES*


As I walked through the corridor considerably concerned over the
statements made to us by this east-side Princess and seriously disturbed
by finding myself in the very vortex of this whirlpool of intrigue which
every moment seemed to spew up from its dizzying depths new plots and
counter-plots, I almost ran into the ex-Queen of Greece.

She was in curl-papers and negligee, standing just outside her door, an
electric torch in one hand, a pistol in the other.

"Madame!" I exclaimed, "what in the world is the matter?"

"I don’t like this inn," she said.  "I consider it a suspicious place."

"Madame!"

"What do I know about your inn?" she demanded insolently, "or about you,
either?"

"Madame!"

"You say you are a Chilean.  You don’t look it. Neither does your
friend resemble a Norwegian.  If you desire to know my opinion you both
look like Yankees!"

"Madame, this is intolerable——"

"Possibly," she interrupted, staring at me out of chilly eyes that
fairly glittered.  "Possibly, too, I am mistaken.  Perhaps your
servants, also, unduly arouse suspicion—your pretty housekeeper may
really be your housekeeper.  The waitress, too, may be a real waitress.
This is all quite possible, Monsieur.  But I prefer to be prepared for
any eventuality in this tavern!"

And she went into her room and shut the door.

The ex-queen’s insolence upset me.  I was possessed by a furious desire
to turn them all out of doors.  The prospect of living in the same house
with these people for days—perhaps for weeks, seemed unbearable.  Surely
there must be some way out of the valley!

Down stairs I saw Raoul coming from the front courtyard leading two
strange horses attached to a sort of carryall.

"Where on earth did you discover that rig?" I called out to him in the
starlight.

"Two guests have just arrived," he replied, laughing.

I hurried out to where he stood.

"Guests!" I repeated.  "Where did they come from?  Isn’t the pass
closed?"

"Sealed tight, Monsieur O’Ryan.  But when the avalanche fell this
vehicle and its passengers were just far enough inside the pass to be
caught.

"I understand they’ve been digging themselves out of the snow all this
time.  They’ve just arrived and are in the long hall asking for
accommodations."

"Who are they?" I demanded in utter disgust; "more huns?"

"One is a Turkish gentleman," he said.  "The other is the driver.  I
will take care of him.  The Turkish traveler’s name is Eddin Bey, and he
says he’s a friend of Admiral Lauterlaus."

I went into the house and discovered Eddin Bey entering his signature on
the ledger while Clelia with keys and candle waited beside him to show
him to his quarters.

"Ah!" he exclaimed cordially when I named myself, offering his dark,
nervous hand, "I am inexpressibly happy to have the privilege, Monsieur
O’Ryan!  A narrow escape for us, I assure you!—that mountain of snow
roaring down on us and our horses whipped to a gallop!  Not gay—eh?  No,
sir!  And I thought we’d never dig out the horses and our wagon and
luggage!"

I replied politely and suitably, and Clelia presently piloted this dark,
lean, vivacious young man to his quarters across the corridor from
General von Dungheim.

When she returned her flushed, set features arrested my attention.  "Did
that Turk annoy you, Clelia?" I asked sharply.

She shrugged: "Tavern gallantry," she replied briefly: "men of that sort
are prone to it."

I said: "If any of these people annoy you and Thusis come to me at
once."

She laughed: "Dear Monsieur O’Ryan," she said, "Thusis and I know how to
take care of ourselves."  She came nearer, looking up at me out of her
lovely, friendly eyes:

"Thusis is in her room.  It isn’t very proper, of course, but she is
waiting for you.  Will you go?"

"Yes."

Clelia laid one hand lightly on my arm, and her smile became wistful and
troubled:

"You do care for my sister, don’t you?"

"I am deeply in love with her."

"I was afraid so."

"Afraid?"

"Oh, I don’t know how Thusis is going to behave,—how she is going to
take it!" said Clelia in frank anxiety.  "Never before has she cared for
any man; and I don’t know what she’s going to do about you—indeed I
don’t, Mr. O’Ryan!"

"Could you tell me," said I bluntly, "what obstacles stand in the way of
my marrying your sister?"

"Thusis should tell you."

"She isn’t already married?"

"Good Heavens, no!"

"Is it a matter of religion?"

"Thusis must tell you.  I could not speak for her,—interfere with her.
My sister will act for herself—assume all responsibility for whatever
she chooses to do....  As I do."

I took Clelia’s soft hands in mine and looked earnestly into her face:

"You, also, care for a man; don’t you?"

She bent her head in wordless assent.

"What are you going to do about it, Clelia?"

"Whatever he wishes."

"Marry him?"

"If he wishes."

"You are an astounding girl!"

"I am an astounded girl.  I never supposed I should take such a view of
life, of its obligations, of my own position in the world....  Lately,
in the probable imminence of sudden death, I became a little
reckless—perhaps excited—willing to learn in these brief hours the more
innocent elements of love—curious to experience even the least real of
its mysteries—to play coquette in the pretty comedy—even with you——"

She gave me a vague smile and slowly shook her head.

"All the while," she said, "I was in love with him. I didn’t know it
because I didn’t know him.  When I felt frivolous and wished to laugh he
was serious. His solemnity stirred me to audacity; and when I said a lot
of silly things I didn’t mean he preached at me; and I bullied him and
was impudent and showed my contempt for a man who would endure such
tyranny....  That is how it began....  And all the while, not knowing
it, I was falling more completely in love.  Isn’t it odd?"

She smiled, pressed my hands, shook her head as though at a loss to
account for her behavior.

"The first hint of it I had," she said, "was when he coolly warned me
that he would thwart me.  And I looked into his eyes and knew him for
the first time—knew him to be the stronger, the wiser, the more
capable,—and the more powerful.

"And I realized, all in a moment, that he had endured my contempt and
tyranny merely because he chose to; that he was a real man, in cool
possession of his own destiny; that, if he chose, he could clear his
mind of me, and presently his heart; that I was not essential to him,
not necessary; that, indeed, unless I instantly took myself in hand and
made an effort to measure up to him, he’d turn from me,—quite
courteously—and go his own way with a kindly indifference which suddenly
seemed terrifying to me....  And I loved him....  And let him know....
And that is how it happened with me."

After a long pause: "What would happen," I inquired, "if I tried that
sort of thing on Thusis?"

Clelia shook her head: "Thusis and I are different.  I don’t wish to be
a martyr."

"Does Thusis?"

"I’m rather afraid she is inclined that way.  Of course we both were
quite willing to suffer physical martyrdom if we failed to carry off
these wretched kings.  That is a different kind of martyrdom—a shot in
the brain, a knife thrust—perhaps a brutish supplice from the boche——"
She shrugged her shoulders.  "We were not afraid," she added.  "But when
another sort of death suddenly confronted me—the death of love in him I
loved—I had no courage—none at all.  You see I am not the stuff of which
martyrs are fashioned, Mr. O’Ryan."

"Is Thusis?"

"Alas!"

"She prefers to suffer?"

"I am afraid she will become a martyr to a pride which interprets for
her the old, outworn doggerel of ages dead....  I can’t repeat it to
you."

"Noblesse oblige?"

"That phrase occurs in it."

"Oh....  So Thusis, caring for me, will send me away," I said.

"I cannot answer you."

"Can you advise me, Clelia?"

She looked up at me; tears sprang to her eyes; she pressed my hands, but
shook her head.




                                  *XX*

                            *A LOCAL STORM*


I knocked very gently at Thusis’s door and she opened it, signed for me
to enter, then closed it cautiously.

"Do you know," said I, "that it is after midnight?"

"I know it is.  But as long as others don’t know you are here, what does
it matter, Michael?"

"Of course," I muttered, "you and I know there’s no cause for scandal."

Her delightful laughter welled up from the whitest throat I have ever
seen, but she instantly suppressed it.

"We’re very indiscreet," she said mockingly; "we’ve exchanged hearts and
we’re here in my bedroom at midnight.  Can you imagine what that queen
downstairs would say?"

"Had you meant to kidnap her, also?" I inquired.

"No," she said scornfully.  "The Allies can take care of the
Hohenzollern litter after they take the sty."

"Berlin," I nodded.

"Berlin.  Hercules had no such task in his Augean stable.  It was
Hercules, wasn’t it, Michael? I always get him and his labors mixed up
with Theseus.  But the Prince of Argolis used address, not bull
force....  His mother’s name was Æthra.... My mother’s name was Æthra,
too."

"That is Greek."

"Very.  And the name of the ancient pal—I mean the name of our old house
on the island of Naxos was Thalassa!—You remember the Ten Thousand?"

"Yes.  Your house overlooked the sea?"

"The Ægean!  You enter from the landward lawn, advance toward the
portico—and suddenly, through the marble corridor, a sheet of azure!
Thalassa!"

I said slowly: "Little white goddess of Naxos with hair like the sun and
eyes of Ægean blue, why have you sent for me to come to your chamber at
midnight?"

Thusis looked at me and her happy smile faded.

"To ask one question," she said very gravely, "and to answer one—if you
ask it."

"Ask yours, first."

"What did that dreadful Princess say to you and to Mr. Smith after I
left the room?"

I told her what had passed.

"What!" she cried fiercely, clenching her hands. "Tino had the impudence
to offer her Naxos as a bribe!"

"The Duchy of Naxos," I repeated.

I have never seen an angrier or more excited girl. She sprang to her
feet and began to pace the bedroom, her hands doubled in fury, her face
tense and white.

"Naxos!" she kept repeating in a voice strangled by emotion.  "That
treacherous Tino offers Naxos to a miserable, fat Russian Princess!  Oh!
Was ever such an insult offered to any girl!  Naxos!  My Naxos!  Could
the civilized world believe it!  Can the outrage on Belgium equal such
an infamy!  Even with the spectacle of martyred France, of Roumania in
Teuton chains, of Russia floundering in blood—could the world believe
its senses if Naxos is betrayed!"

Her emotion was tragic, yet it seemed to me that the lovely Thusis took
Naxos a trifle too seriously. Because I was not at all certain that this
same civilized and horrified world was unanimously aware of the
existence of Naxos.  But I didn’t say this to Thusis.

As she paced the room she wrung her hands once or twice naïvely
deploring the avalanche.

"Because," she said, halting in front of me, "Smith or no Smith, I
should certainly attempt to seize this treacherous, beastly Constantine,
and smuggle him over the frontier.  The traitor!  The double traitor!
For Naxos is not his!  No!  It is a Venetian Duchy.  What if Turkey did
steal it!  What if Greece stole it in turn?  It is Venetian.  It is
Italian.  It is my home and I love it!  It is my birthplace and I
worship it!  It is my native land and I adore it!"

"The King of Italy," I reminded her, "does not seem to desire that Naxos
be included in his domain."

"But I do!" she said passionately.  "I am a Venetian of Naxos.  Have I
not the right to decide where my island belongs?  For six hundred years
my family has owed allegiance to Venice—and naturally, therefore, to
Italy.  Have I not every right to raise the banner of revolt in Naxos
and defy this ruffianly ex-king who comes sneaking stealthily into
Switzerland to plot for his own restoration?—who comes here secretly to
offer Naxos to a vulgar Russian as a bribe for financial aid?—offers to
sell my home for a few millions cash and buy cannon and men and send
them into Greece to fight for him and his rotten throne?"

"Thusis——"

"No!" she said violently, "there is no argument possible.  And God never
sent His avalanche to ruin my hopes and destroy all chance of freedom
for Naxos!  It was the bestial Gott of the boche who loosed the snow up
yonder—the filthy fetish of the hun who did that!"  She flung out her
white arms and looked upward.  And "oh!" she cried, "for one hour of the
old Greek gods to call on!  Oh for the thunderbolts of Zeus!—the spear
of Athene!—the tender grace and mercy of Aphrodite, and her swift and
flaming vengeance when her temples were profaned!—when her children were
betrayed and disinherited!—Naxos—my Naxos——"

All Greek now, pagan, beautiful, the girl’s whole body was quivering
with rage and grief.  And I knew enough to hold my tongue.

While the fierce storm swept her, bending her like a sapling with gusts
of passion, I stood silent, awaiting the rain of tears to end it.

None came to break the tension, though the gray eyes harbored lightning
and her brow remained dark.

"As Naxos falls, so falls the world," she said. "The eyes of
civilization are on her; the fateful writing runs like fire across God’s
heaven!  Let the world heed what passes!  The doom of Naxos is the doom
of freedom and of man!"

I, personally, had scarcely looked at it in that light.  It did not
strike me that the hub of civilization rested on Naxos.  Nor do I
believe the world was under that impression.  But I was not going to say
so to this excited young Naxosienne—or Naxosoise—or Naxosette,—whichever
may be the respectful and properly descriptive nomenclature.

And so, standing near the window, I watched the tempest wax, wane, and
gradually pass, leaving her at last silent, seated on her couch, with
one arm across her knee and her head bent like the "Resting Hermes."

When I walked over and stood looking down at her she reached out and,
without looking, took my hand.

"It is your turn now, Michael; and I already know what question you mean
to ask."

"Shall I ask it, Thusis?"  After a silence her hand closed convulsively
in mine.

"I do love you....  I am not—free—to marry you."

"Could you tell me why?"

She slowly shook her head: "You will learn why, some day."

"Is there no chance, Thusis?"

Again she shook her head.  Presently her hand slipped out of mine and
she rested both elbows on her knees, covering her face.

I dropped onto the couch near her, framing my own head in both hands.

The world had become sunless and quite empty except for human pain....
And so, thought I in a dull sort of way, this ends my romance with The
Laughing Girl....  The Laughing Girl of Naxos..... Not laughing now, but
very much subdued, brooding beside me with both hands covering her face,
and the splendid masses of her hair now loosened to her shoulders like a
hood hiding the bowed features.

"Don’t grieve, Thusis," I whispered, forgetting my own pain; but she
suddenly huddled up and doubled over, crying:

"If you speak to me that way I—can’t—endure it——"  Her voice broke
