merely cripple them for a space. God always heals them in the end."

He laid his hand on the door-knob once more and lifted the latch-key.

"Don't!" she whispered, catching his hand again, "if there should be
somebody in there waiting for us!"

"There is not a soul in my rooms. My servant sleeps out."

"There is somebody there!" she said, trembling.

"Nobody, Miss Norne. Will you come in with me?"

"I don't dare----"

"Why?"

"You and I alone together--no! oh, please--please! I am afraid!"

"Of what?"

"Of--giving you--my c-confidence--and trust--and--and f-friendship."

"I want you to."

"I must not! It would destroy us both, soul and body!"

"I tell you," he said, impatiently, "that there is no destruction of the
soul--and it's a clean comradeship anyway--a fighting friendship I ask
of you--all I ask; all I offer! Wherein, then, lies this peril in
being alone together?"

"Because I am finding it in my heart to believe in you, trust you, hold
fast to your strength and protection. And if I give way--yield--and if I
make you a promise--and if there is anybody in that room to see us and
hear us--then we shall be destroyed, both of us, soul and body----"

He took her hands, held them until their trembling ceased.

"I'll answer for our bodies. Let God look after the rest. Will you trust
Him?"

She nodded.

"And me?"

"Yes."

But her face blanched as he turned the latch-key, switched on the
electric light, and preceded her into the room beyond.

The place was one of those accentless, typical bachelor apartments made
comfortable for anything masculine, but quite unlivable otherwise.

Live coals still glowed in the hob grate; he placed a lump of cannel
coal on the embers, used a bellows vigorously and the flame caught with
a greasy crackle.

The girl stood motionless until he pulled up an easy chair for her, then
he found another for himself. She let slip her furs, folded her hands
around the bunch of violets and waited.

"Now," he said, "I'll come to the point. In 1916 I was at Plattsburg,
expecting a commission. The Department of Justice sent for me. I went to
Washington where I was made to understand that I had been selected to
serve my country in what is vaguely known as the Secret Service--and
which includes government agents attached to several departments.

"The great war is over; but I am still retained in the service. Because
something more sinister than a hun victory over civilisation threatens
this Republic. And threatens the civilised world."

"Anarchy," she said.

"Bolshevism."

She did not stir in her chair.

She had become very white. She said nothing. He looked at her with his
quiet, reassuring smile.

"That's what I want of you," he repeated.

"I want your help," he went on, "I want your valuable knowledge of the
Orient. I want whatever secret information you possess. I want your
rather amazing gifts, your unprecedented experience among almost unknown
people, your familiarity with occult things, your astounding
powers--whatever they are--hypnotic, psychic, material.

"Because, to-day, civilisation is engaged in a secret battle for
existence against gathering powers of violence, the force and limit of
which are still unguessed.

"It is a battle between righteousness and evil, between sanity and
insanity, light and darkness, God and Satan! And if civilisation does
not win, then the world perishes."

She raised her still eyes to his, but made no other movement.

"Miss Norne," he said, "we in the International Service know enough
about you to desire to know more.

"We already knew the story you have told to me. Agents in the
International Secret Service kept in touch with you from the time that
the Japanese escorted you out of China.

"From the day you landed, and all across the Continent to New York, you
have been kept in view by agents of this government.

"Here, in New York, my men have kept in touch with you. And now,
to-night, the moment has come for a personal understanding between you
and me."

The girl's pale lips moved--became stiffly articulate: "I--I wish to
live," she stammered, "I fear death."

"I know it. I know what I ask when I ask your help."

She said in the ghost of a voice: "If I turn against them--they will
kill me."

"They'll try," he said quietly.

"They will not fail, Mr. Cleves."

"That is in God's hands."

She became deathly white at that.

"No," she burst out in an agonised voice, "it is not in God's hands! If
it were, I should not be afraid! It is in the hands of those who stole
my soul!"

She covered her face with both arms, fairly writhing on her chair.

"If the Yezidees have actually made you believe any such nonsense"--he
began; but she dropped her arms and stared at him out of terrible blue
eyes:

"I don't want to die, I tell you! I am afraid!--afraid! If I reveal to
you what I know they'll kill me. If I turn against them and aid you,
they'll slay my body, and send it after my soul!"

She was trembling so violently that he sprang up and went to her. After
a moment he passed one arm around her shoulders and held her firmly,
close to him.

"Come," he said, "do your duty. Those who enlist under the banner of
Christ have nothing to dread in this world or the next."

"If--if I could believe I were safe there."

"I tell you that you are. So is every human soul! What mad nonsense have
the Yezidees made you believe? Is there any surer salvation for the soul
than to die in Christ's service?"

He slipped his arm from her quivering shoulders and grasped both her
hands, crushing them as though to steady every fibre in her tortured
body.

"I want you to live. I want to live, too. But I tell you it's in God's
hands, and we soldiers of civilisation have nothing to fear except
failure to do our duty. Now, then, are we comrades under the United
States Government?"

"O God--I--dare not!"

"Are we?"

Perhaps she felt the physical pain of his crushing grip for she turned
and looked him in the eyes.

"I don't want to die," she whispered. "Don't make me!"

"Will you help your country?"

The terrible directness of her child's gaze became almost unendurable to
him.

"Will you offer your country your soul and body?" he insisted in a low,
tense voice.

Her stiff lips formed a word.

"Yes!" he exclaimed.

"Yes."

For a moment she rested against his shoulder, deathly white, then in a
flash she had straightened, was on her feet in one bound and so swiftly
that he scarcely followed her movement--was unaware that she had risen
until he saw her standing there with a pistol glittering in her hand,
her eyes fixed on the porti√®res that hung across the corridor leading to
his bedroom.

"What on earth," he began, but she interrupted him, keeping her gaze
focused on the curtains, and the pistol resting level on her hip.

"I'll answer you if I die for it!" she cried. "I'll tell you everything
I know! You wish to learn what is this monstrous evil that threatens the
world with destruction--what you call anarchy and Bolshevism? It is an
Evil that was born before Christ came! It is an Evil which not only
destroys cities and empires and men but which is more terrible still for
it obtains control of the human mind, and uses it at will; and it
obtains sovereignty over the soul, and makes it prisoner. Its aim is to
dominate first, then to destroy. It was conceived in the beginning by
Erlik and by Sorcerers and devils.... Always, from the first, there have
been sorcerers and living devils.

"And when human history began to be remembered and chronicled, devils
were living who worshiped Erlik and practised sorcery.

"They have been called by many names. A thousand years before Christ
Hassan Sabbah founded his sect called Hassanis or Assassins. The
Yezidees are of them. Their Chief is still called Sabbah; their creed is
the annihilation of civilisation!"

Cleves had risen. The girl spoke in a clear, accentless monotone, not
looking at him, her eyes and pistol centred on the motionless curtains.

"Look out!" she cried sharply.

"What is the matter?" he demanded. "Do you suppose anybody is hidden
behind that curtain in the passageway?"

"If there is," she replied in her excited but distinct voice, "here is a
tale to entertain him:

"The Hassanis are a sect of assassins which has spread out of Asia all
over the world, and they are determined upon the annihilation of
everything and everybody in it except themselves!

"In Germany is a branch of the sect. The hun is the lineal descendant of
the ancient Yezidee; the gods of the hun are the old demons under other
names; the desire and object of the hun is the same desire--to rule the
minds and bodies and souls of men and use them to their own purposes!"

She lifted her pistol a little, came a pace forward:

"Anarchist, Yezidee, Hassani, Boche, Bolshevik--all are the same--all
are secretly swarming in the hidden places for the same purpose!"

The girl's blue eyes were aflame, now, and the pistol was lifting slowly
in her hand to a deadly level.

"Sanang!" she cried in a terrible voice.

"Sanang!" she cried again in her terrifying young voice--"Toad! Tortoise
egg! Spittle of Erlik! May the Thirty Thousand Calamities overtake you!
Sheik-el-Djebel!--cowardly Khan whom I laughed at from the temple when
it rained yellow snakes on the marble steps when all the gongs in Yian
sounded in your frightened ears!"

She waited.

"What! You won't step out? Tokhta!" she exclaimed in a ringing tone,
and made a swift motion with her left hand. Apparently out of her empty
open palm, like a missile hurled, a thin, blinding beam of light struck
the curtains, making them suddenly transparent.

A man stood there.

He came out, moving very slowly as though partly stupefied. He wore
evening dress under his overcoat, and had a long knife in his right
hand.

Nobody spoke.

"So--I really was to die then, if I came here," said the girl in a
wondering way.

Sanang's stealthy gaze rested on her, stole toward Cleves. He moistened
his lips with his tongue. "You deliver me to this government agent?" he
asked hoarsely.

"I deliver nobody by treachery. You may go, Sanang."

He hesitated, a graceful, faultless, metropolitan figure in top-hat and
evening attire. Then, as he started to move, Cleves covered him with his
weapon.

"I can't let that man go free!" cried Cleves angrily.

"Very well!" she retorted in a passionate voice--"then take him if you
are able! Tokhta! Look out for yourself!"

Something swift as lightning struck the pistol from his grasp,--blinded
him, half stunned him, set him reeling in a drenching blaze of light
that blotted out all else.

He heard the door slam; he stumbled, caught at the back of a chair while
his senses and sight were clearing.

"By heavens!" he whispered with ashen lips, "you--you are a
sorceress--or something. What--what, are you doing to me?"

There was no answer. And when his vision cleared a little more he saw
her crouched on the floor, her head against the locked door, listening,
perhaps--or sobbing--he scarcely understood which until the quiver of
her shoulders made it plainer.

When at last Cleves went to her and bent over and touched her she looked
up at him out of wet eyes, and her grief-drawn mouth quivered.

"I--I don't know," she sobbed, "if he truly stole away my
soul--there--there in the temple dusk of Yian. But he--he stole my
heart--for all his wickedness--Sanang, Prince of the Yezidees--and I
have been fighting him for it all these years--all these long
years--fighting for what he stole in the temple dusk!... And now--now I
have it back--my heart--all broken to pieces--here on the floor behind
your--your bolted door."




CHAPTER V

THE ASSASSINS


On the wall hung a map of Mongolia, that indefinite region a million and
a half square miles in area, vast sections of which have never been
explored.

Turkestan and China border it on the south, and Tibet almost touches it,
not quite.

Even in the twelfth century, when the wild Mongols broke loose and
nearly overran the world, the Tibet infantry under Genghis, the
Tchortcha horsemen drafted out of Black China, and a great cloud of
Mongol cavalry under the Prince of the Vanguard commanding half a
hundred Hezars, never penetrated that grisly and unknown waste. The
"Eight Towers of the Assassins" guarded it--still guard it, possibly.

The vice-regent of Erlik, Prince of Darkness, dwelt within this unknown
land. And dwells there still, perhaps.

In front of this wall-map stood Tressa Norne.

Behind her, facing the map, four men were seated--three of them under
thirty.

These three were volunteers in the service of the United States
Government--men of independent means, of position, who had volunteered
for military duty at the outbreak of the great war. However, they had
been assigned by the Government to a very different sort of duty no less
exciting than service on the fighting line, but far less conspicuous,
for they had been drafted into the United States Department of Justice.

The names of these three were Victor Cleves, a professor of ornithology
at Harvard University before the war; Alexander Selden, junior partner
in the banking firm of Milwyn, Selden, and Co., and James Benton, a New
York architect.

The fourth man's name was John Recklow. He might have been over fifty,
or under. He was well-built, in a square, athletic way, clear-skinned
and ruddy, grey-eyed, quiet in voice and manner. His hair and moustache
had turned silvery. He had been employed by the Government for many
years. He seemed to be enormously interested in what Miss Norne was
saying.

Also he was the only man who interrupted her narrative to ask questions.
And his questions revealed a knowledge which was making the girl more
sensitive and uneasy every moment.

Finally, when she spoke of the Scarlet Desert, he asked if the Scarlet
Lake were there and if the Xin was still supposed to inhabit its
vermilion depths. And at that she turned and looked at him, her
forefinger still resting on the map.

"Where have you ever heard of the Scarlet Lake and the Xin?" she asked
as though frightened.

Recklow said quietly that as a boy he had served under Gordon and Sir
Robert.

"If, as a boy, you served under Chinese Gordon, you already know much of
what I have told you, Mr. Recklow. Is it not true?" she demanded
nervously.

"That makes no difference," he replied with a smile. "It is all very new
to these three young gentlemen. And as for myself, I am checking up what
you say and comparing it with what I heard many, many years ago when my
comrade Barres and I were in Yian."

"Did you really know Sir Robert Hart?"

"Yes."

"Then why do you not explain to these gentlemen?"

"Dear child," he interrupted gently, "what did Chinese Gordon or Sir
Robert Hart, or even my comrade Barres, or I myself know about occult
Asia in comparison to what you know?--a girl who has actually served the
mysteries of Erlik for four amazing years!"

She paled a trifle, came slowly across the room to where Recklow was
seated, laid a timid hand on his sleeve.

"Do you believe there are sorcerers in Asia?" she asked with that
child-like directness which her wonderful blue eyes corroborated.

Recklow remained silent.

"Because," she went on, "if, in your heart, you do not believe this to
be an accursed fact, then what I have to say will mean nothing to any of
you."

Recklow touched his short, silvery moustache, hesitating. Then:

"The worship of Erlik is devil worship," he said. "Also I am entirely
prepared to believe that there are, among the Yezidees, adepts who
employ scientific weapons against civilisation--who have probably
obtained a rather terrifying knowledge of psychic laws which they use
scientifically, and which to ordinary, God-fearing folk appear to be the
black magic of sorcerers."

Cleves said: "The employment by the huns of poison gases and long-range
cannon is a parallel case. Before the war we could not believe in the
possibility of a cannon that threw shells a distance of seventy miles."

The girl still addressed herself to Recklow: "Then you do not believe
there are real sorcerers in Asia, Mr. Recklow?"

"Not sorcerers with supernatural powers for evil. Only degenerate human
beings who, somehow, have managed to tap invisible psychic currents, and
have learned how to use terrific forces about which, so far, we know
practically nothing."

She spoke again in the same uneasy voice: "Then you do not believe that
either God or Satan is involved?"

"No," he replied smilingly, "and you must not so believe."

"Nor the--the destruction of human souls," she persisted; "you do not
believe it is being accomplished to-day?"

"Not in the slightest, dear young lady," he said cheerfully.

"Do you not believe that to have been instructed in such unlawful
knowledge is damning? Do you not believe that ability to employ unknown
forces is forbidden of God, and that to disobey His law means death to
the soul?"

"No!"

"That it is the price one pays to Satan for occult power over people's
minds?" she insisted.

"Hypnotic suggestion is not one of the cardinal sins," explained
Recklow, still smiling--"unless wickedly employed. The Yezidee
priesthood is a band of so-called sorcerers only because of their wicked
employment of whatever hypnotic and psychic knowledge they may have
obtained.

"There was nothing intrinsically wicked in the huns' discovery of
phosgene. But the use they made of it made devils out of them. My
ability to manufacture phosgene gas is no crime. But if I manufacture it
and use it to poison innocent human beings, then, in that sense, I am,
perhaps, a sort of modern sorcerer."

Tressa Norne turned paler:

"I had better tell you that I have used--forbidden knowledge--which
the Yezidees taught me in the temple of Erlik."

"Used it how?" demanded Cleves.

"To--to earn a living.... And once or twice to defend myself."

There was the slightest scepticism in Recklow's bland smile. "You did
quite right, Miss Norne."

She had become very white now. She stood beside Recklow, her back toward
the suspended map, and looked in a scared sort of way from one to the
other of the men seated before her, turning finally to Cleves, and
coming toward him.

"I--I once killed a man," she said with a catch in her breath.

Cleves reddened with astonishment. "Why did you do that?" he asked.

"He was already on his way to kill me in bed."

"You were perfectly right," remarked Recklow coolly.

"I don't know ... I was in bed.... And then, on the edge of sleep, I
felt his mind groping to get hold of mine--feeling about in the darkness
to get hold of my brain and seize it and paralyse it."

All colour had left her face. Cleves gripped the arm of his chair and
watched her intently.

"I--I had only a moment's mental freedom," she went on in a ghost of a
voice. "I was just able to rouse myself, fight off those murderous
brain-fingers--let loose a clear mental ray.... And then, O God! I saw
him in his room with his Kalmuck knife--saw him already on his way to
murder me--Gutchlug Khan, the Yezidee--looking about in his bedroom for
a shroud.... And when--when he reached for the bed to draw forth a fine,
white sheet for the shroud without which no Yezidee dares journey
deathward--then--then I became frightened.... And I killed him--I slew
him there in his hotel bedroom on the floor above mine!"

Selden moistened his lips: "That Oriental, Gutchlug, died from
heart-failure in a San Francisco hotel," he said. "I was there at the
time."

"He died by the fangs of a little yellow snake," whispered the girl.

"There was no snake in his room," retorted Cleves.

"And no wound on his body," added Selden. "I attended the autopsy."

She said, faintly: "There was no snake, and no wound, as you say.... Yet
Gutchlug died of both there in his bedroom.... And before he died he
heard his soul bidding him farewell; and he saw the death-adder coiled
in the sheet he clutched--saw the thing strike him again and again--saw
and felt the tiny wounds on his left hand; felt the fangs pricking deep,
deep into the veins; died of it there within the minute--died of the
swiftest poison known. And yet----"

She turned her dead-white face to Cleves--"And yet there was no snake
there!... And never had been.... And so I--I ask you, gentlemen, if
souls do not die when minds learn to fight death with death--and deal it
so swiftly, so silently, while one's body lies, unstirring on a bed--in
a locked room on the floor below----"

She swayed a little, put out one hand rather blindly.

Recklow rose and passed a muscular arm around her; Cleves, beside her,
held her left hand, crushing it, without intention, until she opened her
eyes with a cry of pain.

"Are you all right?" asked Recklow bluntly.

"Yes." She turned and looked at Cleves and he caressed her bruised hand
as though dazed.

"Tell me," she said to Cleves--"you who know--know more about my mind
than anybody living----" a painful colour surged into her face--but she
went on steadily, forcing herself to meet his gaze: "tell me, Mr.
Cleves--do you still believe that nothing can really destroy my soul?
And that it shall yet win through to safety?"

He said: "Your soul is in God's keeping, and always shall be.... And if
the Yezidees have made you believe otherwise, they lie."

Recklow added in a slow, perplexed way: "I have no personal knowledge of
psychic power. I am not psychic, not susceptible. But if you actually
possess such ability, Miss Norne, and if you have employed such
knowledge to defend your life, then you have done absolutely right."

"No guilt touches you," added Selden with an involuntary shiver, "if by
hypnosis or psychic ability you really did put an end to that would-be
murderer, Gutchlug."

Selden said: "If Gutchlug died by the fangs of a yellow death-adder
which existed only in his own mind, and if you actually had anything to
do with it you acted purely in self-defence."

"You did your full duty," added Benton--"but--good God!--it seems
incredible to me, that such power can actually be available in the
world!"

Recklow spoke again in his pleasant, undisturbed voice: "Go back to the
map, Miss Norne, and tell us a little more about this rather terrifying
thing which you believe menaces the civilised world with destruction."

Tressa Norne laid a slim finger on the map. Her voice had become steady.
She said:

"The devil-worship, of which one of the modern developments is
Bolshevism, and another the terrorism of the hun, began in Asia long
before Christ's advent: At least so it was taught us in the temple of
Erlik.

"It has always existed, its aim always has been the annihilation of good
and the elevation of evil; the subjection of right by might, and the
worldwide triumph of wrong.

"Perhaps it is as old as the first battle between God and Satan. I have
wondered about it, sometimes. There in the dusk of the temple when the
Eight Assassins came--the eight Sheiks-el-Djebel, all in white--chanting
the Yakase of Sabbah--always that dirge when they came and spread their
eight white shrouds on the temple steps----"

Her voice caught; she waited to recover her composure. Then went on:

"The ambition of Genghis was to conquer the world by force of arms. It
was merely of physical subjection that he dreamed. But the Slayer of
Souls----"

"Who?" asked Recklow sharply.

"The Slayer of Souls--Erlik's vice-regent on earth--Hassan Sabbah. The
Old Man of the Mountain. It is of him I am speaking," exclaimed Tressa
Norne--with quiet resolution. "Genghis sought only physical conquest of
man; the Yezidee's ambition is more awful, for he is attempting to
surprise and seize the very minds of men!"

There was a dead silence. Tressa looked palely upon the four.

"The Yezidees--who you tell me are not sorcerers--are using power--which
you tell me is not magic accursed by God--to waylay, capture, enslave,
and destroy the minds and souls of mankind.

"It may be that what they employ is hypnotic ability and psychic power
and can be, some day, explained on a scientific basis when we learn more
about the occult laws which govern these phenomena.

"But could anything render the threat less awful? For there have existed
for centuries--perhaps always--a sect of Satanists determined upon the
destruction of everything that is pure and holy and good on earth; and
they are resolved to substitute for righteousness the dreadful reign of
hell.

"In the beginning there were comparatively few of these human demons.
Gradually, through the eras, they have increased. In the twelfth century
there were fifty thousand of the Sect of Assassins.

"Beside the castle of the Slayer of Souls on Mount Alamout----" she laid
her finger on the map--"eight other towers were erected for the Eight
Chief Assassins, called Sheiks-el-Djebel.

"In the temple we were taught where these eight towers stood." She
picked up a pencil, and on eight blank spaces of unexplored and unmapped
Mongolia she made eight crosses. Then she turned to the men behind her.

"It was taught to us in the temple that from these eight foci of
infection the disease of evil has been spreading throughout the world;
from these eight towers have gone forth every year the emissaries of
evil--perverted missionaries--to spread the poisonous propaganda, to
teach it, to tamper stealthily with the minds of men, dominate them,
pervert them, instruct them in the creed of the Assassin of Souls.

"All over the world are people, already contaminated, whose minds are
already enslaved and poisoned, and who are infecting the still healthy
brains of others--stealthily possessing themselves of the minds of
mankind--teaching them evil, inviting them to mock the precepts of
Christ.

"Of such lost minds are the degraded brains of the Germans--the pastors
and philosophers who teach that might is right.

"Of such crippled minds are the Bolsheviki, poisoned long, long ago by
close contact with Asia which, before that, had infected and enslaved
the minds of the ruling classes with ferocious philosophy.

"Of such minds are all anarchists of every shade and stripe--all
terrorists, all disciples of violence,--the murderously envious, the
slothful slinking brotherhood which prowls through the world taking
every opportunity to set it afire; those mentally dulled by reason of
excesses; those weak intellects become unsound through futile
gabble,--parlour socialists, amateur revolutionists, theoretical
incapables excited by discussion fit only for healthy minds."

She left the map and came over to where the four men were seated
terribly intent upon her every word.

"In the temple of Erlik, where my girlhood was passed after the murder
of my parents, I learned what I am repeating to you," she said.

"I learned this, also, that the Eight Towers still exist--still stand
to-day,--at least theoretically--and that from the Eight Towers pours
forth across the world a stream of poison.

"I was told that, to every country, eight Yezidees were allotted--eight
sorcerers--or adepts in scientific psychology if you prefer it--whose
mission is to teach the gospel of hell and gradually but surely to win
the minds of men to the service of the Slayer of Souls.

"That is what was taught us in the temple. We were educated in the
development of occult powers--for it seems all human beings possess this
psychic power latent within them--only few, even when instructed,
acquire any ability to control and use this force....

"I--I learned--rapidly. I even thought, sometimes, that the Yezidees
were beginning to be a little afraid of me,--even the Hassani
priests.... And the Sheiks-el-Djebel, spreading their shrouds on the
temple steps, looked at me with unquiet eyes, where I stood like a
corpse amid the incense clouds----"

She passed her fingers over her eyelids, then framed her face between
both hands for a moment's thought lost in tragic retrospection.

"Kai!" she whispered dreamily as though to herself--"what Erlik awoke
within my body that was asleep, God knows, but it was as though a twin
comrade arose within me and looked out through my eyes upon a world
which never before had been visible."

Utter silence reigned in the room: Cleves's breathing seemed almost
painful to him so intently was he listening and watching this girl;
Benton's hands whitened with his grip on the chair-arms; Selden, tense,
absorbed, kept his keen gaze of a business man fastened on her face.
Recklow slowly caressed the cold bowl of his pipe with both thumbs.

Tressa Norne's strange and remote eyes subtly altered, and she lifted
her head and looked calmly at the men before her.

"I think that there is nothing more for me to add," she said. "The Red
Spectre of Anarchy, called Bolshevism at present, threatens our country.
Our Government is now awake to this menace and the Secret Service is
moving everywhere.

"Great damage already has been done to the minds of many people in this
Republic; poison has spread; is spreading. The Eight Towers still stand.
The Eight Assassins are in America.

"But these eight Assassins know me to be their enemy.... They will
surely attempt to kill me.... I don't believe I can avoid--death--very
long.... But I want to serve my country and--and mankind."

"They'll have to get me first," said Cleves, bluntly. "I shall not
permit you out of my sight."

Recklow said in a musing voice: "And these eight gentlemen, who are very
likely to hurt us, also, are the first people we ought to hunt."

"To get them," added Selden, "we ought to choke the stream at its
source."

"To find out who they are is what is going to worry us," added Benton.
Cleves had stood holding a chair for Tressa Norne. Finally she noticed
it and seated herself as though tired.

"Is Sanang one of these eight?" he asked her. The girl turned and looked
up at him, and he saw the flush mounting in her face.

"Sometimes," she said steadily, "I have almost believed he was Erlik's
own vice-regent on earth--the Slayer of Souls himself."

       *       *       *       *       *

Benton and Selden had gone. Recklow left a little later. Cleves
accompanied him out to the landing.

"Are you going to keep Miss Norne here with you for the present?"
inquired the older man.

"Yes. I dare not let her out of my sight, Recklow. What else can I do?"

"I don't know. Is she prepared for the consequences?"

"Gossip? Slander?"

"Of course."

"I can get a housekeeper."

"That only makes it look worse."

Cleves reddened. "Well, do you want to find her in some hotel or
apartment with her throat cut?"

"No," replied Recklow, gently, "I do not."

"Then what else is there to do but keep her here in my own apartment and
never let her out of my sight until we can find and lock up the eight
gentlemen who are undoubtedly bent on murdering her?"

"Isn't there some woman in the Service who could help out? I could
mention several."

"I tell you I can't trust Tressa Norne to anybody except myself,"
insisted Cleves. "I got her into this; I am responsible if she is
murdered; I dare not entrust her safety to anybody else. And, Recklow,
it's a ghastly responsibility for a man to induce a young girl to face
death, even in the service of her country."

"If she remains here alone with you she'll face social destruction,"
remarked Recklow.

Cleves was silent for a moment, then he burst out: "Well, what am I to
do? What is there left for me to do except to watch over her and see her
through this devilish business? What other way have I to protect her,
Recklow?"

"You could offer her the protection of your name," suggested the other,
carelessly.

"What? You mean--marry her?"

"Well, nobody else would be inclined to, Cleves, if it ever becomes
known she has lived here quite alone with you."

Cleves stared at the elder man.

"This is nonsense," he said in a harsh voice. "That young girl doesn't
want to marry anybody. Neither do I. She doesn't wish to have her throat
cut, that's all. And I'm determined she shan't."

"There are stealthier assassins, Cleves,--the slayers of reputations. It
goes badly with their victim. It does indeed."

"Well, hang it, what do you think I ought to do?"

"I think you ought to marry her if you're going to keep her here."

"Suppose she doesn't mind the unconventionality of it?"

