"Señor Gendarme, am I permit to understan' that you are a frien' of
thees young lady?--a heart-frien', per'aps----"

"I am her friend," said Stormont bluntly.

"Ah," said Quintana, "then you shall persuade her to return to me thees
packet of which Monsieur Clinch has rob me."

There was a short silence, then Quintana's voice again:

"I know thees packet is concel in thees house. Peaceably, if possible, I
would recover my property.... If she refuse----"

Another pause.

"Well?" inquired Stormont, coolly.

"Ah! It is ver' painful to say. Alas, Señor Gendarme, I mus' have my
property.... If she refuse, then I mus' sever one of her pretty
fingers.... An' if she still refuse--I sever her pretty fingers, one by
one, until----"

"You know what would happen to you?" interrupted Stormont, in a voice
that quivered in spite of himself.

"I take my chance. Señor Gendarme, she is within that room. If you are
her frien', you shall advise her to return to me my property."

After another silence:

"Eve!" he called sharply.

She placed her lips to the door: "Yes, Jack."

He said: "There are five masked men out here who say that Clinch robbed
them and they are here to recover their property.... Do you know
anything about this?"

"I know they lie. My father is not a thief.... I have my rifle and
plenty of ammunition. I shall kill every man who enters this room."

For a moment nobody stirred or spoke. Then Quintana strode to the bolted
door and struck it with the butt of his rifle.

"You, in there," he said in a menacing voice, "--you listen once to
me! You open your door and come out. I give you one minute!" He struck
the door again: "One minute, señorita!--or I cut from your frien',
here, the hand from his right arm!"

There was a deathly silence. Then the sound of bolts. The door opened.
Slowly the girl limped forward, still wearing the hunting jacket over
her night-dress.

Quintana made her an elaborate and ironical bow, slouch hat in hand;
another masked man took her rifle.

"Señorita," said Quintana with another sweep of his hat, "I ask pardon
that I trouble you for my packet of which your father has rob me for
ver' long time."

Slowly the girl lifted her blue eyes to Stormont. He was standing
between two masked men. Their pistols were pressed slightly against his
stomach.

Stormont reddened painfully:

"It was not for myself that I let you open your door," he said. "They
would not have ventured to lay hands on me."

"Ah," said Quintana with a terrifying smile, "you would not have been
the first gendarme who had--accorded me his hand!"

Two of the masked men laughed loudly.

       

Outside in the rag-weed patch, Smith rose, stole across the grass to the
kitchen door and slipped inside.

"Now, señorita," said Quintana gaily, "my packet, if you please,--and we
leave you to the caresses of your faithful gendarme,--who should thank
God that he still possesses two good hands to fondle you! Alons! Come
then! My packet!"

One of the masked men said: "Take her downstairs and lock her up
somewhere or she'll shoot us from her window."

"Lead out that gendarme, too!" added Quintana, grasping Eve by the arm.

Down the stairs tramped the men, forcing their prisoners with them.

In the big kitchen the glare from the burning out-house fell dimly; the
place was full of shadows.

"Now," said Quintana, "I take my property and my leave. Where is the
packet hidden?"

She stood for a moment with drooping head, amid the sombre shadows,
then, slowly, she drew the emblazoned morocco case from her breast
pocket.

What followed occurred in the twinkling of an eye: for, as Quintana
extended his arm to grasp the case, a hand snatched it, a masked figure
sprang through the doorway, and ran toward the barn.

Somebody recognised the hat and red bandanna:

"Salzar!" he yelled. "Nick Salzar!"

"A traitor, by God!" shouted Quintana. Even before he had reached the
door, his pistol flashed twice, deafening all in the semi-darkness,
choking them with stifling fumes.

A masked man turned on Stormont, forcing him back into the pantry at
pistol-point. Another man pushed Eve after him, slammed the pantry door
and bolted it.

Through the iron bars of the pantry window, Stormont saw a man, wearing
a red bandanna tied under his eyes, run up and untie his horse and fling
himself astride under a shower of bullets.

As he wheeled the horse and swung him into the clearing toward the foot
of Star Pond, his seat and horsemanship were not to be mistaken.

He was gone, now, the gallop stretching into a dead run; and Quintana's
men still following, shooting, hallooing in the starlight like a pack of
leaping shapes from hell.

But Quintana had not followed far. When he had emptied his automatic he
halted.

Something about the transaction suddenly checked his fury, stilled it,
summoned his brain into action.

For a full minute he stood unstirring, every atom of intelligence in
terrible concentration.

Presently he put his left hand into his pocket, fitted another clip to
his pistol, turned on his heel and walked straight back to the house.

Between the two locked in the pantry not a word had passed. Stormont
still peered out between the iron bars, striving to catch a glimpse of
what was going on. Eve crouched at the pantry doors, her face in her
hands, listening.

Suddenly she heard Quintana's step in the kitchen. Cautiously she turned
the pantry key from inside.

Stormont heard her, and instantly came to her. At the same moment
Quintana unbolted the door from the outside and tried to open it.

"Come out," he said coldly, "or it will not go well with you when my men
return."

"You've got what you say is your property," replied. Stormont. "What do
you want now?"

"I tell you what I want ver' damn quick. Who was he, thees man who rides
with my property on your horse away? Eh? Because it was not Nick Salzar!
No! Salzar can not ride thees way. No! Alors?"

"I can't tell you who he was," replied Stormont. "That's your affair,
not ours."

"No? Ah! Ver' well, then. I shall tell you, Señor Flic! He was one of
yours. I understan'. It is a trap, a cheat--what you call a plant!
Thees man who rode your horse he is disguise! Yes! He also is a
gendarme! Yes! You think I let a gendarme rob me? I got you where I want
you now. You shall write your gendarme frien' that he return to me my
property, one day's time, or I send him by parcel post two nice,
fresh-out right-hands--your sweetheart's and your own!"

Stormont drew Eve's head close to his:

"This man is blood mad or out of his mind! I'd better go out and take a
chance at him before the others come back."

But the girl shook her head violently, caught him by the arm and drew
him toward the mouth of the tile down which Clinch always emptied his
hootch when the Dump was raided.

But now, it appeared that the tile which protruded from the cement floor
was removable.

In silence she began to unscrew it, and he, seeing what she was trying
to do, helped her.

Together they lifted the heavy tile and laid it on the floor.

"You open thees door!" shouted Quintana in a paroxysm of fury. "I give
you one minute! Then, by God, I kill you both!"

Eve lifted a screen of wood through which the tile had been set. Under
it a black hole yawned. It was a tunnel made of three-foot aqueduct
tiles; and it led straight into Star Pond, two hundred feet away.

Now, as she straightened up and looked silently at Stormont, they heard
the trample of boots in the kitchen, voices, the bang of gun-stocks.

"Does that drain lead into the lake?" whispered Stormont.

She nodded.

"Will you follow me, Eve?"

She pushed him aside, indicating that he was to follow her.

As she stripped the hunting jacket from her, a hot colour swept her
face. But she dropped on both knees, crept straight into the tile and
slipped out of sight.

As she disappeared, Quintana shouted something in Portuguese, and fired
at the lock.

With the smash of splintering wood in his ears, Stormont slid into the
smooth tunnel.

In an instant he was shooting down a polished toboggan slide, and in
another moment was under the icy water of Star Pond.

Shocked, blinded, fighting his way to the surface, he felt his spurred
boots dragging at him like a ton of iron. Then to him came her helping
hand.

"I can make it," he gasped.

But his clothing and his boots and the icy water began to tell on him in
mid-lake.

Swimming without effort beside him, watching his every stroke, presently
she sank a little and glided under him and a little ahead, so that his
hands fell upon her shoulders.

He let them rest, so, aware now that it was no burden to such a
swimmer. Supple and silent as a swimming otter, the girl slipped lithely
through the chilled water, which washed his body to the nostrils and
numbed his legs till he could scarcely move them.

And now, of a sudden, his feet touched gravel. He stumbled forward in
the shadow of overhanging trees and saw her wading shoreward, a
dripping, silvery shape on the shoal.

Then, as he staggered up to her, breathless, where she was standing on
the pebbled shore, he saw her join both hands, cup-shape, and lift them
to her lips.

And out of her mouth poured diamond, sapphire, and emerald in a dazzling
stream,--and, among them, one great, flashing gem blazing in the
starlight,--the Flaming Jewel!

Like a naiad of the lake she stood, white, slim, silent, the heaped gems
glittering in her snowy hands, her face framed by the curling masses of
her wet hair.

Then, slowly she turned her head to Stormont.

"These are what Quintana came for," she said. "Could you put them into
your pocket?"




EPISODE EIGHT

CUP AND LIP


I

Two miles beyond Clinch's Dump, Hal Smith pulled Stormont's horse to a
walk. He was tremendously excited.

With naïve sincerity he believed that what he had done on the spur of
the moment had been the only thing to do.

By snatching the Flaming Jewel from Quintana's very fingers he had
diverted that vindictive bandit's fury from Eve, from Clinch, from
Stormont, and had centred it upon himself.

More than that, he had sown the seeds of suspicion among Quintana's own
people. They never could discover Salzar's body. Always they must
believe that it was Nicolas Salzar and no other who so treacherously
robbed them, and who rode away in a rain of bullets, shaking the
emblazoned morocco case above his masked head in triumph, derision and
defiance.

At the recollection of what had happened, Hal Smith drew bridle, and,
sitting his saddle there in the false dawn, threw back his handsome head
and laughed until the fading stars overhead swam in his eyes through
tears of sheerest mirth.

For he was still young enough to have had the time of his life. Nothing
in the Great War had so thrilled him. For, in what had just happened,
there was humour. There had been none in the Great Grim Drama.

Still, Smith began to realise that he had taken the long, long chance of
the opportunist who rolls the bones with Death. He had kept his pledge
to the little Grand Duchess. It was a clean job. It was even good
drama----

The picturesque angle of the affair shook Hal Smith with renewed
laughter. As a moving picture hero he thought himself the funniest thing
on earth.

From the time he had poked a pistol against Sard's fat paunch, to this
bullet-pelted ride for life, life had become one ridiculously exciting
episode after another.

He had come through like the hero in a best-seller.... Lacking only a
heroine.... If there had been any heroine it was Eve Strayer. Drama had
gone wrong in that detail.... So perhaps, after all, it was real life
he had been living and not drama. Drama, for the masses, must have a
definite beginning and ending. Real life lacks the latter. In life
nothing is finished. It is always a premature curtain which is yanked by
that doddering old stage-hand, Johnny Death.

       

Smith sat his saddle, thinking, beginning to be sobered now by the
inevitable reaction which follows excitement and mirth as relentlessly
as care dogs the horseman.

He had had a fine time,--save for the horror of the Rocktrail.... He
shuddered.... Anyway, at worst he had not shirked a clean deal in that
ghastly game.... It was God's mercy that he was not lying where Salzar
lay, ten feet--twenty--a hundred deep, perhaps--in immemorial slime----

He shook himself in his saddle as though to be rid of the creeping
horror, and wiped his clammy face.

Now, in the false dawn, a blue-jay awoke somewhere among the oaks and
filled the misty silence with harsh grace-notes.

Then reaction, setting in like a tide, stirred more sombre depths in the
heart of this young man.

He thought of Riga; and of the Red Terror; of murder at noon-day, and
outrage by night. He remembered his only encounter with a lovely
child--once Grand Duchess of Esthonia--then a destitute refugee in
silken rags.

What a day that had been.... Only one day and one evening.... And
never had he been so near in love in all his life....

That one day and evening had been enough for her to confide to an
American officer her entire life's history.... Enough for him to pledge
himself to her service while life endured.... And if emotion had swept
every atom of reason out of his youthful head, there in the turmoil and
alarm--there in the terrified, riotous city jammed with refugees,
reeking with disease, half frantic from famine and the filthy, rising
flood of war--if really it all had been merely romantic impulse, ardour
born of overwrought sentimentalism, nevertheless, what he had pledged
that day to a little Grand Duchess in rags, he had fulfilled to the
letter within the hour.

As the false dawn began to fade, he loosened hunting coat and cartridge
sling, drew from his shirt-bosom the morocco case.

It bore the arms and crest of the Grand Duchess Theodorica of Esthonia.

His fingers trembled slightly as he pressed the jewelled spring. It
opened on an empty casket.

In the sudden shock of horror and astonishment, his convulsive clutch on
the spring started a tiny bell ringing. Then, under his very nose, the
empty tray slid aside revealing another tray underneath, set solidly
with brilliants. A rainbow glitter streamed from the unset gems in the
silken tray. Like an incredulous child he touched them. They were
magnificently real.

In the centre lay blazing the great Erosite gem,--the Flaming Jewel
itself. Priceless diamonds, sapphires, emeralds ringed it. In his hands
he held nearly four millions of dollars.

Gingerly he balanced the emblazoned case, fascinated. Then he replaced
the empty tray, closed the box, thrust it into the bosom of his flannel
shirt and buttoned it in.

Now there was little more for this excited young man to do. He was
through with Clinch. Hal Smith, hold-up man and dish-washer at Clinch's
Dump, had ended his career. The time had now arrived for him to vanish
and make room for James Darragh.

Because there still remained a very agreeable rôle for Darragh to play.
And he meant to eat it up--as Broadway has it.

For by this time the Grand Duchess of Esthonia--Ricca, as she was called
by her companion, Valentine, the pretty Countess Orloff-Strelwitz--must
have arrived in New York.

At the big hunting lodge of the late Henry Harrod--now inherited by
Darragh--there might be a letter--perhaps a telegram--the cue for Hal
Smith to vanish and for James Darragh to enter, play his brief but
glittering part, and----

Darragh's sequence of pleasing meditations halted abruptly.... To walk
out of the life of the little Grand Duchess did not seem to suit his
ideas--indefinite and hazy as they were, so far.

He lifted the bridle from the horse's neck, divided curb and snaffle
thoughtfully, touched the splendid animal with heel and knee.

As he cantered on into the wide forest road that led to his late uncle's
abode, curiosity led him to wheel into a narrower trail running east
along Star Pond, and from whence he could take a farewell view of
Clinch's Dump.

He smiled to think of Eve and Stormont there together, and now in safety
behind bolted doors and shutters.

He grinned to think of Quintana and his precious crew, blood-crazy,
baffled, probably already distrusting one another, yet running wild
through the night like starving wolves galloping at hazard across a
famine-stricken waste.

"Only wait till Stormont makes his report," he thought, grinning more
broadly still. "Every State Trooper north of Albany will be after Señor
Quintana. Some hunting! And, if he could understand, Mike Clinch might
thank his stars that what I've done this night has saved him his skin
and Eve a broken heart!"

He drew his horse to a walk, now, for the path began to run closer to
Star Pond, skirting the pebbled shallows in the open just ahead.

Alders still concealed the house across the lake, but the trail was
already coming out into the starlight.

Suddenly his horse stopped short, trembling, its ears pricked forward.

Darragh sat listening intently for a moment. Then with infinite
caution, he leaned over the cantle and gently parted the alders.

On the pebbled beach, full in the starlight, stood two figures, one
white and slim, the other dark.

The arm of the dark figure clasped the waist of the white and slender
one.

Evidently they had heard his horse, for they stood motionless, looking
directly at the alders behind which his horse had halted.

To turn might mean a shot in the back as far as Darragh knew. He was
still masked with Salzar's red bandanna. He raised his rifle, slid a
cartridge into the breech, pressed his horse forward with a slight touch
of heel and knee, and rode slowly out into the star-dusk.

What Stormont saw was a masked man, riding his own horse, with menacing
rifle half lifted for a shot! What Eve Strayer thought she saw was too
terrible for words. And before Stormont could prevent her she sprang in
front of him, covering his body with her own.

At that the horseman tore off his red mask:

"Eve! Jack Stormont! What the devil are you doing over here?"

Stormont walked slowly up to his own horse, laid one unsteady hand on
its silky nose, kept it there while dusty, velvet lips mumbled and
caressed his fingers.

"I knew it was a cavalryman," he said quietly. "I suspected you, Jim. It
was the sort of crazy thing you were likely to do.... I don't ask you
what you're up to, where you've been, what your plans may be. If you
needed me you'd have told me.

"But I've got to have my horse for Eve. Her feet are wounded. She's in
her night-dress and wringing wet. I've got to set her on my horse and
try to take her through to Ghost Lake."

Darragh stared at Stormont, at the ghostly figure of the girl who had
sunk down on the sand at the lake's edge. Then he scrambled out of the
saddle and handed over the bridle.

"Quintana came back," said Stormont. "I hope to reckon with him some
day.... I believe he came back to harm Eve.... We got out of the
house.... We swam the lake.... I'd have gone under except for her----"

In his distress and overwhelming mortification, Darragh stood miserable,
mute, irresolute.

Stormont seemed to understand: "What you did, Jim, was well meant," he
said. "I understand. Eve will understand when I tell her. But that
fellow Quintana is a devil. You can't draw a herring across any trail he
follows. I tell you, Jim, this fellow Quintana is either blood-mad or
just plain crazy. Somebody will have to put him out of the way. I'll do
it if I ever find him."

"Yes.... Your people ought to do that.... Or, if you like, I'll
volunteer.... I've a little business to transact in New York, first....
Jack, your tunic and breeches are soaked; I'll be glad to chip in
something for Eve.... Wait a moment----"

He stepped into cover, drew the morocco box from his grey shirt, shoved
it into his hip pocket.

Then he threw off his cartridge belt and hunting coat, pulled the grey
shirt over his head and came out in his undershirt and breeches, with
the other garments hanging over his arm.

"Give her these," he said. "She can button the coat around her waist
for a skirt. She'd better go somewhere and get out of that soaking-wet
night-dress----"

Eve, crouched on the sand, trying to wring out and twist up her drenched
hair, looked up at Stormont as he came toward her holding out Darragh's
dry clothing.

"You'd better do what you can with these," he said, trying to speak
carelessly.... "He says you'd better chuck--what you're wearing----"

She nodded in flushed comprehension. Stormont walked back to his horse,
his boots slopping water at every stride.

"I don't know any place nearer than Ghost Lake Inn," he said ... "except
Harrod's."

"That's where we're going, Jack," said Darragh cheerfully.

"That's your place, isn't it?"

"It is. But I don't want Eve to know it.... I think it better she
should not know me except as Hal Smith--for the present, anyway. You'll
see to that, won't you?"

"As you wish, Jim.... Only, if we go to your own house----"

"We're not going to the main house. She wouldn't, anyway. Clinch has
taught that girl to hate the very name of Harrod--hate every foot of
forest that the Harrod game keepers patrol. She wouldn't cross my
threshold to save her life."

"I don't understand, but--it's all right--whatever you say, Jim."

"I'll tell you the whole business some day. But where I'm going to take
you now is into a brand new camp which I ordered built last spring. It's
within a mile of the State Forest border. Eve won't know that it's
Harrod property. I've a hatchery there and the State lets me have a man
in exchange for free fry. When I get there I'll post my man.... It will
be a roof for to-night, anyway, and breakfast in the morning, whenever
you're ready."

"How far is it?"

"Only about three miles east of here."

"That's the thing to do, then," said Stormont bluntly.

He dropped one sopping-wet sleeve over his horse's neck, taking care not
to touch the saddle. He was thinking of the handful of gems in his
pocket; and he wondered why Darragh had said nothing about the empty
case for which he had so recklessly risked his life.

What this whole business was about Stormont had no notion. But he knew
Darragh. That was sufficient to leave him tranquil, and perfectly
certain that whatever Darragh was doing must be the right thing to do.

Yet--Eve had swum Star Pond with her mouth filled with jewels.

When she had handed the morocco box to Quintana, Stormont now realised
that she must have played her last card on the utterly desperate chance
that Quintana might go away without examining the case.

Evidently she had emptied the case before she left her room. He
recollected that, during all that followed, Eve had not uttered a single
word. He knew why, now. How could she speak with her mouth full of
diamonds?

A slight sound from the shore caused him to turn. Eve was coming toward
him in the dusk, moving painfully on her wounded feet. Darragh's flannel
shirt and his hunting coat buttoned around her slender waist clothed
her.

The next instant he was beside her, lifting her in both arms.

As he placed her in the saddle and adjusted one stirrup to her bandaged
foot, she turned and quietly thanked Darragh for the clothing.

"And that was a brave thing you did," she added, "--to risk your life
for my father's property. Because the morocco case which you saved
proved to be empty does not make what you did any the less loyal and
gallant."

Darragh gazed at her, astounded; took the hand she stretched out to him;
held it with a silly expression on his features.

"Hal Smith," she said with perceptible emotion, "I take back what I once
said to you on Owl Marsh. No man is a real crook by nature who did what
you have done. That is 'faithfulness unto death'--the supreme
offer--loyalty----"

Her voice broke; she pressed Darragh's hand convulsively and her lip
quivered.

Darragh, with the morocco case full of jewels buttoned into his hip
pocket, stood motionless, mutely swallowing his amazement.

What in the world did this girl mean, talking about an empty case?

But this was no time to unravel that sort of puzzle. He turned to
Stormont who, as perplexed as he, had been listening in silence.

"Lead your horse forward," he said. "I know the trail. All you need do
is to follow me." And, shouldering his rifle, he walked leisurely into
the woods, the cartridge belt sagging en bandouliere across his
woollen undershirt.


II

When Stormont gently halted his horse it was dawn, and Eve, sagging
against him with one arm around his neck, sat huddled up on her saddle
fast asleep.

In a birch woods, on the eastern slope of the divide, stood the log
camp, dimly visible in the silvery light of early morning.

Darragh, cautioning Stormont with a slight gesture, went forward,
mounted the rustic veranda, and knocked at a lighted window.

A man, already dressed, came and peered out at him, then hurried to open
the door.

"I didn't know you, Captain Darragh----" he began, but fell silent under
the warning gesture that checked him.

"I've a guest outside. She's Clinch's step-daughter, Eve Strayer. She
knows me by the name of Hal Smith. Do you understand?"

"Yes, sir----"

"Cut that out, too. I'm Hal Smith to you, also. State Trooper Stormont
is out there with Eve Strayer. He was a comrade of mine in Russia. I'm
Hal Smith to him, by mutual agreement. Now do you get me, Ralph?"

"Sure, Hal. Go on; spit it out!"

They both grinned.

"You're a hootch runner," said Darragh. "This is your shack. The
hatchery is only a blind. That's all you have to know, Ralph. So put
that girl into my room and let her sleep till she wakes of her own
accord.

"Stormont and I will take two of the guest-bunks in the L. And for
heaven's sake make us some coffee when you make your own. But first come
out and take the horse."

They went out together. Stormont lifted Eve out of the saddle. She did
not wake. Darragh led the way into the log house and along a corridor to
his own room.

"Turn down the sheets," whispered Stormont. And, when the bed was ready:
"Can you get a bath towel, Jim?"

Darragh fetched one from the connecting bath-room.

"Wrap it around her wet hair," whispered Stormont. "Good heavens, I wish
there were a woman here."

"I wish so too," said Darragh; "she's chilled to the bone. You'll have
to wake her. She can't sleep in what she's wearing; it's almost as damp
as her hair----"

He went to the closet and returned with a man's morning robe, as soft as
fleece.

"Somehow or other she's got to get into that," he said.

There was a silence.

"Very well," said Stormont, reddening.... "If you'll step out
I'll--manage...." He looked Darragh straight in the eyes: "I have asked
her to marry me," he said.

       

When Stormont came out a great fire of birch-logs was blazing in the
living-room, and Darragh stood there, his elbow on the rough stone
mantel-shelf.

Stormont came straight to the fire and set one spurred boot on the
fender.

"She's warm and dry and sound asleep," he said. "I'll wake her again if
you think she ought to swallow something hot."

At that moment the fish-culturist came in with a pot of steaming coffee.

"This is my friend, Ralph Wier," said Darragh. "I think you'd better
give Eve a cup of coffee." And, to Wier, "Fill a couple of hot water
bags, old chap. We don't want any pneumonia in this house."

When breakfast was ready Eve once more lay asleep with a slight dew of
perspiration on her brow.

Darragh was half starved: Stormont ate little. Neither spoke at all
until, satisfied, they rose, ready for sleep.

At the door of his room Stormont took Darragh's offered hand,
understanding what it implied:

"Thanks, Jim.... Hers is the loveliest character I have ever known....
If I weren't as poor as a homeless dog I'd marry her to-morrow.... I'll
do it anyway, I think.... I can't let her go back to Clinch's Dump!"

"After all," said Darragh, smiling, "if it's only money that worries
you, why not talk about a job to me!"

Stormont flushed heavily: "That's rather wonderful of you, Jim----"

"Why? You're the best officer I had. Why the devil did you go into the
Constabulary without talking to me?"

Stormont's upper lip seemed inclined to twitch but he controlled it and
scowled at space.

"Go to bed, you darned fool," said Darragh, carelessly. "You'll find dry
things ready. Ralph will take care of your uniform and boots."

Then he went into his own quarters to read two letters which, conforming
to arrangements made with Mrs. Ray the day he had robbed Emanuel Sard,
were to be sent to Trout Lodge to await his arrival.

Both, written from the Ritz, bore the date of the day before: the first
he opened was from the Countess Orloff-Strelwitz:

    "Dear Captain Darragh,

    "--You are so wonderful! Your messenger, with the ten thousand
    dollars which you say you already have recovered from those
    miscreants who robbed Ricca, came aboard our ship before we
    landed. It was a godsend; we were nearly penniless,--and oh,
    so shabby!

    "Instantly, my friend, we shopped, Ricca and I. Fifth Avenue
    enchanted us. All misery was forgotten in the magic of that
    paradise for women.

    "Yet, spendthrifts that we naturally are, we were not silly
    enough to be extravagant. Ricca was wild for American
    sport-clothes. I, also. Yet--only two gowns apiece, excepting
    our sport clothes. And other necessaries. Don't you think we
    were economical?"

    "Furthermore, dear Captain Darragh, we are hastening to follow
    your instructions. We are leaving to-day for your château in the
    wonderful forest, of which you told us that
    never-to-be-forgotten day in Riga.

    "Your agent is politeness, consideration and kindness itself. We
    have our accommodations. We leave New York at midnight.

    "Ricca is so excited that it is difficult for her to restrain
    her happiness. God knows the child has seen enough unhappiness
    to quench the gaiety of anybody!

    "Well, all things end. Even tears. Even the Red Terror shall
    pass from our beloved Russia. For, after all, Monsieur, God
    still lives.

            "VALENTINE."

    "P. S. Ricca has written to you. I have read the letter. I have
    let it go uncensored."

Darragh went to the door of his room:

"Ralph! Ralph!" he called. And, when Wier hurriedly appeared:

"What time does the midnight train from New York get into Five Lakes?"

"A little before nine----"

"You can make it in the flivver, can't you?"

"Yes, if I start now."

"All right. Two ladies. You're to bring them to the house, not
here. Mrs. Ray knows about them. And--get back here as soon as you
can."

He closed his door again, sat down on the bed and opened the other
letter. His hand shook as he unfolded it. He was so scared and excited
that he could scarcely decipher the angular, girlish penmanship:

    "To dear Captain Darragh, our champion and friend--

    "It is difficult for me, Monsieur, to express my happiness and
    my deep gratitude in the so cold formality of the written page.

    "Alas, sir, it will be still more difficult to find words for it
    when again I have the happiness of greeting you in proper
    person.

    "Valentine has told you everything, she warns me, and I am,
    therefore, somewhat at a loss to know what I should write to
    you.

    "Yet, I know very well what I would write if I dare. It is this:
    that I wish you to know--although it may not pass the
    censor--that I am most impatient to see you, Monsieur. Not
