fine. Since I come here, I’ve rode and et, shoost rode and et.”

“And Mr. T-S,” said I.

“Howdydo, Mr. T-S?”

“Pretty good, ma’am,” said T-S. He had been caught with his mouth
full, and was making desperate efforts to swallow.

A singular thing is the power of class prestige! Here was Maw, a
good woman, according to her lights, who had worked hard all her
life, and had achieved a colossal and astounding success. She had
everything in the world that money could buy; her hair was done by
the best hair-dresser, her gown had been designed by the best
costumer, her rings and bracelets selected by the best jeweller; and
yet nothing was right, no power on earth could make it right, and
Maw knew it, and writhed the consciousness of it. And here was Mrs.
Parmelee Stebbins, who had never done a useful thing in all her
days--except you count the picking out of a rich husband; yet Mrs.
Stebbins was “right,” and Maw knew it, and in the presence of the
other woman she was in an utter panic, literally quivering in every
nerve. And here was old T-S, who, left to himself, might have really
meant what he said, that Mrs. Stebbins could go to hell; but because
he was married, and loved his wife, he too trembled, and gulped down
his food!

Mrs. Stebbins is one of those American matrons who do not allow
marriage and motherhood to make vulgar physical impressions upon
them. Her pale blue gown might have been worn by her daughter; her
cool grey eyes looked out through a face without a wrinkle from a
soul without a care. She was a patroness of art and intellect; but
never did she forget her fundamental duty, the enhancing of the
prestige of a family name. When she was introduced to a
screen-actress, she was gracious, but did not forget the difference
between an actress and a lady. When she was introduced to a strange
man who did not wear trousers, she took it quite as an everyday
matter, revealing no trace of vulgar human curiosity.

There came Bertie, full grown, but not yet out of the pimply stage,
and still conscious of the clothes which he had taken such pains to
get right. Bertie’s sister remained in her seat, refusing naughtily
to be compromised by her mother’s vagaries; but Bertie had a
purpose, and after I had introduced him round, I saw what he
wanted--Mary Magna! Bertie had a vision of himself as a sort of
sporting prince in this movie world. His social position would make
conquests easy; it was a sort of Christmas-tree, all a-glitter with
prizes.

I was standing near, and heard the beginning of their conversation.
“Oh, Miss Magna, I’m so pleased to meet you. I’ve heard so much
about you from Miss Dulles.”

“Miss Dulles?”

“Yes; Dorothy Dulles.”

“I’m sorry. I don’t think I ever heard of her.”

“What? Dorothy Dulles, the screen actress?”

“No, I can’t place her.”

“But--but she’s a star!”

“Well, but you know, Mr. Stebbins--there are so many stars in the
heavens, and not all of them visible to the eye.”

I turned to Bertie’s mamma. She had discovered that Carpenter looked
even more thrilling on a close view; he was not a stage figure, but
a really grave and impressive personality, exactly the thing to
thrill the ladies of the Higher Arts Club at their monthly luncheon,
and to reflect prestige upon his discoverer. So here she was,
inviting the party to share her box at the theatre; and here was T-S
explaining that it couldn’t be done, he had got to see his French
revolution pictures took, dey had five tousand men hired to make a
mob. I noted that Mrs. Stebbins received the “advertising” figures
on the production!

The upshot of it was that the great lady consented to forget her box
at the theatre, and run out to the studios to see the mob scenes for
the “The Tale of Two Cities.” T-S hadn’t quite finished his dinner,
but he waved his hand and said it was nuttin’, he vouldn’t keep Mrs.
Stebbins vaitin’. He beckoned the waiter, and signed his magic name
on the check, with a five-dollar bill on top for a tip. Mrs.
Stebbins collected her family and floated to the door, and our party
followed.

I expected another scene with the mob; but I found that the street
had been swept clear of everything but policemen and chauffeurs. I
knew that this must have meant rough work on the part of the
authorities, but I said nothing, and hoped that Carpenter would not
think of it. The Stebbins car drew up by the porte-cochere; and
suddenly I discovered why the wife of the street-car magnate was
known as a “social leader.” “Billy,” she said, “you come in our car,
and bring Mr. Carpenter; I have something to talk to you about.”
 Just that easily, you see! She wanted something, so she asked for
it!

I took Carpenter by the arm and put him in. Bertie drove, the
chauffeur sitting in the seat beside him. “Beat you to it!” called
Bertie, with his invincible arrogance, and waved his hand to the
picture magnate as we rolled away.



XIX


As it happened, we made a poor start. Turning the corner into
Broadway, we found ourselves caught in the jam of the theatre
traffic, and our car was brought to a halt in front of the “Empire
Varieties.” If you have been on any Broadway between the Atlantic
and Pacific oceans, you can imagine the sight; the flaring electric
signs, the pictures of the head line artists, the people waiting to
buy tickets, and the crowds on the sidewalk pushing past. There was
one additional feature, a crowd of “rah-rah boys,” with yellow and
purple flags in their hands, and the glory of battle in their eyes.
As our car halted, the cheer-leader gave a signal, and a hundred
throats let out in unison:

    “Rickety zim, rickety zam,
     Brickety, stickety, slickety slam!
     Wallybaloo! Billybazoo!
     We are the boys for a hullabaloo--Western City!”

It sounded all the more deafening, because Bertie, in the front
seat, had joined in.

“Hello!” said I. “We must have won the ball-game!”

“You bet we did!” said Bertie, in his voice of bursting
self-importance.

“Ball-game?” asked Carpenter.

“Foot-ball,” said I. “Western City played Union Tech today. Wonder
what the score was.”

The cheer leader seemed to take the words out of my mouth. Again the
hundred voices roared:

    “What was the score?
     Seventeen to four!
     Who got it in the neck?
     Union Tech!
     Who took the kitty?
     Western City!”

Then more waving of flags, and yells for our prize captain and our
agile quarter-back: “Rah, rah, rah, Jerry Wilson! Rah, rah, rah,
Harriman! Western City, Western City, Western City!
W-E-S-T-E-R-N-C-I-T-Y! Western City!”

You have heard college yells, no doubt, and can imagine the tempo of
these cries, the cumulative rush of the spelled out letters, the
booming roar at the end. The voice of Bertie beat back from the
wind-shield with devastating effect upon our ears; and then our car
rolled on, and the clamor died away, and I answered the questions of
Carpenter. “They are college boys. They have won a game with another
college, and are celebrating the victory.”

“But,” said the other, “how do they manage to shout all together
that way?”

“Oh, they’ve practiced that, of course.”

“You mean--they gather and practice making those noises?”

“Surely.”

“They make them in cold blood?”

I laughed. “Well, the blood of youth is seldom entirely cold. They
imagine the victory while they rehearse, no doubt.”

When Carpenter spoke again, it was half to himself. “You make your
children into mobs! You train them for it!”

“It really isn’t that bad,” I replied. “It’s all in good
temper--it’s their play.”

“Yes, yes! But what is play but practice for reality? And how shall
love be learned in savage war-dances?”

They tell us that we have a new generation of young people since the
war; a generation which thinks for itself, and has its own way. I
was an advocate of this idea in the abstract, but I must admit that
I was startled by the concrete case which I now encountered. Bertie
suddenly looked round from his place in the driver’s seat. “Say,” he
demanded, in a grating voice, “where was that guy raised?”

“Bertie dear!” cried his mother. “Don’t be rude!”

“I’m not being rude,” replied the other. “I just want to know where
he got his nut ideas.”

“Bertie dear!” cried the mother, again; and you knew that for
eighteen or nineteen years she had been crying “Bertie dear!”--in
a tone in which rebuke was tempered by fatuous maternal admiration.
And all the time, Bertie had gone on doing what he pleased, knowing
that in her secret heart his mother was smiling with admiration of
his masterfulness, taking it as one more symptom of the greatness of
the Stebbins line. I could see him in early childhood, stamping
on the floor and commanding his governess to bring him a
handkerchief--and throwing his shoe at her when she delayed!

Presently it was Lucinda’s turn. Lucinda, you understand, was in
revolt against the social indignity which her mother had inflicted
upon her. When Carpenter had entered the car, she had looked at him
once, with a deliberate stare, then lifted her chin, ignoring my
effort to introduce him to her. Since then she had sat silent, cold,
and proud. But now she spoke. “Mother, tell me, do we have to meet
those horrid fat old Jews again?”

Mrs. Stebbins wisely decided that this was not a good time to
explore the soul of a possible Eastern potentate. Instead, she
elected to talk for a minute or two about a lawn fete she was
planning to give next week for the benefit of the Polish relief.
“Poland is the World’s Bulwark against Bolshevism,” she explained;
and then added: “Bertie dear, aren’t you driving recklessly?”

Bertie turned his head. “Didn’t you hear me tell that old sheeny I
was going to beat him to it?”

“But, Bertie dear, this street is crowded!”

“Well, let them look out for themselves!”

But a few seconds later it appeared as if the son and heir of the
Stebbins family had decided to take his mother’s advice. The car
suddenly slowed up--so suddenly as to slide us out of our seats.
There was a grinding of brakes, and a bump of something under the
wheels; then a wild stream from the sidewalk, and a half-stifled cry
from the chauffeur. Mrs. Stebbins gasped, “Oh, my God!” and put her
hands over her face; and Lucinda exclaimed, in outraged irritation,
“Mamma!” Carpenter looked at me, puzzled, and asked, “What is the
matter?”



XX


The accident had happened in an ill-chosen neighborhood: one of
those crowded slum quarters, swarming with Mexicans and Italians and
other foreigners. Of course, that was the only neighborhood in which
it could have happened, because it is only there that children run
wild in the streets at night. There was one child under the front
wheels, crushed almost in half, so that you could not bear to look
at it, to say nothing of touching it; and there was another, struck
by the fender and knocked into the gutter. There was an old hag of a
woman standing by, with her hands lifted into the air, shrieking in
such a voice of mingled terror and fury as I had never heard in my
life before. It roused the whole quarter; there were people running
out of twenty houses, I think, before one of us could get out of the
car.

The first person out was Carpenter. He took one glance at the form
under the car, and saw there was no hope there; then he ran to the
child in the gutter and caught it into his arms. The poor people who
rushed to the scene found him sitting on the curb, gazing into the
pitiful, quivering little face, and whispering grief-stricken words.
There was a street-lamp near, so he could see the face of the child,
and the crowd could see him.

There came a woman, apparently the mother of the dead child. She saw
the form under the car, and gave a horrified scream, and fell into a
faint. There came a man, the father, no doubt, and other relatives;
there was a clamoring, frantic throng, swarming about the car and
about the victims. I went to Carpenter, and asked, “Is it dead?” He
answered, “It will live, I think.” Then, seeing that the crowd was
likely to stifle the little one, he rose. “Where does this child
live?” he asked, and some one pointed out the house, and he carried
his burden into it. I followed him, and it was fortunate that I did
so, because of the part I was able to play.

I saw him lay the child upon a couch, and put his hands upon its
forehead, and close his eyes, apparently in prayer. Then, noting the
clamor outside growing louder, I went to the door and looked out,
and found the Stebbins family in a frightful predicament. The mob
had dragged Bertie and the chauffeur outside the car, and were
yelling menaces and imprecations into their faces; poor Bertie was
shouting back, that it wasn’t his fault, how could he help it? But
they thought he might have helped coming into their quarter with his
big rich car; why couldn’t he stay in his own part of the city, and
kill the children of the rich? A man hit him a blow in the face and
knocked him over; his mother shrieked, and leaped out to help him,
and half a dozen women flung themselves at her, and as many men at
the chauffeur. There was a pile of bricks lying handy, and no doubt
also knives in the pockets of these foreign men; I believe the
little party would have been torn to pieces, had it not occurred to
me to run into the house and summon Carpenter.

Why did I do it? I think because I had seen how the crowd gave way
before him with the child in his arms. Anyhow, I knew that I could
do nothing alone, and before I could find a policeman it might be
many times too late. I told Carpenter what was happening, and he
rose, and ran out to the street.

It was like magic, of course. To these poor foreigners, Catholics
most of them, he did not suggest a moving picture actor on location;
he suggested something serious and miraculous. He called to the
crowd, stretching out his arms, and they gave way before him, and he
walked into them, and when he got to the struggling group he held
his arms over them, and that was all there was to it.

Except, of course, that he made them a speech. Seeing that he was
saving Bertie Stebbins’ life, it was no more than fair that he
should have his own way, and that a member of the younger generation
should listen in unprotesting silence to a discourse, the political
and sociological implications of which must have been very offensive
to him. And Bertie listened; I think he would not have made a sound,
even if he could have, after the crack in the face he had got.

“My people,” said Carpenter, “what good would it do you to kill
these wretches? The blood-suckers who drain the life of the poor are
not to be killed by blows. There are too many of them, and more of
them grow in place of those who die. And what is worse, if you kill
them, you destroy in yourselves that which makes you better than
they, which gives you the right to life. You destroy those virtues
of patience and charity, which are the jewels of the poor, and make
them princes in the kingdom of love. Let us guard our crown of pity,
and not acquire the vices of our oppressors. Let us grow in wisdom,
and find ways to put an end to the world’s enslavement, without the
degradation of our own hearts. For so many ages we have been
patient, let us wait but a little longer, and find the true way! Oh,
my people, my beloved poor, not in violence, but in solidarity, in
brotherhood, lies the way! Let us bid the rich go on, to the sure
damnation which awaits them. Let us not soil our hands with their
blood!”

He spread out his arms again, majestically. “Stand back! Make way
for them!”

Not all the crowd understood the words, but enough of them did, and
set the example. In dead silence they withdrew from the sides and
front of the car. The body of the dead child had been dragged out of
the way and laid on the sidewalk, covered by a coat; and so
Carpenter said to the Stebbins family: “The road is clear before
you. Step in.” Half dazed, the four people obeyed, and again
Carpenter raised his voice. “Drinkers of human blood, devourers of
human bodies, go your way! Go forward to that doom which history
prepares for parasites!”

The engine began to purr, and the car began to move. There was a low
mutter from the crowd, a moan of fury and baffled desire; but not a
hand was lifted, and the car shot away, and disappeared down the
street, leaving Carpenter standing on the curb, making a Socialist
speech to a mob of greasers and dagoes.



XXI


When he stopped speaking, it was because a woman pressed her way
through the crowd, and caught one of his hands. “Master, my baby!”
 she sobbed. “The little one that was hurt!” So Carpenter said to the
crowd, “The sick child needs me. I must go in.” They started to
press after him, and he added, “You must not come into the room. The
child will need air.” He went inside, and knelt once more by the
couch, and put his hand on the little one’s forehead. The mother, a
frail, dark Mexican woman, crouched at the foot, not daring to touch
either the man or the child, but staring from one to the other,
pressing her hands together in an agony of dread.

The little one opened his eyes, and gazed up. Evidently he liked
what he saw, for he kept on gazing, and a smile spread over his
features, a wistful and tender and infinitely sad little smile, of a
child who perhaps never had a good meal in his lifetime. “Nice man!”
 he whispered; and the woman, hearing his voice again, began sobbing
wildly, and caught Carpenter’s free hand and covered it with her
tears. “It is all right,” said he; “all right, all right! He will
get well--do not be afraid.” He smiled back at the child, saying:
“It is better now; you will not have so much pain.” To me he
remarked, “What is there so lovely as a child?”

The people thronging the doorway spread word what was going on, and
there were shouts of excitement, and presently the voice of a woman,
clamoring for admission. The throng made way, and she brought a
bundle in her arms, which being unfolded proved to contain a sick
baby. I never knew what was the matter with it; I don’t suppose the
mother knew, nor did Carpenter seem to care. The woman knelt at his
feet, praying to him; but he bade her stand up, and took the child
from her, and looked into its face, and then closed his eyes in
prayer. When he handed back the burden, a few minutes later, she
gazed at it. Something had happened, or at least she thought it had
happened, for she gave a cry of joy, and fell at Carpenter’s feet
again, and caught the hem of his garment with one hand and began to
kiss it. The rumor spread outside, and there were more people
clamoring. Before long, filtering into the room, came the lame, and
the halt, and the blind.

I had been reading not long ago of the miracles of Lourdes, so I
knew in a general way what to expect. I know that modern science
vindicates these things, demonstrating that any powerful stimulus
given to the unconscious can awaken new vital impulses, and heal not
merely the hysterical and neurotic, but sometimes actual physical
ailments. Of course, to these ignorant Mexicans and Italians, there
was no possible excitement so great as that caused by Carpenter’s
appearance and behavior. I understood the thing clearly; and yet,
somehow, I could not watch it without being startled--thrilled in a
strange, uncomfortable way.

And later on I had company in these unaccustomed emotions; the crowd
gave way, and who should come into the room but Mary Magna! She did
not speak to either of us, but slipped to one side and stood in
silence--while the crowd watched her furtively out of the corner of
its eyes, thinking her some foreign princess, with her bold, dark
beauty and her costly attire. I went over to her, whispering, “How
did you get here?” She explained that, when we did not arrive at the
studios, she had called up the Stebbins home and learned about the
accident. “They warned me not to come here, because this man was a
terrible Bolshevik; he made a blood-thirsty speech to the mob. What
did he say?”

I started to tell; but I was interrupted by a piercing shriek. A
sick and emaciated young girl with paralyzed limbs had been carried
into the room. They had laid her on the couch, from which the child
had been taken away, and Carpenter had put his hands upon her. At
once the girl had risen up--and here she stood, her hands flung into
the air, literally screaming her triumphant joy. Of course the crowd
took it up--these primitive people are always glad of a chance to
make a big noise, so the whole room was in a clamor, and Carpenter
had hard work to extract himself from the throng which wished to
touch his hands and his clothing, and to worship him on their knees.

He came over to us, and smiled. “Is not this better than acting,
Mary?

“Yes, surely--if one can do it.”

Said he: “Everyone could do it, if they knew.”

“Is that really true?” she asked, with passionate earnestness.

“There is a god in every man, and in every woman.”

“Why don’t they know it, then?”

“There is a god, and also a beast. The beast is old, and familiar,
and powerful; the god is new, and strange, and afraid. Because of
his fear, the beast kills him.”

“What is the beast?”

“His name is self; and he has many forms. In men he is greed; in
women he is vanity, and goes attired in much raiment--the chains,
and the bracelets, and the mufflers--”

“Oh, don’t!” cried Mary, wildly.

“Very well, Mary; I won’t.” And he didn’t. But, looking at Mary, it
seemed that she was just as unhappy as if he had.

He turned to an old man who had hobbled into the room on crutches.
“Poor old comrade! Poor old friend!” His voice seemed to break with
pity. “They have worked you like an old mule, until your skin is
cracked and your joints grown hard; but they have not been so kind
to you as to an old mule--they have left you to suffer!”

To a pale young woman who staggered towards him, coughing, he cried:
“What can I do for you? They are starving you to death! You need
food--and I have no food to give!” He raised his arms, in sudden
wrath. “Bring forth the masters of this city, who starve the poor,
while they themselves riot in wantonness!”

But the members of the Chamber of Commerce and of the Bankers’
Association of Western City were not within hearing, nor are their
numbers as a rule to be found in the telephone book. Carpenter
looked about the place, now lined pretty well with cripples and
invalids. Only a couple of hours of spreading rumor had been needed
to bring them forth, unholy and dreadful secrets, dragged from the
dark corners and back alley-ways of these tenements. He gazed from
one crooked and distorted face to another, and put his hand to his
forehead with a gesture of despair. “No, no!” he said. “It is of no
use!” He lifted his voice, calling once more to the masters of the
city. “You make them faster than I can heal them! You make them by
machinery--and he who would help them must break the machine!”

He turned to me; and I was startled, for it was as if he had been
inside my mind. “I know, it will not be easy! But remember, I broke
the empire of Rome!”

That was his last flare. “I can do no more,” he whispered. “My power
is gone from me; I must rest.” And his voice gave way. “I beg you to
go, unhappy poor of the world! I have done all that I can do for you
tonight.”

And silently, patiently, as creatures accustomed to the voice of
doom, the sick and the crippled began to hobble and crawl from the
room.



XXII


He sat on the edge of the couch, gazing into space, lost in tragic
thought; and Mary and I sat watching him, not quite certain whether
we ought to withdraw with the rest. But he did not seem aware of our
presence, so we stayed.

In our world it is not considered permissible for people to remain
in company without talking. If the talk lags, we have to cast
hurriedly about in our minds for something to say--it is called
“making conversation.” But Carpenter evidently did not know about
this custom, and neither of us instructed him. Once or twice I stole
a glance at Mary, marvelling at her. All her life she had been a
conversational volcano, in a state of perpetual eruption; but now,
apparently she passed judgment on her own remarks, and found them
not worth making.

In the doorway of the room appeared the little boy who had been
knocked down by the car. He looked at Carpenter, and then came
towards him. When Carpenter saw him, a smile of welcome came upon
his face; he stretched out an arm, and the little fellow nestled in
it. Other children appeared in the doorway, and soon he had a group
about him, sitting on his knees and on the couch. They were little
gutter-urchins, but he, seemingly, was interested in knowing their
names and their relationships, what they learned in school, and what
games they played. I think he had Bertie’s foot-ball crowd in mind,
for he said: “Some day they will teach you games of love and
friendship, instead of rivalry and strife.”

Presently the mother of the household appeared. She was distressed,
because it did not seem possible that a great man should be
interested in the prattle of children, when he had people like us,
evidently rich people, to talk to. “You will bother the master,” she
said, in Spanish. He seemed to understand, and answered, “Let the
children stay with me. They teach me that the world might be happy.”

So the prattle went on, and the woman stood in the doorway, with
other women behind her, all beaming with delight. They had known all
their lives there was something especially remarkable about these
children; and here was their pride confirmed! When the little ones
laughed, and the stranger laughed with them, you should have seen
the pleasure shining from a doorway full of dusky Mexican faces!

But after a while one of the children began to rub his eyes, and the
mother exclaimed--it was so late! The children had stayed awake
because of the excitement, but now they must go to bed. She bundled
them out of the room, and presently came back, bearing a glass of
milk and a plate with bread and an orange on it. The master might be
hungry, she said, with a humble little bow. In her halting English
she offered to bring something to us, but she did not suppose we
would care for poor people’s food. She took it for granted that
“poor people’s food” was what Carpenter would want; and apparently
she was right, for he ate it with relish. Meantime he tried to get
the woman to sit on the couch beside him; but she would not sit in
his presence--or was it in the presence of Mary and me? I had a
feeling, as she withdrew, that she might have been glad to chat with
him, if a million-dollar movie queen and a spoiled young club man
had not been there to claim prior rights.



XXIII


So presently we three were alone once more; and Mary, gazing
intently with those big dark eyes that the public knows so well,
opened up: “Tell me, Mr. Carpenter! Have you ever been in love?”

I was startled, but if Carpenter was, he gave no sign. “Mary,” he
said, “I have been in grief.” Then thinking, perhaps, that he had
been abrupt, he added: “You, Mary--you have been in love?”

She answered: “No.” I’m not sure if I said anything out loud, but my
thought was easy to read, and she turned upon me. “You don’t know
what love is. But a woman knows, even though she doesn’t act it.”

“Well, of course,” I replied; “if you want to go into metaphysics--”

“Metaphysics be damned!” said Mary, and turned again to Carpenter.

Said he: “A good woman like you--”

“Me?” cried Mary. And she laughed, a wild laugh. “Don’t hit me
when you’ve got me down! I’ve sold myself for every job I ever got;
I sold myself for every jewel you saw on me this afternoon. You
notice I’ve got them off now!”

“I don’t understand, Mary,” he said, gently. “Why does a woman like
you sell herself?”

“What else has she got? I was a rat in a tenement. I could have been
a drudge, but I wasn’t made for that. I sold myself for a job in a
store, and then for ribbons to be pretty, and then for a place in
the chorus, and then for a speaking part--so on all the way. Now I
portray other women selling themselves. They get fancy prices, and
so do I, and that makes me a ‘star.’ I hope you’ll never see my
pictures.”

I sat watching this scene, marvelling more than ever. That tone in
Mary Magna’s voice was a new one to me; perhaps she had not used it
since she played her last “speaking part!” I thought to myself,
there was a crisis impending in the screen industry.

Said Carpenter: “What are you going to do about it, Mary?”

“What can I do? My contract has seven years to run.”

“Couldn’t you do something honest? I mean, couldn’t you tell an
honest story in your pictures?”

“Me? My God! Tell that to T-S, and watch his face! Why, they hunt
all the world over for some new kind of clothes for me to take off;
they search all history for some war I can cause, some empire I can
wreck. Me play an honest woman? The public would call it a joke, and
the screen people would call it indecent.”

Carpenter got up, and began to pace the room. “Mary,” said he, “I
once lived under the Roman empire--”

“Yes, I know. I was Cleopatra, and again I was Nero’s mistress while
he watched the city burning.”

“Rome was rough, and crude, and poor, Mary. Rome was nothing to
this. This is Satan on my Father’s throne, making new worlds for
himself.” He paced the room again, then turned and said: “I don’t
understand this world. I must know more about it, if I am to save
it!” There was such grief, such selfless pity in his voice as he
repeated this: “I must know more!”

“You know everything!” exclaimed Mary, suddenly. “You are all
wisdom!”

But he went on, speaking as if to himself, pondering his problem:
“To serve others, yet not to indulge them; for the cause of their
enslavment is that they have accepted service without return. And
how shall one preach patience to the poor, when the masters make
such preaching a new means of enslavement?” He looked at me, as if
he thought that I could answer his question. Then with sudden energy
he exclaimed: “I must meet those who are in rebellion against
enslavement! Tomorrow I want to meet the strikers--all the strikers
in your city.”

“You’ll have your hands full,” I said--for I was a coward, and
wanted to keep him out of it.

“How shall I find them?” he persisted.

“I don’t know; I suppose their headquarters are at the Labor
Temple.”

“I will go there. Meantime, I fear I shall have to be alone. I need
to think about the things I have learned.”

“Where are you going to stay?”

“I don’t know.”

Said Mary, hesitatingly: “My car is outside--”

He answered: “In ancient days I saw the young patricians drive
through the streets in their chariots; no, I shall not ride with
them again.”

Said I: “I have an apartment at the club, with plenty of room--”

“No, no, friend. I have seen enough of the masters of this city.
From now on, if you want to see me, you will find me among the
poor.”

“If I may meet you in the morning,” I said--“to show you to the
Labor Temple--” Yes, I would see him through!

“By all means,” said he. “But you must come early, for I cannot
delay.”

“Where shall I come?”

“Come here. I am sure these people will give me shelter.” He looked
about him. “I suspect that some of them sleep in this room; but they
have a little porch outside, and if they will let me stay there I
shall be alone, which is what I want now.” After a moment, he added,
“What I wish to do is to pray. Have you ever tried prayer, Mary?”

She answered, simply, “I wouldn’t know how.”

“Come to me, and I will teach you,” he said.



XXIV


I went early next morning, but not early enough. The Mexican woman
told me that “the master” had waited, and finally had gone. He had
asked the way to the Labor Temple, and left word that I would find
him there. So I stepped back into my taxi, and told the driver to
take the most direct route.

Meantime I kept watch for my friend, and I did not have to watch
very long. There was a crowd ahead, the street was blocked, and a
premonition came to me: “Good Lord, I’m too late--he’s got into some
new mess!” I leaned out of the window, and sure enough, there he was
standing on the tail-end of a truck, haranguing a crowd which packed
the street from one line of houses to the other. “And before he got
half way to the Labor Temple!” I thought to myself.

I got out, and paid the driver of the taxi, and pushed into the
crowd. Now and then I caught a few words of what Carpenter was
telling them, and it seemed quite harmless--that they were all
brothers, that they should love one another, and not do one another
injustice. What could there have been that made him think it
necessary to deliver this message before breakfast? I looked about,
noting that it was the Hebrew quarter of the city, plastered with
signs with queer, spattered-up letters. I thought: “Holy smoke! Is
he going to convert the Jews?”

I pushed my way farther into the crowd, and saw a policeman, and
went up to him. “Officer, what’s this all about?” I spoke as one
wearing the latest cut of clothes, and he answered accordingly.
“Search me! They brought us out on a riot call, but when we got
here, it seems to have turned into a revival meeting.”

I got part of the story from this policeman, and part from a couple
of bystanders. It appeared that some Jewish lady, getting her
shopping done early, had complained of getting short weight, and the
butcher had ordered her out of his shop, and she had stopped to
express her opinion of profiteers, and he had thrown her out, and
she had stood on the sidewalk and shrieked until all the ladies in
this crowded quarter had joined her. Their fury against soaring
prices and wages that never kept up with them, had burst all bounds,
and they had set out to clean up the butcher-shop with the butcher.
So there was Carpenter, on his way to the Labor Temple, with another
mob to quell!

“You know how it is,” said the policeman. “It really does cost these
poor devils a lot to live, and they say prices are going down, but I
can’t see it anywhere but in the papers.”

“Well,” said I, “I guess you were glad enough to have somebody do
this job.”

He grinned. “You bet! I’ve tackled crowds of women before this, and
you don’t like to hit them, but they claw into your face if you
don’t. I guess the captain will let this bird spout for a bit, even
if he does block the traffic.”

We listened for a minute. “Bear in mind, my friends, I am come among
you; and I shall not desert you. I give you my justice, I give you
my freedom. Your cause is my cause, world without end. Amen.”

“Now wouldn’t that jar you?” remarked the “copper.” “Holy Christ, if
you’d hear some of the nuts we have to listen to on street-corners!
What do you suppose that guy thinks he can do, dressed up in
Abraham’s nightshirt?”

Said Carpenter: “The days of the exploiter are numbered. The thrones
of the mighty are tottering, and the earth shall belong to them that
labor. He that toils not, neither shall he eat, and they that grow
fat upon the blood of the people--they shall grow lean again.”

“Now what do you think o’ that?” demanded the guardian of authority.
“If that ain’t regular Bolsheviki talk, then I’m dopy. I’ll bet the
captain don’t stand much more of that.”

Fortunately the captain’s endurance was not put to the test. The
orator had reached the climax of his eloquence. “The kingdom of
righteousness is at hand. The word will be spoken, the way will be
made clear. Meantime, my people, I bid you go your way in peace. Let
there be no more disturbance, to bring upon you the contempt of
those who do not understand your troubles, nor share the heartbreak
of the poor. My people, take my peace with you!” He stretched out
his arms in invocation, and there was a murmur of applause, and the
crowd began slowly to disperse.

Which seemed to remind my friend the policeman that he had authority
to exercise. He began to poke his stick into the humped backs of
poor Jewish tailors, and into the ample stomachs of fat Jewish
housewives. “Come on now, get along with you, and let somebody else
have a bit o’ the street.” I pushed my way forward, by virtue of my
good clothes, and got through the press about Carpenter, and took
him by the arm, saying, “Come on now, let’s see if we can’t get to
the Labor Temple.”



XXV


There was a crowd following us, of course; and I sought to keep
Carpenter busy in conversation, to indicate that the crowd was not
wanted. But before we had gone half a block I felt some one touch me
on the arm, and heard a voice, saying, “I beg pardon, I’m a reporter
for the ‘Evening Blare’.”

Now, of course, I had known this must come; I had realized that I
would be getting myself in for it, if I went to join Carpenter that
morning. I had planned to warn him, to explain to him what our
newspapers are; but how could I have foreseen that he was going to
get into a riot before breakfast, and bring out the police reserves
and the police reporters?

“Excuse us,” I said, coldly. “We have something urgent--”

“I just want to get something of this gentleman’s speech--”
