
Nothing loth, if the truth must be told, Faith rose up to follow his
leading; which was out of the parlour and through the hall.

"Miss Faith," he said as he shut the door, "have you been conjugating
the verb s'ennuyer?"

"No," she said. "I was amused to hear you and Miss Essie talk."

"What singular ideas people have on the question of pleasant things!"
said Mr. Linden. "Come in here, Miss Faith"--and he opened the door of
a mingled library, study room, and office--"I want to give you (before
we go any further) the whole quotation which I did not dare to give
Miss Essie, though it would not have been meant for her, if I had." And
he took down one of the books, and read--

   "'Her eye,--it seems a chemic test,
   And drops upon you like an acid;
   It bites you with unconscious zest,
   So clear and bright, so coldly placid;
   It holds--you quietly aloof,
   It holds, and yet it does not win you;
   It merely puts you to the proof
   And sorts what qualities are in you,' &c.

   'There you are classified: she's gone
   Far, far away into herself;
   Each with its Latin label on,
   Your poor components, one by one,
   Are laid upon their proper shelf
   In her compact and ordered mind,' &c.

   'O brain exact, that in thy scales
   Canst weigh the sun and never err,
   For once thy patient science fails,
   One problem still defies thy art;--
   Thou never canst compute for her
   The distance and diameter
   Of any simple human heart.'

That's comforting doctrine--isn't it?" he said smiling as he put up the
book.

"How good that is!" said Faith, as much in the spirit of enjoyment as
of criticism. But it isn't just Miss Essie. It's more like"--She
stopped.

"Well--who? No, it is not Miss Essie."

"I was going to say, Mrs. Somers--but it is not Mrs. Somers, either.
She is more kind than that."

"Yes, I think so--though she keeps her kindness under lock and key,
like her sweetmeats. Miss Faith, shall I give you a loophole view of
those boys--before you venture yourself among them?"

She said yes, with a bright face that shewed her primed for any
enjoyment, or anything else perhaps, he might propose. He knew the
house, apparently, and led her out of one door and in at another,
giving her little undertone remarks by the way.

"I know you and I agree in some of our notions about pleasant things,"
he said, "or I should not presume that you would find this one. To some
people, you know, boys are mere receivers for Latin and Greek--to me
they are separate little pieces of humanity. I study them quite as much
as they do their lessons. Now you shall see them off their guard. This
room is dark--but I know the way."

He took her hand as he spoke, and led her through the darkness to a
spot of shaded light at the further end of the room, whence too came
laughter and voices; then drew back the curtain from a sash door and
let her look in.

It was pleasant, as he said,--the room was glowing with light, the boys
in a knot about the fire; some sitting, some standing, one or two
couchant upon the rug. Sam was the spokesman just then--the rest
listening, interrupting, applauding; the flashing firelight shewing
such different faces! such varied indications!--they looked like a
little Congress of representatives.

"What are they doing, Mr. Linden? Sam is having a good time!--and all
the rest of them for that matter."

"I am not quite sure what they are doing, Miss Faith,--Sam looks as if
he might be recounting some of his own exploits--for the twentieth
time."

"But Reuben, who never would recount one of his, is five times as much
of a man."

"Yes,--I wonder what Miss Essie would say of the two, respectively. She
means to study me to-night, you know," he said smiling--"and I mean she
shall! There comes Mrs. Stoutenburgh--now I shall take you in."

Not by the sash door, but round again by another way they came upon the
little company. Mrs. Stoutenburgh had been in before, and her
reappearance had not made much change in the order of things; but when
Faith came in every boy rose to his feet, and the admiring looks were
only bounded by the number of eyes. They fell back right and left as
she came on towards the fire; and once seated there in an easy chair,
those who knew her came up to pay their respects--those who did not
stood still and paid them at a distance, whispering and touching each
other with,

"My! ain't she handsome!"--

All of which amused at least two of the lookers-on. One or two of the
boys Mr. Linden brought up and presented. Faith however was presently
out of her chair of state and wound in and out among them, speaking to
those whom she knew or remembered at Neanticut. She was in a little
gale of good-fellowship by the time Mr. Linden with Miss Essie returned
to the room.

"Well!" said Miss Essie. "Now what's the first order of things? Mr.
Linden, these are all your boys, I suppose?"

"These are all and not all, Miss Essie."

"Yes. Do they always do what you tell them?"

"They are extraordinary boys!" said Mr. Linden. "Not one of them has a
will of his own."

"Oh!" said Miss Essie. "What has become of their wills? Have you stolen
them? Now I am going to put that to the proof. Sam Stoutenburgh--you
are not twenty years old yet, your mother says; have you a will of your
own?"

"Mother says I have," replied Sam.

"Ah!--you see!" said Miss Essie. "You sir,--I know you but I don't
remember you,--your teacher says you haven't a will of your own--now is
it true? I want to know."

"A will of my own, ma'am?" Reuben repeated, looking doubtfully from
Miss Essie to Mr. Linden. "Against whose, if you please?"

"Well--" said Miss Essie, a little surprised, and laughing--"upon
honour, will you tell the truth?"

"I'll try, ma'am."

"Against Mr. Linden's. Now upon honour!--I'll go bail for you."

The bail was not needed. Reuben's quiet "No, ma'am, and don't want to
have," was very forcible.

"I declare!" said Miss Essie turning to Mr. Linden,--"you're a
wonderful man!--For of course Sam's word is his mother's word, and
that's nothing in the circumstances. I wish I had been so happy as to
be a boy and go to school to you, Mr. Linden! All my life my trouble
has been a will of my own; and I never found anybody that could deprive
me of it."

"Nor yourself ready to give it up?"

"Of course! but I never could, you know. It was stronger than I."

"I'll tell you what," said Mrs. Stoutenburgh, coming up, "if you two
people want to talk any more, you've got to stand out of the
way,--Faith and I are going to have a game with these boys."

"What sort of game?"

"Why blind man's buff," said Mrs. Stoutenburgh. "Sam--go to my room and
fetch that plaid ribband that lies on the bed."

"Now I'll tell you," said Miss Essie, "you must play this game as they
do it up at Suckiaug. Any game wants a stake, you know, Mr.
Stoutenburgh, to make it thoroughly interesting. You must play it this
way. Everybody that is caught and found, must answer any question the
person catching chooses to ask. And if he refuses to answer, he must
answer some other question and give a reason for it. That'll make 'em
fly round!"

In the midst of a little general bustle that ensued, Faith was startled
at finding that her rose and myrtle were gone. The next instant a hand
presented them unceremoniously under her face, and an abrupt voice
announced, "Here's your flowers!" It was even Phil Davids who had done
it. Faith seized her flowers, and then sprang after Phil and thanked
him very gratefully; rightly hailing this civility as an omen for good.
The flowers were next bestowed carefully in a glass of water, to be in
safety till the play should be over.

Now began the fun of robing and disrobing. The ladies pinned up their
silk skirts into order and quiet compass, and pulled on over their arms
and shoulders whatever boys' gear would fit. Faith was jaunty in a
little cloth jacket which covered her arms; Miss Essie wrapped about
her a plaid travelling shawl of the Squire's. Mrs. Stoutenburgh
deferred her disguising till she should need it, being in the first
place to be the catcher, not the caught. Mr. Linden on his part chose
to rely on his own resources for safety, but two or three of the boys
tied on shawls and scarfs--soon discarded in the mêlée.

If Sam's intent was to have a steady game of running, never to produce
results--unless fatigue and laughter--he had well chosen the first
'catcher.' Mrs. Stoutenburgh's powers of entanglement lay not in that
line, though she ran about with the most utter good will and merriment.
But how the boys jumped over her arms!--or dived under them! How Sam
caught her round the waist, and even kissed her, regardless of danger!
She might have been playing till this time, if Mr. Linden had not
interposed and gallantly suffered himself to be caught.

"We'll have to step round now, I tell you!" said one of the
boys,--"this'll be another guess sort of a run!"

"Look out for yourself now, Miss Faith!" said Reuben--both which things
were profoundly true and necessary. And Faith soon found out that she
was the quarry--and that pigeons were of no avail. Whether Mr. Linden
had heard her steps about his sick room till he had learned them by
heart,--whether the theory of 'spirits touching' held good in this
case,--he gave her a swift little run round the room, and shut her up
gracefully in the corner. Then with the simplicity which characterized
most of his proceedings, disregarding jacket and cap, he took hold of
her hand and inquired,

"Miss Faith--do you consider yourself disguised?"

The soft laugh which it was impossible to keep back, answered to his
ear, as the flush which overspread Faith's face answered to eyes of the
rest of the company.

"That will do to begin with," he said as he took off the plaid ribband,
while Mrs. Stoutenburgh laughed and clapped her hands after her own
lively fashion.

"But Miss Faith!" said Sam--"don't tie up your head, please!--if you
shut your eyes it will do just as well."

"You can't see her eyes if they're shut, you foolish boy," said Mr.
Linden,--"go off and attend to your own affairs. Miss Faith, shall I
tie this on--or do you wish for a deputy?"

There is a great deal of character that comes out in a play! Miss Essie
might have had excellent opportunity for prosecuting her "studies," if
she had not been busy on her own score. For Faith did not play like
Mrs. Stoutenburgh. She played like herself--with a gentleness that
never overstepped delicate bounds; but her foot was light and true, and
her movements fearless and free as those of the very boys. It was a
pretty game that she played. It would have been a short one, but that
it was so hard to identify her captives. One boy after another Faith
caught,--to the feeling they were all alike! At last her hand seized an
other prize, and her voice exclaimed, Mr. Stoutenburgh!

There was a sharp change about now between the older and the younger
people. Faith did her best not to be caught again. But after half a
dozen changes between Mr. Linden and the boys, he again had the
pleasure of investing her with the plaid ribband.

"May I give her the question?" whispered Miss Essie at Mr. Linden's ear.

"No indeed!" said Mr. Linden.--"Miss Faith, what is the difference
between a bird and a philosopher?"

Somewhat to the surprise as well as amusement of the company, the
answer to this was the heartiest, merriest bit of a laugh; then she
said,

"One looks round the corner, Mr. Linden!"

"Well you won't see round the corner now," he said softly and laughing
as he tied on the ribband. "Miss Faith! do you mean to say I did?"

She said "no," and ran away. But Faith was not in luck this time, for
she caught Miss Essie. And Miss Essie in a few minutes got the chance
she wanted at Faith. She wouldn't have had it, for Faith ran too well
and vanished too skilfully; but a little knot of the boys getting into
a knot just in her way and at the wrong time, Faith fell a prey.

"Now," said her captor unbinding her ribband, "what do you think I am
going to ask you?"

Faith was very doubtful on the subject, and waited in silence.

"Only a matter of taste," said Miss Essie. "Who do you
think"--(speaking slowly)--"is the handsomest man in Pattaquasset?"

The colour mounted in Faith's cheeks too distinctly to leave any room
for the doubt that no other answer was at hand. She avoided Miss
Essie's black eyes.

"Come!" said that lady.

"I can't tell you,"--said Faith, amid the laughter of some of the
company, which was enormous.

"You can't!" said Miss Essie. "Now you are at my mercy. You have got to
tell me something else and give your reason. What do you think is the
best profession a man can follow?"

"Any one is good that is used right," said Faith, looking down and
speaking with difficulty,--"but I suppose the best is a minister's."

"Why?" said Miss Essie, disappointed.

"Because the business of that profession is to lead men to
heaven;--that of others is only to fit them for earth."

"My dear, you're a fine girl!" said the Squire--willing Faith should
say anything that cut out Dr. Harrison. "Miss Essie, what do you mean
by asking her such a string of questions?--how can she tell who's the
handsomest man? She wouldn't like to hurt Mr. Linden's feelings by
saying me, nor to make us both mad by saying anybody else--if there was
anybody else to speak of."

"You hush, Mr. Stoutenburgh!" said Miss Essie. "Don't you know how to
ask questions? Now Faith Derrick--run off with yourself." Faith obeyed
with a trifle less than her usual spirit; but the game presently called
it back again. Darting about, like some gentle-hearted hawk, among
those flying pigeons, she had seized one boy and another with her usual
bad success in the matter of identifying, when the boys suddenly
cleared away a little--anxious perhaps that Mr. Linden should be caught
again; for of all the players he gave them the most fun. And so
effectually did they clear the way--so ineffectually did he protect
himself! that the next grasp of Faith's hand was upon his arm. And her
voice gravely announced that she knew it.

"Now Faith!" said Mrs. Stoutenburgh, "do puzzle him if you can--give
him a hard question."

"She does not want to ask me any questions," said Mr. Linden as he
untied the ribband. "You forget, Mrs Stoutenburgh, how many she can ask
every day. Now with Miss Essie the case is quite different."

Very quiet and pleasant was the look bent on Faith,--very cool and
undisturbed the manner. "Miss Faith, are you tired?--I must be
philosophical enough to inform you that there is a shadow of
puss-in-the-corner!"

And a very plain expression of gratitude was in her eyes and smile as
she answered, "No, I'm not tired, Mr. Linden--but I would as lieve look
on as play."

That seemed to be the general grown-up mind; but before the looking on
had lasted long, everybody was called into another room to supper.
There the boys were left somewhat to themselves at one end of the
table, and the half dozen others stood or sat in the warm fireplace
corner at the other. Mr. Linden indeed, and Squire Stoutenburgh, were
both "boys" very often; but their returns to the ladies were frequent
and prolonged. Faith was enthroned in a great chair, and there petted
by Mrs. Stoutenburgh, while everybody brought her things by turns--a
privilege highly prized by some of the boys. Neither could Miss Essie
complain of want of attention, while Mrs. Stoutenburgh and Mr. Linden
took laughing care of each other between whiles.

"Miss Essie," he said as he brought her a cup of coffee, "where are you
in the pursuit of knowledge?"

Miss Essie laughed; yet not a triumphant laugh, nor even a satisfied
one; it might be considered doubtful.

"I think," she said, "you are one of a sort I don't much understand,
Mr. Linden--perhaps because I don't know them much. Aren't you one of
what I may call the good sort?"

Faith's laugh, which was indeed very low but unavoidable, was the first
testimony.

"I hope you may--" said Mr. Linden,--"the words sound pleasant. I am
not quite sure what they mean."

"Ah! There you are again!" said Miss Essie. "As difficult to catch at
other things as at blind man's buff. Well I'll be frank with you, for I
don't mean to offend you. I mean, the sort of people who are called
'rigidly righteous'--people who think it incumbent on them to be better
than their neighbours."

"O no--" said Mr. Linden,--"I quite disclaim that. I only think it
incumbent on me to be better than myself."

"Yes, but you are one of the people I mean--aren't you?"

"Not according to that term, Miss Essie. May I ask what you mean by the
other?"

"Rigidly righteous?"

"Yes."

"Why I told you--people that pretend to be better than people in
general. People in general, you know, get on without pretending much to
be good at all: and of course it's disagreeable to be brought short up
at every turn with 'you ought not,' and 'you ought;' and whether it is
said or acted don't make much difference. Now here's this child, a
little while ago, thought she mustn't say anything was good but a
minister.

"Do you mean Christians?" said Mr. Linden.

"Well--" said Miss Essie, "I hope we're all Christians--aren't we?
We're not heathens."

"I mean the followers of Christ. Is that what you meant? I do wear the
badge of that 'Legion of Honour.'"

Miss Essie looked fidgeted. Faith was letting her ice-cream melt while
she listened. Mrs. Stoutenburgh in the midst of supper-table attentions
gave an anxious eye and ear to the conference, which she would not
interrupt.

"Well now tell me what you mean by that?" said Miss Essie, feeling
herself in some confusion, of terms at least.

"Can I find plainer words? You know what was meant by a follower in the
old feudal times?"

"No I don't," said Miss Essie beginning to sip her coffee again. "Tell
me!"

"A follower was one who binding himself to the service his lord
required of him, thenceforth paid it--in peace or in war,--to the end
of his life. And the terms of agreement were two-fold,--fidelity on the
one side, protection on the other. 'They follow me,' says Christ, 'and
I give unto them eternal life.'"

"Yes, but," said Miss Essie, "do you think it is required that we
should put ourselves so much out of the way to be good? I think people
were meant to enjoy themselves."

"I enjoy myself--" said Mr. Linden smiling a little. "What think you
makes the lark fly circling up into the very sunbeams, singing as lie
goes?--is it duty? is it to rise above the robins and sparrows?"

"I don't understand you!" said Miss Essie respectfully.

"That is just the inner life of many a Christian,--his very heart-cry
is,

   'Nearer, my God, to thee!
   Nearer to thee!
   E'en though it be a cross,
   That raiseth me!'--"


"Well, you think nobody can be safe that don't live just so?" persisted
Miss Essie.

"In whom such a life is not at least begun?--How can it be, Miss Essie?
Safe? without the blessing of God?"

"Well there we differ," said the lady. "That's what I mean by being
rigidly righteous. I think every one must judge for himself."

A little more erect Mr. Linden stood, drawing himself up slightly--it
was his wont sometimes under a touch of excitement, and spoke with his
deep emphasis these words--

"'This is life eternal, to know thee, the only true God, and Jesus
Christ whom thou hast sent.'--Miss Essie, where is your permit for free
judgment against the Bible?"

"I didn't mean that," said Miss Essie, lowering her crest. "But I
mean that everybody can't be good after your strict way."

"I am not standing up for myself, you know," said he pleasantly, "nor
denying that you have described me right; but what a follower of Christ
ought to be, is no more rigid than sunlight--or than the wings of
angels. Yet both sun and angels 'always do his commandment' who made
them both."

"Oh people can't be sunlight--nor angels neither, in this world. You're
Utopian! That's what I said."

"They can be 'burning and shining lights,'" said Mr. Linden. "Miss
Essie, will you gainsay the Bible? Why can they not?"

"They can be--but I suppose they aren't obliged to be; or what is to
become of us all?" said Miss Essie, half seriously half defiantly.

"That will depend upon whom we follow," he answered gravely.

"Well now, Mr. Linden, how many people in the world are 'followers' in
the way you have described them?--and are all the rest going to
destruction? Take the people in this room now, for instance,--boys and
all here's twenty of us perhaps. How many do you suppose are here of
your way of 'following'? You're one--who's another? Stand off there,
and see whom you can get to join you!"

"Stand off and say with Moses--'who is on the Lord's side?'--there
would be several, Miss Essie."

"Well count up," said Miss Essie. "I suppose they have no objection to
shew themselves. You are one--who's another?"

"I am another," said Faith, rising and setting down her ice cream.

"You!"--said Miss Essie turning the black eyes upon her,--"you look
like it, child!"

"You must put the 'rigid' out of your head," Mr. Linden said, with a
smile which changed as he spoke.

"Well who else?" said Miss Essie, for some reason or other in an
impatient temper. "Tell them your definition, will you, and ask who'll
stand by you. Mrs. Stoutenburgh!--make them all stop and attend."

"If I ask them you may think they come to please me."

"No, no, you know how to say it. Mr. Stoutenburgh!--boys!--listen. I
want to know how many there are here of a particular kind of
people--Mr. Linden will tell you what kind."

He spoke then--as Faith had once or twice heard him speak, sending his
voice through the room almost without raising it.

"Miss Essie de Staff wishes to know how many there are here of a
particular kind of people--those that 'have sworn unto the Lord, and
will not go back.' Whoever is of that number will please come over to
this side."

There was a little astonished pause. Mr. and Mrs. Stoutenburgh, just
then at the further end of the room, had moved at Miss Essie's summons,
but stopped short at the first sound of Mr. Linden's voice, and looked
in a sort of maze,--he clearly was not jesting, that was all they
could make out. That too the boys saw: but for a minute they stood like
statues,--then Reuben stepped from the group and walked quietly,
deliberately, over to where Mr. Linden stood; the covenant-signing in
his face glowing with the Free Church addition--"until death!"

One and another followed him--one after another,--Faith was surprised
to see how many: ranging themselves about Mr. Linden. But something in
it all touched him--stirred him,--something perhaps personal to himself
and them; for after the first three or four had come he looked no
more,--his eyes fell, and the firmly compressed lips could not quite
conceal their trembling. He stood as statue-like as the boys had done.

In the interest of a moment and a scene that she never forgot, it was a
simple thing that Faith lost thought of her own standing. Perhaps Miss
Essie shared her oblivion of self for that minute; her look of uneasy
curiosity changed to a sobriety that was almost awe. Perhaps
self-recollection came back; for after eying the dumb show with
uncommonly blank black eyes, both they and she suddenly started into
action.

"That will do," she said with voice and gesture,--"you may go
back--scatter! and be boys again. Mr. Linden, what I complain of is,
that you say you are on the Lord's side and that everybody else is
not!"

His thoughts came back slowly, as from some far distant region,--he
even turned to Faith and wheeled up a chair for her before he answered.

"No, Miss Essie--those last words I believe I never said. But the 'Lord
knoweth them that are his'--let each one have answering knowledge for
himself."

Miss Essie's look was not comfortable. She abandoned the point in hand,
and swallowed her cold coffee.

"What are you talking about?" said Mrs. Stoutenburgh coming up to
them. "What sort of a game was that, Miss Essie?"

"Nothing,"--said Miss Essie. "I said I would study Mr. Linden--and I
have. I've found out two things about him."

"I wonder if he's been studying too!" said Mrs. Stoutenburgh.--"What
are the two things? Miss Essie, your coffee's just as cold as Faith's
ice is warm!--that comes of talking when you ought to be eating. Mr.
Linden--just help Mr. Stoutenburgh with that little table, please--and
I'll have the coffee-pot here and be comfortable."

"And I shall tell Miss Essie a story about fishes," said Mr. Linden as
he obeyed.

Mrs. Stoutenburgh sat down behind her coffee-pot, while the gentlemen
went back and forth between the two tables, bringing cups and cake and
what else was needed for this "German cotillion," as Mr. Linden called
it. During which interlude Miss Essie, after taking an observant view
of Faith, gave her a significant private admonition, that "somebody"
would not like her being there. Faith in vain endeavoured to get some
light on this dark information; Miss Essie was startling but
enigmatical, and suddenly turned from her and asked Mr. Linden "what
was the story he had promised?"

"Not much of a story, though I called it one. It has to do with the
way different races of fishes wear their bones."

"Well?" said Miss Essie, using her eyes; while Faith forgot her flushed
cheeks and used hers.

"You are perhaps aware," he said smiling, "that even fishes have their
inflexible points; in other words, a region of bone somewhere."

Miss Essie bowed her head, mentally ejaculating, "You have!"

"And all the fossil tribes, as well as those which now exist, are
divided into two great classes,--those which wear their bones on the
outside, and those which wear them within. The first have a perfect
plate armour--jointed and fitted and carved, piece by piece; but the
inner framework is merely cartilaginous. The others, while they shew
nothing but pliant flesh, have an internal structure of bone which can
outlast ages."

"Curious!" said Miss Essie, eying him all the while carefully. "Then I
suppose we are all fishes!"

"I was thinking--apropos to our talk awhile ago--of the intangible,
unseen nature of a Christian's strength. The moment his defence is worn
on the outside, that moment there is a failure of strength within. His
real armour of proof is nothing more 'rigid,' Miss Essie, than 'the
girdle of truth,' 'the breastplate of righteousness,' and 'for a helmet
the hope of salvation.'"

"Very good armour," said Miss Essie; "but can't he wear it without
being unlike other people?"

"Can he?"

"Look here," said Squire Stoutenburgh, "what have you been about? If
you've been studying anatomy, Mr. Linden, I'll go learn dancing!"

And the conversation diverged.



CHAPTER XXXII.



Faith pondered probably Miss Essie's enigmatical words; but she said
nothing on the subject even to her mother. Other people's words and
looks had produced their share of disturbance at the time; disturbance
that Faith did not like to recollect. And she would not recollect it,
practically. It left no trace on her face or behaviour. The simplicity
of both, unchanged in a whit, testified for her that her modesty would
not take such hints from other people's testimony, and that there was
no folly in her to be set fluttering at the suggestion.

The next Wednesday morning was one of great promise,--fair and soft and
quiet, with November's sunshine softening November's brown dress.

"I think, Miss Faith," Mr. Linden said before he went off after
breakfast, "that you should take a short run or two, before you try
that long one to Mattabeeset."

"A run, Mr. Linden? Didn't I have one last night?"

"Truly yes,--but I mean on horseback. Will you take such a one to-day?"

"Yes!" said Faith, looking different things, especially pleasure,--"but
Mr. Linden, I don't know where I am to get a horse. Crab can't go now."

"Well, as I am to play the part of page, and run by your side," said
Mr. Linden, "I am rather glad he can't!--no disrespect to his other
good qualities. When will you be ready, Miss Faith?"

The hour fixed upon had need to be early, for the days were short; so
though books had a little time after dinner, it was but a little. Then
the horses came; and Mr. Linden took Faith in charge, with words from
her mother that might have been very useful if they had been
needed,--which in his case they hardly were. A fact which his reply, or
the manner of it, seemed to impress upon Mrs. Derrick's mind, for she
saw them ride off with nothing but pleasure.

Other people saw them with a variety of emotions All the boys they met
(except Sam) looked unqualified delight,--from her window Mrs.
Stoutenburgh gave them a gay wave of her hand; Miss Bezac on the
sidewalk absolutely turned to look again. They rode leisurely up the
grassy road, hardly beyond a walk at first, and it was not till the
houses grew few and the road more open, that Faith had her promised
run: which was but an easy trot, after all.

"You must begin very gently, Miss Faith," said her companion as they
walked their horses up a little hill. "Look how those topsails mark the
water line!"

"Yes--don't you like to see the white sails peeping over the trees? I
always do. But Mr. Linden, I don't get tired easily--you needn't be
afraid. I can go just as fast as you like." She looked enough in the
mood.

"You know I am interested in the matter,--if I should come home
to-morrow and find you gone to sleep at midday--I should lose my French
lesson! Now you may have another run."

This run was rather a long one, yet came to an unexpected end, for
turning a woody point in the road the two riders saw a wagon before
them, so directly in their way, that the run changed to a walk even
before they perceived that the wagon was in distress. Some bit of
harness, some pin, had given way, and the driver had dismounted to
repair damages. But moody, or intent upon his work, Faith's horse was
close upon him before he looked up--then she saw it was Squire Deacon.
He looked down again as suddenly, with only a slight motion of his hand
to his hat.

Faith's first impulse would have been to rush on; but she checked that.
Her next would have been to wait and leave somebody else to speak
first; but she overcame that too. So it was her very clear gentle voice
that asked,

"Are you in trouble here, Mr. Deacon?"

The Squire had no time to give his answer, and scarce a moment wherein
to concoct it, for Mr. Linden had dismounted and now came between
Faith's horse and the wagon, with,--"What is the matter, Squire
Deacon?--can I help you?"

The Squire looked up them, full, with a face that darkened as he looked.

"It's you, is it?" he said slowly. "I thought it was Dr. Harrison!"

"Can I help you?" Mr. Linden repeated--and the tone was a little
peremptory.

Sullenly and slowly the Squire told the damage--the broken harness, the
lost lynch-pin; and let Mr. Linden take the first out of his hands, and
do what he chose with it; looking on the while--then by degrees taking
hold himself and working with him as with any other man, but throwing
off jealously the kindness of his helper's words or manner. It was a
grave kindness, certainly, but it did not belie the name. Faith sat
looking on. After awhile her voice broke the silence.

"Did you say a lynch-pin was wanting, Mr. Deacon?"

"There's one gone."

"I should like to be doing something to help. Will you lend me your
knife, Mr. Deacon?--and I'll try." But that brought a hand on her
bridle.

"I cannot trust your horse out of my sight, Miss Faith,--I will get
what is wanting."

"There's no use in anyone's doing anything," said Squire Deacon, by way
of a settler; and the harness work went on in silence.

Faith waited a little.

"I am not the least afraid," she said then, leaning over her horse's
neck but speaking no name. "There's a place only a little way back
where I think I can get a lynch-pin,--if anybody will lend me a
knife. Please let me go and be doing something! I want to go."

"This cord," said Mr. Linden, taking one up from the bottom of the
wagon--"is it wanted for any special purpose, Squire Deacon?"

"I guess if you ask Joe he could tell you," said the Squire with a
glance that way. "'Twas good for something, but he's tied it in forty
knots--just to see if I'd be fool enough to pick 'em out."

"It would be very useful about this harness," said Mr. Linden,--"will
you try and get rid of the knots?"--and he handed Faith the cord, with
a smile which said she must make that do instead of the lynch-pin.

Which Faith did not particularly like, for she had a strong hankering
for the ride back to the bushes. She dropped the bridle upon her
horse's neck, and began to exercise her patience and skill upon the
knots.

"I wish I had a knife!" she said as she did so, "and I'd shew you that
I am not afraid." And a little colour rose in her face, which rather
grew.

"That's easy," said Squire Deacon, looking suddenly up and extending
his hand. "Here's one as'll cut through most things." Mr. Linden's head
was bent over the harness,--neither eye nor hand stirred from his work.

"Thank you, Mr. Deacon," said Faith, feeling the blood rise to her
brow,--"but I won't go for it now.--I'll do this first." In her
confusion Faith did not see another person that joined the group, till
he was standing at her horse's side.

"What sort of a bee are you gettin' up here on the high-way?" said Mr.
Simlins in his good-humoured growl (and he had a variety.) "What air
you doin' on horse-back?"

"There's harness to be mended here, Mr. Simlins--and I'm making rope
for it."

"You go 'long!" said he. "Who are you makin' rope for? Give that to
me?" But Faith held fast.

"No, Mr. Simlins, you can't have it--I am bound to get out these knots.
There is work doing round here, that perhaps you can help."

Mr. Simlins stooped under her horse's head and went round to the other
side, and then for the first time he got a full view.

"That's the way you perform actions!" he said; seeming too profoundly
struck to be at all wordy. "'Say and Seal' I guess you be! What's the
matter with you, Squire?"

"If anything is, I haint heard of it," said Mr. Deacon, with the knife
lying heavy against his ribs. "Mr. Linden's turned
harness-maker--that's the last news."

"O are you there, Mr. Simlins?" said the new mechanic, looking up from
his work.

"Can't be more unlikely than you," said the farmer, beginning on his
part to finger the broken harness. "How you come to be here passes
all my imagery. That'll do smartly. Where did you learn all trades? I
don't see, Squire Deacon, but he's as good at mendin' as you be at
marrin'. What do you think?"

"I don't see as one man has much to do with another," said Mr. Deacon
lucidly.

"Yes, that will do," said Mr. Linden. "Now Miss Faith--give me that
cord if you please, and you shall go after the lynch-pin."

"No," she said pleasantly,--"it'll be done in a minute--I want to
finish it."

"When did you get back from York, Squire?" said Mr. Simlins--"and what
took you away? I haint heerd yet. I never believed you were gone for
good--though folks said it."

"'Taint generally worth while to believe what folks says," replied the
Squire. "I've been back three weeks, I guess. Shouldn't wonder if I
went again though."

"Shouldn't wonder if you did," said Mr. Simlins. "I would if I was
you--if I wanted to. Mr. Linden, it was a providential thing, that you
should come along at this idiomatical moment. There aint another man in
Pattaquasset would ha' done this so good as you."

"There is another line of business open to me then," said Mr. Linden,
who had begun upon the other end of the piece of cord with opposition
fingers.

"What aint open to you?" said Mr. Simlins. "Do you know of anything?
Give us that cord--will you?"

"Yes, you may have it now--the knots are all out," said Mr. Linden, as
he put the disentangled cord in the hands of Mr. Simlins and himself in
the saddle. "Now Miss Faith, you shall have a lesson in
lynch-pins--s'il vous plaît."

"You do beat all!" said Squire Deacon looking up from under his hat,
and with a voice that kept his eyes company.

Faith looked very pretty as she turned her horse in obedience to the
intimation given her, with a somewhat demure smile and blush upon her
face. Mr. Simlins looked, as well as the Squire, with a different
expression.

"Well, I guess you're about right!" was his answering remark. "I do
believe he can get the whip hand of most things. He's a Say and Seal
man, he says." To which, however, the Squire deigned no response.
Stooping over his harness, fingering and fitting, he was silent a
little; then spoke in a careless, half inquiring half assenting sort of
way.

"What wonders me is, why he don't marry that girl out of hand. I reckon
she'd follow him down that road as easy as she does down others. What's
he waiting for?"

"I guess he haint pitched upon a likely place to settle yet,"--said Mr.
Simlins, in a manner equally careless and devoid of reliable
information. Squire Deacon gave a little inarticulate reply.

"He'd better hurry up--" he said,--"Dr. Harrison's giving chase."

"Is he?" said Mr. Simlins. "He'll be where the dog was when he chased
the wolf--if he's spry. I shouldn't wonder."

"O--you think he's a wolf, do you?" said Mr. Deacon. "Well--the
doctor's chance aint much the worse of that."

"Don't look very carnivorous," said Mr. Simlins, "but I aint sure. I
wouldn't be so quick in my presumptions, Squire. You'll shoot the wrong
game one of these days--if you haint already."

"Think so?" said the Squire. "Well, I aint after the game they are, any
way, so it don't matter to me which of 'em gets her. Most folks say
it's like to be the doctor,--she seems tryin' 'em both by turns."

The riders, on their part, had a short run back on the road they had
come, to where there was a hedge and thicket and trees together; and
Faith's horse being led close up to the side of the hedge, and she
herself provided with a knife, she was free to cut as many lynch-pins
as she chose. But at this point Faith handed back the knife. "I can't
do it half so well," she said. "I would rather you did it, Mr. Linden."

"You would rather not do it?" he said looking at her. "Is no bread
pleasant but that 'eaten in secret'?"

Faith coloured very much. "I didn't care about doing it, Mr. Linden,
except to be useful, and for the enterprise of going off for it by
myself. And I didn't care about that, more than two minutes."

"You know I had a charge about you before we came out," he said, taking
the knife and bending down towards the hedge to use it. "But for
that--or a like one in my own mind--you should have had your
enterprise. There--I think that may serve the purpose."

The lynch-pin being delivered, the riders left the distressed wagon
behind; and again the free road stretched before them; the soft air and
light filled all the way and even the brown tree stems with
pleasantness. The horses felt they had had a rest and pricked up their
ears to be in motion again, and the minds of the riders perhaps felt a
stir of the like kind.

"Miss Faith," said Mr. Linden, "a German writer says, that 'one should
every day read a fine poem, look upon an excellent picture, hear a
little good music, and, if possible, speak a few sensible words.'"

"Why do you tell that to me, Mr. Linden?"

