wind comes. But a person who does not understand the management of a
boat should no more attempt to handle one than an unskilful person
should attempt to run a steam engine.

Fanny Grant knew but little about a boat, and it was fortunate for her
and her companion in mischief that the wind was not strong enough to
carry the Greyhound wholly over. If she had careened only a little
more, she would have filled with water and sunk, for she was heavily
ballasted. As it was, she was half full of water, and the situation of
the young ladies, if not perilous, was very uncomfortable.

"O, Fanny!" screamed Kate, in mortal terror, as the Greyhound heeled
over, and the water rushed in over the washboard.

"Don't be scared," replied Fanny, with wonderful self-possession. "It's
all right, and there is no harm done."

"We shall be drowned!" gasped Kate.

"No, we shall not be drowned. Don't you see the boat stands up like a
major? Don't be frightened. I understand it all."

"No; you don't know anything about it. The boat is almost full of
water, and we shall sink to the bottom."

"I tell you she is doing very well. Pooh! that wasn't anything! She
often takes in the water like that."

"What shall we do?" moaned Kate.

This was a question which appealed even to Fanny's prudence. Without
answering in words, she let go the halliards, and hauled down the
foresail. After the boat came about, she had not righted the helm, and
the Greyhound had been thrown up into the wind as she heeled over and
took in the flood of water. She now lay with her sails flapping, and
Fanny cast off the main-sheet, rather to stop the fluttering than to
avoid further peril. Fortunately, this was the proper course to pursue.

"What shall we do?" repeated Kate, expecting every moment that the
treacherous sails would carry them over again, and that they would soon
find their way to the bottom of the river.

"Bale out the water," replied Fanny, taking a pail and a dipper from
the cuddy forward. "Now go to work, and we shall soon be ready to sail
again."

"I don't want to sail any more," whined Kate.

"Dip away as fast as ever you can. Don't stop to talk about it now."

Fanny took the pail herself, and gave the dipper to Kate, and both of
them went to work with a zeal which promised soon to free the Greyhound
from the burden under which she was laboring. There was a large
quantity of water in the boat, and the process of dipping it out was
very slow. Fanny was afraid that this accident would throw her into the
power of her great enemy, the constable; and this was the only fear
which troubled her. The perils of the mighty river had no terrors to
her while she had a plank under her feet.

Kate was utterly disconsolate and hopeless, and Fanny was obliged to
use all her ingenuity to keep her in working condition. To show her
confidence, she sang like a nightingale, as she dipped out the water;
and Fanny was an excellent singer. She labored hard to prove to her
desponding companion that there was no danger, and at last she
succeeded in restoring Kate to a tolerable degree of self-possession.

When about half the water had been dipped out, Fanny trimmed the sails,
and headed the boat down the river, to the utter consternation of her
timid associate, who was heartily sick of the adventure, and longed to
put her feet on the dry land again.

"Now, Kate, you take the pail, and I will use the dipper; I can work
and steer the boat at the same time," said Fanny, when the Greyhound
was under headway again.

"The boat is going down the river, Fanny!" exclaimed Kate, as she took
the pail.

"Of course she is," replied the bold skipper. "Where did you expect her
to go?"

"But you are not going any farther--are you?"

"To be sure I am. Do you think I am going to back out now?"

"We shall certainly be drowned!"

"Nonsense!"

"I don't want to go any farther," moaned Kate, who felt like one going
to execution.

"I can't help it if you don't. I'm going down to Pennville," answered
Fanny, still dipping up the water from the bottom of the boat.

"I won't bale out any more then," ejaculated Kate, as she dropped the
pail, and looked as though she actually meant what she said.

"Very well; then I won't," added Fanny, throwing down the dipper.

"If you will go back, I will bale out the water as hard as ever I can."

"But I will not go back," replied Fanny, firmly. "Do you think I am
going home to be shut up for a week, or sent back to my uncle, without
having any fun at all? If you won't bale, I won't. I guess I can stand
it as long as you can."

"Do go back, Fanny," begged Kate.

"I tell you I will not. You don't know what I am going to do yet."

"What?"

"I can't stop to talk about it now. If you don't take the pail and bale
out the boat, I will hoist the other sail."

"Don't, Fanny!"

"If you will keep still, and mind what I say, I won't hoist the sail.
We go along with only these two sails just as easy as anything can be,
and there isn't a bit of danger."

Kate, to avoid the greater evil, submitted to the less; and, as the
Greyhound, now going very steadily under her jib and mainsail,
continued on her course, she was soon freed from the water within her.
The boat went along so well that Kate gathered a little courage, and
ventured to hope that they might not be drowned, after all.

"You mustn't turn her round again, Fan," said she.

"What shall we do? We shall run ashore if I don't turn her."

"Can't we lower the sails when you turn her?"

"There is no need of that," replied Fanny, cheerfully. "I made a little
mistake before, but I understand all about it now."

"What was the mistake, Fan?"

"I didn't turn her the right way," replied the confident skipper, who
had been studying up the cause of the mishap and had reasoned out the
correct solution. "I shall know just how to do it next time, Kate, and
you needn't be the least grain scared. See here," said she, putting the
helm down, and bringing the boat round till her head was thrown up into
the wind.

"Don't, Fanny!"

"That's the way it is done," continued Fanny, proudly. "Don't you see
how easily she does it? There isn't a bit of danger now;" and she
brought the boat round to her course again.

Kate was terrified at the very mention of turning the boat; but when
she saw that the feat was accomplished without upsetting or even taking
in any more water, her confidence was in a great measure restored.
Fanny's exhibition of her skill produced the intended effect upon her
companion, and the feminine skipper's easy and self-reliant way
confirmed the impression. Fanny had learned more about the management
of a boat in that brief half hour than she had ever known before, for
the consciousness that her own life and that of her passenger depended
upon her skill, sharpened her perceptions and quickened her judgment to
such an extent that those moments of thrilling experience became
equivalent to months of plodding study when the mind is comparatively
dull and heavy.

Mr. Long, the constable, evidently did not hurry himself in the
investigation of Fanny's case; for when he had satisfied himself that
the wicked girl had deceived him, and had reached the Woodville pier,
having first visited the school, as the shrewd girl had intended he
should, the boat was not in sight; or, at least, nothing could be seen
of her but the white sails, which he could not identify, and the
fugitives were in no present danger on account of his movements. He did
not know whether the Greyhound had gone up or down the river; and he
had no boat in which to follow her.

Fanny felt that she had won a victory, for she did not realize that
success in a wicked cause is failure and defeat. She congratulated
herself on the feat she had accomplished, and she was vain enough to
boast to her associate of what she had done; of her skill in managing
the boat, and her shrewdness in planning the enterprise; and it is
quite certain that if she had been less resolute and courageous, the
expedition would have ended in failure almost at the beginning.

"But you haven't told me what you are going to do yet," said Kate, when
she had sponged out the bottom of the well, dried the seats in the
standing-room, and taken her place by the side of Fanny.

"I will tell you now," replied Fanny. "What do you suppose your father
will do to you when he finds out that you played truant, and went on
the river with me?" she added, apparently, but not really, avoiding the
subject.

"He'll kill me!" answered Kate, with emphasis.

"No, he won't."

"I don't know what he will do, then."

"He will punish you in some way--won't he?"

"Yes. I don't know what he will do."

"Well, Kate, we must bring him to terms," added Fanny, with the most
impudent assurance. "If you will mind what I say, he will not punish
you at all. Will you do it?"

"I don't know."

"You don't know! Do you want to go back and be whipped like a baby, be
shut up for a week, or something of that kind?"

"Of course I don't."

"And I will tell you how to get rid of all these things, and make your
father as glad to see you as though you had been a good little girl all
your life, and had been away on a long journey."

"How?"

"That's telling!"

"You said you would tell me."

"And so I will, if you are strong enough to bear it."

"Well, I am."

"Don't go home for a week or ten days. Your folks won't know where you
are. When they find out you went with me in a boat, they will think you
are drowned; and when you go back, they will be so glad to see you that
they won't say a word."

It would have been impossible for a girl who had been brought up by a
loving mother to conceive of such a cold-blooded and diabolical
proposition. Fanny had no mother, no father. Even the remembrance of
the former had passed from her mind; and her father, while he was
living, had been away from her so much that she hardly knew him as a
parent. Her antecedents, therefore, did not qualify her to comprehend
the loathsome enormity of the course she proposed to her companion.

"I can't stay away from home a week, let alone ten days," replied Kate,
who, bad as she was, was shocked at the proposition.

"Yes, you can."

"Where shall I stay?"

"Stay with me."

"Where will you stay?"

"We will go down to New York city."

"To New York city!"

"That's where I intend to go," replied Fanny, coolly.

"You don't mean so, Fan?"

"Yes, I do; and I have meant it all the time."

"But you said we were going to Pennville."

"We are; and when we get there we will take the cars for New York city.
We shall be there before twelve o'clock."

"But what shall we do when we get there?" demanded Kate, who was
absolutely appalled at the magnitude of Fanny's scheme.

"We will have a good time, in the first place. There are plenty of
shops where we can get cakes, and candy, and ice-cream; we can go to
the museum, the theatre, and the circus; we can go to Central Park, and
all the fine places in the city."

"But where should we live?"

"There are hotels enough."

"What should we do at a hotel? Besides, it would take lots of money."

"I've got money enough."

"Five dollars wouldn't pay for our living a week. They ask three or
four dollars a day for living at a hotel."

"I've got more than five dollars," answered Fanny, rather cautiously.

"Have you? How much have you got?"

"I don't know exactly."

"You don't know!" repeated Kate, very confident now in regard to the
means by which the money had been obtained, which, with this added
revelation regarding the amount, she did not believe had been found on
the floor. "You don't know!"

"I haven't counted it."

"Fan, you didn't find that money on the floor!" exclaimed she.

"I found it, anyhow," said Fanny, turning her head away from her
companion.

"Where did you find it?"

"In the drawer, if you must know," replied Fanny, desperately.




CHAPTER VI.

KATE'S DEFECTION.


"Fanny Grant, you stole that money!" said Kate, as though she had made
a great discovery.

It was no discovery at all. She had been reasonably confident that the
five dollars, which Fanny acknowledged to be in her possession, had
been stolen, or, if not actually stolen, that it had been obtained in
a manner entirely at variance even with a very low ideal of common
honesty. She was willing to enjoy the good things which might be
bought with the five dollars, but she was not disposed to bear the
responsibility of the theft, either as principal or accessory. If, when
the day of reckoning came, she could make it appear that she did not
know the money had been stolen, she would escape the penalty and the
odium of being a thief, or a receiver of stolen goods.

Like many others, she could hold up her hands in holy horror at the
crime made public, while she was willing to wink at or compromise the
crime for her own benefit in the secret chambers of her own heart. If
she had been taught in ancient Lacedæmonia that it is not a crime to
steal, but a crime to be found out, she could not have been more
faithful to its base policy.

Fanny heard the charge, but made no reply, pretending to be occupied in
watching the course of the boat.

"You stole that money, Fanny Grant!" repeated Kate, with even more
emphasis, and more holy horror than before.

"Well, what if I did?" answered Fanny, who was disposed to have her
associate as deep in the mud as she herself was in the mire; and she
knew that it would be impossible to deny the fact when she exhibited
the great roll of bills in her pocket.

"I didn't think you would steal money, Fanny."

"You would yourself, if you got a chance."

"No, I wouldn't; I'm bad enough, I know, but I wouldn't steal."

"Yes, you would! You needn't pretend to be so good. You will never be
hung for your honesty. I know you."

"Do you mean to say I would steal?" demanded Kate, not a little
mortified to be thought so meanly of.

"I know you would. Who stole the strawberries the other day?"

"That wasn't money," pleaded Kate.

"It was all the same."

"I wouldn't take money. I'm not a thief."

"You flatter yourself."

"I wouldn't. But, Fanny," she added, willing to change the subject, "I
shouldn't dare to go to New York city."

"Why not?"

"Something might happen to us."

"What can happen to us?"

"I don't know; but I'm afraid to go. What should we do with ourselves
for a whole week?"

"Have a good time; that's what we are going for?"

"I can't go, Fan."

"Yes, you can; and you must. You have got into the scrape so far, and
you are not going to leave me alone now. You promised to go with me."

"But you did not tell me what you were going to do."

"I have told you now; and if you attempt to back out, you shall bear
half the blame."

"I didn't steal."

"I don't care if you didn't; you shall bear your share of the blame.
You shall go with me."

"What will my mother say?"

"She will say you are a naughty girl, and punish you for what you have
done. If you go with me, she will be so glad to see you when you get
back, that she won't say a word. She will find out what you are made of
then; if you go back now, she will see that you are nothing but a
chicken at heart, and she will punish you, as you deserve to be for
deserting your friend."

"My mother would feel awfully if I did not come back to-night,"
continued Kate, thoughtfully, even sadly; and she was sincere now.

"She will get over it."

"She would feel dreadfully."

"So much the better; the worse she feels the more glad she will be to
see you when you do go back."

Kate saw that it was useless to reason with her companion on this
point; besides, there was a certain sacred feeling in her heart which
Fanny could neither understand nor appreciate, and she was unwilling to
expose it to the rude reproaches of one who seemed to have no heart.
She was too timid, rather than too conscientious, to engage in such a
gigantic scheme of wickedness as that which Fanny had indicated; and we
must do her the justice to add, that the blessed influence of a
mother's love, stronger and deeper in her heart than principle,
asserted its sway, and to give her mother a week of pain and anxiety
was revolting to her.

She was fully determined not to go to New York city, and to get home as
soon as she could. But Fanny had so much to say about "backing out,"
and "deserting her friend," that she deemed it prudent not to mention
anything about her resolution. She knew her companion well enough to
believe that it would be useless to attempt to persuade her to abandon
her brilliant scheme; and Fanny was so resolute and self-willed that
she might find a way to compel her to go with her, whether she was
willing or not.

"Do you want to know how much money I have got?" asked Fanny, after a
silence of some minutes, during which Kate had been thinking what she
should do.

"I should like to know," replied Kate, who, however, was really
indifferent after she had decided not to partake of the good things
which the stolen money could purchase.

"You take the tiller then, and I will count it. Keep it just as it is,"
said Fanny, resigning her place to her fellow-voyager.

The boat was going along very easily with the wind on the starboard
quarter, and did not need much attention. She was approaching
Pennville, and the cruise was nearly finished. Fanny took the roll of
bills from her pocket, and proceeded to count it. The notes were nearly
all "greenbacks," with a few small bills on the state banks. There were
twenties, tens, and fives, and the thief was almost frightened herself
when she ascertained the amount she had obtained.

"One hundred, one hundred five, one hundred and ten," said Fanny, as
she counted the money; "one hundred and ten----"

"Why, Fanny Grant!" cried Kate, horrified at the greatness of the sum.

"Fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty----"

"They will send you to the state prison for stealing so much money!"
added Kate, trembling as the large numbers were mentioned.

"The more the better," replied Fanny, trying to keep cool, though she
was much agitated herself, as, measuring the crime by the amount of the
money, she realized how guilty she had been.

She finished the counting; and the whole sum was one hundred and
seventy-three dollars and eighty-five cents.

"There is a great deal more than I thought there was," said she.

"Why did you take so much?" asked the terrified Kate.

"I didn't know how much there was."

"You will have all the constables in the county after you before
night."

"And after you, too."

"I didn't steal it."

"Well, you were with me, and I will give you some of it."

"I don't want any of it."

"Don't you?"

"No, I don't; I don't think it is fair for you to try to make it out
that I helped you steal the money, when I didn't, and when I didn't
know anything about it."

"You knew I had some money before you got into the boat. You are
scared--that's all."

"I am scared, and I wish I hadn't come."

"I wish you hadn't, because you are so frightened; but now you have
gone so far, you can't back out. You want to return to Woodville, and
tell them I stole the money."

"No, I don't."

"I'm never going back to Woodville again. They have been talking about
sending me to my uncle's, in Minnesota, and I'm not going to be sent
there."

"What shall I do, then?" demanded Kate, awed and astonished at the
desperate purpose of her friend.

"I will see that you get back home all right. Here is some money to pay
your passage," added Fanny, counting out a portion of the bills.

"I don't want that."

"Very well," answered Fanny, putting the bills in her pocket; and she
looked so firm and so "ugly" that Kate was actually afraid of her.

The Greyhound had nearly reached the pier at Pennville; but Fanny did
not intend to land at any public place, and she ran the boat up to the
bank of the river, a short distance above the village, grounding it
lightly on a kind of beach she had chosen as a landing-place. Fanny
took the boat-hook in her hand, and jumped ashore.

"Now, Kate Magner, before we go any farther, we must come to an
understanding. If you think you are going to leave me to bear all the
blame, you are mistaken."

"I don't mean any such thing," replied Kate.

"Yes, you do; you mean to betray me."

"No, I don't."

"Why didn't you take the money I offered you, then?"

"I don't want it."

"You are in the boat, and I am on the land. If you don't take the
money, I will push the boat off, and she will carry you away--I don't
know where."

"Don't do that."

"Will you take the money?"

"Yes, I will," answered Kate, who was more afraid of the boat than she
would have been of a demon.

"Take it, then," said Fanny, handing her the little roll of bills she
had taken from the package for this purpose. "There is twenty-one
dollars."

Kate took the money, and thrust it into her pocket.

"Now we are both just the same. You have taken some of the money, and
you are just as bad as I am. You can't back out now, if you want to do
so."

This was only an expedient on the part of the resolute mistress of the
expedition to prevent her companion from deserting her, rather than to
insure an equal division of the punishment for stealing.

"What shall we do now?" asked Kate, as she landed from the boat, which
Fanny held with the boat-hook.

"We will go up to the railroad station, and take the train for New York
city."

"But what are you going to do with the boat?"

"I don't care anything about the boat. I have had all I want of her.
But I think I will let the sails down, and fasten her to the bank. If
they should find her, she might betray us."

Fanny lowered the sails, and fastened the painter to a stake on the
bank. The two girls then started for the village, which was about a
quarter of a mile below the place where they had landed. When they had
gone a short distance, they saw a man mending a boat on the bank of the
river. Kate took particular notice of him, for she was already planning
the means of her deliverance from the arbitrary sway of her companion.

The two girls were very well dressed, and it was not an uncommon thing
for young ladies to manage their own boats on the Hudson; so, if they
had been seen to land from the Greyhound, no notice was taken of the
circumstance. They were not likely to be molested, except by their own
guilty consciences. They walked directly to the railroad station, and
ascertained that the train would leave in half an hour. Fanny, anxious
to conciliate her associate, and accustom her to her new situation,
invited her to a saloon, where they partook of ice-creams; but partial
as Kate was to this luxury, it did not taste good, and seemed to be
entirely different from any ice-cream she had ever eaten before.

When it was nearly time for the train to arrive, Fanny bought two
tickets, and they joined the crowd that was waiting for the cars. Kate
seemed to be so fully reconciled to the enterprise, that her friend did
not doubt her any longer; she had no suspicion of her intended
defection.

"I am almost choked," said Kate, when the whistle of the locomotive was
heard in the distance. "I must have a drink of water."

"You have no time."

"I won't be gone but a second," replied Kate.

"I will wait here--but be quick."

Kate went into the station-house, and passing out at the door on the
other side, ran off towards the river as fast as her legs would carry
her. She reached the outskirts of the village before she slackened her
pace, and then, exhausted and out of breath with running, she paused to
ascertain if Fanny was in pursuit of her. No one was to be seen in the
direction from which she had come, and taking courage from her success,
she walked leisurely towards the place where the Greyhound had been
left.

The man she had passed on her way down was still at work on his boat,
and Kate, telling him such a story as suited her purpose, engaged him
to sail the Greyhound up to Woodville. They embarked without any
interruption from Fanny, and in a couple of hours she was landed at the
pier from which she had started. Kate paid her boatman three dollars
from the money which Fanny had given her, and then walked up to the
mansion.

She told Mrs. Green the whole truth, and gave her the eighteen dollars
remaining in her possession. She then went home to make peace with her
mother, to whom also she told the whole story, blaming Fanny for
everything except her own truancy, and pleading that she had been led
away in this respect.

Mr. Long was still engaged in the search for Fanny, though the loss of
the money in the closet had not been discovered till Kate appeared.




CHAPTER VII.

THE SOLDIER'S FAMILY.


Fanny stood on the platform in front of the station-house, waiting for
the return of Kate. She had no suspicion that her friend had deserted
her, and was at that moment running away as fast as she could. The
train was approaching, and with the nervousness of one not accustomed
to travelling, she feared they might be left. The cars stopped, and
Kate did not return. Fanny rushed into the station-house in search of
her. She was not there! she was not in the building; she was not to be
seen from the open door.

Then Fanny realized that her companion's courage had failed, and that
she had deserted her. The bell on the locomotive was ringing, and the
train was in the act of starting. Fanny was quick and decisive in her
movements, and she bounded out of the building, and stepped upon the
train after it was in motion. She was angry and indignant at the
defection of Kate, and, taking a seat in the car, she nursed her bitter
feelings until her wrath had expended itself.

Kate's desertion affected the plans of the runaway, for in a few hours,
at most, what she had done, and what she intended to do, would be known
at Woodville. Mr. Long would take one of the afternoon trains for the
city, and the whole police force of the great metropolis would be on
the lookout for her before dark. Constables and policemen were now more
than ever Fanny's especial horror, and she trembled at the very thought
of being arrested for the crime she had committed.

Fanny was a girl of quick, bright parts. She had read the newspapers,
and listened to the conversation of her elders. She was better informed
in regard to the ways of the world than most young persons of her age
with no more experience. She knew all about the telegraph, and the uses
to which it was put in the detection and arrest of rogues. Though it
was hardly possible for Kate to reach Woodville, and inform the people
there where she had gone, yet circumstances might conspire against her
so as to render the telegraph available. Mr. Long might have discovered
in what direction the fugitives had gone, and followed them down to
Pennville. He might have met Kate there, and learned her destination.
It was possible, therefore, that a despatch might reach the city before
she did, and an officer be waiting for her at the railroad station.

She was too cunning to be entrapped by any such expedients; and when
the train stopped at Harlem, she got out, with the intention of walking
into the city. Deeming it imprudent to follow the principal street, in
which some of the terrible policemen might be lying in wait for her,
she made her way to one of the less travelled thoroughfares, in which
she pursued her way towards the city. The street she had chosen led her
through the localities inhabited by the poorer portions of the
population. The territory through which she was passing was in a
transition state: broad streets and large squares had been laid out, in
anticipation of vast improvements, but only a little had been
accomplished in carrying them out. There were many tasty little houses,
and many long blocks of buildings occupied by mechanics and laborers,
and occasionally a more pretentious mansion.

In some of the most ineligible places for building, there were houses,
or rather hovels, constructed in the roughest and rudest manner,
apparently for temporary use until the march of improvement should
drive their tenants into still more obscure locations. Fanny passed
near one of these rude abodes, which was situated on a cross street, a
short distance from the avenue on which she was journeying to the city.
In front of this house was a scene which attracted the attention of the
wanderer, and caused her to forget, for the time, the great wrong she
had committed, and the consequences which would follow in its train.

In front of the house lay several articles of the coarsest furniture,
and a man was engaged in removing more of the same kind from the hovel.
He had paused for a moment in his occupation, and before him stood a
woman who was wringing her hands in the agonies of despair. Fanny could
hear the profane and abusive language the man used, and she could hear
the piteous pleadings of the woman, at whose side stood a little boy,
half clothed in tattered garments, weeping as though his heart would
break.

Fanny was interested in the scene. The woman's woe and despair touched
her feelings, and perhaps more from curiosity than any other motive,
she walked down the cross-street towards the cottage. Being resolute
and courageous by nature, she had no fear of personal consequences. She
did not comprehend the nature of the difficulty, having never seen a
tenant forcibly ejected from a house for the non-payment of rent.

"You'll kill my child! You'll kill my child!" cried the poor woman, in
such an agony of bitterness that Fanny was thrilled by her tones.

"Isn't it a whole year I've been waiting for my rint?" replied the man,
coarsely. "Didn't ye keep promisin' to pay me for a twelvemonth, and
niver a cint I got yet?"

"I would pay you if I could, Mr. O'Shane."

"If ye could! What call have I to wait any longer for me money?"

"My husband has gone to the war, and I haven't heard a word from him
for a year; but I'm sure he will send me some money soon--I know he
will."

"What call had he to go to the war? Why didn't he stay at home and take
care of his childer? Go 'way wid ye! Give me up me house!"

Mr. O'Shane broke away from her, and, rushing into the house, presently
returned bearing a dilapidated table in his hands.

"Have mercy, Mr. O'Shane. Pity me!" pleaded the woman, when he
appeared.

"I do pity ye; 'pon me sowl, I do, thin; but what can a poor man like
me do?" replied the landlord. "I live in a worse house nor this, and
work like a mule, and I can't make enough, for the high prices, to take
care of me family. Didn't I wait month after month for me rint, and
sorra a cint I iver got? Sure it isn't Mike O'Shane that would do the
likes of this if he could help it."

"But I will pay you all I owe, Mr. O'Shane."

"That's what ye been sayin' this twelvemonth; and I can't wait any
longer. Why don't ye stir yoursilf, and go among the rich folks?"

"I can't beg, Mr. O'Shane."

"But ye better beg than chate me out of me honest dues. Go 'way wid ye!
Pay me the rint, or give me the house; and sorra one of me cares which
you do."

"I would move if I could. You know that my poor child is very sick. For
her sake don't turn me out of the house to-day," added the woman, in
the most beseeching tones.

"Didn't I wait six months for the child to die, and she didn't die? She
won't die. Sure, don't she sit in the chair all day? and what harm
would it do to move her?"

"I have no place to move her to."

"That's what's the matter! Now go 'way wid your blarney, and don't be
talking to me. It's Mike O'Shane that has a soft spot in his heart, but
he can't do no more for ye. That's the truth, and ye must move to-day."

The landlord went into the house again, for more of the furniture. As
he had represented, it was, doubtless, a hard case for him; but it was
infinitely harder for the poor woman, and Fanny was too deeply
interested now to leave the spot. What she had known of human misery
was as nothing compared with the suffering of this poor mother.

"What's the matter, ma'am?" asked Fanny of her, when the harsh landlord
had gone into the house.

"This man is my landlord, and he is turning me out of the house because
I cannot pay him the rent," sobbed the woman. "I wouldn't care, if it
wasn't for poor Jenny."

"Who is Jenny?"

"She is my daughter. She has been sick, very sick, for nearly a year,
and she cannot live much longer. The doctor gave her up six months
ago."

"How old is Jenny?"

"She is fourteen; and she is such a patient child! She never complains
of anything, though I am not able to do much for her," replied the
afflicted mother, as her tears broke forth afresh at the thought of the
sufferer.

"Haven't you any place to go if this man turns you out of the house?"
asked Fanny.

"No, no!" groaned the woman, bursting out into a terrible paroxysm of
grief.

"I know it's hard for you, Mrs. Kent, but it's harder for me to do it
than it is for you to have it done," continued Mr. O'Shane, as he came
out of the house with a rocking chair in his hands.

"O mercy! that is poor Jenny's chair!" almost screamed Mrs. Kent. "What
have you done with her?"

The mother, in her agony, rushed into the house to ascertain if any
harm had come to her suffering daughter, who had been deprived of the
easy chair in which she was accustomed to sit. Fanny was moved to the
depths of her nature--moved as she had never been moved before. She
couldn't have believed that such scenes were real. She had read of them
in romances, and even in the newspapers; but she had never realized
that a man could be so hard as Mr. O'Shane, or that a woman could
suffer so much as Mrs. Kent. Between her grief and indignation she was
almost overwhelmed.

"You are a cruel man," said she, with something like fierceness in her
tones.

"That's very foine for the likes of you to say to the likes of me; but
it don't pay me rint," replied Mr. O'Shane, not as angry as might have
been expected at this interference.

"You ought to be ashamed of yourself to do such a mean thing!" added
Fanny, her black eyes snapping with the living fire of her indignation.

"Shall I let me own childer starve for another man's childer?" answered
the landlord, who, we must do him the justice to say, was ashamed of
himself.

"How much does the woman owe you?" demanded Fanny.

"A matther of a hundred dollars--for a whole year's rint. Sure, miss,
it isn't many min that would wait a twelvemonth for the rint, and not
get it thin."

"And her daughter is sick?"

"Troth she is; there's no lie in that; she's got the consoomption, and
she's not long for this world," replied the landlord, moving towards
the door of the house, again to complete the work of desolation he had
begun.



"Stop, sir!" said Fanny, in tones so imperative that the man could not
help obeying her.

"What would I stop for?" asked Mr. O'Shane, rather vacantly.

"You shall not do this cruel thing."

"The saints know how it breaks me heart to do it, but I can't help it."

"Now you put all these things back into the house just as you found
them."

"Faix, I'd like to do it, miss," said the man, taking off his hat and
rubbing his tangled hair.

"You must do it."

"And not git me rint?"

"You shall have your money--every cent of it. Put the furniture back,
and you shall have your due just as soon as you have done it," said
Fanny, as haughtily as though she had been a millionaire.

Mr. O'Shane looked at her, and seemed to be petrified with
astonishment. The deed he was doing, harsh and cruel as it was, he
regarded as a work of necessity. Though he owned the house occupied by
Mrs. Kent, and another in which he lived himself with two other
families, both of them were mortgaged for half their value, and he was
obliged to pay interest on the money he owed for them. He certainly
could not afford to lose his rent, to which he was justly entitled. He
had indulged his tenant for a year, and nothing but the apparent
hopelessness of obtaining what was due had tempted him to this cruel
proceeding. Nothing but starvation in his own family could justify a
landlord in turning a mother with a dying child out of the house. He
looked at Fanny with astonishment when she promised to pay him, but he
was sceptical.

"Why don't you put back the furniture?" demanded Fanny, impatiently.

"It's meself that would be glad to do that same," replied he. "Would
you let me see the color of your money, miss?"

