“It’s said,” said Aunt Rachel, with severe emphasis, “if you should ever
be on board a steamboat when it exploded you wouldn’t find much to laugh
at.”

“Yes, I should,” said Jack. “I should laugh----”

“What!” said Aunt Rachel, horrified.

“On the other side of my mouth,” concluded Jack. “You didn’t wait till I
had got through the sentence.”

“I don’t think it proper to make light of such matters.”

“Nor I, Aunt Rachel,” said Jack, drawing down the corners of his mouth.
“I am willing to confess that this is a serious matter. I should feel as
they said the cow did, that was thrown three hundred feet into the air.”

“How was that?” inquired his mother.

“A little discouraged,” replied Jack.

All laughed except Aunt Rachel, who preserved the same severe composure,
and continued to eat the pie upon her plate with the air of one gulping
down medicine.

So the evening passed. All seemed to miss Ida. Mrs. Crump found herself
stealing glances at the smaller chair beside her own in which Ida
usually sat. The cooper appeared abstracted, and did not take as much
interest as usual in the evening paper. Jack was restless, and found it
difficult to fix his attention upon anything. Even Aunt Rachel looked
more dismal than usual, if such a thing be possible.

In the morning all felt brighter.

“Ida will be home to-night,” said Mrs. Crump, cheerfully. “What an age
it seems since she left us!”

“We shall know better how to appreciate her presence,” said the cooper,
cheerfully.

“What time do you expect her home? Did Mrs. Hardwick say?”

“Why no,” said Mrs. Crump, “she didn’t say, but I guess she will be along
in the course of the afternoon.”

“If we only knew where she had gone,” said Jack, “we could tell better.”

“But as we don’t know,” said his father, “we must wait patiently till
she comes.”

“I guess,” said Mrs. Crump, in the spirit of a notable housewife, “I’ll
make up some apple-turnovers for supper to-night. There’s nothing Ida
likes so well.”

“That’s where Ida is right,” said Jack, “apple-turnovers are splendid.”

“They’re very unwholesome,” remarked Aunt Rachel.

“I shouldn’t think so from the way you eat them, Aunt Rachel,” retorted
Jack. “You ate four the last time we had them for supper.”

“I didn’t think you’d begrudge me the little I eat,” said Rachel,
dolefully. “I didn’t think you took the trouble to keep account of what
I ate.”

“Come, Rachel, this is unreasonable,” said her brother. “Nobody
begrudges you what you eat, even if you choose to eat twice as much as
you do. I dare say, Jack ate more of them than you did.”

“I ate six,” said Jack.

Rachel, construing this into an apology, said no more; but, feeling it
unnecessary to explain why she ate what she admitted to be unhealthy,
added, “And if I do eat what’s unwholesome, it’s because life ain’t of
any value to me. The sooner one gets out of this vale of affliction the
better.”

“And the way you take to get out of it,” said Jack, gravely, “is by
eating apple-turnovers. Whenever you die, Aunt Rachel, we shall have
to put a paragraph in the papers, headed, ‘Suicide by eating
apple-turnovers.’”

Rachel intimated, in reply, that she presumed it would afford Jack a
great deal of satisfaction to write such a paragraph.

The evening came. Still no tidings of Ida.

The family began to feel alarmed. An indefinable sense of apprehension
oppressed the minds of all. Mrs. Crump feared that Ida’s mother, seeing
her grown up so attractive, could not resist the temptation of keeping
her.

“I suppose,” she said, “that she has the best claim to her; but it will
be a terrible thing for us to part with her.”

“Don’t let us trouble ourselves in that way,” said the cooper. “It seems
to me very natural that they should keep her a little longer than they
intended. Besides, it is not too late for her to return to-night.”

This cheered Mrs. Crump a little.

The evening passed slowly.

At length there came a knock at the door.

“I guess that is Ida,” said Mrs. Crump, joyfully.

Jack seized a candle, and hastening to the door, threw it open. But
there was no Ida there. In her place stood William Fitts, the boy who
had met Ida in the cars.

“How do you do, Bill?” said Jack, endeavoring not to look disappointed.
“Come in, and take a seat, and tell us all the news.”

“Well,” said William, “I don’t know of any. I suppose Ida has got home.”

“No,” said Jack, “we expected her to-night, but she hasn’t come yet.”

“She told me that she expected to come back to-day,” said William.

“What! have you seen her?” exclaimed all in chorus.

“Yes, I saw her yesterday noon.”

“Where?”

“Why, in the cars,” said William, a little surprised at the question.

“What cars?” asked the cooper.

“Why, the Philadelphia cars. Of course, you knew that was where she was
going?”

“Philadelphia!” all exclaimed, in surprise.

“Yes, the cars were almost there when I saw her. Who was that with her?”

“Mrs. Hardwick, who was her old nurse.”

“Anyway, I didn’t like her looks,” said the boy.

“That’s where I agree with you,” said Jack, decidedly.

“She didn’t seem to want me to speak to Ida,” continued William, “but
hurried her off, just as quick as possible.”

“There were reasons for that,” said Mrs. Crump, “she wanted to keep
secret her destination.”

“I don’t know what it was,” said William; “but any how, I don’t like her
looks.”

The family felt a little relieved by this information; and, since Ida
had gone so far, it did not seem strange that she should have outstayed
her time.



CHAPTER XII. HOW IDA FARED.



WE left Ida confined in a dark closet, with Peg standing guard over her.

After an hour she was released.

“Well,” said Peg, grimly, “how do you feel now?”

“I want to go home,” sobbed the child.

“You are at home,” said the woman. “This is going to be your home now.”

“Shall I never see father and mother and Jack, again?”

“Why,” answered Peg, “that depends on how you behave yourself.”

“Oh, if you will only let me go,” said Ida, gathering hope from this
remark, “I’ll do anything you say.”

“Do you mean this, or do you only say it for the sake of getting away?”

“Oh, I mean just what I say. Dear, good Mrs. Hardwick, just tell me what
I am to do, and I will obey you cheerfully.”

“Very well,” said Peg, “only you needn’t try to get anything out of me
by calling me dear, good Mrs. Hardwick. In the first place, you don’t
care a cent about me. In the second place, I am not good; and finally,
my name isn’t Mrs. Hardwick, except in New York.”

“What is it, then?” asked Ida.

“It’s just Peg, no more and no less. You may call me Aunt Peg.”

“I would rather call you Mrs. Hardwick.”

“Then you’ll have a good many years to call me so. You’d better do as I
tell you if you want any favors. Now what do you say?”

“Yes, Aunt Peg,” said Ida, with a strong effort to conceal her
repugnance.

“That’s well. Now the first thing to do, is to stay here for the
present.”

“Yes--aunt.”

“The second is, you’re not to tell anybody that you came from New York.
That is very important. You understand that, do you?”

The child replied in the affirmative.

“The next is, that you’re to pay for your board, by doing whatever I
tell you.”

“If it isn’t wicked.”

“Do you suppose I would ask you to do anything wicked?”

“You said you wasn’t good,” mildly suggested Ida.

“I’m good enough to take care of you. Well, what do you say to that?
Answer me.”

“Yes.”

“There’s another thing. You ain’t to try to run away.”

Ida hung down her head.

“Ha!” said Peg. “So you’ve been thinking of it, have you?”

“Yes,” said Ida, boldly, after a moment’s hesitation; “I did think I
should if I got a good chance.”

“Humph!” said the woman; “I see we must understand one another. Unless
you promise this, back you go into the dark closet, and I shall keep you
there all the time.”

Ida shuddered at this fearful threat, terrible to a child of nine.

“Do you promise?”

“Yes,” said the child, faintly.

“For fear you might be tempted to break your promise, I have something
to show you.”

She went to the cupboard, and took down a large pistol.

“There,” she said, “do you see that?”

“Yes, Aunt Peg.”

“What is it?”

“It is a pistol, I believe.”

“Do you know what it is for?”

“To shoot people with,” said Ida, fixing her eyes on the weapon, as if
impelled by a species of fascination.

“Yes,” said the woman; “I see you understand. Well, now, do you know
what I would do if you should tell anybody where you came from, or
attempt to run away? Can you guess now?”

“Would you shoot me?” asked the child, struck with terror.

“Yes, I would,” said Peg, with fierce emphasis. “That’s just what I’d
do. And what’s more,” she added, “even if you got away, and got back to
your family in New York. I would follow you and shoot you dead in the
street.”

“You wouldn’t be so wicked!” exclaimed Ida, appalled.

“Wouldn’t I, though?” repeated Peg, significantly. “If you don’t believe
I would, just try it. Do you think you would like to try it?”

“No,” said the child, with a shudder.

“Well, that’s the most sensible thing you’ve said yet. Now, that you
have got to be a little more reasonable, I’ll tell you what I am going
to do with you.”

Ida looked up eagerly into her face.

“I am going to keep you with me a year. I want the services of a little
girl for that time. If you serve me faithfully, I will then send you
back to your friends in New York.”

“Will you?” said Ida, hopefully.

“Yes. But you must mind and do what I tell you.”

“O yes,” said the child, joyfully.

This was so much better than she had been led to fear, that the prospect
of returning home, even after a year, gave her fresh courage.

“What shall I do?” she asked, anxious to conciliate Peg.

“You may take the broom,--you will find it just behind the door,--and
sweep the room.”

“Yes, Aunt Peg.”

“And after that you may wash the dishes. Or, rather, you may wash the
dishes first.”

“Yes, Aunt Peg.”

“And after that I will find something for you to do.”

The next morning Ida was asked if she would like to go out into the
street.

This was a welcome proposition, as the sun was shining brightly, and
there was little to please a child’s fancy in Peg’s shabby apartment.

“I am going to let you do a little shopping,” said Peg. “There are
various things that we want. Go and get your bonnet.”

“It’s in the closet,” said Ida.

“O yes, where I put it. That was before I could trust you.”

She went to the closet, and came back bringing the bonnet and shawl. As
soon as they were ready, they emerged into the street. Ida was glad to
be in the open air once more.

“This is a little better than being shut up in the closet, isn’t it?”
 said Peg.

Ida owned that it was.

“You see you’ll have a very good time of it, if you do as I bid you. I
don’t want to do you any harm. I want you to be happy.”

So they walked along together, until Peg, suddenly pausing, laid her
hand on Ida’s arm, and pointing to a shop near by, said to her, “Do you
see that shop?”

“Yes,” said Ida.

“Well, that is a baker’s shop. And now I’ll tell you what to do. I want
you to go in, and ask for a couple of rolls. They come at three cents
apiece. Here’s some money to pay for them. It is a silver dollar, as you
see. You will give this to them, and they will give you back ninety-four
cents in change. Do you understand’?”

“Yes,” said Ida; “I think I do.”

“And if they ask if you haven’t anything smaller, you will say no.”

“Yes, Aunt Peg.”

“I will stay just outside. I want you to go in alone, so that you will
get used to doing without me.”

Ida entered the shop. The baker, a pleasant-looking man, stood behind
the counter.

“Well, my dear, what is it?” he asked.

“I should like a couple of rolls.”

“For your mother, I suppose,” said the baker, sociably.

“No,” said Ida; “for the woman I board with.”

“Ha! a silver dollar, and a new one, too,” said the baker, receiving
the coin tendered in payment. “I shall have to save that for my little
girl.”

Ida left the shop with the two rolls and the silver change.

“Did he say anything about the money?” asked Peg, a little anxiously.

“He said he should save it for his little girl.”

“Good,” said the woman, approvingly; “you’ve done well.”

Ida could not help wondering what the baker’s disposal of the dollar had
to do with her doing well, but she was soon thinking of other things.



CHAPTER XIII. BAD COIN.



THE baker introduced to the reader’s notice in the last chapter was
named Crump. Singularly enough Abel Crump, for this was his name, was a
brother of Timothy Crump, the cooper. In many respects he resembled
his brother. He was an excellent man, exemplary in all the relations of
life, and had a good heart. He was in very comfortable circumstances,
having accumulated a little property by diligent attention to his
business. Like his brother, Abel Crump had married, and had one child,
now about the size of Ida, that is, nine years old. She had received the
name of Ellen.

When the baker closed his shop for the night he did not forget the
silver dollar which he had received, or the disposal which he told Ida
he should make of it.

He selected it carefully from the other coins, and slipped it into his
vest pocket.

Ellen ran to meet him as he entered the house.

“What do you think I have brought you, Ellen?” said her father, smiling.

“Do tell me quick,” said the child, eagerly.

“What if I should tell you it was a silver dollar?”

“Oh, father, thank you,” and Ellen ran to show it to her mother.

“You got it at the shop?” asked his wife.

“Yes,” said the baker; “I received it from a little girl about the size
of Ellen, and I suppose it was that gave me the idea of bringing it home
to her.”

“Was she a pretty little girl?” asked Ellen, interested.

“Yes, she was very attractive. I could not help feeling interested in
her. I hope she will come again.”

This was all that passed concerning Ida at that time. The thought of her
would have passed from the baker’s mind, if it had not been recalled by
circumstances.

Ellen, like most girls of her age, when in possession of money, could
not be easy until she had spent it. Her mother advised her to lay it
away, or perhaps deposit it in some Savings Bank; but Ellen preferred
present gratification.

Accordingly one afternoon, when walking out with her mother, she
persuaded her to go into a toy shop, and price a doll which she saw in
the window. The price was sixty-two cents. Ellen concluded to take it,
and tendered the silver dollar in payment.

The shopman took it into his hand, glancing at it carelessly at first,
then scrutinizing it with considerable attention.

“What is the matter?” inquired Mrs. Crump. “It is good, isn’t it?”

“That is what I am doubtful of,” was the reply.

“It is new.”

“And that is against it. If it were old, it would be more likely to be
genuine.”

“But you wouldn’t (sic) comdemn a piece because it was new?”

“Certainly not; but the fact is, there have been lately many cases where
spurious dollars have been circulated, and I suspect this is one of
them. However, I can soon test it.”

“I wish you, would,” said Mrs. Crump. “My husband took it at his shop,
and will be likely to take more unless he is placed on his guard.”

The shopman retired a moment, and then reappeared.

“It is as I thought,” he said. “The coin is not good.”

“And can’t I pass it, then?” said Ellen, disappointed.

“I am afraid not.”

“Then I don’t see, Ellen,” said her mother, “but you will have to give
up your purchase for to-day. We must tell your father of this.”

Mr. Crump was exceedingly surprised at his wife’s account.

“Really,” he said, “I had no suspicion of this. Can it be possible that
such a beautiful child could be guilty of such a crime?”

“Perhaps not,” said his wife. “She may be as innocent in the matter as
Ellen or myself.”

“I hope so,” said the baker; “it would be a pity that such a child
should be given to wickedness. However, I shall find out before long.”

“How?”

“She will undoubtedly come again some time, and if she offers me one of
the same coins I shall know what to think.”

Mr. Crump watched daily for the coming of Ida. He waited some days in
vain. It was not the policy of Peg to send the child too often to the
same place, as that would increase the chances of detection.

One day, however, Ida entered the shop as before.

“Good morning,” said the baker. “What will you have to-day?”

“You may give me a sheet of gingerbread, sir.”

The baker placed it in her hands.

“How much will it be?”

“Twelve cents.”

Ida offered him another silver dollar.

As if to make change, he stepped from behind the counter, and managed to
place himself between Ida and the door.

“What is your name, my child?” he asked.

“Ida, sir.”

“Ida? A very pretty name; but what is your other name?”

Ida hesitated a moment, because Peg had forbidden her to use the name
of Crump, and told her if the inquiry was ever made, she must answer
Hardwick.

She answered, reluctantly, “My name is Ida Hardwick.”

The baker observed the hesitation, and this increased his suspicions.

“Hardwick!” he repeated, musingly, endeavoring to draw from the child
as much information as he could before allowing her to perceive that he
suspected her. “And where do you live?”

Ida was a child of spirit, and did not understand why she should be
questioned so closely. She said, with some impatience, “I am in a hurry,
sir, and would like to have you hand me the change as soon as you can.”

“I have no doubt of it,” said the baker, his manner changing; “but you
cannot go just yet.”

“And why not?” asked Ida, her eyes flashing.

“Because you have been trying to deceive me.”

“I trying to deceive you!” exclaimed the child, in astonishment.

“Really,” thought Mr. Crump, “she does it well, but no doubt they train
her to it. It is perfectly shocking, such depravity in a child.”

“Don’t you remember buying something here a week ago?” he said, in as
stern a tone as his good nature would allow him to employ.

“Yes,” said Ida, promptly; “I bought two rolls at three cents a piece.”

“And what did you offer me in payment?”

“I handed you a silver dollar.”

“Like this?” asked Mr. Crump, holding up the coin.

“Yes, sir.”

“And do you mean to say,” said the baker, sternly, “that you didn’t know
it was bad when you handed it to me?”

“Bad!” exclaimed Ida, in great surprise.

“Yes, spurious. It wasn’t worth one tenth of a dollar.”

“And is this like it?”

“Precisely.”

“Indeed, sir, I didn’t know anything about it,” said Ida, earnestly, “I
hope you will believe me when I say that I thought it was good.”

“I don’t know what to think,” said the baker, perplexed.

“I don’t know whether to believe you or not,” said he. “Have you any
other money?”

“That is all I have got.”

“Of course, I can’t let you have the gingerbread. Some would deliver you
up into the hands of the police. However, I will let you go if you will
make me one promise.”

“Oh, anything, sir.”

“You have given me a bad dollar. Will you promise to bring me a good one
to-morrow?”

Ida made the required promise, and was allowed to go.



CHAPTER XIV. DOUBTS AND FEARS.



“WELL, what kept you so long?” asked Peg, impatiently, as Ida rejoined
her at the corner of the street, where she had been waiting for her.
“And where’s your gingerbread?”

“He wouldn’t let me have it,” said Ida.

“And why not?”

“Because he said the money wasn’t good.”

“Stuff! it’s good enough,” said Peg, hastily. “Then we must go somewhere
else.”

“But he said the dollar I gave him last week wasn’t good, and I promised
to bring him another to-morrow, or he wouldn’t have let me go.”

“Well, where are you going to get your dollar to carry him?”

“Why, won’t you give it to me?” said Ida, hesitatingly.

“Catch me at such nonsense! But here we are at another shop. Go in and
see whether you can do any better there. Here’s the money.”

“Why, it’s the same piece.”

“What if it is?”

“I don’t want to pass bad money.”

“Tut, what hurt will it do?”

“It is the same as stealing.”

“The man won’t lose anything. He’ll pass it off again.”

“Somebody’ll have to lose it by and by,” said Ida, whose truthful
perceptions saw through the woman’s sophistry.

“So you’ve taken up preaching, have you?” said Peg, sneeringly. “Maybe
you know better than I what is proper to do. It won’t do to be so mighty
particular, and so you’ll find out if you live with me long.”

“Where did you take the dollar?” asked Ida, with a sudden thought; “and
how is it that you have so many of them?”

“None of your business,” said her companion, roughly. “You shouldn’t pry
into the affairs of other people.”

“Are you going to do as I told you?” she demanded, after a moment’s
pause.

“I can’t,” said Ida, pale but resolute.

“You can’t,” repeated Peg, furiously. “Didn’t you promise to do whatever
I told you?”

“Except what was wicked,” interrupted Ida.

“And what business have you to decide what is wicked? Come home with
me.”

Peg, walked in sullen silence, occasionally turning round to scowl upon
the unfortunate child, who had been strong enough, in her determination
to do right, to resist successfully the will of the woman whom she had
every reason to dread.

Arrived at home, Peg walked Ida into the room by the shoulder.

Dick was lounging in a chair, with the inevitable pipe in his mouth.

“Hilloa!” said he, lazily, observing his wife’s movements, “what’s the
gal been doing, hey?”

“What’s she been doing?” repeated Peg; “I should like to know what she
hasn’t been doing. She’s refused to go in and buy some gingerbread of
the baker, as I told her.”

“Look here, little gal,” said Dick, in a moralizing vein, “isn’t
this rayther undootiful conduct on your part? Ain’t it a piece of
ingratitude, when we go to the trouble of earning the money to pay for
gingerbread for you to eat, that you ain’t willing to go in and buy it?”

“I would just as lieves go in,” said Ida, “if Peg would give me good
money to pay for it.”

“That don’t make any difference,” said the admirable moralist; “jest do
as she tells you, and you’ll do right. She’ll take the risk.”

“I can’t!” said the child.

“You hear her?” said Peg.

“Very improper conduct!” said Dick, shaking his head. “Put her in the
closet.”

So Ida was incarcerated once more in the dark closet. Yet, in the midst
of her desolation, there was a feeling of pleasure in thinking that she
was suffering for doing right.

When Ida failed to return on the expected day, the Crumps, though
disappointed, did not think it strange.

“If I were her mother,” said Mrs. Crump, “and had been parted from her
so long, I should want to keep her as long as I could. Dear heart! how
pretty she is, and how proud her mother must be of her!”

“It’s all a delusion,” said Aunt Rachel, shaking her head. “It’s all a
delusion. I don’t believe she’s got a mother at all. That Mrs. Hardwick
is an imposter. I knew it, and told you so at the time, but you wouldn’t
believe me. I never expect to set eyes on Ida again in this world.”

“I do,” said Jack, confidently.

“There’s many a hope that’s doomed to disappointment,” said Aunt Rachel.

“So there is,” said Jack. “I was hoping mother would have apple-pudding
for dinner to-day, but she didn’t.”

The next day passed, and still no tidings of Ida. There was a cloud
of anxiety, even upon Mr. Crump’s usually placid face, and he was more
silent than usual at the evening meal.

At night, after Rachel and Jack had both retired, he said, anxiously,
“What do you think is the cause of Ida’s prolonged absence, Mary?”

“I don’t know,” said Mrs. Crump, seriously. “It seems to me, if her
mother wanted to keep her longer than the time she at first proposed,
it would be no more than right that she should write us a line. She must
know that we would feel anxious.”

“Perhaps she is so taken up with Ida that she can think of nothing
else.”

“It may be so; but if we neither see Ida to-morrow, nor hear from her, I
shall be seriously troubled.”

“Suppose she should never come back,” said the cooper, sadly.

“Oh, husband, don’t think of such a thing,” said his wife, distressed.

“We must contemplate it as a possibility,” returned Timothy, gravely,
“though not, I hope, as a probability. Ida’s mother has an undoubted
right to her; a better right than any we can urge.”

“Then it would be better,” said his wife, tearfully, “if she had never
been placed in our charge. Then we should not have had the pain of
parting with her.”

“Not so, Mary,” said the cooper, seriously. “We ought to be grateful for
God’s blessings, even if he suffers us to possess them but a short time.
And Ida has been a blessing to us, I am sure. How many hours have been
made happy by her childish prattle! how our hearts have been filled with
cheerful happiness and affection when we have gazed upon her! That can’t
be taken from us, even if she is, Mary. There’s some lines I met with in
the paper, to-night, that express just what I feel. Let me find them.”

The cooper put on his spectacles, and hunted slowly down the columns of
the paper, till he came to these beautiful lines of Tennyson, which he
read aloud,--

  “I hold it true, whate’er befall;
  I feel it when I sorrow most;
  ‘Tis better to have loved and lost,
  Than never to have loved at all.”

“There, wife,” said he, as he laid down the paper; “I don’t know who
writ them lines, but I’m sure it’s some one that’s met with a great
sorrow, and conquered it.”

“They are beautiful,” said his wife, after a pause; “and I dare say
you’re right, Timothy; but I hope we mayn’t have reason to learn the
truth of them by experience. After all, it isn’t certain but that Ida
will come back. We are troubling ourselves too soon.”

“At any rate,” said the cooper, “there is no doubt that it is our duty
to take every means to secure Ida if we can. Of course, if her mother
insists upon keeping her, we can’t say anything; but we ought to be
sure, before we yield her up, that such is the case.”

“What do you mean, Timothy?” asked Mrs. Crump, with anxious interest.

“I don’t know as I ought to mention it,” said her husband. “Very
likely there isn’t anything in it, and it would only make you feel more
anxious.”

“You have already aroused my anxiety,” said his wife. “I should feel
better if you would tell me.”

“Then I will,” said the cooper. “I have sometimes doubted,” he
continued, lowering his voice, “whether Ida’s mother really sent for
her.”

“And the letter?” queried Mrs. Crump, looking less surprised than he
supposed she would.

“I thought--mind it is only a guess on my part--that Mrs. Hardwick might
have got somebody to write it for her.”

“It is very singular,” murmured Mrs. Crump, in a tone of abstraction.

“What is singular?”

“Why, the very same thought occurred to me. Somehow, I couldn’t help
feeling a little suspicious of Mrs. Hardwick, though perhaps unjustly.
But what object could she have in obtaining possession of Ida?”

“That I cannot conjecture; but I have come to one determination.”

“And what is that?”

“Unless we learn something of Ida within a week from the time she left
here, I shall go on to Philadelphia, or send Jack, and endeavor to get
track of her.”



CHAPTER XV. AUNT RACHEL’S MISHAPS.



THE week which had been assigned by Mr. Crump slipped away, and still no
tidings of Ida. The house seemed lonely without her. Not until then,
did they understand how largely she had entered into their life and
thoughts. But worse even, than the sense of loss, was the uncertainty as
to her fate.

When seven days had passed the cooper said, “It is time that we took
some steps about finding Ida. I had intended to go to Philadelphia
myself, to make inquiries about her, but I am just now engaged upon
a job which I cannot very well leave, and so I have concluded to send
Jack.”

“When shall I start?” exclaimed Jack, eagerly.

“To-morrow morning,” answered his father, “and you must take clothes
enough with you to last several days, in case it should be necessary.”

“What good do you suppose it will do, Timothy,” broke in Rachel, “to
send such a mere boy as Jack?”

“A mere boy!” repeated her nephew, indignantly.

“A boy hardly sixteen years old,” continued Rachel. “Why, he’ll need
somebody to take care of him. Most likely you’ll have to go after him.”

“What’s the use of provoking a fellow so, Aunt Rachel?” said Jack. “You
know I’m most eighteen. Hardly sixteen! Why, I might as well say you’re
hardly forty, when everybody knows you’re most fifty.”

“Most fifty!” ejaculated the scandalized spinster. “It’s a base slander.
I’m only forty-three.”

“Maybe I’m mistaken,” said Jack, carelessly. “I didn’t know exactly. I
only judged from your looks.”

“‘Judge not that ye be not judged!’” said Rachel, whom this explanation
was not likely to appease. “The world is full of calumny and
misrepresentation. I’ve no doubt you would like to shorten my days upon
the earth, but I sha’n’t live long to trouble any of you. I feel that,
ere the summer of life is over, I shall be gathered into the garden of
the Great Destroyer.”

At this point, Rachel applied a segment of a pocket-handkerchief to her
eyes; but unfortunately, owing to circumstances, the effect, instead of
being pathetic, as she had intended, was simply ludicrous.

It so happened that a short time previous the inkstand had been
partially spilled on the table, and this handkerchief had been used to
sop it up. It had been placed inadvertently on the window-seat, where
it had remained till Rachel, who sat beside the window, called it into
requisition. The ink upon it was by no means dry. The consequence was
that, when Rachel removed it from her eyes, her face was found to be
covered with ink in streaks,--mingling with the tears that were falling,
for Rachel always had tears at her command.

The first intimation the luckless spinster had of her misfortune, was
conveyed in a stentorian laugh from Jack, whose organ of mirthfulness,
marked very large by the phrenologist, could not withstand such a
provocation to laughter.

He looked intently at the dark traces of sorrow upon his aunt’s face,
of which she was yet unconscious--and doubling up, went into a perfect
paroxysm of laughter.

Aunt Rachel looked equally amazed and indignant.

“Jack!” said his mother, reprovingly, for she had not observed the cause
of his amusement. “It’s improper for you to laugh at your aunt in such a
rude manner.”

“Oh, I can’t help it, mother. It’s too rich! Just look at her,” and Jack
went off into another paroxysm.

Thus invited, Mrs. Crump did look, and the rueful expression of Rachel,
set off by the inky stains, was so irresistibly comical, that, after a
little struggle, she too gave way, and followed Jack’s example.

Astounded and indignant at this unexpected behavior of her
sister-in-law, Rachel burst into a fresh fit of weeping, and again had
recourse to the handkerchief.

“I’ve stayed here long enough, if even my sister-in-law, as well as
my own nephew, from whom I expect nothing better, makes me her
