No incidents worth mentioning took place during their ride down
town. In about three-quarters of an hour the boys got out of the car
beside the Astor House.

"Are you goin' in now, Frank?" asked Dick.

"That depends upon whether you have anything else to show me."

"Wouldn't you like to go to Wall Street?"

"That's the street where there are so many bankers and brokers,--isn't
it?"

"Yes, I s'pose you aint afraid of bulls and bears,--are you?"

"Bulls and bears?" repeated Frank, puzzled.

"Yes."

"What are they?"

"The bulls is what tries to make the stocks go up, and the bears is
what try to growl 'em down."

"Oh, I see. Yes, I'd like to go."

Accordingly they walked down on the west side of Broadway as far as
Trinity Church, and then, crossing, entered a street not very wide
or very long, but of very great importance. The reader would be
astonished if he could know the amount of money involved in the
transactions which take place in a single day in this street. It
would be found that although Broadway is much greater in length, and
lined with stores, it stands second to Wall Street in this respect.

"What is that large marble building?" asked Frank, pointing to a
massive structure on the corner of Wall and Nassau Streets. It was
in the form of a parallelogram, two hundred feet long by ninety
wide, and about eighty feet in height, the ascent to the entrance
being by eighteen granite steps.

"That's the Custom House," said Dick.

"It looks like pictures I've seen of the Parthenon at Athens," said
Frank, meditatively.

"Where's Athens?" asked Dick. "It aint in York State,--is it?"

"Not the Athens I mean, at any rate. It is in Greece, and was a
famous city two thousand years ago."

"That's longer than I can remember," said Dick. "I can't remember
distinctly more'n about a thousand years."

"What a chap you are, Dick! Do you know if we can go in?"

The boys ascertained, after a little inquiry, that they would be
allowed to do so. They accordingly entered the Custom House and made
their way up to the roof, from which they had a fine view of the
harbor, the wharves crowded with shipping, and the neighboring
shores of Long Island and New Jersey. Towards the north they looked
down for many miles upon continuous lines of streets, and thousands
of roofs, with here and there a church-spire rising above its
neighbors. Dick had never before been up there, and he, as well as
Frank, was interested in the grand view spread before them.

At length they descended, and were going down the granite steps on
the outside of the building, when they were addressed by a young
man, whose appearance is worth describing.

He was tall, and rather loosely put together, with small eyes and
rather a prominent nose. His clothing had evidently not been
furnished by a city tailor. He wore a blue coat with brass buttons,
and pantaloons of rather scanty dimensions, which were several
inches too short to cover his lower limbs. He held in his hand a
piece of paper, and his countenance wore a look of mingled
bewilderment and anxiety.

"Be they a-payin' out money inside there?" he asked, indicating the
interior by a motion of his hand.

"I guess so," said Dick. "Are you a-goin' in for some?"

"Wal, yes. I've got an order here for sixty dollars,--made a kind of
speculation this morning."

"How was it?" asked Frank.

"Wal, you see I brought down some money to put in the bank, fifty
dollars it was, and I hadn't justly made up my mind what bank to put
it into, when a chap came up in a terrible hurry, and said it was
very unfortunate, but the bank wasn't open, and he must have some
money right off. He was obliged to go out of the city by the next
train. I asked him how much he wanted. He said fifty dollars. I told
him I'd got that, and he offered me a check on the bank for sixty,
and I let him have it. I thought that was a pretty easy way to earn
ten dollars, so I counted out the money and he went off. He told
me I'd hear a bell ring when they began to pay out money. But I've
waited most two hours, and I haint heard it yet. I'd ought to be
goin', for I told dad I'd be home to-night. Do you think I can get
the money now?"

"Will you show me the check?" asked Frank, who had listened
attentively to the countryman's story, and suspected that he had
been made the victim of a swindler. It was made out upon the
"Washington Bank," in the sum of sixty dollars, and was signed
"Ephraim Smith."

"Washington Bank!" repeated Frank. "Dick, is there such a bank in
the city?"

"Not as I knows on," said Dick. "Leastways I don't own any shares
in it."

"Aint this the Washington Bank?" asked the countryman, pointing to
the building on the steps of which the three were now standing.

"No, it's the Custom House."

"And won't they give me any money for this?" asked the young man,
the perspiration standing on his brow.

"I am afraid the man who gave it to you was a swindler," said
Frank, gently.

"And won't I ever see my fifty dollars again?" asked the youth in
agony.

"I am afraid not."

"What'll dad say?" ejaculated the miserable youth. "It makes me feel
sick to think of it. I wish I had the feller here. I'd shake him out
of his boots."

"What did he look like? I'll call a policeman and you shall describe
him. Perhaps in that way you can get track of your money."

Dick called a policeman, who listened to the description, and
recognized the operator as an experienced swindler. He assured the
countryman that there was very little chance of his ever seeing his
money again. The boys left the miserable youth loudly bewailing his
bad luck, and proceeded on their way down the street.

"He's a baby," said Dick, contemptuously. "He'd ought to know how to
take care of himself and his money. A feller has to look sharp in
this city, or he'll lose his eye-teeth before he knows it."

"I suppose you never got swindled out of fifty dollars, Dick?"

"No, I don't carry no such small bills. I wish I did," he added.

"So do I, Dick. What's that building there at the end of the street?"

"That's the Wall-Street Ferry to Brooklyn."

"How long does it take to go across?"

"Not more'n five minutes."

"Suppose we just ride over and back."

"All right!" said Dick. "It's rather expensive; but if you don't
mind, I don't."

"Why, how much does it cost?"

"Two cents apiece."

"I guess I can stand that. Let us go."

They passed the gate, paying the fare to a man who stood at the
entrance, and were soon on the ferry-boat, bound for Brooklyn.

They had scarcely entered the boat, when Dick, grasping Frank
by the arm, pointed to a man just outside of the gentlemen's cabin.

"Do you see that man, Frank?" he inquired.

"Yes, what of him?"

"He's the man that cheated the country chap out of his fifty dollars."



CHAPTER XI

DICK AS A DETECTIVE


Dick's ready identification of the rogue who had cheated the
countryman, surprised Frank.

"What makes you think it is he?" he asked.

"Because I've seen him before, and I know he's up to them kind of
tricks. When I heard how he looked, I was sure I knowed him."

"Our recognizing him won't be of much use," said Frank. "It won't
give back the countryman his money."

"I don't know," said Dick, thoughtfully. "May be I can get it."

"How?" asked Frank, incredulously.

"Wait a minute, and you'll see."

Dick left his companion, and went up to the man whom he suspected.

"Ephraim Smith," said Dick, in a low voice.

The man turned suddenly, and looked at Dick uneasily.

"What did you say?" he asked.

"I believe your name is Ephraim Smith," continued Dick.

"You're mistaken," said the man, and was about to move off.

"Stop a minute," said Dick. "Don't you keep your money in the
Washington Bank?"

"I don't know any such bank. I'm in a hurry, young man, and I can't
stop to answer any foolish questions."

The boat had by this time reached the Brooklyn pier, and Mr. Ephraim
Smith seemed in a hurry to land.

"Look here," said Dick, significantly; "you'd better not go on shore
unless you want to jump into the arms of a policeman."

"What do you mean?" asked the man, startled.

"That little affair of yours is known to the police," said Dick;
"about how you got fifty dollars out of a greenhorn on a false
check, and it mayn't be safe for you to go ashore."

"I don't know what you're talking about," said the swindler with
affected boldness, though Dick could see that he was ill at ease.

"Yes you do," said Dick. "There isn't but one thing to do. Just give
me back that money, and I'll see that you're not touched. If you
don't, I'll give you up to the first p'liceman we meet."

Dick looked so determined, and spoke so confidently, that the other,
overcome by his fears, no longer hesitated, but passed a roll of
bills to Dick and hastily left the boat.

All this Frank witnessed with great amazement, not understanding
what influence Dick could have obtained over the swindler sufficient
to compel restitution.

"How did you do it?" he asked eagerly.

"I told him I'd exert my influence with the president to have him
tried by habeas corpus," said Dick.

"And of course that frightened him. But tell me, without joking, how
you managed."

Dick gave a truthful account of what occurred, and then said, "Now
we'll go back and carry the money."

"Suppose we don't find the poor countryman?"

"Then the p'lice will take care of it."

They remained on board the boat, and in five minutes were again in
New York. Going up Wall Street, they met the countryman a little
distance from the Custom House. His face was marked with the traces
of deep anguish; but in his case even grief could not subdue the
cravings of appetite. He had purchased some cakes of one of the old
women who spread out for the benefit of passers-by an array of
apples and seed-cakes, and was munching them with melancholy
satisfaction.

"Hilloa!" said Dick. "Have you found your money?"

"No," ejaculated the young man, with a convulsive gasp. "I shan't
ever see it again. The mean skunk's cheated me out of it. Consarn
his picter! It took me most six months to save it up. I was workin'
for Deacon Pinkham in our place. Oh, I wish I'd never come to New
York! The deacon, he told me he'd keep it for me; but I wanted to
put it in the bank, and now it's all gone, boo hoo!"

And the miserable youth, having despatched his cakes, was so
overcome by the thought of his loss that he burst into tears.

"I say," said Dick, "dry up, and see what I've got here."

The youth no sooner saw the roll of bills, and comprehended that it
was indeed his lost treasure, than from the depths of anguish he was
exalted to the most ecstatic joy. He seized Dick's hand, and shook
it with so much energy that our hero began to feel rather alarmed
for its safety.

"'Pears to me you take my arm for a pump-handle," said he. "Couldn't
you show your gratitood some other way? It's just possible I may
want to use my arm ag'in some time."

The young man desisted, but invited Dick most cordially to come up
and stop a week with him at his country home, assuring him that he
wouldn't charge him anything for board.

"All right!" said Dick. "If you don't mind I'll bring my wife along,
too. She's delicate, and the country air might do her good."

Jonathan stared at him in amazement, uncertain whether to credit the
fact of his marriage. Dick walked on with Frank, leaving him in an
apparent state of stupefaction, and it is possible that he has not
yet settled the affair to his satisfaction.

"Now," said Frank, "I think I'll go back to the Astor House. Uncle
has probably got through his business and returned."

"All right," said Dick.

The two boys walked up to Broadway, just where the tall steeple of
Trinity faces the street of bankers and brokers, and walked
leisurely to the hotel. When they arrived at the Astor House, Dick
said, "Good-by, Frank."

"Not yet," said Frank; "I want you to come in with me."

Dick followed his young patron up the steps. Frank went to the
reading-room, where, as he had thought probable, he found his uncle
already arrived, and reading a copy of "The Evening Post," which he
had just purchased outside.

"Well, boys," he said, looking up, "have you had a pleasant jaunt?"

"Yes, sir," said Frank. "Dick's a capital guide."

"So this is Dick," said Mr. Whitney, surveying him with a smile.
"Upon my word, I should hardly have known him. I must congratulate
him on his improved appearance."

"Frank's been very kind to me," said Dick, who, rough street-boy as
he was, had a heart easily touched by kindness, of which he had
never experienced much. "He's a tip-top fellow."

"I believe he is a good boy," said Mr. Whitney. "I hope, my lad, you
will prosper and rise in the world. You know in this free country
poverty in early life is no bar to a man's advancement. I haven't
risen very high myself," he added, with a smile, "but have met with
moderate success in life; yet there was a time when I was as poor as
you."

"Were you, sir," asked Dick, eagerly.

"Yes, my boy, I have known the time I have been obliged to go
without my dinner because I didn't have enough money to pay for it."

"How did you get up in the world," asked Dick, anxiously.

"I entered a printing-office as an apprentice, and worked for some
years. Then my eyes gave out and I was obliged to give that up. Not
knowing what else to do, I went into the country, and worked on a
farm. After a while I was lucky enough to invent a machine, which
has brought me in a great deal of money. But there was one thing I
got while I was in the printing-office which I value more than
money."

"What was that, sir?"

"A taste for reading and study. During my leisure hours I improved
myself by study, and acquired a large part of the knowledge which I
now possess. Indeed, it was one of my books that first put me on the
track of the invention, which I afterwards made. So you see, my lad,
that my studious habits paid me in money, as well as in another
way."

"I'm awful ignorant," said Dick, soberly.

"But you are young, and, I judge, a smart boy. If you try to learn,
you can, and if you ever expect to do anything in the world, you
must know something of books."

"I will," said Dick, resolutely. "I aint always goin' to black boots
for a livin'."

"All labor is respectable, my lad, and you have no cause to be
ashamed of any honest business; yet when you can get something to do
that promises better for your future prospects, I advise you to do
so. Till then earn your living in the way you are accustomed to,
avoid extravagance, and save up a little money if you can."

"Thank you for your advice," said our hero. "There aint many that
takes an interest in Ragged Dick."

"So that's your name," said Mr. Whitney. "If I judge you rightly,
it won't be long before you change it. Save your money, my lad,
buy books, and determine to be somebody, and you may yet fill an
honorable position."

"I'll try," said Dick. "Good-night, sir."

"Wait a minute, Dick," said Frank. "Your blacking-box and old
clothes are upstairs. You may want them."

"In course," said Dick. "I couldn't get along without my best
clothes, and my stock in trade."

"You may go up to the room with him, Frank," said Mr. Whitney. "The
clerk will give you the key. I want to see you, Dick, before you
go."

"Yes, sir," said Dick.

"Where are you going to sleep to-night, Dick?" asked Frank, as they
went upstairs together.

"P'r'aps at the Fifth Avenue Hotel--on the outside," said Dick.

"Haven't you any place to sleep, then?"

"I slept in a box, last night."

"In a box?"

"Yes, on Spruce Street."

"Poor fellow!" said Frank, compassionately.

"Oh, 'twas a bully bed--full of straw! I slept like a top."

"Don't you earn enough to pay for a room, Dick?"

"Yes," said Dick; "only I spend my money foolish, goin' to the Old
Bowery, and Tony Pastor's, and sometimes gamblin' in Baxter Street."

"You won't gamble any more,--will you, Dick?" said Frank, laying his
hand persuasively on his companion's shoulder.

"No, I won't," said Dick.

"You'll promise?"

"Yes, and I'll keep it. You're a good feller. I wish you was goin'
to be in New York."

"I am going to a boarding-school in Connecticut. The name of the
town is Barnton. Will you write to me, Dick?"

"My writing would look like hens' tracks," said our hero.

"Never mind. I want you to write. When you write you can tell me how
to direct, and I will send you a letter."

"I wish you would," said Dick. "I wish I was more like you."

"I hope you will make a much better boy, Dick. Now we'll go in to my
uncle. He wishes to see you before you go."

They went into the reading-room. Dick had wrapped up his
blacking-brush in a newspaper with which Frank had supplied him,
feeling that a guest of the Astor House should hardly be seen
coming out of the hotel displaying such a professional sign.

"Uncle, Dick's ready to go," said Frank.

"Good-by, my lad," said Mr. Whitney. "I hope to hear good accounts
of you sometime. Don't forget what I have told you. Remember that
your future position depends mainly upon yourself, and that it will
be high or low as you choose to make it."

He held out his hand, in which was a five-dollar bill. Dick shrunk
back.

"I don't like to take it," he said. "I haven't earned it."

"Perhaps not," said Mr. Whitney; "but I give it to you because I
remember my own friendless youth. I hope it may be of service to
you. Sometime when you are a prosperous man, you can repay it in the
form of aid to some poor boy, who is struggling upward as you are
now."

"I will, sir," said Dick, manfully.

He no longer refused the money, but took it gratefully, and, bidding
Frank and his uncle good-by, went out into the street. A feeling of
loneliness came over him as he left the presence of Frank, for whom
he had formed a strong attachment in the few hours he had known him.



CHAPTER XII

DICK HIRES A ROOM ON MOTT STREET


Going out into the fresh air Dick felt the pangs of hunger. He
accordingly went to a restaurant and got a substantial supper.
Perhaps it was the new clothes he wore, which made him feel a
little more aristocratic. At all events, instead of patronizing the
cheap restaurant where he usually procured his meals, he went into
the refectory attached to Lovejoy's Hotel, where the prices were
higher and the company more select. In his ordinary dress, Dick
would have been excluded, but now he had the appearance of a very
respectable, gentlemanly boy, whose presence would not discredit
any establishment. His orders were therefore received with attention
by the waiter and in due time a good supper was placed before him.

"I wish I could come here every day," thought Dick. "It seems kind
o' nice and 'spectable, side of the other place. There's a gent at
that other table that I've shined boots for more'n once. He don't
know me in my new clothes. Guess he don't know his boot-black
patronizes the same establishment."

His supper over, Dick went up to the desk, and, presenting his
check, tendered in payment his five-dollar bill, as if it were one
of a large number which he possessed. Receiving back his change he
went out into the street.

Two questions now arose: How should he spend the evening, and where
should he pass the night? Yesterday, with such a sum of money in his
possession, he would have answered both questions readily. For the
evening, he would have passed it at the Old Bowery, and gone to
sleep in any out-of-the-way place that offered. But he had turned
over a new leaf, or resolved to do so. He meant to save his money
for some useful purpose,--to aid his advancement in the world. So he
could not afford the theatre. Besides, with his new clothes, he was
unwilling to pass the night out of doors.

"I should spile 'em," he thought, "and that wouldn't pay."

So he determined to hunt up a room which he could occupy regularly,
and consider as his own, where he could sleep nights, instead of
depending on boxes and old wagons for a chance shelter. This would
be the first step towards respectability, and Dick determined to
take it.

He accordingly passed through the City Hall Park, and walked
leisurely up Centre Street.

He decided that it would hardly be advisable for him to seek
lodgings in Fifth Avenue, although his present cash capital
consisted of nearly five dollars in money, besides the valuable
papers contained in his wallet. Besides, he had reason to doubt
whether any in his line of business lived on that aristocratic
street. He took his way to Mott Street, which is considerably less
pretentious, and halted in front of a shabby brick lodging-house
kept by a Mrs. Mooney, with whose son Tom, Dick was acquainted.

Dick rang the bell, which sent back a shrill metallic response.

The door was opened by a slatternly servant, who looked at him
inquiringly, and not without curiosity. It must be remembered that
Dick was well dressed, and that nothing in his appearance bespoke
his occupation. Being naturally a good-looking boy, he might readily
be mistaken for a gentleman's son.

"Well, Queen Victoria," said Dick, "is your missus at home?"

"My name's Bridget," said the girl.

"Oh, indeed!" said Dick. "You looked so much like the queen's picter
what she gave me last Christmas in exchange for mine, that I
couldn't help calling you by her name."

"Oh, go along wid ye!" said Bridget. "It's makin' fun ye are."

"If you don't believe me," said Dick, gravely, "all you've got to do
is to ask my partic'lar friend, the Duke of Newcastle."

"Bridget!" called a shrill voice from the basement.

"The missus is calling me," said Bridget, hurriedly. "I'll tell her
ye want her."

"All right!" said Dick.

The servant descended into the lower regions, and in a short time a
stout, red-faced woman appeared on the scene.

"Well, sir, what's your wish?" she asked.

"Have you got a room to let?" asked Dick.

"Is it for yourself you ask?" questioned the woman, in some surprise.

Dick answered in the affirmative.

"I haven't got any very good rooms vacant. There's a small room in
the third story."

"I'd like to see it," said Dick.

"I don't know as it would be good enough for you," said the woman,
with a glance at Dick's clothes.

"I aint very partic'lar about accommodations," said our hero. "I
guess I'll look at it."

Dick followed the landlady up two narrow stair-cases, uncarpeted
and dirty, to the third landing, where he was ushered into a room
about ten feet square. It could not be considered a very desirable
apartment. It had once been covered with an oilcloth carpet, but
this was now very ragged, and looked worse than none. There was a
single bed in the corner, covered with an indiscriminate heap of
bed-clothing, rumpled and not over-clean. There was a bureau, with
the veneering scratched and in some parts stripped off, and a small
glass, eight inches by ten, cracked across the middle; also two
chairs in rather a disjointed condition. Judging from Dick's
appearance, Mrs. Mooney thought he would turn from it in disdain.

But it must be remembered that Dick's past experience had not been
of a character to make him fastidious. In comparison with a box, or
an empty wagon, even this little room seemed comfortable. He decided
to hire it if the rent proved reasonable.

"Well, what's the tax?" asked Dick.

"I ought to have a dollar a week," said Mrs. Mooney, hesitatingly.

"Say seventy-five cents, and I'll take it," said Dick.

"Every week in advance?"

"Yes."

"Well, as times is hard, and I can't afford to keep it empty, you
may have it. When will you come?"

"To-night," said Dick.

"It aint lookin' very neat. I don't know as I can fix it up
to-night."

"Well, I'll sleep here to-night, and you can fix it up to-morrow."

"I hope you'll excuse the looks. I'm a lone woman, and my help is so
shiftless, I have to look after everything myself; so I can't keep
things as straight as I want to."

"All right!" said Dick.

"Can you pay me the first week in advance?" asked the landlady,
cautiously.

Dick responded by drawing seventy-five cents from his pocket, and
placing it in her hand.

"What's your business, sir, if I may inquire?" said Mrs. Mooney.

"Oh, I'm professional!" said Dick.

"Indeed!" said the landlady, who did not feel much enlightened by
this answer.

"How's Tom?" asked Dick.

"Do you know my Tom?" said Mrs. Mooney in surprise. "He's gone to
sea,--to Californy. He went last week."

"Did he?" said Dick. "Yes, I knew him."

Mrs. Mooney looked upon her new lodger with increased favor, on
finding that he was acquainted with her son, who, by the way, was
one of the worst young scamps in Mott Street, which is saying
considerable.

"I'll bring over my baggage from the Astor House this evening," said
Dick in a tone of importance.

"From the Astor House!" repeated Mrs. Mooney, in fresh amazement.

"Yes, I've been stoppin' there a short time with some friends," said
Dick.

Mrs. Mooney might be excused for a little amazement at finding that
a guest from the Astor House was about to become one of her
lodgers--such transfers not being common.

"Did you say you was purfessional?" she asked.

"Yes, ma'am," said Dick, politely.

"You aint a--a--" Mrs. Mooney paused, uncertain what conjecture to
hazard.

"Oh, no, nothing of the sort," said Dick, promptly. "How could you
think so, Mrs. Mooney?"

"No offence, sir," said the landlady, more perplexed than ever.

"Certainly not," said our hero. "But you must excuse me now, Mrs.
Mooney, as I have business of great importance to attend to."

"You'll come round this evening?"

Dick answered in the affirmative, and turned away.

"I wonder what he is!" thought the landlady, following him with her
eyes as he crossed the street. "He's got good clothes on, but he
don't seem very particular about his room. Well; I've got all my
rooms full now. That's one comfort."

Dick felt more comfortable now that he had taken the decisive step
of hiring a lodging, and paying a week's rent in advance. For seven
nights he was sure of a shelter and a bed to sleep in. The thought
was a pleasant one to our young vagrant, who hitherto had seldom
known when he rose in the morning where he should find a
resting-place at night.

"I must bring my traps round," said Dick to himself. "I guess I'll
go to bed early to-night. It'll feel kinder good to sleep in a
reg'lar bed. Boxes is rather hard to the back, and aint comfortable
in case of rain. I wonder what Johnny Nolan would say if he knew I'd
got a room of my own."



CHAPTER XIII

MICKY MAGUIRE


About nine o'clock Dick sought his new lodgings. In his hands he
carried his professional wardrobe, namely, the clothes which he
had worn at the commencement of the day, and the implements of his
business. These he stowed away in the bureau drawers, and by the
light of a flickering candle took off his clothes and went to
bed. Dick had a good digestion and a reasonably good conscience;
consequently he was a good sleeper. Perhaps, too, the soft feather
bed conduced to slumber. At any rate his eyes were soon closed,
and he did not awake until half-past six the next morning.

He lifted himself on his elbow, and stared around him in transient
bewilderment.

"Blest if I hadn't forgot where I was," he said to himself. "So this
is my room, is it? Well, it seems kind of 'spectable to have a room
and a bed to sleep in. I'd orter be able to afford seventy-five
cents a week. I've throwed away more money than that in one evenin'.
There aint no reason why I shouldn't live 'spectable. I wish I
knowed as much as Frank. He's a tip-top feller. Nobody ever cared
enough for me before to give me good advice. It was kicks, and
cuffs, and swearin' at me all the time. I'd like to show him I can
do something."

While Dick was indulging in these reflections, he had risen from
bed, and, finding an accession to the furniture of his room, in the
shape of an ancient wash-stand bearing a cracked bowl and broken
pitcher, indulged himself in the rather unusual ceremony of a good
wash. On the whole, Dick preferred to be clean, but it was not
always easy to gratify his desire. Lodging in the street as he had
been accustomed to do, he had had no opportunity to perform his
toilet in the customary manner. Even now he found himself unable to
arrange his dishevelled locks, having neither comb nor brush. He
determined to purchase a comb, at least, as soon as possible, and a
brush too, if he could get one cheap. Meanwhile he combed his hair
with his fingers as well as he could, though the result was not
quite so satisfactory as it might have been.

A question now came up for consideration. For the first time in
his life Dick possessed two suits of clothes. Should he put on the
clothes Frank had given him, or resume his old rags?

Now, twenty-four hours before, at the time Dick was introduced to
the reader's notice, no one could have been less fastidious as to
his clothing than he. Indeed, he had rather a contempt for good
clothes, or at least he thought so. But now, as he surveyed the
ragged and dirty coat and the patched pants, Dick felt ashamed of
them. He was unwilling to appear in the streets with them. Yet, if
he went to work in his new suit, he was in danger of spoiling it,
and he might not have it in his power to purchase a new one. Economy
dictated a return to the old garments. Dick tried them on, and
surveyed himself in the cracked glass; but the reflection did not
please him.

"They don't look 'spectable," he decided; and, forthwith taking them
off again, he put on the new suit of the day before.

"I must try to earn a little more," he thought, "to pay for my room,
and to buy some new clo'es when these is wore out."

He opened the door of his chamber, and went downstairs and into the
street, carrying his blacking-box with him.

It was Dick's custom to commence his business before breakfast;
generally it must be owned, because he began the day penniless, and
must earn his meal before he ate it. To-day it was different. He had
four dollars left in his pocket-book; but this he had previously
determined not to touch. In fact he had formed the ambitious
design of starting an account at a savings' bank, in order to
have something to fall back upon in case of sickness or any other
emergency, or at any rate as a reserve fund to expend in clothing or
other necessary articles when he required them. Hitherto he had been
content to live on from day to day without a penny ahead; but the
new vision of respectability which now floated before Dick's mind,
owing to his recent acquaintance with Frank, was beginning to
exercise a powerful effect upon him.

In Dick's profession as in others there are lucky days, when
everything seems to flow prosperously. As if to encourage him in
his new-born resolution, our hero obtained no less than six jobs
in the course of an hour and a half. This gave him sixty cents,
quite abundant to purchase his breakfast, and a comb besides. His
exertions made him hungry, and, entering a small eating-house he
ordered a cup of coffee and a beefsteak. To this he added a couple
of rolls. This was quite a luxurious breakfast for Dick, and more
expensive than he was accustomed to indulge himself with. To gratify
the curiosity of my young readers, I will put down the items with
their cost,--

  Coffee, . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5 cts.
  Beefsteak, . . . . . . . . . . .  15
  A couple of rolls,  . . . . . . .  5
                                  --25 cts.

It will thus be seen that our hero had expended nearly one-half of
his morning's earnings. Some days he had been compelled to breakfast
on five cents, and then he was forced to content himself with
a couple of apples, or cakes. But a good breakfast is a good
preparation for a busy day, and Dick sallied forth from the
restaurant lively and alert, ready to do a good stroke of business.

Dick's change of costume was liable to lead to one result of which
he had not thought. His brother boot-blacks might think he had
grown aristocratic, and was putting on airs,--that, in fact, he was
getting above his business, and desirous to outshine his associates.
Dick had not dreamed of this, because in fact, in spite of his
new-born ambition, he entertained no such feeling. There was
nothing of what boys call "big-feeling" about him. He was a borough
democrat, using the word not politically, but in its proper sense,
and was disposed to fraternize with all whom he styled "good
fellows," without regard to their position. It may seem a little
unnecessary to some of my readers to make this explanation; but they
must remember that pride and "big-feeling" are confined to no age or
class, but may be found in boys as well as men, and in boot-blacks
as well as those of a higher rank.

The morning being a busy time with the boot-blacks, Dick's changed
appearance had not as yet attracted much attention. But when
business slackened a little, our hero was destined to be reminded
of it.

Among the down-town boot-blacks was one hailing from the Five
Points,--a stout, red-haired, freckled-faced boy of fourteen,
bearing the name of Micky Maguire. This boy, by his boldness
and recklessness, as well as by his personal strength, which
was considerable, had acquired an ascendancy among his fellow
professionals, and had a gang of subservient followers, whom he led
on to acts of ruffianism, not unfrequently terminating in a month
or two at Blackwell's Island. Micky himself had served two terms
there; but the confinement appeared to have had very little effect
in amending his conduct, except, perhaps, in making him a little
more cautious about an encounter with the "copps," as the members
of the city police are, for some unknown reason, styled among the
Five-Point boys.

Now Micky was proud of his strength, and of the position of leader
which it had secured him. Moreover he was democratic in his tastes,
and had a jealous hatred of those who wore good clothes and kept
their faces clean. He called it putting on airs, and resented the
implied superiority. If he had been fifteen years older, and had a
trifle more education, he would have interested himself in politics,
and been prominent at ward meetings, and a terror to respectable
voters on election day. As it was, he contented himself with being
the leader of a gang of young ruffians, over whom he wielded a
despotic power.

Now it is only justice to Dick to say that, so far as wearing good
clothes was concerned, he had never hitherto offended the eyes of
Micky Maguire. Indeed, they generally looked as if they patronized
the same clothing establishment. On this particular morning it
chanced that Micky had not been very fortunate in a business way,
and, as a natural consequence, his temper, never very amiable,
was somewhat ruffled by the fact. He had had a very frugal
breakfast,--not because he felt abstemious, but owing to the low
state of his finances. He was walking along with one of his
particular friends, a boy nicknamed Limpy Jim, so called from a
slight peculiarity in his walk, when all at once he espied our
friend Dick in his new suit.

"My eyes!" he exclaimed, in astonishment; "Jim, just look at Ragged
Dick. He's come into a fortun', and turned gentleman. See his new
clothes."

"So he has," said Jim. "Where'd he get 'em, I wonder?"

"Hooked 'em, p'raps. Let's go and stir him up a little. We don't
want no gentlemen on our beat. So he's puttin' on airs,--is he?
I'll give him a lesson."

So saying the two boys walked up to our hero, who had not observed
them, his back being turned, and Micky Maguire gave him a smart slap
on the shoulder.

Dick turned round quickly.



CHAPTER XIV

A BATTLE AND A VICTORY


"What's that for?" demanded Dick, turning round to see who had
struck him.

