
"He is, if being out of his place can make him so," said De
Saussure; "and the assumption of rights that nobody has given
him. By what title does he dare shut up Southern ports and
send his cut-throats upon Southern soil?"

"Well, they have met their punishment," my father remarked.
And it hurt me sorely to hear him say it with evident
pleasure.

"The work is not done yet," said Ransom. "But at Bull Run
rates - 'sixty pieces of splendid cannon' taken, as Mr. Davis
says, and how many killed and prisoners? - the mud-sills will
not be able to keep it up very long. Absurd! to think that
those Northern shopkeepers could make head against a few dozen
Southern swords."

"There were only a few dozen swords at Manasses," said De
Saussure. "Eighteen thousand, Mr. Davis puts the number in his
Richmond speech; and the Northern army had sixty thousand in
the field."

"A Richmond paper says forty thousand instead of eighteen,"
Mr. Marshall remarked.

"Mr. Russell, of the London Times, estimated Beauregard's
force at sixty thousand," I said.

"He don't know!" said De Saussure.

"And Mr. Davis does not know," I added; "for the whole loss of
cannon on the Northern side that day amounted to but
seventeen. Mr. Davis may as well be wrong in one set of facts
as in another. He said also that provisions enough were taken
to feed an army of fifty thousand men for twelve months."

"Well, why not?" said Ransom, frowning.

"These gentlemen can tell you why not."

"Pretty heavy figures," said Mr. Marshall.

"Why are they not true, Miss Randolph?" Mr. de Saussure asked,
bending as before a most deferential look upon me.

"And look here, - in what interest are you, Daisy?" my brother
continued.

"Nothing is gained by blinking the truth anywhere, Ransom."

"No, that is true," said my father.

"Daisy has been under the disadvantage of hearing only one
side lately," my mother remarked very coolly.

"But about the provisions, Miss Randolph?" Mr. De Saussure
insisted, returning to the point with a willingness, I
thought, to have me speak.

"Mamma says, I have heard only one side," I answered. "But on
that side I have heard it remarked, that twelve thousand
wagons would have been required to carry those provisions to
the battlefield. I do not know if the calculation was
correct."

Mr. De Saussure's face clouded for an instant. My father
seemed to be pondering. Ransom's frowns grew more deep.

"What side are you on, Daisy?" he repeated.

"She is on her own side, of course," my mother said.

"I hope there is no doubt of that, Mrs. Randolph," said Mr.
Marshall. "Such an enemy would be very formidable! I should
begin to question on which side I was myself."

They went off into a long discussion about the probable
movements of the belligerent parties in America; what might be
expected from different generals; how long the conflict was
likely to last, and how its certain issue, the discomfiture of
the North and the independence of the South, would be
attained. Mingled with this discussion were laudations of
Jefferson Davis, scornful reviling of President Lincoln, and
sneers at the North generally; at their men, their officers,
their money, their way of making it and their way of spending
it. Triumphant anticipations, of shame and defeat to them and
the superb exaltation of the South, were scattered, like a
salt and pepper seasoning, through all the conversation. I
listened, with my nerves tingling sometimes, with my heart
throbbing at other times; sadly inclined to believe they might
be right in a part of their calculations; very sadly sure they
were wrong in everything else. I had to keep a constant guard
upon my face; happily my words were not called for. My eyes
now and then met papa's, with a look that gave and received
another sort of communication. When the evening was over, and
papa was folding me in his arms to bid me good-night, he
whispered, -

"You and I cannot be on two sides of anything, Daisy?"

"Papa - you know on what side of most things I am -" I replied
to this difficult question.

"Do I? No, I do not know that I do. What side is it, Daisy?"

"On the Lord's side, papa, when I can find out what that is."

"Make me sure that you have found it, and I will be on that
side too," he said, as he kissed me.

The words filled me with a great joy. For they were not spoken
in defiance of the supposed condition, but rather, as it
seemed to me, in desire and love of it. Had papa come to that?
The new joy poured like a flood over all the dry places in my
heart, which had got into a very dry state with hearing the
conversation of the evening. I went to bed tired and happy.

Nevertheless I awoke to the consciousness that I had a nice
piece of navigation before me, and plenty of rough water in
all probability. The best thing would be for me to be as
silent as possible. Could I be silent? They all wanted to hear
what I would say. Every eye had sought mine this past evening.

I was the first in the breakfast-room, and papa was the next.
We were alone. He took me tenderly in his arms and held me
fast, looking at me and kissing me by turns.

"Are you well now, papa?" I asked him. "Are you quite well
again?"

"Well enough," he answered; "not just as I was once."

"Why not, papa?"

"I have never quite got over that unlucky fall. It has left my
head a little shaky, Daisy; and my strength - Never mind! you
are my strength now, my pet. We should have gone home before
this, only for the troubles breaking out there."

I leaned my head upon his breast, and wished the troubles were
not! What a division those troubles made, unknown to him,
between his heart's happiness and mine - yes, between him and
me. Mamma came in and looked at us both.

"It is a very pretty picture," she said. And she kissed me,
while papa did not let me out of his arms. "Daisy, you are a
beauty."

"She is a great deal better than a beauty," said my father.
"But, now I look at you, Daisy - yes, you are a beauty,
certainly."

They both laughed heartily at the colour which all this raised
in my face.

"Most exquisite, her skin is," said my mother, touching my
cheek. "Did you ever see anything superior to it, Mr.
Randolph? Rose leaves are not any better than that. Pshaw,
Daisy! - you must get accustomed to hear people say it."

"Nobody shall say it to me, mamma, but you."

"No," said my father. "That is my view of it, too."

"Nonsense!" said mamma - "there are a thousand ways of doing
the same thing, and you cannot stop them all. Your hair is as
fine as possible, too, Daisy, although it has not had me to
take care of it."

"But I did just as you told me with it, mamma," I said.

She kissed me again. "Did nobody ever tell you you were
beautiful?" she asked archly. "Yes, I know that you did just
as I told you. You always did, and always will. But did you
not know that you were beautiful?"

"Speak, Daisy," said papa. Said as it was with a smile, it
brought childish memories vividly back.

"Mamma," I said, "I have heard something of it - and I suppose
it may be true."

They laughed, and mamma remarked that I was human yet. "There
is a difference between the child and the woman, you will
find, Mr. Randolph."

Papa answered, that it was no very remarkable token of
humanity, to have eyes and ears.

"Daisy's eyes were always remarkable," said my mother.

"But, mamma," said I, "in other things there is no difference
between the child and the woman. My outside may have altered -
my mind is not changed at all; only grown."

"That will do," said mamma.

I was obliged to leave it to time, and hoped to make myself so
pleasant that what I could not change in me might be at least
tolerated, if it were not approved. It seemed an easy task! I
was such a manifest subject of joy, to father and mother, and
even Ransom too. A newly discovered land, full of gold, is not
more delightfully explored by its finders, than I was watched,
scrutinised, commented on, by my family.

That first day, of course, they could not let me out of their
sight. It was nothing but talk, all day long. In the evening
however our last evening's guests reappeared. The conversation
this time did not get upon American politics, so everybody
showed to better advantage; I suppose, myself included. We had
music; and the gentlemen were greatly delighted with my voice
and my singing. Mamma and papa took it very coolly until we
were left alone again; then my mother came up and kissed me.

"You have done your duty, Daisy, in improving your voice," she
said. "You are a Daisy I am perfectly satisfied with. If you
can sing as well in public as you have done to-night in
private, papa will be proud of you."

"In public, mamma?" I said.

"Yes. That does not frighten you. Nothing does frighten you."

"No, mamma, but - what do you mean by 'in public'?"

"Not on the stage," said mamma.

"But mamma, - papa," - I said, anxiously, "this is what I want
you to understand. I will do anything in the world you wish me
to do; only, I am - I must be, - you know, - a servant of
Christ."

"I said nothing against that," my mother replied. But my
father, clasping me in his arms, whispered, -

"We will be servants together, Daisy."

That word sent me to bed with a whole heartful of
thankfulness. I could bear anything now, if his words meant
what I hoped they did. And I should have security, too,
against any too great trial of my affection and duty to him
and to mamma.

An expedition had been arranged for the next day; in which my
brother and his friends were to take me upon the lake. Mamma
and papa would not go. It was a day, in one sort, of such
pleasure as I had never known till then. The beautiful water,
the magnificent shores of the lake, the wonderful lights on
the mountains, almost took me out of this world; to which they
seemed scarcely to belong. I cannot tell what a pang in the
midst of this pleasure the thought of Mr. Thorold brought with
it. The life I was living now was so very far from his life,
and so unlike; my part of the world was now so very distant
from his, - there was such an abyss between; - and yet the
Swiss hills were so glorious, and I was enjoying them. I began
to wonder, as we were sailing towards home in the end of the
day, what work I had to do in this new and strange place; why
was I here? Perhaps, to learn patience, and have faith grow
strong by trial, while all my life hopes waited upon a will
that I did not know and must trust. Perhaps, to stand up for
Christian truth and simplicity in the face of much opposition.
Perhaps, to suffer, and learn to bear suffering.

"You are fatigued, Miss Randolph?" said the soft voice of De
Saussure.

"Or beauty of scenery, so much beauty, makes you melancholy,"
said Mr. Marshall. "It always makes me so, if I let myself
think of it."

"Why should it make any one melancholy?" I asked. "I think
beauty has the contrary effect."

"A little beauty. But very great and wonderful loveliness - I
don't know why, it always moves me so. It is something too far
beyond me; it is unlike me; it seems to belong to another
stage of being, while I am held fast in this. It mocks me, -
somehow."

"It does not do so with me," I said.

"Ah, it is your world!" De Saussure said, laughing. "It could
not do so with you very well."

"But look at Mont Pilatte now," resumed Mr. Marshall, - "with
that crown of light on its brow; - does it not give you the
feeling of something inapproachable - not literally but
spiritually, - something pure, glorious, infinite - something
that shames us mortals into insignificance?"

I looked, and I thought I knew why he felt as he did; but I
did not think I could explain it to him just then.

"Have you a little of my feeling?" he said again. "Do you
understand it?"

"I understand it, I think," I said.

"And do not share it at all?"

"No, Mr. Marshall. Of course, the mountain is great, and I am
small; but the purity, and the glory, - that is not beyond
reach; and no human being ought to be insignificant, and none
need be."

"Not if his life is insignificant?"

"Nobody's life ought to be that," I answered.

"How can it be helped, in the case of many a one?"

"Yes indeed," said De Saussure; "there is a question. I should
like to hear Miss Randolph answer it."

One spoke lightly and the other earnestly. It was not easy to
answer them both.

"I should like to have you define insignificance first," I
said.

"Can there be a more significant word?" said Mr. De Saussure.
"It defines itself."

"A life of insignificance, is a life that does not signify
anything," Mr. Marshall added.

"Most people's lives signify something," I said, stupidly, my
thoughts running on far ahead of my words.

"Yes, to somebody in the corner at home," Mr. Marshall said,
"whose affection cannot make a true estimate. But do most
people's lives signify anything, except to some fond judgment
of that sort?"

"Who is estimating you, in a corner at home?" said Mr. de
Saussure.

"Nobody - and that you know. Nobody, except my old mammy."

"You are a lucky fellow, Hugh. Free as air! Now I have five or
six dear appraisers at my home; who are of opinion that an
epaulette and a commission would add to my value; or rather,
to do them justice, they are very desirous to have my life -
or my death - tell for something, in the struggle which
occupies all their, thoughts at present. I do not mean that
they have no choice, but, one or the other. And so am I
desirous; but - Lucerne is so very captivating! And really,
as, I said, one signifies so little."

"One is half of two," said Ransom - "and a hundredth part of a
hundred."

"I should like, I think, to be half of two," said De Saussure,
comically. "I don't care about being the hundredth part of
anything."

"But you are going when I go?" said Ransom.

"Mrs. Randolph says so; and I suppose she will command me.
What does Miss Randolph say?"

"Yes, to my question," said Hugh Marshall.

"I do not quite know what is either question," I replied; "and
a judge ought to understand his cause."

"Is it my duty to go and plunge into the mêlée at home,
because my mother and two aunts and three sisters are all
telling me they will renounce me if I do not? I say, what does
one signify?"

"And I say, how may one escape from insignificance? - anyhow?"

"A man with your income need not ask that," said Ransom.

"What does Miss Randolph say?" De Saussure insisted.

"If you will tell me, Mr. De Saussure, what the South is
fighting for, I can better answer you."

"That speech is Daisy all over!" said Ransom impatiently. "She
never will commit herself, if she can get somebody to do it
for her."

"Fighting for freedom - for independence, of course!" Mr. De
Saussure said, opening his eyes. "Is there any question?"

"How was their freedom threatened?"

"Why," said Ransom, hotly, "what do you think of armies upon
the soil of Virginia? - invading armies, come to take what
they like? What do you think of Southern forts garrisoned by
Northern troops, and Southern cities in blockade? Is that your
idea of freedom?"

"These are not the cause, but the effect, of the position
taken by the South," I said.

"Yes, we fired the first gun, Randolph," said Mr. Marshall.

"Sumter was held against us," said Ransom.

"Not till South Carolina had seceded."

"Well, she had a right to secede!" cried Ransom. "And this
right the Northern mudsills are trying to trample out. If she
has not a right to be governed as she likes, she is not free."

"But why did she secede?" I asked. "What wrong was done her?"

"You are a girl, and cannot understand such matters!" Ransom
answered, impatiently. "Just ask mamma to talk to you; - or I
will!"

"Miss Randolph's question is pertinent though," said Mr.
Marshall; "and I am ashamed to confess I am as little able to
answer it as she. What wrong had they to complain of?"

"Why, Hugh, you certainly know," his companion answered, "that
Lincoln was elected; and that if the government is to be in
the hands of those who do not think and vote with us - as this
election shows it will - we shall be pushed to the wall. The
South and her institutions will come to nothing - will be in a
contemptible minority. We do not choose that."

"Then the wrong done them was that they were out-voted?" Mr.
Marshall said.

"Put it so!" De Saussure replied, with heat; "we have a right
to say we will govern ourselves and sail our own boat."

"Yes, so I think we have," said the other. "Whether it is
worth such a war, is another question, Such a war is a serious
thing."

"It would be mean-spirited to let our rights be taken from
us," said Ransom. "It is worth anything to maintain them."

"It will not be much of a war," resumed De Saussure. "Those
poor tailors and weavers will find their workshops are a great
deal more comfortable than soldiers' tents and the battle-
ground; and they won't stand fire, depend upon it."

"Cowardly Yankees!" said Ransom.

"That is Preston's favourite word," I remarked. "But I am not
clear that you are not both mistaken."

"You have lived among Yankees, till it has hurt you," said
Ransom.

"Till I have learned to know something about them," I said.

"And is your judgment of the probable issue of the war,
different from that I have expressed, Miss Randolph?" Mr. De
Saussure asked.

"My judgment is not worth much," I said. "I have doubts."

"But you agree with us as to the right of preserving our
independence?" Mr. Marshall said.

"Does independence mean, the governing power? Does every
minority, as such, lose its independence?"

"Yes!" said De Saussure - "if it is to be permanently a
minority."

"That would be our case, you see," Mr. Marshall went on. "Are
we not justified in endeavouring to escape from such a
position?"

I was most unwilling to talk on the subject, but they were all
determined I should. I could not escape.

"It depends," I said, "the settlement of that question, upon
the other question, whether our government is one or twenty."

"It is thirty!" said Ransom.

I had thrown a ball now which they could keep up without me.
To my joy, the whole three became so much engaged in the game,
that I was forgotten. I could afford to forget too; and
quitting the fair lake and the glorious mountain that looked
down upon it, ceasing to hear the eager debate which went on
at my side, my thoughts flew over the water to a uniform and a
sword that were somewhere in that struggle of rights and
wrongs. My heart sank. So far off, and I could not reach him;
so busy against the feelings and prejudices of my friends, and
I could not reconcile them; in danger, and I could not be
near; in trouble, perhaps, and I could not help. It would not
do to think about. I brought my thoughts back, and wondered at
old Mont Pilatte which looked so steadily down on me with the
calm of the ages.

CHAPTER X.

WAITING


For weeks after this sail on the lake my life was like a fête
day. Expeditions of all sorts were planned and carried out for
my pleasure. One day we were exploring the lake shores in a
boat; the next, we went back into the country, as far as we
could go and return before evening; a third day we climbed the
mountains somewhere and got glorious new views of what the
world is. Nothing could hinder, in those days, but that my
draught of pleasure was very full. Whatever weight might lie
at my heart, when I found myself high, high up above the
ordinary region of life, resting on a mountain summit from
which I looked down upon all that surrounded me other days; a
little of that same lifting up befel the thoughts of my heart
and the views that have to do with the spirit's life. I stood
above the region of mists for a little. I saw how the
inequalities of the lower level, which perplex us there, sink
into nothing when looked upon from a higher standpoint. I saw
that rough roads led to quiet valleys; and that the blessed
sunlight was always lying on the earth, though down in one of
those depths one might lose sight of it for a time. I do not
know how it is, but getting up into a high mountain has a
little the effect of getting out of the world. One has left
perplexities and uncertainties behind; the calm and the
strength of the everlasting hills is about one; the air is not
defiled with contentions or rivalries or jealousies up there;
and the glory of creation reminds one of other glory, and
power, and wisdom and might; and one breathes hope and rest.
So I used to do. Of all our excursions, I liked best to go up
the mountains. No matter how high, or by how difficult a road.

Mamma and papa were only now and then of the party. That I was
very sorry for, but it could not be helped. Mamma had seen it
all, she said; and when I urged that she had not been to this
particular "horn," she said that one "horn" was just like
another, and that when you had seen one or two you had seen
them all. But I never found it so. Every new time was a new
revelation of glory to me. If I could have had papa with me,
my satisfaction would have been perfect; but papa shunned
fatigue, and never went where he could not go easily. I was
obliged to be content with my brother and my brother's
friends; and after I had made up my mind to that, the whole
way was a rejoicing to me, from the time I left the house till
we returned, a weary and hungry party, to claim mamma's
welcome again. Our party was always the same four. Mr. de
Saussure and Hugh Marshall were, I found, very intimately at
home with my father and mother, and naturally they were soon
on the same footing with me. As far as care went, I had three
brothers to look after me, of whom indeed Ransom was not the
most careful; and as to social qualifications, they were
extremely well-bred, well-educated, and had a great deal of
general and particular cultivation. In the evenings we had
music and conversation; which last was always very pleasant
except when it turned upon American affairs. Then I had great
twinges of heart, which I thought it wise to keep to myself as
closely as possible.

I remember well the twinge I had, when one evening early in
September De Saussure came in, the utmost glee expressed in
his eyes and manner, and announced his news thus; -

"They have had a battle at Springfield, and Lyon is killed."

"Who is Lyon?" I could not help asking, though it was
incautious.

"You should not ask," he said more gently as he sat down by
me; "you have no relish for these things. Even the cause of
liberty cannot sweeten them to you."

"Who is Lyon, De Saussure?" my father repeated.

"A Connecticut fellow." The tone of these words, in its utter
disdain, was inexpressible.

"Connecticut?" said my father. "Has the war got into New
England? That cannot be."

"No, sir, no, sir," said Ransom. "It is Springfield in
Missouri. You find a Yankee wherever you go in this world."

"Wilson's Creek is the place of the battle," Mr. De Saussure
went on. "Near Springfield, in Missouri. It was an
overwhelming defeat. Lyon killed, and the next in command
obliged to beat off."

"Who on our side?" asked my mother.

"Ben McCulloch and Price."

"How many engaged? Was it much of an affair?"

"We had twenty thousand or so. Of course, the others had
more."

"It doesn't take but one or two Southerners to whip a score of
those cowards," said Ransom.

"Why should not the war have got into New England, Mr.
Randolph?" my mother asked. "You said, 'That cannot be.' Why
should it not be?"

"There are a few thousand men in the way," said my father;
"and I think they are not all cowards."

"They will never stand before our rifles," said De Saussure.

"Our boys will mow them down like grass," said Ransom. "And in
New Orleans the fever will take care of them. How soon,
mother, will the fever be there?"

Mamma and Ransom compared notes upon the probable and usual
time for the yellow fever to make its appearance, when it
would wield, its scythe of destruction upon the fresh harvest
of life made ready for it, in the bands of the Northern
soldiers in Louisiana. My whole soul was in a stir of
opposition to the speakers. I had to be still, but pain
struggled to speak.

"You do not enjoy the prospect -" Hugh Marshall said, softly.

I only looked at him.

"Nor do I," said he, shaking his head. "A fair fight is one
thing. - It is a terrible state of affairs at home, Miss
Randolph."

I had the utmost difficulty to keep quiet and give no sign. I
could have answered him with a cry which would have startled
them all. What if Thorold were ordered down there? He might
be. He would go where he was ordered. That thought brought
help; for so would I! A soldier, in another warfare, I
remembered my ways were appointed, even as his; only more
wisely, more surely, and on no service that could by any means
be in vain. But yet the pain was very sharp, as I looked at
the group who were eagerly discussing war matters; my father,
my mother, my brother, and De Saussure, who in the interest of
the thing had left my side; how keen they were! So were others
keen at home, who had swords in their hands and pistols in
their belts. It would not do to think. I could but repeat to
myself, - "I am a soldier - I am a soldier - and just now my
duty is to stand and bear fire."

There was little chance in those days at Lucerne for me to be
alone with papa. The opportunities we had we both enjoyed
highly. Now and then mamma would be late for breakfast, or
even take hers in bed; once in a while go out to a visit from
which I begged off. Then papa and I drew together and had a
good time. One of these chances occurred a few days after the
news came of General Lyon's death. We were alone, and I was
drawing, and papa had been watching me a little while in
silence.

"Daisy," he began, "am I wrong? It seems to me that you do not
look upon matters at home with just the eye that the rest of
us have for them?"

"What matters, papa?" I said, looking up, and feeling
troubled.

"You do not like the war."

"Papa, - do you?"

"Yes. I think our countrymen are right, and of course I wish
that they should have their rights."

"Papa," said I, "don't you think it must be very strong
reasons that can justify so dreadful a thing as a war?"

"Undoubtedly; but the preservation of liberty is one of the
strongest that can be conceived."

"Papa - you know I want liberty for the blacks."

"It is like you, my dear child," my father said, after pausing
a minute; "it is like your generous nature; but Daisy, I think
those people do not want it for themselves."

"Papa, if they did not, I should think it would be one of the
strongest arguments on my side; but I am sure they do. I know
a great many of them that do."

"Did not you, perhaps, bring about that desire in them, by
your kind and possibly somewhat misjudged indulgences?"

"No indeed, papa; it was our overseer, with his wicked ways.
That Mr. Edwards is dreadful, papa!"

"All overseers are not good," said my father with a sigh. "The
people at Magnolia are as well treated, on the whole, - as
they can be anywhere, I think, - I hope."

"You do not know, papa. If they are, you have said all. And
there is our old Maria, who has nothing to do with Mr.
Edwards; she has no hope nor anticipation which does not go
beyond this world; and it is so with a great many of them.
They have that hope; but they sing, "I am bound for the
promised land!" - in a minor key; and to a plaintive air that
makes your heart ache."

"Yours, Daisy," said my father with a somewhat constrained
smile.

"Papa," I went on, trembling, but I thought it best to
venture, - "if the issue of this war could be to set all those
people free, I could almost be glad."

"That will not be the issue, Daisy," he said.

"Papa, what do you think will?"

"It can have but one issue. The Southern people cannot be put
down."

"Then, if they succeed, what will be the state of things
between them and the North?"

"It is impossible to tell how far things will go, Daisy, now
that they have actually taken up arms. But I do not think the
Southern people want anything of the North, but to be let
alone."

"How would it be, if the North succeeded, papa?"

"It cannot succeed, Daisy. You have heard a different
language, I suppose; but I know the men, - and the women, - of
the South. They will never yield. The North must, sooner or
later."

I could not carry this on, and turned the conversation. But I
had to listen to a great deal of the same sort of thing, in
which I took no part. It came up every day. I discovered that
my mother was using her influence and all her art to induce
our two young friends to return home and enter the Southern
army. She desired with equal vehemence that Ransom should take
the same course; and as they all professed to be strong in the
interests and sympathies that moved her, I was a little
puzzled to understand why they delayed so long. For they did
delay. They talked, but nothing came of it. Still we went on
fresh excursions and made new expeditions; spending days of
delight on the mountain sides, and days of enchantment in the
mountain valleys; and still our party was of the same four. It
is true that papa did not at all share mamma's eagerness to
have Ransom go; but Ransom did not greatly care for papa's
likings; and in the case of the others, I did not see what
held them.

The printed news from home we had of course, regularly; and as
far as I could without being watched, I studied them. The
papers after all were mostly Southern, and so filled with
outrageous invective and inflated boasting, that I could not
judge anything very certainly, from what they said. Nothing of
great importance seemed to be transpiring between the
belligerent parties. I supposed that it wanted but some such
occurrence or occasion to send off our three young men like a
ball from a rifle, straight to the seat of war. Meanwhile we
enjoyed ourselves. Others did, and I did also, whenever I
could put down fear and lift up hope; and I was young, and
that happened to me sometimes. So the weeks ran on.

"I really don't see why I should be in a hurry to plunge
myself into that angry confusion of things at home," Hugh
Marshall said one day. "It seems to me, they can get through
it without my help."

"Well, you are not in a hurry." I answered.

We were out as usual for a day's pleasure among the mountains,
and Hugh and I were resting on a sunny bank waiting for the
others to come up. We had distanced them.

"What do you think about it?" he said, suddenly drawing
himself up from the grass and looking in my face.

"Men do not rule their course by what women think," - I
answered.

"No, you are wrong; they do! Sometimes they do," - he said. "I
have no mother nor sister to counsel me; only Mrs. Randolph
bids me go home and be a soldier; but I would as lieve take
advice from you. What would you tell me to do - if I were your
brother?"

"I do not tell Ransom anything."

"He is under his mother's tutelage; but I am not. Tell me what
to do, Miss Randolph. I am sure your counsel would be good. Do
you wish me to go and fight the North, as your mother says I
ought?"

"I wish people would not fight at all," I said, with my heart
straitened.

"Of course; but here we are in it, or they are; and it is the
same thing. Don't you think they can get through it without
me? or do you say as your mother, - 'Every one go!' "

He looked at me more earnestly than was pleasant, and I was
greatly at a loss what to answer. It was wisest for me not to
commit myself to a course opposed to my mother's; and yet,
truth is wisest of all. I looked to see Ransom and Mr. De
Saussure, but they were not in sight.

"You are not speaking in jest," I said; "and I have no
business to speak in earnest."

"You never speak any other way," he rejoined. "Tell me your
mind. You are never violent; do you feel as Mrs. Randolph does
about it? Would you like me better if I went heart and soul
into the fray at home?"

"That would depend upon the-views and motives with which you
went into it."

"Well - if I did it for love of you?" he said smiling.

"I cannot imagine that anybody should do such a thing for love
of me. Nothing but the strongest and purest convictions of
duty can justify such a thing as fighting."

"I suppose I know what that means," he said somewhat gloomily.

"No," said I hastily, "I don't think you do."

"What does it mean, then?" he asked.

"Permit me to ask first, Are your convictions strong and
clear, that it is your duty to go home and enter the war for
the South?"

"That's a searching question," he said laughing. "To say yes,
would be to condemn myself at once. To say no, - what would
that do for me with Mrs. Randolph?"

"You are not speaking to Mrs. Randolph," I said, half under my
breath.

He looked up eagerly in my face. "You do not think as she
does!" he said. "You do not believe in fighting, under any
circumstances?"

"Yes, I do, Mr. Marshall," I said; and I felt myself colour.
"I do believe in fighting, when it is to relieve the
oppressed, to deliver those who are trampled upon, or to save
ourselves or others from worse than death."

"Our friends at the South can hardly be said to be in such
extremity," he said, looking rather perplexed; "unless you
believe all that the papers say about Yankee invaders; and I
for one am not ready to do that."

"Nor I," I said; "I know them too well."

"Then who is so bitterly oppressed just now, Miss Randolph?"

"If you do not know of anybody, I would not fight, Mr.
Marshall."

"Really?" said he. "Perhaps I ought to go home and take care
of my twelve hundred people at Vincennes. Is that your
thought?"

"Are they in need of care?" I asked.

" 'Pon my word, I don't know. Perhaps it would be nearer right
to say, take care of myself; for if the war should come the
way of Vicksburg, and Yankee arms have a little success, there
might be the mischief to pay at Vincennes. On reflection, I
don't see how I could take care of myself, either. Then you do
not bid me go?" he asked again.

"You remember our words one day about insignificant lives?"

"Yes!" he cried eagerly; "and I have been longing ever since
to ask you to explain more fully what interested me so much. I
never could get a chance. I assure you, I have felt to the
bottom of my heart what it is to have one's existence really
worth nothing, to anybody. How may it be better? My life has
to do with nothing but insignificant things."

"But you must define insignificance," I said.

"Is it needful?"

"I think so. What makes things insignificant? Not their being
small, - or common?"

"What then, Miss Randolph?"

"Small things, and common things, are often to the last degree
important, you know, Mr. Marshall."

"Yes; but however small and common, I cannot feel that I am
important, in any degree," he said, half laughing.

"We were talking of lives, and things."

"Yes. Excuse me. Well?"

"I think I see the crowns of two hats, down below, which
belong to some people that we know."
