obligations of any kind," replied Shuffles. "I simply did what I
regarded as my duty, which my sea life fitted me to perform."

"Having acknowledged my obligations, you will permit me to add, that I
think you are making a very unfair and ungenerous use of your position.
After your noble conduct on the lake, I expected something like
magnanimity from you. I am sorry to say I have been disappointed,"
continued Sir William, bitterly.

"Really, I do not understand you," replied the captain, amazed at the
sudden turn in the style of his companion.

"Is it possible that you do not comprehend my relations with Lady
Feodora?" demanded the baronet. "Let me explain, then, that we have
been affianced from our childhood."

"Indeed!"

"You could not help seeing that our relations were of this kind."

"I did suppose there was something of this description."

"Then allow me to say again that you have made a very ungenerous use of
your position."

"In what respect?"

"You have extended to Lady Feodora many attentions," said the baronet,
becoming more and more excited.

"Only ordinary courtesies."

"But such courtesies as belong to me rather than to you. I am devotedly
attached to her."

"If any of my attentions were not agreeable to the lady, she had only
to decline them."

"There you presume upon the position which circumstances have given
you."

"If Lady Feodora is attached to you----"

"She is not attached to me."

"Then you make a very ungenerous use of your position," retorted
Shuffles, rather warmly.

"What do you mean, sir?" demanded Sir William.

"If your parents and hers made a bargain for her which she repudiates,
I say it is ungenerous in you to use such an advantage as that bargain
gives you."

"Do you mean to insult me?"

"Certainly not; only to speak as plainly as you have spoken. If my
presence is disagreeable to the lady, I will avoid her."

"Your presence is not disagreeable to her," added Sir William, unable
to conceal his vexation.

"Then you will excuse me if I decline to treat her with the rudeness
you suggest."

"I find I am mistaken in you, and I regret that you compel me to ignore
the obligations under which you have placed me."

"I cheerfully absolve you from any obligations which may weigh heavily
upon you. But I assure you, I have no ill-will towards you, and I shall
continue to treat you with courtesy and kindness. In about a week, our
ship's company will return to Brest, and sail for the United States. It
is not probable that I shall ever see Lady Feodora or you again."

"Will you pledge yourself never to see her again after this week?"
demanded Sir William.

"I will not--certainly not," replied Shuffles. "I do not purpose to
interfere in any way with your relations to her. If she desires to see
me, and it is possible for me to see her, I shall not deny myself that
pleasure."

The baronet suddenly turned upon his heel, and walked rapidly towards
the hotel. Shuffles was amazed. He could not conceal from himself the
truth that he was deeply interested in Lady Feodora, though no thought
of anything beyond friendship occurred to either of them. They might or
might not continue in company for another week, and then part, in all
human probability, forever in this world. Still, the situation was
novel enough to be exciting, and he lay awake, thinking of it, for
several hours that night. But in the morning Sir William appeared as
usual, and probably, on reflection, had decided not to do any desperate
deed.

At seven o'clock the excursionists returned by train to Frankfurt. It
was decided then that, as Wiesbaden, one of the celebrated German
watering-places, was only a repetition of Baden-Baden and Homburg, the
company should proceed direct to Mayence, where they arrived by nine
o'clock.




CHAPTER XVIII.

CASTLES, VINEYARDS, AND MOUNTAINS.


As the students were crossing the bridge to Mayence, they obtained a
full view of one of the great rafts of timber which float down the
Rhine, and of which Professor Mapps had spoken to them at Dort, in
Holland. However, it was much smaller than those of which they had
heard, and they hoped to see another. The students were not disposed to
"do" Mayence, being too impatient to witness the glories of the Rhine.
But most of them, from a sense of duty rather than from an interest in
the place, visited the principal attractions of the city.

"Mayence is the French name of the town," said the professor of
geography and history, as the students collected in the railroad
station, previous to the tramp. "The German name is Mainz, which is
pronounced Mynts--y like long i. If you pronounce it in any other way,
a German will not know what you mean. It was an old Roman town. A
fortress was established here to keep back the barbarians. It was
formerly a larger and more important city than at present, having now a
population of only forty thousand.

"This place has done two grand things for civilization and for Europe.
It was the cradle of the art of printing, and furnished the man who
suppressed the robber knights. As you go down the Rhine, you will see
the ruins of many old castles on the hills by the banks of the river.
The nobles, who occupied them as strongholds, carried on a system of
robbery, levying duties upon all who travelled on its waters or passed
through their territory. Arnold von Walpoden suggested the plan which
led to a confederation of the cities for the driving out of the
knightly highwaymen, and the destruction of their strongholds. They
were feudal lords, and the breaking of their power opened the way for
the progress of civilization.

"Mayence was the birthplace of Gutemberg, who invented movable types
for printing, and reduced the art to practice. You will see the site of
the house where he was born, and the building which contained his first
printing-office."

After this brief explanation the party walked to the cathedral, a very
ancient structure, possessing much historical interest. Opposite the
theatre they saw the statue of Gutemberg, and the guide pointed out the
place where his house stood, and the old building in which he and Faust
took their first proofs from types.

At twelve o'clock the tourists went on board of the steamer Königin von
Preussen, and realized that they had actually embarked for the trip
down the Rhine. They had seen the river at Basle, Constance, and
Schaffhausen, had crossed it at Strasburg, and obtained views of it
from different points on their route. The steamer was unworthy of the
noble river, and if the palatial boats of the Hudson could be run upon
its waters, they would lend a new charm to the scenery. The Rhine
steamers are small, compared with the Hudson river boats, and far from
being elegant. They have no saloon on deck, though a couple of small
apartments, abaft the paddle-boxes, are pretentiously called
"pavilions." They are appropriated to first class passengers, and are
seldom used except by travellers who wish to be very exclusive. The
second class passengers occupy the main cabin and the deck abaft the
wheels. Meals are served below, or, for an extra price, upon little
tables on deck. The third class travellers have the forward deck, with
piles of luggage to lounge upon. The relative fares are as the ratios
four, six, and nine. From Mayence to Bingen the time is about two
hours, and the fares are eight, twelve, and eighteen silver groschen.
The steamers stop at all the principal landings, and passengers are
occasionally brought off in small boats from other places.

The company dined in the cabin before the Königin started, so as not to
lose a single view. The dinner was an excellent one, and cheap, the
ordinary price being seventeen silver groschen, or about forty-one
cents. When served to private parties on deck, the price is one thaler,
or seventy-two cents.

"Are those steamboats?" asked Paul, pointing to a number of boats with
houses on deck, and having immense wheels.

"No," replied Dr. Winstock. "They are mills for grinding grain."

"But what turns the wheels?"

"They are moored as you see them in the river, and the current turns
the wheels, which are very large, so as to gain power."

"That's a new idea to me," added Paul.

"I have seen just such in the Alabama River, in our own country,"
replied the surgeon.

"It is certainly a very good way to obtain the power."

The boat started, and soon made a landing at Biebrich, on the other
side of the river, where passengers from Frankfurt, Homburg, and
Wiesbaden usually take the steamers. As the Königin proceeded on her
way, a feeling of general disappointment pervaded the minds of the
party, who had not seen the river before.

"It does not compare with the Hudson," protested Paul.

"Wait, Paul!" said the doctor, with a smile.

"How long shall I wait?"

"Two hours. You must not be hasty in your judgment."

"What is this town on the right?" asked Grace.

"Eltville. Do you see the white building in the midst of the vineyards,
some distance down the river?" said the doctor, pointing to the shore.

"I see it."

"That is the château of Johannisberg, belonging to Prince Metternich,
formerly a celebrated prime minister of Austria. Those vineyards are
the most noted in the world. The famous Johannisberger wine is made
from these grapes. It sells here for five or six dollars a bottle,
where ordinary kinds can be bought for twenty cents, and even less. The
grapes are very precious, and are kept upon the vines till they are
nearly rotten. Those that fall off are picked up with a kind of fork,
so valuable are they deemed. Of the seventy acres contained in the
vineyard, only a small portion produces the best wine, which is not
found except in the cellars of kings and princes. This is Rüdesheim,
where the boat will make a landing," added Dr. Winstock, as the steamer
stopped her wheels. "A famous wine is also made here. It is said that
Charlemagne, seeing from his castle windows, near Mayence, how early
the snow disappeared from the heights below us, ordered vines from
France to be set out here; and from these vines is produced the noted
Rüdesheimer wine.

"What place is this?" inquired Paul, at a point where the course of the
river seemed to be obstructed by rocks and hills.

"Bingen on the Rhine," said the surgeon. "Here the waters of the river
are crowded in a narrow space. Look upon the hills around you, and see
how every foot of ground is economized for the vineyards. Where the
hill-sides are too steep for cultivation, they are formed into
terraces, as you see them."

The steamer stopped a few moments at Bingen, which contains about
seventy-five hundred inhabitants.

"On our left, now, are the dominions of the King of Prussia--the
Rhenish provinces. On our right, as before, is the Duchy of Nassau.
What do you think of the Rhine now?" asked Dr. Winstock.

"It is improving, certainly," laughed Paul. "The scenery is really very
grand and very fine. I will give it up now. It is finer than the
Hudson. But where are the old castles?"

"There is one of them," answered the doctor, pointing to a ruin which
crowned a hill on the right. "That is the Castle of Ehrenfels. There is
a legend connected with about every one of them. There is the Mouse
Tower."

The doctor pointed to a stone structure rising from the river a short
distance from the shore. It was certainly a very romantic building, and
in a very romantic situation.

"What is the story about this tower?" asked Paul.

"If you take Southey's works when you return to the ship, you will find
in them, 'The Tradition of Bishop Hatto.' He was the Archbishop of
Mayence, and during a famine kept his granaries, well filled with food,
locked, and, by his own profusion and high living, excited his starving
subjects to revolt. The prelate ordered the rebels to be arrested,
confined them in a building, and set it on fire. Not content with this
outrage, he added insult to injury by mocking the wail of the
sufferers, and comparing their cries with the squeaking of mice. In the
night which followed the diabolical deed, a swarm of mice penetrated to
the apartments of the archbishop's palace, attacked him, and tried to
tear the flesh from his bones. Appalled by this poetic justice, the
cruel prelate fled, and, taking to the river, reached this insulated
tower. Suspending his bed in the upper part of the structure, he
struggled to escape from the mice, as merciless as he had himself been.
But the mice followed him, and he could not avoid the doom that was in
store for him. Vainly he resisted. The rats attacked him, and he
suffered a lingering and horrible death. It is but fair to add that
history gives the archbishop a different character. Do you happen to
know the meaning of the German word mauth?"

"A duty, or a toll," replied Grace.

"The German for mouse is maus, and probably it is in this instance
corrupted from mauth; for nothing could have made the tower and its
owners more odious than the collection of duties from voyagers on the
river. There is a sad story connected with the Brömserberg Castle,
which we saw above. Brömser of Rüdesheim went to Palestine with the
crusaders, and, while there, distinguished himself by slaying a dragon
which made itself very annoying to the Christian army. He was
immediately after captured by the Saracen forces, and reduced to
slavery. While in this condition, he made a solemn vow, that if he were
ever permitted to return to his castle again, he would give his only
daughter to the church. Improving an opportunity to kill his guard, he
succeeded in reaching his home, where he was met by his daughter, a
lovely young woman, who was betrothed to a young knight. Her father
told her of the vow he had taken. Tearfully she entreated him to change
his purpose; but his pledge to the church could not be set aside.
Brömser threatened her with his curse if she refused to obey. Life had
no charms apart from the young knight, and she determined to die. In
the midst of a violent storm, she threw herself from the castle
battlements into the river, and her corpse was found the next day, by a
fisherman, near the Mouse Tower. The boatmen and peasants say, to this
day, that they sometimes see the pale form of Gisela hovering above the
castle, mingling her wails with the moanings of the storm."

"That's a very pretty story, and I suppose young ladies in that age
were like those of the present," added Paul. "Perhaps more so, for now
they don't throw themselves from walls into a damp river for such a
cause."

"There's another castle!" exclaimed Grace, pointing to the left.

"That is Rheinstein, a castle which has been restored, and is the
summer residence of a Prussian prince. Below the castle, where the road
runs between the rock and the river, tolls were levied upon Jews who
passed that way. And it is even said that the collectors had little
dogs trained to know a Jew from a Christian, and to seize him with
their teeth."

Castle-crowned heights succeeded each other in rapid succession; and in
this part of the river they are so thick, that our students had to keep
their eyes wide open in order to see them all. Rocky steeps rose from
the verge of the water; and wherever there was any soil, or any earth
could find a resting-place, the spot was made into a vineyard.
Sometimes the vines have to be planted in baskets, while all the steep
hillsides are terraced to the height of a thousand feet above the
river. To reach these plats of ground, the peasants, male and female,
must climb the steeps, and everything used there must be carried up on
the shoulders. The vine-dressers are a very industrious people, and
nothing but the most determined perseverance could induce them to
cultivate these lofty artificial beds.

The towns on the banks of the Rhine are picturesque, and one never
tires of looking at them. Indeed, half a dozen voyages down the Rhine
no more than enable the tourist to see all its wonders and all its
beauties.

"Stahlech Castle," said Dr. Winstock, pointing to a ruin on the left.
"It was the palace of the Elector Palatine. Between the castle and the
hill are the remains of St. Werner's Chapel. In the middle ages, it is
said that the Jews at Oberwesel, farther down the river, crucified a
Christian named Werner, and threw the body into the stream. Instead of
descending with the current, it was carried by a supernatural agency up
the river, from which it was taken at Bacharach, the town we are
approaching, interred, and afterwards canonized. The chapel was built
over the grave. Doubtless the story was invented to afford a pretext to
rob and persecute the Hebrews, though in former ages such excuses seem
to have been hardly needed."

"There is another castle in the river," said Grace, as the boat left
Bacharach. "It is an odd-looking building."

"That is the Pfalz, and the town on the right is Caub. A toll was
paid here by all vessels navigating the river. The Duke of Nassau
inherited the right to levy this tax, and exercised the right to
collect it, until three or four years ago. The Pfalz was his
toll-house. In the middle ages, thirty-two tolls were levied at the
different stations on the river. Schönberg Castle is on the left. What
does the word mean?"

"Beautiful hill," replied Grace.

"It is called so because the occupant had seven beautiful daughters,
who were sad flirts. All the young knights in the vicinity were
bewitched by their beauty, but they were so hard-hearted that they
would accept none of them; and, as the penalty of their obduracy, they
were changed into seven rocks, and planted in the middle of the river,
where you will presently see them."

Passing Oberwesel and the Seven Sisters, the water was considerably
agitated where the current had formerly produced a whirlpool, in its
course among the rocks, which have now been removed by blasting. There
was also a rapid just above it, and the place was very perilous for the
long rafts, which were sometimes dashed to pieces upon the sunken
rocks. The bank of the river on the right rises abruptly to a great
height, and the precipice is called the Lurlei. It has an echo which
gives back fifteen repetitions of the original sound. It sometimes
makes intelligent replies; and wicked students put to it the question,
"Who is the burgomaster of Oberwesel?" To which it responds, "Esel,"
which, in English, means an ass. The burgomaster intends to have it
indicted for slander.

This echo, which repeats the sounds from below, and the wild character
of the region, have produced a legend that the place is haunted by a
beautiful but wicked water nymph, who lured the voyager, by her
witching voice, to the rocks and the whirlpool, where his boat was
dashed to pieces.

St. Goar and St. Goarhausen are opposite each other, on little shelves
under the brow of the continuous range of hills which wall in the Rhine
for miles. The railroad extends along the left bank of the river, in
the rear of which is Rheinfels Castle,--the most extensive ruin on the
river,--nearly four hundred feet above the water. The Mouse, on the
other side, is supposed to have some unpleasant relations with the Cat,
farther up the stream. On the right, opposite the small town of Salzig,
are two twin castles, which go by the name of the Brothers. Their
owners, bearing this relation to each other, unfortunately fell in love
with the same beautiful lady, fought for her, and both were killed.

"This is Boppart, a very old place, occupied by the Romans," said Dr.
Winstock, as the steamer made a landing. "You have noticed that the
shelf of land on each side of the river, grows wider and the hills are
farther from the stream. Between this point and Bingen, the Rhine makes
its passage through the mountains. Some suppose the river, at a remote
period, forced its way through the range, and formed the narrow gorge
which we have passed, and that the country as far back as Basle was a
vast lake, for various sea shells and fossils are found there.
Marksburg Castle, on your right, is very much like the one you saw at
Baden-Baden; and a walk through its deep dungeons hewn out of the rock,
its torture-rooms, and its subterranean galleries, is enough to inspire
a sensation novel."

"Dear me!" yawned Grace, "I am almost tired of castles."

"I think Captain Shuffles is also," added Paul. "I notice that he
hardly looks at them. Well, he has something better to look at."

"What?"

"Lady Feodora," laughed Paul.

"The best way to go down the Rhine, if one has the time, is to go from
town to town by railway, and then pass through the region in a steamer,
to put the effects together. I am sorry you are tired of it," said the
surgeon.

"I enjoy the scenery, but I have had about castles enough for one day."

"There are not so many below Coblenz. You have now 'done' the most
beautiful portion of the river, and the trip to-morrow will be hardly
more interesting than the same distance on the Hudson."

The young people devoted some time to conversation with each other; but
the doctor pointed out the Königstuhl, where the seven electors used to
sit, and where emperors were elected, and sometimes dethroned.

"Lahnech Castle has a peculiar interest," he continued, as he called
the attention of the group to a château on the right. "It belonged to
the order of Knights Templars, which was founded, in 1118, for the
protection of pilgrims, and the defence of the Holy Sepulchre at
Jerusalem. The institution became renowned, and extended all over the
world. It was very rich and powerful, and therefore disliked by the
clergy, who finally overthrew it. Those residing here were attacked in
their castle, which was captured only after the last of its brave
defenders had been slain. On the other side is Stotzenfels, or Proud
Rock--a title which it deserves. Upon it is the beautiful château of
the King of Prussia."

A short time after, the steamer reached Coblenz, where the
excursionists were to spend the night.




CHAPTER XIX.

COBLENZ AND COLOGNE.


Apartments had been engaged at the Riese, or Giant Hotel, near the
landing. It was too dark to see anything of the town, but the students
wandered about the streets, looking into the beer shops, which they
dared not enter, and observing the evening life of the Germans. To many
of them this occupation was more interesting than visiting old castles,
or even modern palaces, especially after they had become old stories.
Paul, Shuffles, and some others found themselves more pleasantly
entertained at the hotel.

After breakfast the next morning, the tourists made a business of
seeing the place. The town occupies a tongue of land at the junction of
the Moselle with the Rhine. It is strongly fortified, on the land side,
with works which it required twenty years to build, and there are forts
all around the city, which is intended to be a stronghold for the
defence of Prussia against an invading army from France.

The Church of St. Castor, at the confluence of the rivers, is a very
ancient structure, in which the grandchildren of Charlemagne met to
make a division of the empire. Napoleon, on his march to invade Russia,
caused a fountain to be erected in front of this church, bearing an
inscription commemorating the event. The French army was overwhelmed,
and a Russian force, pursuing the remnant of it, arrived at Coblenz.
The general saw the obnoxious record, but instead of erasing it, he
added the sarcastic sentence, "Seen and approved by us, the Russian
commandant of the city of Coblenz," which remains to this day.

The party visited some of the principal edifices in the city, including
the palace, in which the King of Prussia sometimes resides, and then
crossed the Rhine on the bridge of boats to the immense fortress called
Ehrenbreitstein, the meaning of which is "honor's bright stone." It was
a fortress in the middle ages, and was unsuccessfully besieged by the
French in 1688, though it was less fortunate in 1799, when the garrison
was starved into a surrender, and it was blown up. In 1814 the
Prussians commenced the work of restoring it, and since that time they
have been continually strengthening and enlarging it. The series of
military works, of which this fortress is the principal, are capable of
holding one hundred thousand men, but five thousand are sufficient to
garrison them. The magazine will hold provisions enough to supply eight
thousand men ten years. It mounts four hundred pieces of cannon. The
rocks have been hewn out into bomb-proofs and battlements, and art has
done its utmost to strengthen the place.

The parade is on the top of the rock, beneath which vast cisterns have
been constructed, which will contain a three years' supply of water. In
addition to these, a well, four hundred feet deep, cut in the rock,
communicates with the Rhine, which is to be used only on an emergency,
as the river water is unwholesome. The river seen from the parade is
very beautiful, but the company were obliged to hasten back to Coblenz,
in order to dine in season for the afternoon steamer to Cologne.

At one o'clock the voyage down the Rhine was renewed, and the students,
after their long ramble in the forenoon, were glad to use the camp
stools on the deck of the steamer. Village after village was passed,
but the scenery was less grand than that seen the day before. There
were fewer castles to be seen on the heights, though Dr. Winstock could
hardly tell the story of one before another required attention. The
railroads which extend along each side of the river, in several
instances, passed under castles, towers, and ruins, whose foundations
have been tunnelled for the purpose. At Andernach, the mountains on
both sides come close to the river again, and the water flows through a
kind of gorge between them.

"At Brohl, which you see on the left, a peculiar kind of stone is
found, which has the property of hardening under water, and is,
therefore, in great demand for the manufacture of cement," said Dr.
Winstock. "The ancients used it for coffins, because the stone absorbed
the moisture from the bodies. These quarries were worked by the Romans,
who had a road to Cologne on the left bank of the river."

"There are mountains on the right," said Grace, some time afterwards.

"Those are the Siebengebirge, as they are called. Though the name
indicates seven mountains, there are thirty summits. They are very
picturesque, but they are only ten or fifteen hundred feet high,"
continued the doctor.

"There is a beautiful island in the middle of the river," added Paul.
"It has an old building on it, and is covered with trees."

"That is Nonnenwerth, and the building is a convent. Do you see the
castle on the left bank, opposite the island?"

"I see it."

"You must read Herr Bernard's Legends of the Rhine. You will find the
book in Cologne, both in German and in English, though the English of
the latter is execrable. You will find in it the story of Rolandseck,
the castle on the left, and Nonnenwerth. Roland was the nephew of
Charlemagne. He was engaged to a daughter of the Lord of Drachenfels,
whose castle you see on the opposite side of the river. He went away to
the wars, and during his absence, a false report came back that he was
killed at Roncesvalles. His betrothed, in despair, entered the convent
on the island, and took the black veil. Roland returned, but could not
reclaim the bride. He built the castle on the left, where he could
overlook her retreat, and lived the lonely life of a hermit. One
evening, while he was gazing down upon the convent, he heard the bell
toll, and saw a procession of nuns escorting a coffin to the chapel.
His page soon brought him the intelligence that his lady was dead. He
ordered his horse to be saddled immediately, and hastened to Spain,
where, in a battle with the Moors, he was killed."

"Then these are the Drachenfels, on our right," said Grace.

"They are 'The Castled Crags of Drachenfels,' as Byron sings. From the
top of this precipice, Cologne, twenty miles distant, can be seen."

"And that large town is Bonn," said Paul.

"Yes; the electors of Cologne--not the city, but the
electorate--formerly resided here. The vast palace built for them in
1730, which is nearly a quarter of a mile long, is now used by the
University of Bonn, where Prince Albert, Queen Consort, of England, was
a student. The city has about twenty thousand inhabitants, and is a
very beautiful place. When I was here, six years ago, I went out about
a mile and a half to a church, on the top of the Kreuzberg. It formerly
belonged to a convent; and in a chapel behind the high altar are
exhibited what are called the Sacred Stairs, which led up to Pilate's
judgment hall. No one is allowed to ascend them except upon his knees,
and the stains of blood falling from the wounds caused by the Saviour's
crown of thorns are pointed out. Those believe who can and will. There
is a vault under the church, reached by a trap-door in the floor,
which, by some remarkable property, has preserved undecayed the bodies
of twenty-five monks. They lie in open coffins, clothed in cassocks and
cowls. They are dried up, and look like mummies. Some of them were
buried there four hundred years ago."

"What a horrible sight!" exclaimed the sensitive Grace.

"I did not see anything very horrible about it," replied the doctor,
with a smile; "but I am a surgeon by profession. In Italy and Sicily
there are many such exhibitions of the dead."

Below Bonn the banks of the river are level, or gently undulating,
reminding the traveller of the Delaware above Philadelphia. The scenery
is pleasant, but rather tame after the experience of the Drachenfels.
At five o'clock the steamer reached Cologne, and passing under the
great iron bridge, and through the bridge of boats, made her landing at
the quay. The Grand Hotel Royal, in which accommodations had been
engaged for the tourists, is situated on the bank of the river, and
many of the party had rooms which overlooked the noble stream. There is
no pleasanter occupation for a tired person than that of sitting at one
of these windows, watching the flow of the river, and the variety of
scenes which its surface presents.

It was a lively scene at the hotel in the evening. A few of the
students took a walk through the narrow streets; but Cologne is not a
pleasant place to walk in the evening. There are no sidewalks, and some
of the streets are not wide enough to allow two vehicles to pass
abreast, though in the more modern parts of the place this defect has
been remedied. The Hotel Royal has broad halls, though there is no such
thing as a public parlor, where the guests may meet together, as in
American hotels. Captain Shuffles and Lady Feodora were promenading,
while Paul and Grace had seated themselves in the coffee-room.

"I suppose, when we leave Cologne, we shall depart in different
directions," said Shuffles.

"Papa says we shall go direct to Calais," replied Feodora, looking very
sad, as, indeed, she felt when she thought of the separation.

"I believe our company are going by Charleroi to Paris, and from there
to Brest. Probably we shall never meet again."

"O, I hope we shall!" exclaimed Feodora, looking up into his face.

"It is not very probable."

"You may come to England within a few years, perhaps a few months."

"It is possible. If I come out in the ship next spring, we shall sail
up the Baltic, and make our first port at Christiansand, in Norway."

"I am afraid you don't wish to meet me again."

"I would cross the ocean for that alone," protested the gallant young
captain.

"If you wished to meet me, I think you would find a way."

"Perhaps I ought not to meet you again," added Shuffles.

"Not meet me again! Pray why not?"

"Sir William very much prefers that I should not do so."

"Sir William!" repeated she, with an inquiring glance.

"I think he does not like my company very well."

"I do, if he does not."

Shuffles did not mention to her that he had conversed with the baronet
about the matter, and that the latter had used some rather strong
language to him. He was not disposed to make trouble.

"I have some idea of your relations with Sir William," added Shuffles,
with considerable embarrassment.

"I haven't any relations with him, Captain Shuffles," replied she,
fixing her gaze upon the floor, while her face crimsoned with blushes.

"I have been told that you were engaged."

"By our parents--yes. By myself--no. I dislike Sir William very much
indeed; and I know my father will never do anything that will make me
unhappy."

"Pardon me for alluding to the subject," said Shuffles.

"I am very glad you spoke of it."

"I should not have done so, if I had not had some doubts about seeing
you again, even were an opportunity presented."

"Doubts about seeing me?"

"I mean because Sir William dislikes me," stammered the captain.

"He ought not to dislike you, after what you have done for him and me."

"He thinks I am too strong a friend of yours."

"I don't think you are. Why, you saved my life, and I should be very
ungrateful if I did not value your friendship," replied Feodora,
apparently investigating the texture of the wood of which the floor was
composed.

"Then you value it because I rendered you a little service on the
lake," added Shuffles.

"That assured me you were very brave and noble; and I am sure you have
not done anything since which makes me think less of you."

"You are very kind; and it makes me have the blues to think of parting
with you, perhaps never to see or hear from you again."

"Won't you write to me, as Miss Arbuckle does to the commodore, and
tell me about your travels, and about your own country, when you
return?"

"It would be a great satisfaction to me to have the privilege of doing
so," said Shuffles, eagerly.

"I should prize your letters above all others," she replied.

"Will your father allow you to receive them from me?"

"Why should he not?"

"On account of Sir William."

"My father is one of the best and kindest men in the world, and he
loves me with all his great soul. He has even told me that I might
dismiss Sir William, when we return to England, if I found it
impossible to like him," answered Feodora, artlessly; and English girls
speak on such subjects with less reserve than American damsels.

"Here comes Sir William. I shall write to you at the first opportunity
after we separate."

The baronet had been out to smoke; for young as he was, he had already
formed this habit, which was one of Lady Feodora's strong objections to
him,--he gave forth such an odor of tobacco. He frowned and looked
savage when he saw the young couple together; but they continued their
promenade in the hall, though they changed the subject of the
conversation.

"Good evening, Sir William," said Ben Duncan, the inveterate joker, who
saw the effect produced by the coming of the baronet, and wished to
relieve the young couple of his company.

"Good evening, sir," replied the baronet, stiffly; for he was not
disposed to be on very familiar terms with the young republicans.

"A friend of mine at the Gas-house--"

"At the what?" demanded Sir William, with a look of contempt.

"I beg your pardon. I mean the Gasthaus. But there were two or three
English nobs there who were so gassy in their style, that I forgot my
Deutsch for the moment. A friend of mine at the Gasthaus, am
Holländischer Hof, expressed a strong desire to see you."

"Indeed! What friend of yours could desire to see me?"

"Well, I call him Elfinstone. If I were more polite than I am, I should
say Lord Elfinstone; but he's just as good a fellow as though he were
not a lord."

"Is it possible that Lord Elfinstone is in Cologne?" added the baronet.

"Do you know him?"

"I have not that honor."

"I have. I used to sail him in my father's yacht, when he was in New
York," replied Ben; who, however, under any other circumstances, would
not have troubled himself to make the young nobles better acquainted.
"I will introduce you, if you like."

"Thank you," answered the baronet, with a promptness which indicated
that he appreciated the honor in store for him. "I shall be under great
obligations to you."

Taking the arm of Ben Duncan, who had suddenly risen in the estimation
of Sir William, because he was on familiar terms with so distinguished
a young gentleman as Lord Elfinstone, they left the hotel, very much to
the satisfaction of Shuffles and Feodora.

"Perhaps there is another objection to our meeting again, or at least
to permitting a friendship to grow up between us," said Shuffles,
continuing the subject.

"What can there be?" asked Feodora.

"You belong to the nobility of England, while I am only the son of a
Republican American."

"A fig for the nobility!" exclaimed she. "They are just like other
people."

"I think so myself," replied Shuffles; "but there is some difference of
opinion on that subject."

Sir William was duly presented to Lord Elfinstone, at the Holländischer
Hof, and they did not part till after nine o'clock; so the young couple
had the evening all to themselves. After the ice was broken, they
probably made some progress in establishing a friendship; but as it is
not fair to listen to such conversations, it cannot be reported. The
earl and his lady did not interfere, whatever they thought of the
confidential relations which appeared to be gaining strength between
the captain and their daughter, and they separated only when it was
time to retire.

After breakfast the next morning, Professor Mapps had something to say
about Cologne, and with the consent of Herr Deitzman, the landlord, it
was said in the coffee-room.

"As many of you do not study German, you would not know what was meant
by the name of the city if you saw it printed in that language," the
professor began. "It is written Köln, with the umlaut, or diæresis,
over the vowel, which gives it a sound similar to, but not the same as,
the e in the word met. It is the third city of Prussia, Berlin and
Breslau alone being larger, and has a population of one hundred and
twenty thousand. On the opposite bank of the Rhine is Deutz, with which
Cologne is connected by an iron bridge and by a bridge of boats. The
former is a grand structure, and worthy of your attention.

"Cologne was originally a colony of Rome, from which comes its name.
Portions of walls built by the Romans will be pointed out to you, and
in the Museum are many relics of the same ancient origin. Agrippina,
the mother of Nero, was born here, her father, the Emperor Germanicus,
being a resident of Cologne at the time. Trajan was here when he was
called to the throne. Clovis was declared king of the Franks at
Cologne. In the fourteenth century it was the most flourishing city of
Northern Europe, and one of the principal depots of the Hanseatic
League, of which I spoke to you on a former occasion. It was called the
Rome of the North, and many Italian customs, such as the carnival, are
still retained in Cologne, though in no other city of this part of
Europe. Several causes--the principal of which was the closing of the
Rhine by the Dutch in the sixteenth century--nearly destroyed the
commercial importance of the place; but the river was opened in 1837
and the city is now growing rapidly.

"One of the principal objects of interest in Cologne is the great
cathedral, called in German the Domkirche. It is one of the largest
churches in the world, and if completed on the original plan, it will
rival St. Peter's at Rome. It is five hundred and eleven feet long by
two hundred and thirty-one feet wide. The choir is one hundred and
sixty-one feet high. It has two towers in process of erection, which
will be five hundred feet high, if they are ever completed. It was
commenced in the year 1248, and the work went on, with occasional
interruptions, till about a hundred years ago, when it was suspended by
war. Frederick William, King of Prussia, on his accession to the
throne, caused the work to be resumed; and it required years of labor
and vast sums of money to make the needed repairs, for the structure
was a ruin even while it was unfinished. An association has been formed
to insure its completion, and the present king, as well as his
predecessor, has contributed large sums of money.

"As you came down the river, you saw the huge crane on the summit of
one of the towers, used to hoist up stone and other materials. It has
been there for hundreds of years. When it became insecure by years of
decay it was taken down; but a tremendous thunder-storm, which occurred
soon after, was interpreted by the superstitious citizens as a wrathful
protest of the Deity at its removal, indicating that the people did not
intend to complete the work, and it was repaired and restored to its
original position. Not less than twenty years, with the utmost
diligence, will be required to finish the building, and five millions
of dollars is the estimated expense."

When the professor finished his lecture, the excursionists organized
themselves into little parties to see the sights. As the unruly
elements of the squadron were all in the Josephine, the students were
permitted to go when and where they pleased. The Blankvilles and the
Arbuckles, with Shuffles and Paul, hastened to the cathedral, as it was
but a short distance from the hotel. Sir William was not in attendance,
being engaged with Lord Elfinstone. Dr. Winstock, as usual, did much of
the talking, being entirely familiar with all the localities and
traditions of the city.

The Domhof, or square in which the cathedral stands, is partly filled
with rude sheds, in which the stone for the building is hewn, and much
of the space around the grand structure is covered with stone. Entering
the church, the party walked to the middle of the choir. Its vast
height, its lofty columns, its arches, chapels, and richly-colored
windows filled them with awe and amazement. It was the most magnificent
sight they had ever beheld, and with one consent they were silent as
they gazed upon the architectural glories of the structure. They were
interrupted very soon, however, by the appearance of an official in the
livery of the church, who presented a salver for contributions for the
completion of the building. The earl and Mr. Arbuckle each gave a
napoleon, and other members of the party gave small sums. The gold won
the heart of the official, and he was very polite.

Having observed the effect as a whole, the tourists proceeded to
examine the church in detail. Behind the high altar is the shrine of
the Three Kings of Cologne. They are represented as the Magi, who came
from the east with presents for the infant Saviour. Their bodies are
said to have been brought by the Empress Helena, mother of Constantine
the Great, from the Holy Land to Constantinople, and then sent to
Milan; and when this city was captured by the Emperor Frederick, he
presented them to the Archbishop of Cologne, who placed them in the
principal church. They have always been cherished with the greatest
veneration; were enclosed in costly caskets, and adorned with gold and
silver of immense value, though these have been mostly purloined, or
otherwise appropriated. The skulls of the three kings are inscribed
with their names, in rubies: Gaspar, Melchior, and Balthazar.
Those who show the tomb of the Magi say its treasures are still worth a
million of dollars; but people who go to see sights must see them.

Near the shrine is a slab in the pavement, beneath which is buried the
heart of Marie de Medicis, wife of Henry IV., of France, her body
having been sent to France. In various parts of the church are ancient
and valuable paintings, in several of which the Magi are introduced.
The story of the Three Kings is a cherished tradition in several of the
cities of this part of Europe, and hotels and other public edifices
have been named for them.

Passing out of the church, the party walked around it, in order to
