and we judged that they meant to complete the work which they had
begun.

"We must follow them up," continued Kit. "Boy, take Matt's rifle, and
follow me."

I bent over the form of the fallen patriarch. I placed my hand upon his
heart, but there was no answering throb. He was indeed dead, and my
whole frame was shaken with convulsive grief.

"Don't stop there, boy!" called Kit.

"He is dead!" I groaned in bitterness of spirit.

"I know he is, boy; but we can't help it. We can't stop to cry now."

"My best friend!"

"Come, boy!" shouted Kit. "Bring his rifle, powder, and ball."

I wiped the tears from my eyes, but I could not banish the sorrow from
my heart. Gently I raised the head of the old hunter, and removed the
powder-horn and bullet-pouch which were suspended over his shoulder.
Picking up the rifle, which lay near him on the ground, I followed my
companions into the forest. I felt then that I could shoot an Indian
without any remorse.




CHAPTER VI.

IN WHICH PHIL ASSISTS IN THE BUILDING OF A BLOCK HOUSE.


Kit Cruncher was a prudent man, brave as he was. We did not therefore
march boldly through the forest, for there were only three of us
against four times as many Indians. We dodged from tree to tree, always
keeping our bodies sheltered from the bullets of the savages. Kit went
along near the brook, and presently I saw him raise his rifle and fire.
The shot was followed by a wild yell from the savages.

"Give me Matt's rifle, boy," said Kit, as he passed me his own, with
his powder-horn and ball-pouch. "Load that, boy."

With his eye still on the spot where he had seen the Indian, he told me
how much powder to put in his rifle, and to be sure and ram the ball
home. I loaded it as quickly as I could, but he did not find another
opportunity to fire.

"Did you hit the one you fired at, Kit?" I asked.

"I hit him, but I didn't kill him. They won't cross the brook in that
place. I'm afeard they'll scatter next. Howsomever, we've did enough
out here. We'll go back to the bridge. That's the safest place for us.
I don't hear 'em now; and that's a bad sign with Injuns."

"Where are they?"

"They was trying to cross the brook when I fired last time. They hev
got behind the trees now. We must git nearer the Castle, or they'll
drop in atween us."

Kit led the way, and Mr. Mellowtone and myself followed him, dodging
from tree to tree, until we reached the bridge. A couple of shots,
fired by the enemy, assured us they were on the watch, though none of
us was injured.

"'Tain't no use to stay here," said Kit. "The brook is a good line agin
hosses, but not agin Injuns afoot."

"I think you are right," replied Mr. Mellowtone. "When I spoke of the
brook as a line of defence, I considered the enemy as mounted men."

"The Castle is the best place for the rest of this fight."

"But the Indians can cross the brook, and then lay down this bridge
again," suggested Mr. Mellowtone.

"Set them sticks afire, boy," added Kit, pointing to the heap of logs
we had removed from the bridge. "It will be easier to cut some more
than to let the redskins use them."

Mr. Mellowtone gave me a card of matches, and I piled up some dry
sticks against the heap, which I set on fire. While I was thus
employed, my companions made a litter, on which they placed the body of
Matt. As we could neither see nor hear the savages, we concluded they
had gone farther up the brook to find a crossing. We waited till the
fire had nearly consumed the bridge material, and then started for the
Castle. Kit and Mr. Mellowtone bore the litter, while I carried two
rifles. It was a mournful procession to me, and my companions were sad
and silent. I knew that Kit grieved at the loss of his old friend; but
he was only grave and solemn, as he always was.

When we reached the Castle, the body of the old man was placed upon his
bed, and we left the room to prepare for the defence of the place. It
was not in the nature of the Indians to go away without further
wreaking their vengeance. Besides, the Castle was rich in plunder to
men pressed with want, and even with hunger. We must expect a visit
from them by night, if not before.

The Castle was a log cabin, containing only a single room, with the
chimney on the outside, and next to the river. On the other side was
built the barn, which was twice as large as the house. They were joined
together, so as to save the labor of building one wall, as well as for
convenience in winter. The building stood on a kind of ridge, which was
the "divide" between Bear Creek and Kit's Brook. From one stream to the
other the land was cleared, and included in the farm. The forest line
was within a hundred and fifty rods of the river.

We had, therefore, an open space from stream to stream, three miles
long by about a hundred and fifty rods wide, from which Matt Rockwood
had cut off the wood, hauling it to the landing-place at the mouth of
Fish Creek for the steamers. Only a portion of this territory had been
cultivated, though all of it was used for crops or for pasture. Kit had
come to the conclusion that we could defend ourselves better in the
open space than in the woods, so long as we were able to prevent the
Indians from dashing suddenly upon us on horseback.

"Our army's small," said the old hunter, as we met again in front of
the Castle. "We must see, and not be seen."

"We can stay in the Castle, and fire out the windows, then," suggested
Mr. Mellowtone.

"That won't do. It hain't but two winders, and none on the wood side,"
replied Kit. "We must make a block house, or sunthin' o' that sort.
Here's plenty of timber sticks."

He pointed to the pile of wood which we had hauled to the vicinity of
the Castle during the milder days of the winter, when Matt was able to
be out. The sticks were about eight feet long, and suitable for such a
stockade as I had seen at the fort twenty miles up the Missouri.

"You mean to build a fort?" asked Mr. Mellowtone.

"That's jest what I mean," replied Kit; "a kind of a den we kin fire
out on, and will turn a bullet at the same time."

"Where shall we put it?"

"Jest on the ridge back of the barn. Then we kin see the whole
clearin', and draw a bead on a Injun jest as quick as he shows his
head. We hain't no time to lose, nuther."

"I'm ready," replied Mr. Mellowtone, throwing off his coat.

"Fetch on the shovels, boy," added Kit.

I furnished them with picks and shovels, and went to the high ground in
the rear of the barn. We carried all the arms with us. Kit marked out a
circle about ten feet in diameter, outside of which we began to dig a
trench. The ground was soft for the first foot, and the work easy.
Below this the labor was very severe. We watched the woods all the
time, that the Indians might not surprise us. We were out of the range
of their rifles, and only by coming into the open space could they fire
with any chance of hitting us. We found they were not disposed to waste
powder, and we judged that their supplies of ammunition were as low as
those of food.

At noon I was relieved from work to get some dinner for my companions.
I went back to the Castle and built a fire. The form of Matt lay on the
bed in the room where I was at work, covered over with the quilt. I put
the fish and potatoes on the fire, but I could not refrain from crying.
I had often before attended to my domestic work while the old man lay
in the bed, but he was never so still as now. He did not speak to me,
and did not know that I was there. I could not help looking frequently
at the bed, and gazing at the outline of his form beneath the quilt.
His death might change the whole current of my destiny, but I did not
think much of that then. I dwelt only upon the loss I had sustained,
recalling the kindness of the old man to me. I was glad then to think
that I had always done my best to serve him; that I had tenderly and
devotedly nursed him in sickness, as he had me; and this thought was a
very great comfort to me.

When I had cooked the dinner, I carried it out to the site of the block
house, and with our faces to the forest we ate it. We were a sad and a
silent party. For ten years before I had not eaten a meal except in the
presence of him who was now no more. Kit said not a word about his lost
friend; but Mr. Mellowtone, seeing how badly I felt, tried to comfort
me.

After dinner, my companions resumed their labors; but Kit directed me
to commence carting the timber to the block house. I put away the
dishes, and harnessed the horses to the wagon. The sticks were only
three or four inches in diameter, and I loaded them without difficulty.
By the time I had hauled a sufficient number for the structure, the
trench was deep enough, and we all went to work setting up the sticks.
We placed them on the inside of the ditch, propping them up with
others, until we had a dozen up, when we began to throw in the dirt
around them, jamming it down with a maul.

After a beginning was made, I was directed to set up the sticks, while
Kit threw in the earth, and Mr. Mellowtone rammed it down. Once in
every four feet I was required to put in a stick only five feet long,
so that above it there was an opening three inches wide, which formed a
loophole from which the rifles could be discharged at the enemy. The
trench was two feet deep, leaving the bottom of the loophole three feet
above the level of the ground.

As none but the straightest sticks were used in the works, the cracks
were very narrow; but the earth was to be heaped up to the bottom of
the loopholes against the outside, thus making the structure absolutely
bullet-proof for three feet from the ground. By the middle of the
afternoon, the sticks were all set, and the trench filled up. A space a
foot and a half wide was left on the side next to the barn, for a door.
I nailed together a sufficient number of sticks, putting cross-pieces
of board over them, to fill this space, and serve as a door. In the
mean time my friends shovelled the dirt against the outside of the
palisades; and before sundown the work was completed, and we were ready
for the Indians as soon as they wished to make an attack.

"No doubt this fort is a great institution; but the Indians will come
upon us in the night, when we can't see them," said Mr. Mellowtone.

"But we must see 'em," replied Kit.

"The nights are rather dark now."

"There is plenty of pitch wood, and we can make it as light as we
please."

"That's your plan--is it?"

"That's the idee. We must keep the fires up all night, and one pair of
eyes wide open."

"It's a pity we haven't my twelve-pounder here," added Mr. Mellowtone.

"I reckon you'll hev to fotch it down, Mr. Mell'ton."

"I would if I could leave."

"I reckon we kin stand it one night."

"I don't wish to stay here any longer," I added, sorrowfully. "Matt is
dead, and I don't care much where I go."

"You'll git over that, boy, one of these days. You kin kerry on the
farm and do well here," added Kit. "But I reckon we must plant the old
man to-night."

He meant, to bury him; and while they were digging a grave near the
block house, I made a rude coffin of some boards we had saved for
another purpose. It was the saddest job I had ever done, and my tears
fell continually on the work. I carried the box into the house, and my
companions laid the silent old man in it. I took my last look at the
face of my venerable friend, and the lid was nailed down. We bore him
to his last resting-place, as the shades of night were gathering around
us. Mr. Mellowtone was to make a prayer at the grave, and had knelt
upon the ground for that purpose, when we heard the wild yell of the
savages on the border of the forest.




CHAPTER VII.

IN WHICH PHIL AND HIS FRIENDS GUARD THE CASTLE.


We had realized all day, while building the block house, that we were
watched by the Indians, and that whenever a favorable opportunity was
presented, they would make a dash upon us. The dusk of the evening now
favored them, and I think they understood what we were doing. But the
movement on their part was premature, for it was still light enough to
enable us to see an Indian anywhere in the clearing.

"Run for the block house!" said Kit Cruncher, leading the way with long
strides.

It was only a few rods distant, and we rushed in before the savages
were near enough to use their rifles, which were not of the best
quality. Our four weapons rested against the palisades, loaded and
ready for instant service.

"Shut the gate, boy," continued Kit, as he thrust the muzzle of his
rifle through a loophole.

I closed and barred the gate with the heavy timber I had prepared for
the purpose. Before I had done so, Kit fired, and I heard an awful yell
from the savages.

"There goes one of them," said Mr. Mellowtone.

"I shall fotch down one every time I shoot," replied Kit, calmly, as he
picked up the rifle of old Matt. "Load my piece, boy, and be sure you
ram the ball home."

"They have come to a halt," added Mr. Mellowtone, as he discharged his
rifle.

"You didn't hit nothin', Mr. Mell'ton," said Kit, quietly, as he gazed
through the loophole in front of him.

"I see that I missed my aim that time. Well, it's too late now; they
are running away again."

"They kin no more stand it to be shot at than they kin live without
eatin'," added Kit, as he set the rifle against the palisades. "They
was go'n to run up and shoot, because they see we hadn't nary gun in
our hands. We kin leave this place now."

The Indians had disappeared in the forest, bearing with them the body
of the one who had fallen. We left the block house, after making sure
that our rifles were in condition for use at the next attack.

"We mought light the fires now, afore we finish planting Matt," said
Kit. "But I don't reckon them Injuns will come agin jest yit."

"I should not think they would come at all," added Mr. Mellowtone.
"They have lost two of their number, and one or two have been wounded."

"We've lost one man, too," replied Kit. "That gin 'em courage to go
on."

"But they are sure of losing more the moment they show themselves. I
should think they would get tired of the game."

"They'll wait till they think it's safe afore they come agin. Now light
up the fires, boy."

While I had the horses harnessed, I had hauled a supply of pitch-wood
and other fuel for this purpose, and had prepared two heaps, one on
each side of the block house, in readiness to apply the match. I
lighted them, and the combustible wood blazed up, and cast a red glare
upon all the clearing. Kit Cruncher's calculation was fully justified,
and we were satisfied that no Indian could approach the Castle without
our knowledge, if we only kept a vigilant watch.

Again we gathered around the coffined form of old Matt. Mr. Mellowtone
knelt at the head of the grave, and we followed his example. He prayed
fervently and solemnly for both Kit and me, and I wept anew when he
recounted the virtues of the deceased. I forgot that there were any
Indians within a thousand miles of me, as I recalled the kindness of
him who was now lying cold and silent before me.

Mr. Mellowtone finished the prayer, and we lowered the rude coffin into
the grave. Not one of us spoke a word, and there was no sound to be
heard but the crackling of the fires, and the sobs I tried in vain to
repress. I was unutterably sad and lonely. I felt that no one on the
broad earth could take the place of Matt, and be to me what he had
been. The current of existence seemed to have come to a sudden stop,
and in my thought I could not make it move again.

My companions filled up the grave, and I watched the operation with a
swelling heart. I saw them place the sods on the mound they had heaped
up, and more than before I realized that I was never again to behold
the face from which had beamed upon me, for ten long years, so much of
love and joy. I thought of the old man pressing me as a little child to
his heart on the banks of the Missouri, when he had saved me from the
cold and the waters. I considered the days, months, and years of care
and devotion he had bestowed upon me--upon me, who had not a single
natural claim upon his love.

"Come, boy, don't stand there any longer," said Kit Cruncher, calling
to me from the vicinity of the block house. "You may git shot."

I turned, and found that my companions had left me alone. I joined
them, and with an effort repressed the flowing tears. I tried to
realize that I was still living, and that there was a future before me.

"I know you feel bad, boy; but 'tain't no use to cry," said Kit. "We'll
take good care on you."

"Matt has been very good to me," I replied.

"That's truer'n you know on, boy. Many's the time he sot up all night
with you when you was sick, and held you in his arms all day. I've been
twenty miles to the fort in the dead o' winter myself to git some
medicine for you. If Matt hed been a woman, he moughtn't have nussed
you any better."

"I'm very grateful to him, and to you."

"I know you be, boy. You took good care of old Matt when he was down
with the rheumatiz. You've been a good boy, and I don't blame you much
for cryin' now the old man's dead and gone. I think we will have
sunthin' to eat now."

I went to the Castle, and prepared a supper of fried bacon and
johnny-cake, which I carried to the block house. My companions ate as
though life had no sorrows; but we had all worked very hard in the
construction of our fortress, and the circumstances did not favor the
development of much fine sentiment. I carried the supper things back to
the Castle, washed the dishes, gave the pigs their supper, watered and
fed the horses, and then returned to the block house. Kit had brought
an armful of hay from the barn, and some blankets from the house, with
which he had prepared sleeping accommodations for two of the party. Mr.
Mellowtone was walking up and down between the two fires, smoking his
pipe, and doing duty as sentinel.

"Now, boy, you kin turn in and sleep," said Kit. "Mr. Mell'ton kin
sleep too, and I will keep an eye on the Injuns. 'Pears like they won't
come when they finds we are all ready for 'em."

"I'm not sleepy, Kit," I replied; "but I'm rather tired."

"You mought turn in and rest, then," replied Kit, as he left the block
house.

Mr. Mellowtone, relieved by the old hunter, soon joined me. I lay down
on the hay, and covered myself with a blanket. My friend sat down on
the ground and smoked his pipe. I could not sleep. Old Matt was in my
mind all the time. I continued to see him fall before the bullet of the
savage, and I still saw him lying silent and motionless on the ground.

"I think the Indians will be shy about coming here again," said Mr.
Mellowtone, after I had rolled about on my bed for a time; and I think
he spoke to turn my thoughts away from the engrossing subject which
burdened me.

"I wish they had not come at all. They have made it a sad day for me,"
I replied, bitterly.

"You mustn't take it too hardly, Phil Farringford."

"How can I help it?"

"It is not strange that you weep; but you are young, and your spirits
are buoyant. You will feel better in a few days."

"What is to become of me now?" I asked. "Old Matt is gone, and I need
stay here no longer."

"Why not? You can carry on Matt's farm, with the help of Kit and me.
You have done most of the work for the last year, and you can get along
as well in the future as you have in the past."

"Shall I live here alone?"

"Of course you may do as you please. You are your own master now, as
not many boys of your age are. But it is rather early now to consider a
matter of so much importance."

"What should I do if the Indians came upon me?"

"You would defend yourself, as you do now. But the Indians will be
taken care of. As soon as we can send word up to the fort, the officer
in charge will detail a force to punish them for what they have done,
and secure our safety in the future. I have been in this vicinity for
five years, and this is the first time I have known any serious
difficulty with the savages."

Mr. Mellowtone smoked his pipe out, and then lay down by my side. In a
few moments he dropped asleep. I was very tired after the severe labor
of the day, and I had been up most of the preceding night. Nature at
last asserted her claim, and I slept.

When I awoke, the sun was shining in through the loopholes of the block
house. Kit Cruncher lay by my side, still fast asleep. I realized that
the Indians had not made an assault during the night. I rose carefully,
stepped over the long gaunt form of the stalwart hunter, and left the
fortress. Mr. Mellowtone was walking up and down, with his pipe in his
mouth, between the expiring embers of the fires, which had been
permitted to go out at daylight.

"Why didn't you call me, and let me take my turn on the watch, Mr.
Mellowtone?" I asked, after the sentinel had given me a pleasant
greeting.

"Kit told me not to call you, and I did not intend to do so, Phil
Farringford. You are a boy, and you need sleep."

"I'm willing to do my share of the watching."

"You shall take your turn to-night. We can do nothing to-day but eat
and sleep. If you will give us some breakfast, we shall be ready for
it."

"I will--right off. Have you seen anything of the Indians?"

"No; not one of them has ventured into the clearing. Being ready for
them is more than half the battle. I doubt whether they trouble us
again at present. We have taught them a lesson they will not soon
forget."

"Yes; and they have taught us one which we shall not soon forget," I
added, glancing at the mound over the grave of Matt Rockwood.

I went to the Castle, made a fire, and while the kettle was boiling I
attended to the horses. I cooked some fish and potatoes, and we
breakfasted between the block house and the forest. All day long we
watched and waited for the coming of the savages; but we heard nothing
of them. At night I took the first watch, and walked around the Castle,
keeping up the fires, till I was so sleepy I could hardly keep my eyes
open; and then, as a matter of prudence rather than comfort, I called
Kit.




CHAPTER VIII.

IN WHICH PHIL SEES THE FIRST YOUNG LADY HE EVER SAW.


We were rather tired of this life of inactivity after a couple of days.
We watched for Indians, but none came; and, on the third day after the
death of Matt Rockwood, Kit declared his intention to take a tramp into
the woods in the direction of his own cabin. If he found any Indians he
would return; but he was satisfied that the party who had made the
attack expended all their provisions, and were obliged to retire to
obtain more.

"I shall be atween you and the Injuns all the time, boy," said he.

"I am not afraid, Kit; and I'm very grateful to you for what you have
done for me--and for Matt," I replied, walking with him towards the
brook.

"Matt and I was good friends; but all that's passed and gone. I shall
come back in a few days--sooner ef there's any Injuns round. Good by,
boy."

He walked across the brook on one of the stringers, and disappeared in
the forest. Mr. Mellowtone was also impatient to depart. He had been
away from his home on the island for several days. In the afternoon, as
Kit did not return, we concluded the enemy had retired, and my friend
embarked in his barge for home; but he promised to return before night.
I was alone then, and I walked about the farm thinking of Matt.
Whichever way I turned, there was always something to remind me of him.

I could not help considering my prospects for the future. I had
concluded to carry on the farm that season, though I did not like the
idea of living all alone. Mr. Mellowtone said nothing about taking up
his residence with me, though I had suggested the idea to him. I knew
that he was fond of solitude for a large portion of his time. He was
too much enamoured of his island to leave it. Kit's habits would not
permit him to settle down and dwell in a house, for though he had a
cabin, he did not live in it except in the winter. If I carried on the
farm, I must do it alone, though I should doubtless receive frequent
visits from my neighbors.

I walked about the farm thinking what I should do the coming season,
and I laid out work enough to keep me well employed till the coming of
the autumn. I intended to plant ten acres in corn, potatoes, and
vegetables. Fortunately the soil was easily worked, and I had no doubt
of my ability to perform the labor, with the aid of the horses and the
implements at my command. I walked till I had arranged my plans, and
then went into the Castle to consider them further.

My thoughts wandered away from the practical duties of the farm to the
past. I recalled the scene on the banks of the Missouri, where Matt had
folded me in his arms by the bivouac fire. He was not my real father,
though he had done all a parent could do for me. I had had a real
father and mother, who probably believed, if they were saved from the
calamity, that I had perished. The subject was full of interest to me.
Perhaps my parents had been saved, and still lived. Matt had told me
that one half of the people on board the Farringford had been picked up
by the steamer that passed the next morning.

The more I thought of this subject, the more curious and anxious I
became. I glanced at a large chest, which stood near the head of the
bed. It contained all the valuables of Matt, and he always kept it
locked. I had never known him to open it, except when he had sold a lot
of wood, and wished to put away the money. Although he never said
anything about it, I thought he did not wish me to see what the chest
contained. He kept it locked, it seemed to me, to prevent me from
opening it, for there was no other person who was likely to meddle with
it. I respected his wishes, though he never expressed them, and
refrained even from looking at him when he opened the chest. There must
be money in it; but that was of no use to me, except when the trading
steamers came along.

I was sure that it was not to keep me from meddling with the money that
my patriarchal friend locked the chest. There was something in it, I
fancied, which was connected with the mystery of my parentage. Though
it did not occur to me then, I have thought since that Matt Rockwood
did very wrong in not trying to ascertain who my father and mother
were. Even Kit Cruncher had insisted upon his doing this; but after he
had loved me and cared for me, he could not permit me to be taken from
him. I could forgive him because of his tenderness and affection for
me; but even these could not justify his conduct.

I rose from the bench on which I was seated, and walked across the room
to the chest. It was locked; but where was the key? Old Matt had always
carried it in his pocket, and I concluded that it had been buried with
him. Had it been in my possession I should have opened the chest; but I
had not the courage to break it open. I resumed my seat on the bench,
and the mystery of my parentage seemed to become awful and oppressive.
Why could I not know whether my father, or mother, or both, were alive
or dead? But all was dark to me, and I could not penetrate the veil
which hung between me and those who had given me being.

While I was thinking, I heard the whistle of a steamer, frequently
repeated, indicating that she wanted a supply of wood. I hastened to
the stable, and mounted Cracker, for the landing-place was a mile from
the Castle. By the time the boat had made fast to the tree, which
served as a mooring-stake, I reached the wood-yard. We had one hundred
cords of cotton-wood piled up in readiness for sale.

"Hallo, Phil Rockwood," said the captain, crossing the gang-plank to
the shore. "Where is your father?"

"He is dead, sir," I replied, gloomily enough, for the scene reminded
me very strongly of Matt, and this was the first time I had been called
upon to make a bargain myself.

"Dead! I am sorry for that. When did he die?" added the captain, with
an appearance of real regret.

"He was shot by the Indians four days ago."

"Shot! Well, that's too bad."

"I wish you would tell the commander of the fort above all about it."

"I will, certainly. But what do you ask for wood?"

"Matt Rockwood said he must have four dollars a cord now, for we have
to haul it farther than we used to," I replied.

"That's rather high."

But I stuck to the price which Matt had fixed, and the captain finally
agreed to it, though it was more than we had ever charged before. We
measured off twenty cords, and the deck hands of the steamer began to
carry it on board. While they were thus engaged, I told the captain all
about our difficulty with the Indians, and he was confident that the
commandant of the fort would send a force to chastise them.

While the boat was wooding up, the passengers went on shore, and walked
in the woods to vary the monotony of the tedious voyage. Among them I
observed a young lady of twelve or thirteen, the first I had ever seen
in my life of the white race. I gazed at her with curiosity and
interest, as she walked up the cart path towards the castle. She was
alone, for the other passengers took the road on the bank of the brook.
She was very prettily dressed, and the sight of her gave me a new
sensation. I saw two ladies, but they were watching the labors of the
deck hands, and did not leave the steamer.

"You have some passengers, captain," said I, wishing to introduce the
subject, so that I could inquire about the young lady.

"A few, but it is rather too early in the season for them. Mine is the
first boat this year," he replied.

"Where are these ladies going?"

"They are going to Oregon--Portland, I believe."

"Who is that young lady?" I asked.

"She is the daughter of one of the ladies on deck, and a very pretty
girl she is, too. Her name is Ella Gracewood."

The hands had nearly finished loading the wood, and the captain ordered
the bell to be rung and the whistle to be blown, in order to call back
his passengers, who were wandering about on shore. He paid me eighty
dollars in gold for the wood; for in this wild region we used only hard
coin, and did not believe in banks hundreds or thousands of miles
distant. I took the money, and with a portion of it purchased a barrel
of flour, a keg of sugar, a quantity of ground coffee, and some other
supplies needed at the Castle. The steamer hauled in her plank, and
casting off her hawser, renewed her long voyage up the river. Mounting
Cracker, I rode back to the Castle, and harnessed both horses to the
wagon, in order to haul up the stores I had purchased.

While I was thus employed, I saw the young lady, who had landed from
the steamer, walking very deliberately across the field from the
forest, to which she had extended her promenade. In her hand she
carried some of the little flowers which blossomed in the grass.
Occasionally she held them to her nose, and seemed to enjoy their
fragrance very much. I drove my horses down the slope, and intercepted
her as she reached the road. I knew she had made a serious mistake in
not returning before; but she, as yet, had no suspicion that the
steamer had departed. I hauled in my horses, but she was not disposed
to take any notice of me.

I may say now, fifteen years after, that I was not a dandy, and my
appearance was not calculated to make an impression upon a young lady.
I wore coarse gray pants, "fearfully and wonderfully made," besides
being fearfully soiled with grease and dirt, the legs of which were
stuffed into the tops of my boots, after the fashion of our backwoods
locality. Above these I wore a hunting-frock, made of a yellow blanket,
with a belt around my waist. My cap was of buffalo hide, and shaped
like a gallon tin-kettle. My frock was dirty, greasy, and ragged, for I
wore it while cooking, taking care of the pigs and horses, and in doing
other dirty work about the house and barn.

I thought the young lady did not like my appearance, for she seemed to
be very timid, and perhaps thought I was a brigand. I was near enough
to see that she was very pretty, even according to the standard of
later years, though I had no means of making a comparison at that time.

Though I pulled in my horses, she only glanced at me, and resumed her
walk towards the landing, apparently determined to avoid me. I was
rather vexed at this treatment, for I wished to invite her to ride down
to the river. I knew nothing about the shyness and reserve of young
ladies in civilized life. I drove on once more, and she stepped out of
the road to permit the team to pass. She glanced at me again, and I saw
that she was not angry with me. I stopped the horses, and then I
ventured to speak to her.




CHAPTER IX.

IN WHICH PHIL HAS A VISITOR AT THE CASTLE.


"Won't you ride?" I asked, as the young lady stepped out of the road to
allow my team to pass.

"No, I thank you," she answered, with a smile and a blush.

I did not then understand the absurdity of the invitation I extended to
her. The wagon was simply a platform on wheels, with stakes. It had
been built by old Matt, though the wheels had been brought from some
town hundreds of miles down the river. It was the only vehicle on the
place, and was used for carting wood and hay, and for all the purposes
of the farm. It was not a suitable chariot for a civilized young lady,
dressed as prettily as Miss Gracewood was.

"Did you know that the steamer you came in had gone?" I added.

"Gone!" exclaimed she, with a start, and an expression of utter
despair.

"She left half an hour ago."

"What shall I do!" cried she, so troubled that I felt very bad myself.
"The steamer cannot have gone without me."

"She went more than half an hour ago," I added. "I suppose they thought
you were on board."

"O, dear! what shall I do!"

"She will come back after you when they find you have been left
behind."

"Do you think they will?"

"To be sure they will."

"Why did she go so soon? They have always stopped three or four hours
in a place."

"I suppose the boat had more business to do at other landings than
here. She only stopped here for wood. She whistled and rang her bell
half an hour before she started. Didn't you hear the whistle?"

"I did hear it, but not the bell, which I supposed was the signal to
call the passengers. It was such a pretty place in the forest that I
enjoyed it very much, and I did not think of such a thing as the
steamer starting for several hours. The boat whistles so much that I am
used to it, and don't heed it. What will become of me!"



"I don't think you need trouble yourself much about it. The steamer
will come back as soon as they miss you," I continued, very much moved
when I saw the tears starting in her eyes.

"I'm afraid they won't miss me."

"Why, certainly they will," I protested, earnestly. "Won't you ride
down to the landing?"

She glanced at the dirty wagon. She appeared to be tired after her long
walk, and the invitation was a temptation to her; but the character of
the vehicle did not please her. I had put a clean box on the wagon to
contain the small stores I had purchased.

"You can sit on this," I added, pointing to the box.

"I don't think I can get into the wagon."

I jumped upon the ground, and placed the box near the vehicle, so that
she could use it as a step. I did not understand the rules of gallantry
well enough to offer to assist her when she really needed no
assistance. She stepped upon the box, and, grasping one of the stakes,
easily mounted the platform. I placed the box in the middle of the
wagon, and she seated herself. I drove slowly to the landing-place, so
that the motion of the rude vehicle might not disturb her.

"I am afraid they won't come back to-night," said she, as she strained
her eyes in gazing up the river.

"Your friends on board would compel the captain to return; but he is a
very good man, and I think he will be willing."

"But they may not miss me. There are very few passengers on board, and
I have a state-room all to myself. I have been in it half the time,
reading, and they may think I am there."

"There will be another steamer along in a few days, and you can go in
her."

"In a few days!" repeated she. "What can I do for two or three days?"

"There's Mr. Mellowtone," I interposed, pointing to the pretty barge of
my friend, who was returning to the Castle, as he had promised to do.

"And who is Mr. Mellowtone?" inquired my fair companion.

I explained who he was: and by the time I had finished my description,
we arrived at the landing.

"There is no steamer to be seen," said Miss Ella, sadly.

"But she will come back, I am sure, even if she has gone a hundred
miles, when they discover your absence," I replied.

"I wish I could think so."

"You may depend upon it."

"It is almost dark now."

"The steamers run by night as well as by day, in this part of the
river, when the water is as high as it is now."

She walked down to the bank of the river, and continued to gaze
earnestly up the stream, while I employed myself in loading my goods. I
did not think, when I bought the barrel of flour, that I was now alone,
and two hundred pounds was more than I could lift from the ground to
the body of the wagon. But in the backwoods every person is necessarily
full of expedients. Taking a shovel from the shanty, which Matt had
built as a shelter in stormy weather, I dug a couple of trenches into
the slope of the hill, corresponding to the wheels, and then backed the
wagon into them, until I had a height of less than a foot to overcome.
Using a couple of sticks as skids, I easily rolled the barrel of flour
upon the vehicle. After loading the other articles, I was ready to
return to the Castle.

Miss Ella stood on the bank of the river, still watching for the
steamer. It did not come, and I invited her to return with me. She was
chilled with the cool air of the evening, and reluctantly consented. I
made a seat for her on the wagon, and assured her I should hear the
whistle of the steamer when she returned.

"I am afraid she will not return," said she again, very gloomily.

"Of course she will. I doubt whether she will go any farther to-night
than the fort, about twenty miles farther up the river," I replied.
"Your friends must have discovered your absence by this time."

"No," she replied, shaking her head, "they will think I am in my
state-room."

"Your mother is on board, I heard the captain say."

"She is, and my aunt."

"I am sure your mother will discover your absence. She will want to see
you before you go to bed."

"No."

I had no experience of domestic life among civilized people, but I had
read in books, lent to me by Mr. Mellowtone, that parents and children
were very affectionate. In the stories, little girls always kissed
their mothers, and said "good night" after they repeated their prayers.
I thought it would be very strange if Ella's mother did not discover
her absence till the next day. The young lady was very sad, and shook
her head with so much significance, that I was afraid her mother was
not kind to her, though I could hardly conceive of such a thing.

"Do you live here all alone?" she asked, after a silence of a few
moments, as though she wished to turn my attention away from a
disagreeable subject.

"I am all alone now, though it is only four days since the old man with
whom I lived was killed by the Indians."

"By the Indians!" exclaimed Miss Ella, with a look of terror.

I repeated the story of the attack of the Indians; but I did not wish
to alarm her, and refrained from saying that we expected another visit
from them soon. I had heard nothing from Kit Cruncher since he
departed, and I concluded that there was no present danger. My fair
companion sympathized with me in the loss I had sustained, and asked me
a great many questions in regard to my life in the woods. I told her
how I happened to be there, and I think she forgot all about herself
for the time, she was so interested in my eventful career.

We arrived at the Castle, and I found a good fire blazing in the room,
but I did not see Mr. Mellowtone, though he had lighted it. I conducted
Miss Gracewood into our rude house, and gave her a seat before the
fire. Unhitching my horses, I went to the barn with them. While I was
feeding them for the night, Mr. Mellowtone came in.

"I have been out into the woods," said he; "but I see no signs of any
Indians."

"I don't think there are any very near us," I replied. "If there were,
Kit Cruncher would return, and let us know of their approach. I have
some company in the Castle, Mr. Mellowtone."

"Company?"

"Yes; a young lady."

"Is it possible!"

"She was left by the steamer. She had been to walk in the forest, and
