took you off, Kit."

"Yes; and we were threatened with the jail, weren't we, because we made
a fire. But how you did talk, Charlie! You were always splendid on the
fighting side."

"I was made to go right straight ahead," said Charlie. "And, if I had
been afraid, I should never have done any thing."

"And we want to hear how you did it," pursued Mr. Darol.

So Charlie related her trials and perplexities, her fruitless journeys,
and her vain endeavors, until she met Mr. Paul Darol, who seemed to
understand just what she wanted.

"I don't see how you had the courage," Florence remarked. "And if I'd
only known you were there, Charlie!"

Charlie shrugged her shoulders. Now that the fight had been made,
and terminated successfully, she was rather glad to have gone into it
single-handed: not from any vanity, but a kind of sturdy independence
that had always characterized Charlie Kenneth.

And then they rambled farther back, to the time of Hal's sad accident.
Perhaps the most truly noble thing about them was their fearlessness
and honesty. They were not ashamed of the poverty and struggle: there
was no petty deceit or small shams to cover the truth.

Ah, what heroic lives they had all been, in a simple way! For it is not
only in great matters that men and women must fight: it is the truth
and endurance and perseverance which they bring into every-day events
that moulds character. Not a poor, false, or useless soul among them,
unless it was hers, Florence thought.

Hal stole down a time or two to see Granny, who had fallen into a
peaceful sleep. And presently the old clock struck ten. Dot and Kit
were nodding.

"I am going to put you in our old room," Hal said to Florence. "It is
the best I can do."

"No: let me sit up and watch with Granny."

"That is not at all necessary. Last night she was nervous. I fancy she
was haunted by a dim impression of impending change, and thought it
must mean death. Instead, it was the dearest of joys."

"O Hal! I don't feel worthy to come among you. Not simply because I
chose to go away, to have luxury and ease and idleness, while you
were in want and sorrow; for in those old days I thought only of
myself. But, a few months after I was married, Mrs. Osgood died, and
I was quite free to choose. Don't shrink away from me Hal, though the
cowardice has in it so much of vile ingratitude. I had not the courage
to be true to my secret longings. She had filled my weak soul with her
beliefs; and I persuaded myself that my debt to her was greater than
that to my own kindred."

"O Florence, hush! let it all go, since you have come back," pleaded
unselfish Hal.

"And then my precious baby came. Hardly four months ago. He had your
tender eyes, Hal; and they used to reproach me daily. But I made a
hundred excuses and delays. And then God took him, to let me feel what
a wrench the soul endures when its cherished ones are removed. All
these years I have been like one dead to you, without the sweet comfort
of those who know their treasures are safe in heaven. When we came back
from his grave yesterday, I told Edmund my deeper shame and anguish,
my disloyalty to those who had the first claim. And if any of you had
been dead, if I could never have won Granny's forgiveness, ah, how
heavy my burden would have proved!"

"But we all consented to your going," Hal said, longing to comfort her.

"Because you knew how weak and foolish I was, with my sinfully
ambitious longings. And oh, if my husband had been less noble!"

"You shall not so blame yourself on this blessed Christmas night. Is
there not to be peace on earth, and tenderness and good will for all?
And it seems as if you never could have come back at a more precious
moment."

Hal, foolish boy, cried a little in her arms. It was so sweet to have
her here.

After a while the children were all disposed of. Hal apologized to Joe
for the rather close and fragrant quarters.

"Don't worry, old comrade. When you've slept on a whale's backbone, or
a couple of inches of tarred rope, you take any thing cheerfully, from
a hammock to a bed of eider down."

Kit cuddled in his arms. Dear old Joe was the best and bravest of
heroes to him.

Hal threw himself on the lounge, covered with shawls and overcoats, for
the bedclothes were insufficient to go around. He laughed softly to
himself. Such a houseful as this the "Old Shoe" had never known before.
What was poverty and trouble now? A kind of ghostly phantom, that
vanished when one came near it. Why, he had never felt so rich in all
his life!

Granny was none the worse the next morning for her excitement. Dot
bathed her face, combed out the tiny silver curls, and put on a
fresh wrapper. Charlie helped get breakfast, though she was not as
deft-handed as Dot. The two tables were set again; and, when they
brought Granny out, she was more than proud of her family.

That seemed to be a gala-day for all Madison. When the news was once
started, it spread like wild-fire. Joe Kenneth wasn't drowned after
all, but had come back safe, a great, tall, handsome fellow. Florence
had returned with her fine-looking husband; and wild, queer Charlie had
actually been transformed into the family beauty.

"There never was a finer set of children in Madison," said Mr. Terry,
clearing his voice of a little huskiness. "And to think they're Joe
Kenneth's poor orphans! I tell you what! Granny Kenneth has been one
woman out of a thousand. Didn't everybody say she had better let the
youngsters go to the poor-house. And now they're a credit to the town.
Think of Joe being praised in the papers as he was! That went to my
heart,--his giving up a chance for life to some one else. He's a brave
fellow, and handsome as a picture. There isn't a girl but would jump
at the chance of marrying him. He will be a captain before he is five
years older, mark my words."

Dr. Meade was brimful of joy also. He kissed Charlie, and laughed at
her for running away, and was much astonished to find how fortunate she
had been But Joe was everybody's idol.

"I think some of you ought to be spared," exclaimed the good doctor.
"I don't see where you were all stowed last night. I have two or three
rooms at your service; and, indeed, am quite willing to take you all
in. But, anyhow, Kit and Joe might come for lodgings."

"We put them in the flower-room," said Charlie.

"Which accounts for their blooming appearance, I suppose;" and the
doctor pinched Charlie's ear.

Between themselves, they had endless talks. It seemed as if all the
stories would never get told. And, strangely enough, they came to pity
poor Flossy, who, among them all, had the only lasting sorrow.

Charlie took to Mr. Darol at once; and before the day ended they were
all fast friends.

"I think yours is a most remarkable family," he said to Florence.
"There is not one of the children but what you might be proud of
anywhere."

"I am so glad you can love them!" and the grateful tears were in her
eyes.

"And, when we return home, it seems as if we ought to take Charlie.
There she will have just the position she needs."

"O Edmund! I don't deserve that you should be so good to me. I was
longing to ask it. But I have been so weak and foolish!"

"My darling, that is past. I will say now, that my only misgiving about
you has been the apparent forgetfulness of old family ties. But I knew
you were young when you left your home, and that Mrs. Osgood insisted
upon this course; besides, I never could tell how worthy they were of
fond remembrance."

"And did not dream that I could be so basely ungrateful!" she answered
in deepest shame. "I abhor myself: I have forfeited your respect."

"Hush, dear! Let it all be buried in our child's grave. Perhaps his
death was the one needful lesson. And now that we have found them all,
we must try to make amends."

Florence sobbed her deep regret, nestling closely to his heart.

"Your brother Hal interests me so much! It seems that he will always
feel the result of his accident in some degree, on account of a
strained tendon. He has such a passionate love for flowers, and the
utmost skill in their care and culture. But he ought to have a wider
field for operations."

"Oh!" she said, "if we could help him. Charlie has worked her way so
energetically, that she only needs counsel and guidance. Kit and Dot
are still so young!"

"I don't wonder Uncle Paul was attracted. There is something very
bright and winsome about Charlie. I had to laugh at her na√Øve
confession of being a black sheep."

"She used to be so boyish and boisterous! not half as gentle as dear
Hal."

"But it seems to be toned down to a very becoming piquancy;" and he
smiled.

"How very odd that she should have met your uncle!" Florence said
musingly. "How surprised he will be!"

Dr. Meade came over again that evening, and insisted upon the boys
accepting his hospitality; so Joe and Kit were packed into the sleigh,
and treated sumptuously.

Granny continued to improve, and could sit up for quite a while. She
enjoyed having them all around her so much! It was like the old time,
when the gay voices made the house glad.

And so the days passed, busy, and absolutely merry.

Charlie and Florence helped cook, and Joe insisted upon showing
how he could wash dishes. On Sunday they all went to church except
Dot,--Granny would have it so.

On Monday Mr. Darol came. Charlie had given him very explicit
directions, but she was hardly expecting him so soon. Sitting by the
window she saw him coming down the street in a thoughtful manner, as if
he were noting the landmarks.

"O Mr. Darol!" and she sprang to the door, nearly overturning Dot.

"Yes: you see I have been as good as my word. How bright you look! So
there was nothing amiss at home?"

"Indeed there was! but, in spite of it, we have all been so happy! For
everybody came home at Christmas, even Joe, whom they thought drowned.
This is my little sister Dot. And oh, this is my brother Hal!"

Mr. Darol clasped the hand of one, and gave the other a friendly pat on
the soft golden hair.

"I dare say Charlie has told you all about me: if she has not she is a
naughty girl. Why"--

For in the adjoining room sat Florence, close to Granny's chair. No
wonder he was amazed.

"That's Florence, and you've seen her before. And Mr. Edmund Darol is
here," went on Charlie in a graciously explanatory manner.

"They are my brothers and sisters," said Florence with a scarlet flush.

He looked at her in deep perplexity.

"Mrs. Osgood adopted Florence," Charlie interposed again. "It was all
her fault; for she would not allow the relation to be kept up, and"--

"This is your grandmother?" he interrupted almost sharply, feeling
unconsciously bitter against Florence.

"This is dear Granny."

He took the wrinkled hand, not much larger than a child's, for all it
had labored so long and faithfully.

"Mrs. Kenneth," he said, "I am proud to make your acquaintance. One
such child as Charlie would be glory enough."

Charlie fairly danced with delight to see Granny so honored in her old
days. And as for the poor woman, she was prouder than a queen.

"You've been so good to her!" she murmured tremulously, nodding her
head at Charlie.

"She is a brave girl, even if she did run away. I have used my best
efforts to make her sorry for it."

"But oh! Mr. Darol, the work was all undone as soon as I came home.
For when I found them sick, and full of trouble, it seemed so good to
be able to take care of myself, that I think running away the most
fortunate step of my whole life."

"I am afraid that we shall never bring you to a proper state of
penitence;" and he laughed.

"You were so good to her!" said Granny again, as if she had nothing but
gratitude in her soul.

"It was a great pleasure to me. But I never dreamed that I had made the
acquaintance of one of your family before."

"He will never like me so well again," thought Florence; "but that is
part of my punishment. I have been full of pride and cowardice."

Mr. Darol made himself at home in a very few moments, for he was
interested beyond measure.

"It is a poor place," ruminated Charlie, glancing round; "but we
cannot help it, I'm sure. All of us have done our best."

Then she dismissed the subject with her usual happy faculty, and became
wonderfully entertaining; so much so, indeed, that, when Mr. Darol
glanced at his watch, he said,--

"In about half an hour my train goes down to the city. I have not
said half that I wanted to. I have not seen your brother Joe, nor the
hot-house; and what am I to do?"

"Stay," replied Charlie; and then she colored vividly. "Our house is so
small that it will not hold any more; but Dr. Meade has already taken
in Kit and Joe, and he is just splendid!"

Mr. Darol laughed.

"Are there any hotel accommodations?"

"Oh, yes! at the station."

"Then I think I will remain; for my visit isn't half
finished, and I am not satisfied to end it here."

Charlie was delighted.

After that they went up to the flower-room. It seemed to improve every
day, and was quite a nest of sweets.

"So Miss Charlie hasn't all the family genius," said Mr. Darol. "It is
not every one who can make flowers grow under difficulties."

"They were nipped a little about the middle of the month. One night my
fire went out."

"And it blighted the flowers he meant to cut in a few days," explained
Charlie, "so that at first there did not seem a prospect of a very
merry Christmas."

And Charlie slipped her hand within Mr. Darol's, continuing, in a
whisper, "I can never tell you how glad I was to have the money. It was
like the good fortune in a fairy story."

He looked at the beaming, blushing face with its dewy eyes. Ah! he
little guessed, the day he first inspected Charlie Kenneth's drawings,
that all this pleasure was to arise from a deed of almost Quixotic
kindness.

Yet he wondered more than ever how she had dared to undertake such a
quest. Strangely courageous, earnest, and simple-hearted, with the
faith of a child, and the underlying strength of a woman,--it seemed as
if there might be a brilliant and successful future before her.

And this delicate brother with a shadow in his eyes like the drifts
floating over an April sky,--he, too, needed a friend to give him a
helping hand. Who could do it better than he, whose dearest ones were
sleeping in quiet, far-off graves?




CHAPTER XXI.

  HOW THE DREAMS CAME TRUE.


Charlie insisted upon Mr. Darol remaining to supper; and he was nothing
loth.

"Dear me!" exclaimed Dot, "we shall have to echo the crow's suggestive
query,--

    'The old one said unto his mate,
    "What shall we do for food to ate?"'"

"Make some biscuit or a Johnny-cake," said Charlie, fertile in
expedients. "Dot, I've just discovered the bent of your budding mind."

"What?" asked the child, tying on a large apron.

"Keeping a hotel. Why, it's been elegant for almost a week!--a perfect
crowd, and not a silver fork or a goblet, or a bit of china; rag-carpet
on the floor, and a bed in the best room. Nothing but happiness inside
and out! Even the ravens haven't cried. You see, it isn't money, but a
contented mind, a kitchen apron, a saucepan, and a genius for cooking."

"But you must have something to cook," was Dot's sage comment.

"True, my dear. Words of priceless wisdom fall from your young
lips,--diamonds and pearls actually! Now, if you will tell me what to
put in a cake"--

"A pinch of this, and a pinch of that," laughed Dot. "I am afraid to
trust your unskilful hands; so you may wait upon me. Open the draught,
and stir the fire: then you may bring me the soda and the sour milk,
and beat the eggs--oh, there in the basket!"

"Dot, my small darling, spare me! I am in a hopeless confusion.
Your brain must be full of shelves and boxes where every article is
labelled. One thing at a time."

"The fire first, then."

Dot sifted her flour, and went to work. Charlie sang a droll little
song for her, and then set the table. Their supper was a decided
success. Edmund came in, and was delighted to see his uncle. There was
hero Joe, gay as a sky-full of larks. It didn't seem as if any of them
had ever known trouble or sorrow. Even Granny gave her old chirruping
laugh.

The next day they had some serious talks. Hal and Mr. Darol slipped
into a pleasant confidence.

"I've been thinking over your affairs with a good deal of interest,"
he said. "It seems to me that you need a larger field for profitable
operations. I should not think Madison quite the place for a brilliant
success. You need to be in the vicinity of a large city. And, since
three of the others will be in New York principally, it certainly
would be better for you. Would your grandmother object to moving?"

"I don't know," Hal answered thoughtfully.

"Floriculture is becoming an excellent business. Since you have such a
decided taste for it, you can hardly fail. I should recommend Brooklyn,
Jersey City, or Harlem. Besides the flowers, there is a great demand
for bedding-plants. You haven't any other fancy?" and he studied Hal's
face intently.

Hal's lip quivered a moment. "It was my first dream, and I guess the
best thing that I can do. I could not endure hard study, or any thing
like that. Yes, I have decided it."

"I wish you would make me a visit very soon, and we could look around,
and consider what step would be best. You must forgive me for taking a
fatherly interest in you all. I love young people so much!"

Hal's eyes sparkled with delight. He did not wonder that Charlie had
told her story so fearlessly to him.

"You are most kind. I don't know how to thank you."

"You can do that when you are successful;" and he laughed cordially.

They had all taken Flossy's husband into favor, and their regard was
fully returned by him. Indeed, they appeared to him a most marvellous
little flock. As for Florence, the awe and strangeness with which she
had first impressed them was fast wearing off. As her better soul
came to light, she seemed to grow nearer to them, as if the years of
absence were being bridged over. Fastidious she would always be in some
respects, but never weakly foolish again. She had come to understand
a few of the nobler truths of life, learned through suffering,--that
there was a higher enjoyment than that of the senses, or the mere
outward uses of beauty.

They all appreciated the manner in which she made herself at home. They
gave her the best they had, to be sure; and she never pained them by
any thoughtless allusion to her luxuries. She had not lost her old art
with the needle, and Dot's dresses were renovated in such a manner that
she hardly knew them.

Granny would never allow her to regret her going with Mrs. Osgood.

"It was all right," she would say cheerfully. "The good Lord knew what
was best. I don't mind any of it now,--the losses and crosses, the
sorrows and sicknesses, and all the hard work. Your poor father would
be glad if he could see you, and I've kept my promise to him. So don't
cry, dearie. If you hadn't gone away, I shouldn't 'a' known how sweet
it was to have you come back."

Florence and Mr. Darol made their preparations to return. They decided
to take Charlie back with them, and install her in her new home; though
Charlie did not exactly like the prospect of having her visit abridged.

"I meant to stay all this week," she said decisively. "I cannot have
another vacation until next summer."

"But you will go back with me to my sad house, and help me to forget
my baby's dead face," Florence returned beseechingly. "O Charlie! I do
mean to be a true and fond sister to you if you will let me."

So Charlie consented; though she would much rather have staid, and had
a "good time" with Dot and Hal.

"If Florence was not here, I should like to perch myself on a
chair-back, and whistle 'Hail Columbia' to all the world. Dear old
shoe! What sights of fun we have had in it! I am rather sorry that I'll
soon be a woman. Oh, dear! You always do have some trouble, don't
you?"

"Charlie, Charlie!" and Dot shook her small forefinger.

Joe was going too. "But I shall be back in a few days," he said to
Granny.

"O Joe! if you wouldn't go to sea any more,--and when you've been
a'most drowned"--

"O Granny! best mother in the world, do not feel troubled about me. We
are a family of geniuses, and I am the duckling that can't stay brooded
under mother-wings. It's my one love, and I should be a miserable fish
if you kept me on dry land. I have been offered a nice position to go
to Charleston; and as I am not rich, and have not the gout, I can't
afford to retire on a crust. But you'll see me every little while; and
you'll be proud enough of me when I get to be a captain."

Granny felt that she could not be any prouder of him if he was a king.

There was a great thinning-out again. Kit bemoaned the lonesomeness of
the place; but Dot's housewifely soul was comforted with the hope of a
good clearing-up time.

In two days Joe returned.

"Florence is as elegant as a queen," he reported; "not the grandest or
richest, but every thing in lovely style. Charlie went wild over the
pictures. And there are great mirrors, and marble statues, and carpets
as soft as spring-hillsides. You never imagined, Granny, that one of us
would attain to such magnificence, did you?"

Granny listened in wide-eyed wonder, and bobbed her little curls.

"And Darol's a splendid fellow! Flossy always did have the luck!"

That night Hal and Joe slept in the old room, which Joe declared seemed
good.

"We had a long talk about you, Hal. Mr. Paul Darol is wonderfully
interested in you. He is just as good and generous as he can be, and
has two beautiful rooms at a hotel. You know, in the old dream, it was
Flossy who was to meet with a benevolent old gentleman: instead, it
has been Charlie, the queer little midget. What a youngster she has
been!"

"She is as good as gold."

"Mr. Darol thinks her the eighth wonder of the world. But he wants you
to have the green-house; and I said I intended to help you to it. When
he found that we did not mean to take any thing as a gift, he offered
to loan the whole amount, to be paid as you were prospered."

"How very, very generous!" said Hal with a long breath.

"It was most kind; but you cannot do much here. I believe I like the
Brooklyn project best."

"I wonder if Granny would consent to leave Madison?"

"I think she will. You see, I can spend a good deal of time with you
then."

Joe was to start again the middle of January. Granny fretted at first;
but dear, merry Joe finally persuaded her that it was the best thing in
the world.

Hal could not help shedding a few quiet tears, but then they had a
glowing letter from Charlie. She and Florence had actually been to call
on Mrs. Wilcox in their own carriage. They had taken her and Mary Jane
a pretty gift; and Mrs. Wilcox was, to use her own expression, "clear
beat." And Charlie declared that she was living like a princess. She
could come home, and spend almost any Sunday with them.

While Hal was considering how best to inform Granny of the new project,
circumstances opened the way. In the march of improvement at Madison,
an old lane was to be widened, and straightened into a respectable
street; and one end of it would run through the old Kenneth cottage.

Poor old Shoe! Its days were numbered. But there were no more
rollicking children to tumble in and out of windows, or transform
the dusty garret into a bedlamic palace. And yet Granny could not be
consoled, or even persuaded.

"I never could take root anywhere else, Hal, dear," she said, shaking
her head sadly.

"But the old house has been patched and patched; it leaks everywhere;
and a good, strong gust of wind might blow it over. We should not want
to be in the ruins, I'm sure. Then, Granny, think of being so near all
the children!"

Granny was very grave for several days; but one evening she said with a
tremor in her voice,--

"Hal dear, I am a poor old body, and I shall never be worth any thing
again. I don't know as it makes much difference, after all, if you will
only promise to bring me back, and lay me alongside of my dear Joe."

Hal promised with a tender kiss.

Dr. Meade used to bundle Granny up in shawls, and take her out in his
old-fashioned gig; and, by the time Joe came back, he declared she was
a good deal better than new, and the dearest grandmother in the world.
I think she was, myself, even if she was little and old and wrinkled,
and had a cracked voice.

They formed a great conspiracy against her, and took her to New York.
She never could see how they did it; and Joe insisted that it was
"sleight-of-hand," he having learned magic in China. It was very odd
and laughable to see her going round Florence's pretty home, leaning
on Dot's shoulder, and listening, like a child, to the descriptions of
the pictures and bronzes, and confusing the names of different things.
But Dot declared that it was right next door to heaven; and, for sweet
content, it might have been. Charlie almost went wild.

It seemed, indeed, as if Florence could never do enough to make amends
for her past neglect. Edmund Darol treated Granny with the utmost
respect and tenderness. He never tired of hearing of their youthful
frolics and fun; but Charlie's running away seemed the drollest of all.

Mr. Paul Darol, or Uncle Paul as he had insisted upon being to all
the children, took Hal under his especial protection. They visited
green-houses, talked with florists, read books, and began to consider
themselves quite wise. Then they looked around for some suitable
places. At Jersey City they found the nucleus of a hot-house, and a
very fair prospect; but, on the outskirts of Brooklyn, they found a
pretty cottage and some vacant lots, that appeared quite as desirable.

"Indeed, the neighborhood is much better," said Mr. Darol.
"Green-houses could soon be put up, and by fall you might be started in
business. I think the sooner the better."

Hal's brown eyes opened wide in astonishment.

"Yes," continued Mr. Darol, with an amused expression, "Joe and I have
quite settled matters. He allows me carte blanche for every thing;
and, being arbitrary, I like to have my own way. When you decide upon a
location, I will take care that it shall be placed within your power."

"You are so good! but I couldn't, I wouldn't dare"--And somehow Hal
could not keep the tears out of his eyes.

"I think this Brooklyn place the most desirable. It is on a horse-car
route, and near enough to Greenwood to attract purchasers thither. I'll
buy the place, and turn it over to you with a twenty-years' mortgage,
if you like. You see, I am not giving you any thing but a chance to do
for yourself."

Hal and Joe talked it over that evening.

"How good everybody is to us!" said Hal. "There was Mrs. Howard, when I
was so ill, and the Kinseys, while they were in Madison, and Dr. Meade,
and"--

"Mrs. Van Wyck, who snubbed Flossy, and prophesied that I should come
to the gallows. Hal, dear old chap, we have had ups and downs, and
been poor as church-mice; but it is all coming around just right. And
I'd take the place: I know you will succeed."

"But eight thousand dollars; and the green-houses, and the plants
afterward"--

"Why, I'd be responsible for the place myself. The property would be
worth a fortune in twenty years or so. And, with Mr. Darol to hold it,
there wouldn't be the slightest risk."

"But if I should not live"--

"Nonsense! I'll come in and administer. I'll be thinking about your
epitaph. Mine is already stored away for use:--

              'From which it is believed,
              The unfortunate bereaved
    Went to sea, and was promiscuously drownded.'"

"Now, isn't that pathetic?"

"O Joe! you are too bad!"

"It's a sign of long life, my dear. I have had to be worse than usual,
to balance your account."

Everybody said Hal must have the place. Mr. Darol actually purchased
it, and took Dot over to see the cottage. It was not very large, but
sufficiently roomy for them, and had only been tenanted for a year;
a pretty parlor and sitting-room, with a nice large kitchen, and
abundance of closets. The chambers up stairs were very pleasant, and
commanded a beautiful view.

"Will it do for you, O morsel of womankind?" asked Mr. Darol. "I
propose to buy you a dog, and call you Mother Hubbard."

Dot laughed, and blushed, and expressed her satisfaction.

Then Hal declared they must return to Madison, and he would consider
what could be done.

"You can count on me for three hundred a year," said Joe with his
good-by.

They wanted Granny to remain with Florence, but she would not: so they
returned together.

Oh, poor little cottage! The chimney over the "best room" had blown
down in a March gale, and the roof leaked worse than ever. The street
was surveyed, and staked out; and, oddest of all, Mr. Howard had
received a call to Brooklyn.

"I suppose we must go," said Granny. "Dot needs a pretty home, and this
isn't"--

"The palaces have spoiled us," said Dot. "Think of having hot and cold
water in your kitchen without a bit of fuss; and a bath-room, and the
work so easy that it is just like playing at housekeeping. Why, Granny,
you and I would have the nicest time in the world!"

Mrs. Meade had cared for the flowers while Hal was away, though they
missed his loving hand. But he decided that it would be best to sell
them all out, and dispose of the place as soon as he could. The
township offered him three hundred dollars for the ground they needed;
and presently Hal found a purchaser for the remainder, at twelve
hundred dollars. By the time of Joe's next return Hal was ready to take
a fresh start.

One thousand was paid down; and Joe promised three hundred of the
interest every year, and as much more as he could do. Mr. Darol was to
superintend the erection of the green-house,--two long rows, joined by
a little square at the end, a kind of work-room, which could be opened
or closed at pleasure. They were built on the back part of the two
lots, and the space in front was to remain a summer-garden. The street
had a lovely southern exposure, while a great elm-tree shaded the house.

They all came back to the Old Shoe for a farewell visit. It was June,
and they had supper out of doors; for, somehow, half the neighborhood
had invited itself. Everybody was sorry to lose Hal and Granny; and
everybody thought it wonderful that the Kenneths had prospered, and had
such luck.

Then Florence took Granny and Dot to a pretty seaside resort, where
Charlie was to join them. Kit and Hal were to pack up whatever
household treasures were worth saving, and afterward domesticate
themselves with their brother-in-law.

Good-by, Old Shoe! Tumble down at your will. There is no more laughing
or crying or scolding or planning for you to hear,--no tender
children's voices singing Sunday-evening hymns in the dusk, no little
folded hands saying reverent prayers. O old house, brown and rusty and
dilapidated! there has been much joy under your roof; many prayers
answered, many sorrows, and some bitter tears, that God's hand wiped
away. Every crumbling board has some tender memories. And, as Hal
and Kit sit on the old stone step for the last time, their hands are
clasped tightly, their eyes are full of tears, and neither can trust
his voice to speak.

Good-by! The birds said it, the wandering winds said it, the waving
grasses, and the rustling trees. You have had your day, old house, and
the night has come for you.




CHAPTER XXII.

  CHRISTMASTIDE.


Hal watched the hot-houses with strange delight. They seemed to him on
a most magnificent scale. The boiler was put in, the pipes laid, the
force-pump and coal-bins arranged; then the stands of steps, rising
higher, the wide ledge by the window for small plants and slips,
lattices for vines, hooks for hanging-baskets, and every thing in
complete order.

When Charlie rejoined Granny, Florence came back for a brief stay. She
and Edmund went over to the cottage, and measured and consulted; and
the result was, that one morning it looked wonderfully as if some one
was moving in. Hal ran to inform them of their mistake.

The carpet-men said they had their orders, and wouldn't budge an
inch. Down went carpets and oil-cloths. Such a hammering, and
knocking-about, and unrolling! Kit stood it as long as he could: then
he went out of doors, perched himself on a pile of stone, and played on
his beloved fiddle.

The next day there was another raid. This time it was furniture.
Florence and Edmund soon made their appearance.

"Oh!" exclaimed Hal.

"It is to be our gift," began Edmund. "Florence wished it so much!
She feels that she took her pleasure when you were all toiling and
suffering, and is better satisfied to make some amends. Besides, we
have an interest in Dot and grandmother."

"And I am only going to put in the principal things," explained
Florence. "There are so many that you will prefer to select yourselves."

The parlor and library, or sitting-room, were carpeted alike. The
furniture was in green, with here and there a bright article to relieve
it; a pretty book-case and writing-table, a console for Dot's small
traps, easy-chairs in abundance, and every thing as pretty as it could
be. The dining-room and kitchen were plain, but home-like, with an
old-fashioned Boston rocker for Granny. But the three sleeping-rooms up
stairs were perfect little gems,--Hal's in black-walnut, Granny's in
quaint chestnut, and Dot's in pale green with a pretty green and white
carpet to match.

"Why, I shall want them to come home right away!" exclaimed Hal. "O
Flossy!"

"Dear, brave Hal! God has been good to us all. Only love me a little in
return."

The last of August, Hal's household returned. He and Kit had provided
for them a gorgeous supper, with the best china, and a bouquet at
each plate. Granny could hardly believe her eyes or her senses. Dot
and Charlie ran wild, and made themselves exclamation points in every
doorway.

"Oh! Oh! Oh!"

"And the surprise!"

"And so beautiful!"

"That I should ever live to see it!" said Granny.

They explored every nook and corner and closet.

"I like it so much," said old-fashioned little Dot, "because it isn't
too grand. For, after all, we are not rich. And it was so thoughtful of
Florence to choose what was simply pretty instead of magnificent!"

"Look at the goblets," said Charlie with a solemn shake of the head.
"Dot, if any nice old gentleman comes along, be sure to give him a
drink out of them, and put this K round where he can see it."

"The whole eighteen, I suppose, one after another," returned Dot drolly.

"I shall paint you some pictures," Charlie began presently; "and, Dot,
when I get to earning money in good earnest, I'll buy a piano. I used
to think I did not care much about it, and I never could learn; but
sometimes, when Florence sits and plays like an angel, I can't help
crying softly to myself, though you wouldn't believe I was such a
goose. And, if you learn to play, it will be a great comfort to Hal."

"Yes," said Dot, crying out of pure sympathy.

They commenced housekeeping at once. Charlie was to remain with them
until the term commenced.

"Isn't it a delight to have such splendid things to work with?"
exclaimed Dot. "Why, Granny, don't you believe we have been spirited
away to some enchanted castle?"

Granny laughed, and surely thought they had.

Hal, meanwhile, was stocking his green-houses. Loads of sand and loam
had to be brought; piles of compost and rubble standing convenient; and
the two boys worked like Trojans. And then the journeys to florists,
that seemed to Hal like traversing realms of poesy and fragrance. Great
geraniums that one could cut into slips, roses, heliotrope, heaths,
violets, carnations, fuchsias; indeed, an endless mass of them. Hal's
heart was in his throat half the time with a suffocating sense of
beauty.

It was such a pleasure to arrange them! He used to handle them as if
they were the tenderest of babies. Watering and ventilation on so large
a scale was quite new to him; and he went at his business with a little
fear and trembling, and devoted every spare moment to study.

Mr. Darol had paid the bills as they had been presented. One day Hal
asked to see them. The request was evaded for a while; but one evening,
when he was dining with Mr. Darol, he insisted upon it.

"Very well," returned Mr. Darol smilingly. "Here they are: look them
over and be satisfied. Very moderate, I think."

The hot-house had cost thirteen hundred dollars; soil, and various
incidentals, one hundred more; flowers, three hundred.

"Seventeen hundred dollars," said Hal in a grave and rather tremulous
tone. "And seven thousand on the house."

"The mortgage is to remain any number of years, you know. Joe
has arranged to pay part of the interest. And the conditions of
these"--gathering them up, and turning toward Hal, who was leaning
against the mantle, rather stupefied at such overwhelming indebtedness.

"Well?" he said with a gasp that made his voice quiver.

"This," and Mr. Darol laughed genially. Hal saw a blaze in the grate,
and stood speechless.

"It is my gift to you. Not a very large business capital, to be sure;
but you can add to it from time to time."

"O Mr. Darol!"

"My dear Hal, if you knew the pleasure it has been to me! I don't know
why I have taken such a fancy to you all, unless it is for the sake of
the children I might have had; but that is an old dream, and the woman
who might have been their mother is in her grave. You deserve all this,
and more."

The tears stood in Hal's eyes, and he could not trust his voice. How
dark every thing had looked only a little year ago! Could he ever be
thankful enough? And that it should all come through such a ridiculous
thing as Charlie's running away!

"I am confident that you will prosper. And I expect you all to like me
hugely, in return. When I take Dot and Charlie to operas, I shall look
to you to provide the flowers."

"A very small return," said Hal.

But he went home as if he had been a tuft of thistle-down on a
summer-breeze. Ferry-boat and horse-car were absolutely glorified. And
when he reached the little cottage with lights in every window, and the
dear ones awaiting him, he could only clasp his arms around them, and
kiss them. But they knew the next morning what had flushed his face,
and made his eyes so lustrous.

"Ah, I told you he was a prince!" declared Charlie in triumph.

And then Hal's work commenced in earnest. Every morning he spent in
his green-house, and began experiments of propagating, that were so
interesting to him. Kit assisted, and Dot ran in every hour or two, to
see how they prospered.
