proposed when we’d met only half a dozen times. But he was dreadfully in
debt, so that accounted for it perhaps.” And Rose dusted her fingers, as
if she had soiled them.

“I know him, and I thought he’d do it,” observed the doctor with a
shrug.

“You see and know everything, so there’s no need of going on, is there?”

“Do, do! Who else? I won’t even guess.”

“Well, another went down upon his knees in Mrs. Van’s greenhouse and
poured forth his passion manfully, with a great cactus pricking his poor
legs all the while. Kitty found him there, and it was impossible to keep
sober, so he has hated me ever since.”

The doctor’s “Ha! Ha!” was good to hear, and Rose joined him, for it was
impossible to regard these episodes seriously, since no true sentiment
redeemed them from absurdity.

“Another sent me reams of poetry and went on so Byronically that I
began to wish I had red hair and my name was Betsy Ann. I burnt all the
verses, so don’t expect to see them, and he, poor fellow, is consoling
himself with Emma. But the worst of all was the one who would make love
in public and insisted on proposing in the middle of a dance. I seldom
dance round dances except with our boys, but that night I did because
the girls laughed at me for being so ‘prudish,’ as they called it. I
don’t mind them now, for I found I was right, and felt that I deserved
my fate.”

“Is that all?” asked her uncle, looking “fierce,” as she predicted,
at the idea of his beloved girl obliged to listen to a declaration,
twirling on the arm of a lover.

“One more but him I shall not tell about, for I know he was in earnest
and really suffered, though I was as kind as I knew how to be. I’m young
in these things yet, so I grieved for him, and treat his love with the
tenderest respect.”

Rose’s voice sank almost to a whisper as she ended, and Dr. Alec bent
his head, as if involuntarily saluting a comrade in misfortune. Then
he got up, saying with a keen look into the face he lifted by a finger
under the chin: “Do you want another three months of this?”

“I’ll tell you on New Year’s Day, Uncle.”

“Very well. Try to keep a straight course, my little captain, and if you
see dirty weather ahead, call on your first mate.”

“Aye, aye, sir. I’ll remember.”




Chapter 5 PRINCE CHARMING

The old glove lay upon the floor forgotten while Rose sat musing, till a
quick step sounded in the hall and a voice drew near, tunefully humming.

    “As he was walkin’ doun the street
    The city for to view,
    Oh, there he spied a bonny lass,
    The window lookin’ through.”

    “Sae licht he jumpèd up the stair,
    And tirled at the pin;
    Oh, wha sae ready as hersel’
    To let the laddie in?”

sang Rose as the voice paused and a tap came at the door.

“Good morning, Rosamunda, here are your letters, and your most devoted
ready to execute any commissions you may have for him,” was Charlie’s
greeting as he came in looking comely, gay, and debonair as usual.

“Thanks. I’ve no errands unless you mail my replies, if these need
answering, so by your leave, Prince,” and Rose began to open the handful
of notes he threw into her lap.

“Ha! What sight is this to blast mine eyes?” ejaculated Charlie, as
he pointed to the glove with a melodramatic start, for, like most
accomplished amateur actors, he was fond of introducing private
theatricals into his daily talk and conversation.

“Uncle left it.”

“‘Tis well. Methought perchance a rival had been here,” and, picking
it up, Charlie amused himself with putting it on the head of a little
Psyche which ornamented the mantelpiece, softly singing as he did so,
another verse of the old song:

    “He set his Jenny on his knee,
    All in his Highland dress;
    For brawly well he kenned the way
    To please a bonny lass.”

Rose went on reading her letters, but all the while was thinking of her
conversation with her uncle as well as something else suggested by the
newcomer and his ditty.

During the three months since her return she had seen more of this
cousin than any of the others, for he seemed to be the only one who had
leisure to “play with Rose,” as they used to say years ago. The other
boys were all at work, even little Jamie, many of whose play hours were
devoted to manful struggles with Latin grammar, the evil genius of
his boyish life. Dr. Alec had many affairs to arrange after his long
absence; Phebe was busy with her music; and Aunt Plenty still actively
superintended her housekeeping. Thus it fell out, quite naturally, that
Charlie should form the habit of lounging in at all hours with letters,
messages, bits of news, and agreeable plans for Rose. He helped her with
her sketching, rode with her, sang with her, and took her to parties
as a matter of course, for Aunt Clara, being the gaiest of the sisters,
played chaperon on all occasions.

For a time it was very pleasant, but, by and by, Rose began to wish
Charlie would find something to do like the rest and not make dawdling
after her the business of his life. The family was used to his
self-indulgent ways, and there was an amiable delusion in the minds of
the boys that he had a right to the best of everything, for to them
he was still the Prince, the flower of the flock, and in time to be an
honor to the name. No one exactly knew how, for, though full of talent,
he seemed to have no especial gift or bias, and the elders began to
shake their heads because, in spite of many grand promises and projects,
the moment for decisive action never came.

Rose saw all this and longed to inspire her brilliant cousin with some
manful purpose which should win for him respect as well as admiration.
But she found it very hard, for though he listened with imperturbable
good humor, and owned his shortcomings with delightful frankness, he
always had some argument, reason, or excuse to offer and out-talked her
in five minutes, leaving her silenced but unconvinced.

Of late she had observed that he seemed to feel as if her time and
thoughts belonged exclusively to him and rather resented the approach
of any other claimant. This annoyed her and suggested the idea that
her affectionate interest and efforts were misunderstood by him,
misrepresented and taken advantage of by Aunt Clara, who had been most
urgent that she should “use her influence with the dear boy,” though the
fond mother resented all other interference. This troubled Rose and made
her feel as if caught in a snare, for, while she owned to herself that
Charlie was the most attractive of her cousins, she was not ready to be
taken possession of in this masterful way, especially since other and
sometimes better men sought her favor more humbly.

These thoughts were floating vaguely in her mind as she read her letters
and unconsciously influenced her in the chat that followed.

“Only invitations, and I can’t stop to answer them now or I shall never
get through this job,” she said, returning to her work.

“Let me help. You do up, and I’ll direct. Have a secretary, do now, and
see what a comfort it will be,” proposed Charlie, who could turn his
hand to anything and had made himself quite at home in the sanctum.

“I’d rather finish this myself, but you may answer the notes if you
will. Just regrets to all but two or three. Read the names as you go
along and I’ll tell you which.”

“To hear is to obey. Who says I’m a ‘frivolous idler’ now?” And Charlie
sat down at the writing table with alacrity, for these hours in the
little room were his best and happiest.

“Order is heaven’s first law, and the view a lovely one, but I don’t see
any notepaper,” he added, opening the desk and surveying its contents
with interest.

“Right-hand drawer violet monogram for the notes, plain paper for the
business letter. I’ll see to that, though,” answered Rose, trying to
decide whether Annabel or Emma should have the laced handkerchief.

“Confiding creature! Suppose I open the wrong drawer and come upon the
tender secrets of your soul?” continued the new secretary, rummaging out
the delicate notepaper with masculine disregard of order.

“I haven’t got any,” answered Rose demurely.

“What, not one despairing scrawl, one cherished miniature, one faded
floweret, etc., etc.? I can’t believe it, Cousin,” and he shook his head
incredulously.

“If I had, I certainly should not show them to you, impertinent
person! There are a few little souvenirs in that desk, but nothing very
sentimental or interesting.”

“How I’d like to see ‘em! But I should never dare to ask,” observed
Charlie, peering over the top of the half-open lid with a most
persuasive pair of eyes.

“You may if you want to, but you’ll be disappointed, Paul Pry. Lower
left-hand drawer with the key in it.”

“‘Angel of goodness, how shall I requite thee? Interesting moment, with
what palpitating emotions art thou fraught!’” And, quoting from the
“Mysteries of Udolpho,” he unlocked and opened the drawer with a tragic
gesture.

“Seven locks of hair in a box, all light, for ‘here’s your straw color,
your orange tawny, your French crown color, and your perfect yellow’
Shakespeare. They look very familiar, and I fancy I know the heads they
thatched.”

“Yes, you all gave me one when I went away, you know, and I carried them
round the world with me in that very box.”

“I wish the heads had gone too. Here’s a jolly little amber god with
a gold ring in his back and a most balmy breath,” continued Charlie,
taking a long sniff at the scent bottle.

“Uncle brought me that long ago, and I’m very fond of it.”

“This now looks suspicious man’s ring with a lotus cut on the stone and
a note attached. I tremble as I ask, who, when, and where?”

“A gentleman, on my birthday, in Calcutta.”

“I breathe again it was my sire?”

“Don’t be absurd. Of course it was, and he did everything to make my
visit pleasant. I wish you’d go and see him like a dutiful son, instead
of idling here.”

“That’s what Uncle Mac is eternally telling me, but I don’t intend to
be lectured into the treadmill till I’ve had my fling first,” muttered
Charlie rebelliously.

“If you fling yourself in the wrong direction, you may find it hard to
get back again,” began Rose gravely.

“No fear, if you look after me as you seem to have promised to do,
judging by the thanks you get in this note. Poor old governor! I should
like to see him, for it’s almost four years since he came home last and
he must be getting on.”

Charlie was the only one of the boys who ever called his father
“governor,” perhaps because the others knew and loved their fathers,
while he had seen so little of his that the less respectful name came
more readily to his lips, since the elder man in truth seemed a governor
issuing requests or commands, which the younger too often neglected or
resented.

Long ago Rose had discovered that Uncle Stephen found home made so
distasteful by his wife’s devotion to society that he preferred to exile
himself, taking business as an excuse for his protracted absences.

The girl was thinking of this as she watched her cousin turn the ring
about with a sudden sobriety which became him well; and, believing that
the moment was propitious, she said earnestly: “He is getting on. Dear
Charlie, do think of duty more than pleasure in this case and I’m sure
you never will regret it.”

“Do you want me to go?” he asked quickly.

“I think you ought.”

“And I think you’d be much more charming if you wouldn’t always be
worrying about right and wrong! Uncle Alec taught you that along with
the rest of his queer notions.”

“I’m glad he did!” cried Rose warmly, then checked herself and said with
a patient sort of sigh, “You know women always want the men they care
for to be good and can’t help trying to make them so.”

“So they do, and we ought to be a set of angels, but I’ve a strong
conviction that, if we were, the dear souls wouldn’t like us half as
well. Would they now?” asked Charlie with an insinuating smile.

“Perhaps not, but that is dodging the point. Will you go?” persisted
Rose unwisely.

“No, I will not.”

That was sufficiently decided and an uncomfortable pause followed,
during which Rose tied a knot unnecessarily tight and Charlie went on
exploring the drawer with more energy than interest.

“Why, here’s an old thing I gave you ages ago!” he suddenly exclaimed in
a pleased tone, holding up a little agate heart on a faded blue ribbon.
“Will you let me take away the heart of stone and give you a heart of
flesh?” he asked, half in earnest, half in jest, touched by the little
trinket and the recollections it awakened.

“No, I will not,” answered Rose bluntly, much displeased by the
irreverent and audacious question.

Charlie looked rather abashed for a moment, but his natural
lightheartedness made it easy for him to get the better of his own
brief fits of waywardness and put others in good humor with him and
themselves.

“Now we are even let’s drop the subject and start afresh,” he said with
irresistible affability as he coolly put the little heart in his pocket
and prepared to shut the drawer. But something caught his eye, and
exclaiming, “What’s this? What’s this?” he snatched up a photograph
which lay half under a pile of letters with foreign postmarks.

“Oh! I forgot that was there,” said Rose hastily.

“Who is the man?” demanded Charlie, eyeing the good-looking countenance
before him with a frown.

“That is the Honorable Gilbert Murray, who went up the Nile with us and
shot crocodiles and other small game, being a mighty hunter, as I told
you in my letters,” answered Rose gaily, though ill pleased at the
little discovery just then, for this had been one of the narrow escapes
her uncle spoke of.

“And they haven’t eaten him yet, I infer from the pile of letters?” said
Charlie jealously.

“I hope not. His sister did not mention it when she wrote last.”

“Ah! Then she is your correspondent? Sisters are dangerous things
sometimes.” And Charlie eyed the packet suspiciously.

“In this case, a very convenient thing, for she tells me all about her
brother’s wedding, as no one else would take the trouble to do.”

“Oh! Well, if he’s married, I don’t care a straw about him. I fancied
I’d found out why you are such a hard-hearted charmer. But if there is
no secret idol, I’m all at sea again.” And Charlie tossed the photograph
into the drawer as if it no longer interested him.

“I’m hard-hearted because I’m particular and, as yet, do not find anyone
at all to my taste.”

“No one?” with a tender glance.

“No one” with a rebellious blush, and the truthful addition “I see
much to admire and like in many persons, but none quite strong and good
enough to suit me. My heroes are old-fashioned, you know.”

“Prigs, like Guy Carleton, Count Altenberg, and John Halifax I know the
pattern you goody girls like,” sneered Charlie, who preferred the Guy
Livingston, Beauclerc, and Rochester style.

“Then I’m not a ‘goody girl,’ for I don’t like prigs. I want a gentleman
in the best sense of the word, and I can wait, for I’ve seen one, and
know there are more in the world.”

“The deuce you have! Do I know him?” asked Charlie, much alarmed.

“You think you do,” answered Rose with a mischievous sparkle in her eye.

“If it isn’t Pem, I give it up. He’s the best-bred fellow I know.”

“Oh, dear, no! Far superior to Mr. Pemberton and many years older,”
 said Rose, with so much respect that Charlie looked perplexed as well as
anxious.

“Some apostolic minister, I fancy. You pious creatures always like to
adore a parson. But all we know are married.”

“He isn’t.”

“Give a name, for pity’s sake I’m suffering tortures of suspense,”
 begged Charlie.

“Alexander Campbell.”

“Uncle? Well, upon my word, that’s a relief, but mighty absurd all the
same. So, when you find a young saint of that sort, you intend to marry
him, do you?” demanded Charlie much amused and rather disappointed.

“When I find any man half as honest, good, and noble as Uncle, I shall
be proud to marry him if he asks me,” answered Rose decidedly.

“What odd tastes women have!” And Charlie leaned his chin on his hand
to muse pensively for a moment over the blindness of one woman who could
admire an excellent old uncle more than a dashing young cousin.

Rose, meanwhile, tied up her parcels industriously, hoping she had not
been too severe, for it was very hard to lecture Charlie, though he
seemed to like it sometimes and came to confession voluntarily, knowing
that women love to forgive when the sinners are of his sort.

“It will be mail time before you are done,” she said presently, for
silence was less pleasant than his rattle.

Charlie took the hint and dashed off several notes in his best manner.
Coming to the business letter, he glanced at it and asked, with a
puzzled expression: “What is all this? Cost of repairs, etc., from a man
named Buffum?”

“Never mind that I’ll see to it by and by.”

“But I do mind, for I’m interested in all your affairs, and though you
think I’ve no head for business, you’ll find I have if you’ll try me.”

“This is only about my two old houses in the city, which are being
repaired and altered so that the rooms can be let singly.”

“Going to make tenement houses of them? Well, that’s not a bad idea such
places pay well, I’ve heard.”

“That is just what I’m not going to do. I wouldn’t have a tenement house
on my conscience for a million dollars not as they are now,” said Rose
decidedly.

“Why, what do you know about it, except that people live in them and the
owners turn a pretty penny on the rents?”

“I know a good deal about them, for I’ve seen many such, both here
and abroad. It was not all pleasure with us, I assure you. Uncle was
interested in hospitals and prisons, and I sometimes went with him, but
they made me sad so he suggested other charities that I could be of
help about when we came home. I visited infant schools, working women’s
homes, orphan asylums, and places of that sort. You don’t know how much
good it did me and how glad I am that I have the means of lightening a
little some of the misery in the world.”

“But, my dear girl, you needn’t make ducks and drakes of your fortune
trying to feed and cure and clothe all the poor wretches you see. Give,
of course everyone should do something in that line and no one likes it
better than I. But don’t, for mercy’s sake, go at it as some women do
and get so desperately earnest, practical, and charity-mad that there is
no living in peace with you,” protested Charlie, looking alarmed at the
prospect.

“You can do as you please. I intend to do all the good I can by asking
the advice and following the example of the most ‘earnest,’ ‘practical,’
and ‘charitable’ people I know so, if you don’t approve, you can drop
my acquaintance,” answered Rose, emphasizing the obnoxious words and
assuming the resolute air she always wore when defending her hobbies.

“You’ll be laughed at.”

“I’m used to that.”

“And criticized and shunned.”

“Not by people whose opinion I value.”

“Women shouldn’t go poking into such places.”

“I’ve been taught that they should.”

“Well, you’ll get some dreadful disease and lose your beauty, and then
where are you?” added Charlie, thinking that might daunt the young
philanthropist.

But it did not, for Rose answered, with a sudden kindling of the eyes as
she remembered her talk with Uncle Alec: “I shouldn’t like it. But there
would be one satisfaction in it, for when I’d lost my beauty and given
away my money, I should know who really cared for me.”

Charlie nibbled his pen in silence for a moment, then asked, meekly,
“Could I respectfully inquire what great reform is to be carried on in
the old houses which their amiable owner is repairing?”

“I am merely going to make them comfortable homes for poor but
respectable women to live in. There is a class who cannot afford to
pay much, yet suffer a great deal from being obliged to stay in noisy,
dirty, crowded places like tenement houses and cheap lodgings. I can
help a few of them and I’m going to try.”

“May I humbly ask if these decayed gentlewomen are to inhabit their
palatial retreat rent-free?”

“That was my first plan, but Uncle showed me that it was wiser not
make genteel paupers of them, but let them pay a small rent and feel
independent. I don’t want the money, of course, and shall use it in
keeping the houses tidy or helping other women in like case,” said Rose,
entirely ignoring her cousin’s covert ridicule.

“Don’t expect any gratitude, for you won’t get it; nor much comfort with
a lot of forlornities on your hands, and be sure that when it is too
late you will tire of it all and wish you had done as other people do.”

“Thanks for your cheerful prophecies, but I think I’ll venture.”

She looked so undaunted that Charlie was a little nettled and fired his
last shot rather recklessly: “Well, one thing I do know you’ll never get
a husband if you go on in this absurd way, and by Jove! you need one to
take care of you and keep the property together!”

Rose had a temper, but seldom let it get the better of her; now,
however, it flashed up for a moment. Those last words were peculiarly
unfortunate, because Aunt Clara had used them more than once when
warning her against impecunious suitors and generous projects. She was
disappointed in her cousin, annoyed at having her little plans laughed
at, and indignant with him for his final suggestion.

“I’ll never have one, if I must give up the liberty of doing what I know
is right, and I’d rather go into the poorhouse tomorrow than ‘keep the
property together’ in the selfish way you mean!”

That was all but Charlie saw that he had gone too far and hastened to
make his peace with the skill of a lover, for, turning to the little
cabinet piano behind him, he sang in his best style the sweet old song:

    “Oh were thou in the cauld blast,”

dwelling with great effect, not only upon the tender assurance that “My
plaid should shelter thee,”

but also that, even if a king,

    “The brightest jewel in my crown
    Wad be my queen, wad be my queen.”

It was very evident that Prince Charming had not gone troubadouring
in vain, for Orpheus himself could not have restored harmony more
successfully. The tuneful apology was accepted with a forgiving smile
and a frank “I’m sorry I was cross, but you haven’t forgotten how to
tease, and I’m rather out of sorts today. Late hours don’t agree with
me.”

“Then you won’t feel like going to Mrs. Hope’s tomorrow, I’m afraid,”
 and Charlie took up the last note with an expression of regret which was
very flattering.

“I must go, because it is made for me, but I can come away early and
make up lost sleep. I do hate to be so fractious,” and Rose rubbed the
forehead that ached with too much racketing.

“But the German does not begin till late I’m to lead and depend upon
you. Just stay this once to oblige me,” pleaded Charlie, for he had set
his heart on distinguishing himself.

“No I promised Uncle to be temperate in my pleasures and I must keep my
word. I’m so well now, it would be very foolish to get ill and make him
anxious not to mention losing my beauty, as you are good enough to call
it, for that depends on health, you know.”

“But the fun doesn’t begin till after supper. Everything will be
delightful, I assure you, and we’ll have a gay old time as we did last
week at Emma’s.”

“Then I certainly will not, for I’m ashamed of myself when I remember
what a romp that was and how sober Uncle looked as he let me in at three
in the morning, all fagged out my dress in rags, my head aching, my feet
so tired that I could hardly stand, and nothing to show for five
hours’ hard work but a pocketful of bonbons, artificial flowers, and
tissue-paper fool’s caps. Uncle said I’d better put one on and go to
bed, for I looked as though I’d been to a French bal masque. I never
want to hear him say so again, and I’ll never let dawn catch me out in
such a plight anymore.”

“You were all right enough, for mother didn’t object and I got you
both home before daylight. Uncle is notional about such things, so I
shouldn’t mind, for we had a jolly time and we were none the worse for
it.”

“Indeed we were, every one of us! Aunt Clara hasn’t gotten over her cold
yet. I slept all the next day, and you looked like a ghost, for you’d
been out every night for weeks, I think.”

“Oh, nonsense! Everyone does it during the season, and you’ll get used
to the pace very soon,” began Charlie, bent on making her go, for he
was in his element in a ballroom and never happier than when he had his
pretty cousin on his arm.

“Ah! But I don’t want to get used to it, for it costs too much in the
end. I don’t wish to get used to being whisked about a hot room by men
who have taken too much wine, to turn day into night, wasting time that
might be better spent, and grow into a fashionable fast girl who can’t
get along without excitement. I don’t deny that much of it is pleasant,
but don’t try to make me too fond of gaiety. Help me to resist what I
know is hurtful, and please don’t laugh me out of the good habits Uncle
has tried so hard to give me.”

Rose was quite sincere in her appeal, and Charlie knew she was right,
but he always found it hard to give up anything he had set his heart on,
no matter how trivial, for the maternal indulgence which had harmed the
boy had fostered the habit of self-indulgence, which was ruining the
man. So when Rose looked up at him, with a very honest desire to save
him as well as herself from being swept into the giddy vortex which
keeps so many young people revolving aimlessly, till they go down or
are cast upon the shore, wrecks of what they might have been, he gave a
shrug and answered briefly: “As you please. I’ll bring you home as early
as you like, and Effie Waring shall take your place in the German. What
flowers shall I send you?”

Now, that was an artful speech of Charlie’s, for Miss Waring was a fast
and fashionable damsel who openly admired Prince Charming and had given
him the name. Rose disliked her and was sure her influence was bad, for
youth made frivolity forgivable, wit hid want of refinement, and beauty
always covers a multitude of sins in a man’s eyes. At the sound of
Effie’s name, Rose wavered, and would have yielded but for the memory
of the “first mate’s” last words. She did desire to “keep a straight
course”; so, though the current of impulse set strongly in a southerly
direction, principle, the only compass worth having, pointed due north,
and she tried to obey it like a wise young navigator, saying steadily,
while she directed to Annabel the parcel containing a capacious pair of
slippers intended for Uncle Mac: “Don’t trouble yourself about me. I can
go with Uncle and slip away without disturbing anybody.”

“I don’t believe you’ll have the heart to do it,” said Charlie
incredulously as he sealed the last note.

“Wait and see.”

“I will, but I shall hope to the last.” And kissing his hand to her, he
departed to post her letters, quite sure that Miss Waring would not lead
the German.

It certainly looked for a moment as if Miss Campbell would, because she
ran to the door with the words “I’ll go” upon her lips. But she did not
open it till she had stood a minute staring hard at the old glove on
Psyche’s head; then like one who had suddenly gotten a bright idea, she
gave a decided nod and walked slowly out of the room.




Chapter 6 POLISHING MAC

“Please could I say one word?” was the question three times repeated
before a rough head bobbed out from the grotto of books in which Mac
usually sat when he studied.

“Did anyone speak?” he asked, blinking in the flood of sunshine that
entered with Rose.

“Only three times, thank you. Don’t disturb yourself, I beg, for I
merely want to say a word,” answered Rose as she prevented him from
offering the easy chair in which he sat.

“I was rather deep in a compound fracture and didn’t hear. What can I do
for you, Cousin?” And Mac shoved a stack of pamphlets off the chair near
him with a hospitable wave of the hand that sent his papers flying in
all directions.

Rose sat down, but did not seem to find her “word” an easy one to
utter, for she twisted her handkerchief about her fingers in embarrassed
silence till Mac put on his glasses and, after a keen look, asked
soberly: “Is it a splinter, a cut, or a whitlow, ma’am?”

“It is neither. Do forget your tiresome surgery for a minute and be the
kindest cousin that ever was,” answered Rose, beginning rather sharply
and ending with her most engaging smile.

“Can’t promise in the dark,” said the wary youth.

“It is a favor, a great favor, and one I don’t choose to ask any of the
other boys,” answered the artful damsel.

Mac looked pleased and leaned forward, saying more affably, “Name it,
and be sure I’ll grant it if I can.”

“Go with me to Mrs. Hope’s party tomorrow night.”

“What!” And Mac recoiled as if she had put a pistol to his head.

“I’ve left you in peace a long time, but it is your turn now, so do your
duty like a man and a cousin.”

“But I never go to parties!” cried the unhappy victim in great dismay.

“High time you began, sir.”

“But I don’t dance fit to be seen.”

“I’ll teach you.”

“My dress coat isn’t decent, I know.”

“Archie will lend you one he isn’t going.”

“I’m afraid there’s a lecture that I ought not to cut.”

“No, there isn’t I asked Uncle.”

“I’m always so tired and dull in the evening.”

“This sort of thing is just what you want to rest and freshen up your
spirits.”

Mac gave a groan and fell back vanquished, for it was evident that
escape was impossible.

“What put such a perfectly wild idea into your head?” he demanded,
rather roughly, for hitherto he had been left in peace and this sudden
attack decidedly amazed him.

“Sheer necessity, but don’t do it if it is so very dreadful to you. I
must go to several more parties, because they are made for me, but after
that I’ll refuse, and then no one need be troubled with me.”

Something in Rose’s voice made Mac answer penitently, even while he knit
his brows in perplexity. “I don’t mean to be rude, and of course I’ll go
anywhere if I’m really needed. But I don’t understand where the sudden
necessity is, with three other fellows at command, all better dancers
and beaus than I am.”

“I don’t want them, and I do want you, for I haven’t the heart to drag
Uncle out anymore, and you know I never go with any gentleman but those
of my own family.”

“Now look here, Rose if Steve has been doing anything to tease you,
just mention it and I’ll attend to him,” cried Mac, plainly seeing that
something was amiss and fancying that Dandy was at the bottom of it, as
he had done escort duty several times lately.

“No, Steve has been very good, but I know he had rather be with Kitty
Van, so of course I feel like a marplot, though he is too polite to hint
it.”

“What a noodle that boy is! But there’s Archie he’s steady as a church
and has no sweetheart to interfere,” continued Mac, bound to get at the
truth and half suspecting what it was.

“He is on his feet all day, and Aunt Jessie wants him in the evening.
He does not care for dancing as he used, and I suppose he really does
prefer to rest and read.” Rose might have added, “And hear Phebe sing,”
 for Phebe did not go out as much as Rose did, and Aunt Jessie often came
to sit with the old lady when the young folks were away and, of course,
dutiful Archie came with her, so willingly of late!

“What’s amiss with Charlie? I thought he was the prince of cavaliers.
Annabel says he dances ‘like an angel,’ and I know a dozen mothers
couldn’t keep him at home of an evening. Have you had a tiff with Adonis
and so fall back on poor me?” asked Mac, coming last to the person of
whom he thought first but did not mention, feeling shy about alluding to
a subject often discussed behind her back.

“Yes, I have, and I don’t intend to go with him any more for some time.
His ways do not suit me, and mine do not suit him, so I want to be
quite independent, and you can help me if you will,” said Rose, rather
nervously spinning the big globe close by.

Mac gave a low whistle, looking wide awake all in a minute as he said
with a gesture, as if he brushed a cobweb off his face: “Now, see here,
Cousin, I’m not good at mysteries and shall only blunder if you put me
blindfold into any nice maneuver. Just tell me straight out what you
want and I’ll do it if I can. Play I’m Uncle and free your mind come
now.”

He spoke so kindly, and the honest eyes were so full of merry goodwill,
that Rose thought she might confide in him and answered as frankly as
he could desire: “You are right, Mac, and I don’t mind talking to you
almost as freely as to Uncle, because you are such a reliable fellow
and won’t think me silly for trying to do what I believe to be right.
Charlie does, and so makes it hard for me to hold to my resolutions. I
want to keep early hours, dress simply, and behave properly no matter
what fashionable people do. You will agree to that, I’m sure, and stand
by me through thick and thin for principle’s sake.”

“I will, and begin by showing you that I understand the case. I don’t
wonder you are not pleased, for Charlie is too presuming, and you do
need someone to help you head him off a bit. Hey, Cousin?”

“What a way to put it!” And Rose laughed in spite of herself, adding
with an air of relief, “That is it, and I do want someone to help me
make him understand that I don’t choose to be taken possession of in
that lordly way, as if I belonged to him more than to the rest of the
family. I don’t like it, for people begin to talk, and Charlie won’t see
how disagreeable it is to me.”

“Tell him so,” was Mac’s blunt advice.

“I have, but he only laughs and promises to behave, and then he does
it again when I am so placed that I can’t say anything. You will never
understand, and I cannot explain, for it is only a look, or a word, or
some little thing but I won’t have it, and the best way to cure him is
to put it out of his power to annoy me so.”

“He is a great flirt and wants to teach you how, I suppose. I’ll speak
to him if you like and tell him you don’t want to learn. Shall I?” asked
Mac, finding the case rather an interesting one.

“No, thank you that would only make trouble. If you will kindly play
escort a few times, it will show Charlie that I am in earnest without
more words and put a stop to the gossip,” said Rose, coloring like a
poppy at the recollection of what she heard one young man whisper to
another as Charlie led her through a crowded supper room with his most
devoted air, “Lucky dog! He is sure to get the heiress, and we are
nowhere.”

“There’s no danger of people gossiping about us, is there?” And Mac
looked up with the oddest of all his odd expressions.

“Of course not you’re only a boy.”

“I’m twenty-one, thank you, and Prince is but a couple of years older,”
 said Mac, promptly resenting the slight put upon his manhood.

“Yes, but he is like other young men, while you are a dear old bookworm.
No one would ever mind what you did, so you may go to parties with me
every night and not a word would be said or, if there was, I shouldn’t
mind since it is ‘only Mac,’” answered Rose, smiling as she quoted a
household phrase often used to excuse his vagaries.

“Then I am nobody?” he said, lifting his brows as if the discovery
surprised and rather nettled him.

“Nobody in society as yet, but my very best cousin in private, and I’ve
just proved my regard by making you my confidant and choosing you for my
knight,” said Rose, hastening to soothe the feelings her careless words
seemed to have ruffled slightly.

“Much good that is likely to do me,” grumbled Mac.

“You ungrateful boy, not to appreciate the honor I’ve conferred upon
you! I know a dozen who would be proud of the place, but you only care
for compound fractures, so I won’t detain you any longer, except to ask
if I may consider myself provided with an escort for tomorrow night?”
 said Rose, a trifle hurt at his indifference, for she was not used to
refusals.

“If I may hope for the honor.” And, rising, he made her a bow which was
such a capital imitation of Charlie’s grand manner that she forgave him
at once, exclaiming with amused surprise: “Why, Mac! I didn’t know you
could be so elegant!”

“A fellow can be almost anything he likes if he tries hard enough,” he
answered, standing very straight and looking so tall and dignified
that Rose was quite impressed, and with a stately courtesy she retired,
saying graciously: “I accept with thanks. Good morning, Dr. Alexander
Mackenzie Campbell.”

When Friday evening came and word was sent up that her escort had
arrived, Rose ran down, devoutly hoping that he had not come in a
velveteen jacket, top-boots, black gloves, or made any trifling mistake
of that sort. A young gentleman was standing before the long mirror,
apparently intent upon the arrangement of his hair, and Rose paused
suddenly as her eye went from the glossy broadcloth to the white-gloved
hands, busy with an unruly lock that would not stay in place.

“Why, Charlie, I thought--” she began with an accent of surprise in her
voice, but got no further, for the gentleman turned and she beheld Mac
in immaculate evening costume, with his hair parted sweetly on his brow,
a superior posy at his buttonhole, and the expression of a martyr on his
face.

“Ah, don’t you wish it was? No one but yourself to thank that it isn’t
he. Am I right? Dandy got me up, and he ought to know what is what,”
 demanded Mac, folding his hands and standing as stiff as a ramrod.

“You are so regularly splendid that I don’t know you.”

“Neither do I.”

“I really had no idea you could look so like a gentleman,” added Rose,
surveying him with great approval.

“Nor that I could feel so like a fool.”

“Poor boy! He does look rather miserable. What can I do to cheer him up
in return for the sacrifice he is making?”

“Stop calling me a boy. It will soothe my agony immensely and give me
courage to appear in a low-necked coat and curl on my forehead, for I’m
not used to such elegancies and I find them no end of a trial.”

Mac spoke in such a pathetic tone, and gave such a gloomy glare at the
aforesaid curl, that Rose laughed in his face and added to his woe
by handing him her cloak. He surveyed it gravely for a minute, then
carefully put it on wrong side out and gave the swan’s-down hood a good
pull over the head, to the utter destruction of all smoothness to the
curls inside.

Rose uttered a cry and cast off the cloak, bidding him learn to do it
properly, which he meekly did and then led her down the hall without
walking on her skirts more than three times on the way. But at the door
she discovered that she had forgotten her furred overshoes and bade Mac
get them.

“Never mind it’s not wet,” he said, pulling his cap over his eyes and
plunging into his coat, regardless of the “elegancies” that afflicted
him.

“But I can’t walk on cold stones with thin slippers, can I?” began Rose,
showing him a little white foot.

“You needn’t, for there you are, my lady.” And, unceremoniously picking
her up, Mac landed her in the carriage before she could say a word.

“What an escort!” she exclaimed in comic dismay, as she rescued her
delicate dress from a rug in which he was about to tuck her up like a
mummy.

“It’s ‘only Mac,’ so don’t mind,” and he cast himself into an
opposite corner with the air of a man who had nerved himself to the
accomplishment of many painful duties and was bound to do them or die.

“But gentlemen don’t catch up ladies like bags of meal and poke them
into carriages in this way. It is evident that you need looking after,
and it is high time I undertook your society manners. Now, do mind what
you are about and don’t get yourself or me into a scrape if you can help
it,” besought Rose, feeling that on many accounts she had gone further
and fared worse.

“I’ll behave like a Turveydrop see if I don’t.”

Mac’s idea of the immortal Turveydrop’s behavior seemed to be a peculiar
one; for, after dancing once with his cousin, he left her to her own
devices and soon forgot all about her in a long conversation with
Professor Stumph, the learned geologist. Rose did not care, for one
dance proved to her that that branch of Mac’s education had been sadly
neglected, and she was glad to glide smoothly about with Steve, though
he was only an inch or two taller than herself. She had plenty of
partners, however, and plenty of chaperons, for all the young men were
her most devoted, and all the matrons beamed upon her with maternal
benignity.

Charlie was not there, for when he found that Rose stood firm, and had
moreover engaged Mac as a permanency, he would not go at all and retired
in high dudgeon to console himself with more dangerous pastimes. Rose
feared it would be so, and even in the midst of the gaiety about her an
