Excellency," said the priest. "Do you still wish to see the documents?"

"It is useless. The mystery is solved. Let us go and see this new-found
relation of mine."

Don Paolo wrapped his cloak around him, and ushering his guest from the
room, led the way down-stairs. He carried a bit of wax taper, which he
held low to the steps, frequently stopping and warning the Prince to be
careful. It was night when they went out. The air was sharp and cold, and
Saracinesca buttoned his greatcoat to his throat as he strode by the side
of the old priest. The two walked on in silence for ten minutes, keeping
straight down the Corso Vittorio Emmanuele. At last the curate stopped
before a clean, new house, from the windows of which the bright light
streamed into the street. Don Paolo motioned to the Prince to enter, and
followed him in. A man in a white apron, with his arms full of plates,
who was probably servant, butler, boots, and factotum to the
establishment, came out of the dining-room, which was to the left of the
entrance, and which, to judge by the noise, seemed to be full of people.
He looked at the curate, and then at the Prince.

"Sorry to disappoint you, Don Paolo mio," he said, supposing the priest
had brought a customer--"very sorry; there is not a bed in the house."

"That is no matter, Giacchino," answered the curate. "We want to see Sor
Giovanni for a moment." The man disappeared, and a moment later Sor
Giovanni himself came down the passage.

"Favorisca, dear Don Paolo, come in." And he bowed to the Prince as he
opened the door which led into a small sitting-room reserved for the
innkeeper's family.

When they had entered, Saracinesca looked at his son's namesake. He saw
before him a man whose face and figure he long remembered with an
instinctive dislike. Giovanni the innkeeper was of a powerful build. Two
generations of peasant blood had given renewed strength to the old race.
He was large, with large bones, vast breadth of shoulder, and massive
joints; lean withal, and brown of face, his high cheek-bones making his
cheeks look hollow; clean shaved, his hair straight and black and neatly
combed; piercing black eyes near together, the heavy eyebrows joining
together in the midst of his forehead; thin and cruel lips, now parted in
a smile and showing a formidable set of short, white, even teeth; a
prominent square jaw, and a broad, strong nose, rather unnaturally
pointed,--altogether a striking face, one that would be noticed in a
crowd for its strength, but strangely cunning in expression, and not
without ferocity. Years afterwards Saracinesca remembered his first
meeting with Giovanni the innkeeper, and did not wonder that his first
impulse had been to dislike the man. At present, however, he looked at
him with considerable curiosity, and if he disliked him at first sight,
he told himself that it was beneath him to show antipathy for an
innkeeper.

"Sor Giovanni," said the curate, "this gentleman is desirous of making
your acquaintance."

Giovanni, whose manners were above his station, bowed politely, and
looked inquiringly at his visitor.

"Signor Saracinesca," said the Prince, "I am Leone Saracinesca of Rome. I
have just heard of your existence. We have long believed your family to
be extinct--I am delighted to find it still represented, and by one who
seems likely to perpetuate the name."

The innkeeper fixed his piercing eyes on the speaker's face, and looked
long before he answered.

"So you are Prince Saracinesca," he said, gravely.

"And you are the Marchese di San Giacinto," said the Prince, in the same
tone, holding out his hand frankly.

"Pardon me,--I am Giovanni Saracinesca, the innkeeper of Aquila,"
returned the other. But he took the Prince's hand. Then they all sat
down.

"As you please," said the Prince. "The title is none the less yours. If
you had signed yourself with it when you married, you would have saved me
a vast deal of trouble; but on the other hand, I should not have been
so fortunate as to meet you."

"I do not understand," said Giovanni.

The Prince told his story in as few words as possible.

"Amazing! extraordinary! what a chance!" ejaculated the curate, nodding
his old head from time to time while the Prince spoke, as though he had
not heard it all before. The innkeeper said nothing until old Saracinesca
had finished.

"I see how it was managed," he said at last. "When that gentleman was
making inquiries, I was away. I had taken my wife back to Salerno, and my
wife's father had not yet established himself in Aquila. Signor Del--what
is his name?"

"Del Ferice."

"Del Ferice, exactly. He thought we had disappeared, and were not likely
to come back. Or else he is a fool."

"He is not a fool," said Saracinesca. "He thought he was safe. It is all
very clear now. Well, Signor Marchese, or Signor Saracinesca, I am very
glad to have made your acquaintance. You have cleared up a very important
question by returning to Aquila. It will always give me the greatest
pleasure to serve you in any way I can."

"A thousand thanks. Anything I can do for you during your stay--"

"You are very kind. I will hire horses and return to Terni to-night. My
business in Rome is urgent. There is some suspense there in my absence."

"You will drink a glass before going?" asked Giovanni; and without
waiting for an answer, he strode from the room.

"And what does your Excellency think of your relation?" asked the curate,
when he was alone with the Prince.

"A terrible-looking fellow! But--" The Prince made a face and a gesture
indicating a question in regard to the innkeeper's character.

"Oh, do not be afraid," answered the priest. "He is the most honest man
alive."

"Of course," returned the Prince, politely, "you have had many occasions
of ascertaining that."

Giovanni, the innkeeper, returned with a bottle of wine and three
glasses, which he placed upon the table, and proceeded to fill.

"By the by," said the Prince, "in the excitement I forgot to inquire for
your Signora. She is well, I hope?"

"Thank you--she is very well," replied Giovanni, shortly.

"A boy, I have no doubt?"

"A splendid boy," answered the curate. "Sor Giovanni has a little girl,
too. He is a very happy man."

"Your health," said the innkeeper, holding up his glass to the light.

"And yours," returned the Prince.

"And of all the Saracinesca family," said the curate, sipping his wine
slowly. He rarely got a glass of old Lacrima, and he enjoyed it
thoroughly.

"And now," said the Prince, "I must be off. Many thanks for your
hospitality. I shall always remember with pleasure the day when I met an
unknown relation."

"The Albergo di Napoli will not forget that Prince Saracinesca has been
its guest," replied Giovanni politely, a smile upon his thin lips. He
shook hands with both his guests, and ushered them out to the door with a
courteous bow. Before they had gone twenty yards in the street, the
Prince looked back and caught a last glimpse of Giovanni's towering
figure, standing upon the steps with the bright light falling upon it
from within. He remembered that impression long.

At the door of his own inn he took leave of the good curate with many
expressions of thanks, and with many invitations to the Palazzo
Saracinesca, in case the old man ever visited Home.

"I have never seen Rome, your Excellency," answered the priest, rather
sadly. "I am an old man--I shall never see it now."

So they parted, and the Prince had a solitary supper of pigeons and salad
in the great dusky hall of the Locanda del Sole, while his horses were
being got ready for the long night-journey.

The meeting and the whole clearing up of the curious difficulty had
produced a profound impression upon the old Prince. He had not the
slightest doubt but that the story of the curate was perfectly accurate.
It was all so very probable, too. In the wild times between 1806 and
1815 the last of the Neapolitan branch of the Saracinesca had
disappeared, and the rich and powerful Roman princes of the name had been
quite willing to believe the Marchesi di San Giacinto extinct. They had
not even troubled themselves to claim the title, for they possessed more
than fifty of their own, and there was no chance of recovering the San
Giacinto estate, already mortgaged, and more than half squandered at the
time of the confiscation. That the rough soldier of fortune should have
hidden himself in his native country after the return of Ferdinand, his
lawful king, against whom he had fought, was natural enough; as it was
also natural that, with his rough nature, he should accommodate himself
to a peasant's life, and marry a peasant's only daughter, with her
broad acres of orange and olive and vine land; for peasants in the far
south were often rich, and their daughters were generally beautiful--a
very different race from the starved tenants of the Roman Campagna.

The Prince decided that the story was perfectly true, and he reflected
somewhat bitterly that unless his son had heirs after him, this herculean
innkeeper of Aquila was the lawful successor to his own title, and to all
the Saracinesca lands. He determined that Giovanni's marriage should not
be delayed another day, and with his usual impetuosity he hastened back
to Rome, hardly remembering that he had spent the previous night and all
that day upon the road, and that he had another twenty-four hours of
travel before him.

At dawn his carriage stopped at a little town not far from the papal
frontier. Just as the vehicle was starting, a large man, muffled in a
huge cloak, from the folds of which protruded the long brown barrel of a
rifle, put his head into the window. The Prince started and grasped his
revolver, which lay beside him on the seat.

"Good morning, Prince," said the man. "I hope you have slept well."

"Sor Giovanni!" exclaimed the old gentleman. "Where did you drop from?"

"The roads are not very safe," returned the innkeeper. "So I thought it
best to accompany you. Good-bye--buon viaggio!"

Before the Prince could answer, the carriage rolled off, the horses
springing forward at a gallop. Saracinesca put his head out of the
window, but his namesake had disappeared, and he rolled on towards Terni,
wondering at the innkeeper's anxiety for his safety.




CHAPTER XXX.


Even old Saracinesca's iron strength was in need of rest when, at the end
of forty-eight hours, he again entered his son's rooms, and threw himself
upon the great divan.

"How is Corona?" was his first question.

"She is very anxious about you," returned Giovanni, who was himself
considerably disturbed.

"We will go and set her mind at rest as soon as I have had something to
eat," said his father.

"It is all right, then? It was just as I said--a namesake?"

"Precisely. Only the namesake happens to be a cousin--the last of the San
Giacinto, who keeps an inn in Aquila. I saw him, and shook hands with
him."

"Impossible!" exclaimed Giovanni. "They are all extinct--"

"There has been a resurrection," returned the Prince. He told the whole
story of his journey, graphically and quickly.

"That is a very extraordinary tale," remarked Giovanni, thoughtfully.
"So, if I die without children the innkeeper will be prince."

"Precisely. And now, Giovanni, you must be married next week."

"As soon as you please--to-morrow if you like."

"What shall we do with Del Ferice?" asked the old prince.

"Ask him to the wedding," answered Giovanni, magnanimously.

"The wedding will have to be a very quiet one, I suppose," remarked his
father, thoughtfully. "The year is hardly over--"

"The more quiet the better, provided it is done quickly. Of course we
must consult Corona at once."

"Do you suppose I am going to fix the wedding-day without consulting
her?" asked the old man. "For heaven's sake order dinner, and let us be
quick about it."

The Prince was evidently in a hurry, and moreover, he was tired and
very hungry. An hour later, as both the men sat over the coffee in the
dining-room, his mood was mellower. A dinner at home has a wonderful
effect upon the temper of a man who has travelled and fared badly for
eight-and-forty hours.

"Giovannino," said old Saracinesca, "have you any idea what the Cardinal
thinks of your marriage?"

"No; and I do not care," answered the younger man. "He once advised me
not to marry Donna Tullia. He has not seen me often since then."

"I have an idea that it will please him immensely," said the Prince.

"It would be very much the same if it displeased him."

"Very much the same. Have you seen Corona to-day?"

"Yes--of course," answered Giovanni.

"What is the use of my going with you this evening?" asked his father,
suddenly. "I should think you could manage your own affairs without my
help."

"I thought that as you have taken so much trouble, you would enjoy
telling her the story yourself."

"Do you think I am a vain fool, sir, to be amused by a woman's praise?
Nonsense! Go yourself."

"By all means," answered Giovanni. He was used to his father's habit of
being quarrelsome over trifles, and he was much too happy to take any
notice of it now.

"You are tired," he continued. "I am sure you have a right to be. You
must want to go to bed."

"To bed indeed!" growled the old man. "Tired! You think I am good for
nothing; I know you do. You look upon me as a doting old cripple. I tell
you, boy, I can--"

"For heaven's sake, padre mio, do precisely as you are inclined. I
never said--"

"Never said what? Why are you always quarrelling with me?" roared his
father, who had not lost his temper for two days, and missed his
favourite exercise.

"What day shall we fix upon?" asked Giovanni, unmoved.

"Day! Any day. What do I care? Oh!--well, since you speak of it, you
might say a week from Sunday. To-day is Friday. But I do not care in the
least."

"Very well--if Corona can get ready."

"She shall be ready--she must be ready!" answered the old gentleman, in a
tone of conviction. "Why should she not be ready, I would like to know?"

"No reason whatever," said Giovanni, with unusual mildness.

"Of course not. There is never any reason in anything you say, you
unreasonable boy."

"Never, of course." Giovanni rose to go, biting his lips to keep down a
laugh.

"What the devil do you mean by always agreeing with me, you impertinent
scapegrace? And you are laughing, too--laughing at me, sir, as I live!
Upon my word!"

Giovanni turned his back and lighted a cigar. Then, without looking
round, he walked towards the door.

"Giovannino," called the Prince.

"Well?"

"I feel better now. I wanted to abuse somebody. Look here--wait a
moment." He rose quickly, and left the room.

Giovanni sat down and smoked rather impatiently, looking at his watch
from time to time. In five minutes his father returned, bringing in his
hand an old red morocco case.

"Give it to her with my compliments, my boy," he said. "They are some of
your mother's diamonds--just a few of them. She shall have the rest on
the wedding-day."

"Thank you," said Giovanni, and pressed his father's hand.

"And give her my love, and say I will call to-morrow at two o'clock,"
added the Prince, now perfectly serene.

With the diamonds under his arm, Giovanni went out. The sky was clear and
frosty, and the stars shone brightly, high up between the tall houses of
the narrow street. Giovanni had not ordered a carriage, and seeing how
fine the night was, he decided to walk to his destination. It was not
eight o'clock, and Corona would have scarcely finished dinner at that
hour. He walked slowly. As he emerged into the Piazza di Venezia some
one overtook him.

"Good evening, Prince." Giovanni turned, and recognised Anastase Gouache,
the Zouave.

"Ah, Gouache--how are you?"

"I am going to pay you a visit," answered the Frenchman.

"I am very sorry--I have just left home," returned Giovanni, in some
surprise.

"Not at your house," continued Anastase. "My company is ordered to the
mountains. We leave to-morrow morning for Subiaco, and some of us are to
be quartered at Saracinesca."

"I hope you will be among the number," said Giovanni. "I shall probably
be married next week, and the Duchessa wishes to go at once to the
mountains. We shall be delighted to see you."

"Thank you very much. I will not fail to do myself the honour. My homage
to Madame la Duchesse. I must turn here. Good night."

"Au revoir," said Giovanni, and went on his way.

He found Corona in an inner sitting-room, reading beside a great
wood-fire. There were soft shades of lilac mingled with the black of her
dress. The year of mourning was past, and so soon as she could she
modified her widow's weeds into something less solemnly black. It
was impossible to wear funeral robes on the eve of her second marriage;
and the world had declared that she had shown an extraordinary degree of
virtue in mourning so long for a death which every one considered so
highly appropriate. Corona, however, felt differently. To her, her dead
husband and the man she now so wholly loved belonged to two totally
distinct classes of men. Her love, her marriage with Giovanni, seemed so
natural a consequence of her being left alone--so absolutely removed
from her former life--that, on the eve of her wedding, she could almost
wish that poor old Astrardente were alive to look as her friend upon her
new-found happiness.

She welcomed Giovanni with a bright smile. She had not expected him that
evening, for he had been with her all the afternoon. She sprang to her
feet and came quickly to meet him. She almost unconsciously took the
morocco case from his hands, not looking at it, and hardly noticing what
she did.

"My father has come back. It is all settled!" cried Giovanni.

"So soon! He must have flown!" said she, making him sit down.

"Yes, he has never rested, and he has found out all about it. It is a
most extraordinary story. By the by, he sends you affectionate messages,
and begs you to accept these diamonds. They were my mother's," he added,
his voice softening and changing. Corona understood his tone, and perhaps
realised, too, how very short the time now was. She opened the case
carefully.

"They are very beautiful; your mother wore them, Giovanni?" She looked
lovingly at him, and then bending down kissed the splendid coronet as
though in reverence of the dead Spanish woman who had borne the man
she loved. Whereat Giovanni stole to her side, and kissed her own dark
hair very tenderly.

"I was to tell you that there are a great many more," he said, "which my
father will offer you on the wedding--day." Then he kneeled down beside
her, and raising the crown from its case, set it with both his hands upon
her diadem of braids.

"My princess!" he exclaimed. "How beautiful you are!" He took the great
necklace, and clasped it about her white throat. "Of course," he said,
"you have such splendid jewels of your own, perhaps you hardly care for
these and the rest. But I like to see you with them--it makes me feel
that you are really mine."

Corona smiled happily, and gently took the coronet from her head,
returning it to its case. She let the necklace remain about her throat.

"You have not told me about your father's discovery," she said, suddenly.

"Yes--I will tell you."

In a few minutes he communicated to her the details of the journey. She
listened with profound interest.

"It is very strange," she said. "And yet it is so very natural."

"You see it is all Del Ferice's doing," said Giovanni. "I suppose it was
really an accident in the first place; but he managed to make a great
deal of it. It is certainly very amusing to find that the last of the
other branch is an innkeeper in the Abruzzi. However, I daresay we
shall never hear of him again. He does not seem inclined to claim his
title. Corona mia, I have something much more serious to say to you
to-night."

"What is it?" she asked, turning her great dark eyes rather wonderingly
to his face.

"There is no reason why we should not be married, now--"

"Do you think I ever believed there was?" she asked, reproachfully.

"No, dear. Only--would you mind its being very soon?"

The dark blood rose slowly to her cheek, but she answered without any
hesitation. She was too proud to hesitate.

"Whenever you please, Giovanni. Only it must be very quiet, and we will
go straight to Saracinesca. If you agree to those two things, it shall be
as soon as you please."

"Next week? A week from Sunday?" asked Giovanni, eagerly.

"Yes--a week from Sunday. I would rather not go through the ordeal of a
long engagement. I cannot bear to have every one here, congratulating me
from morning till night, as they insist upon doing."

"I will send the people out to Saracinesca to-morrow," said Giovanni, in
great delight. "They have been at work all winter, making the place
respectable."

"Not changing, I hope?" exclaimed Corona, who dearly loved the old grey
walls.

"Only repairing the state apartments. By the by, I met Gouache this
evening. He is going out with a company of Zouaves to hunt the brigands,
if there really are any."

"I hope he will not come near us," answered Corona. "I want to be all
alone with you, Giovanni, for ever so long. Would you not rather be
alone for a little while?" she asked, looking up suddenly with a timid
smile. "Should I bore you very much?"

It is unnecessary to record Giovanni's answer. If Corona longed to be
alone with him in the hills, Giovanni himself desired such a retreat
still more. To be out of the world, even for a month, seemed to him the
most delightful of prospects, for he was weary of the city, of society,
of everything save the woman he was about to marry. Of her he could never
tire; he could not imagine that in her company the days would ever seem
long, even in old Saracinesca, among the grey rocks of the Sabines. The
average man is gregarious, perhaps; but in strong minds there is often a
great desire for solitude, or at least for retirement, in the society of
one sympathetic soul. The instinct which bids such people leave the world
for a time is never permanent, unless they become morbid. It is a natural
feeling; and a strong brain gathers strength from communing with itself
or with its natural mate. There are few great men who have not at one
time or another withdrawn into solitude, and their retreat has generally
been succeeded by a period of extraordinary activity. Strong minds are
often, at some time or another, exposed to doubt and uncertainty
incomprehensible to a smaller intellect--due, indeed, to that very
breadth of view which contemplates the same idea from a vast number of
sides. To a man so endowed, the casting-vote of some one whom he loves,
and with whom he almost unconsciously sympathises, is sometimes necessary
to produce action, to direct the faculties, to guide the overflowing
flood of his thought into the mill-race of life's work. Without a certain
amount of prejudice to determine the resultant of its forces, many a
fine intellect would expend its power in burrowing among its own
labyrinths, unrecognised, misunderstood, unheard by the working-day world
without. For the working-day world never lacks prejudice to direct its
working.

For some time Giovanni and Corona talked of their plans for the spring
and summer. They would read, they would work together at the schemes for
uniting and improving their estates; they would build that new road from
Astrardente to Saracinesca, concerning which there had been so much
discussion during the last year; they would visit every part of their
lands together, and inquire into the condition of every peasant; they
would especially devote their attention to extending the forest
enclosures, in which Giovanni foresaw a source of wealth for his
children; above all, they would talk to their hearts' content, and feel,
as each day dawned upon their happiness, that they were free to go where
they would, without being confronted at every turn by the troublesome
duties of an exigent society.

At last the conversation turned again upon recent events, and especially
upon the part Del Ferice and Donna Tullia had played in attempting to
prevent the marriage. Corona asked what Giovanni intended to do about the
matter.

"I do not see that there is much to be done," he answered. "I will go to
Donna Tullia to-morrow, and explain that there has been a curious
mistake--that I am exceedingly obliged to her for calling my attention to
the existence of a distant relative, but that I trust she will not in
future interfere in my affairs."

"Do you think she will marry Del Ferice after all?" asked Corona.

"Why not? Of course he gave her the papers. Very possibly he thought they
really proved my former marriage. She will perhaps blame him for her
failure, but he will defend himself, never fear; he will make her
marry him."

"I wish they would marry and go away," said Corona to whom the very name
of Del Ferice was abhorrent, and who detested Donna Tullia almost as
heartily. Corona was a very good and noble woman, but she was very far
from that saintly superiority which forgets to resent injuries. Her
passions were eminently human, and very strong. She had struggled bravely
against her overwhelming love for Giovanni; and she had so far got the
mastery of herself, that she would have endured to the end if her
husband's death had not set her at liberty. Perhaps, too, while she felt
the necessity of fighting against that love, she attained for a time to
an elevation of character which would have made such personal injuries
as Donna Tullia could inflict seem insignificant in comparison with the
great struggle she sustained against an even greater evil. But in the
realisation of her freedom, in suddenly giving the rein to her nature, so
long controlled by her resolute will, all passion seemed to break out at
once with renewed force; and the conviction that her anger against her
two enemies was perfectly just and righteous, added fuel to the fire. Her
eyes gleamed fiercely as she spoke of Del Ferice and his bride, and no
punishment seemed too severe for those who had so treacherously tried to
dash the cup of her happiness from her very lips.

"I wish they would marry," she repeated, "and I wish the Cardinal would
turn them out of Rome the next day."

"That might be done," said Giovanni, who had himself revolved more than
one scheme of vengeance against the evil-doers. "The trouble is, that the
Cardinal despises Del Ferice and his political dilettanteism. He does not
care a fig whether the fellow remains in Rome or goes away. I confess it
would be a great satisfaction to wring the villain's neck."

"You must not fight him again, Giovanni," said Corona, in sudden alarm.
"You must not risk your life now--you know it is mine now." She laid her
hand tenderly on his, and it trembled.

"No, dearest--I certainly will not. But my father is very angry. I think
we may safely leave the treatment of Del Fence in his hands. My father is
a very sudden and violent man."

"I know," replied Corona. "He is magnificent when he is angry. I have no
doubt he will settle Del Ferice's affairs satisfactorily." She laughed
almost fiercely. Giovanni looked at her anxiously, yet not without pride,
as he recognised in her strong anger something akin to himself.

"How fierce you are!" he said, with a smile.

"Have I not cause to be? Have I not cause to wish these people an
evil end? Have they not nearly separated us? Nothing is bad enough for
them--what is the use of pretending not to feel? You are calm, Giovanni?
Perhaps you are much stronger than I am. I do not think you realise what
they meant to do--to separate us--us! As if any torture were bad enough
for them!"

Giovanni had never seen her so thoroughly roused. He was angry himself,
and more than angry, for his cheek paled, and his stern features grew
more hard, while his voice dropped to a hoarser tone.

"Do not mistake me, Corona," he said. "Do not think I am indifferent
because I am quiet. Del Ferice shall expiate all some day, and bitterly
too."

"Indeed I hope so," answered Corona between her teeth. Had Giovanni
foreseen the long and bitter struggle he would one day have to endure
before that expiation was complete, he would very likely have renounced
his vengeance then and there, for his wife's sake. But we mortals see but
in a glass; and when the mirror is darkened by the master-passion of
hate, we see not at all. Corona and Giovanni, united, rich and powerful,
might indeed appear formidable to a wretch like Del Ferice, dependent
upon a system of daily treachery for the very bread he ate. But in those
days the wheel of fortune was beginning to turn, and far-sighted men
prophesied that many an obscure individual would one day be playing the
part of a great personage. Years would still elapse before the change,
but the change would surely come at last.

Giovanni was very thoughtful as he walked home that night. He was happy,
and he had cause to be, for the long-desired day was at hand. He had
nearly attained the object of his life, and there was now no longer any
obstacle to be overcome. The relief he felt at his father's return was
very great; for although he had known that the impediment raised would be
soon removed, any impediment whatever was exasperating, and he could not
calculate the trouble that might be caused by the further machinations of
Donna Tullia and her affianced husband. All difficulties had, however,
been overcome by his father's energetic action, and at once Giovanni felt
as though a load had fallen from his shoulders, and a veil from his eyes.
He saw himself wedded to Corona in less than a fortnight, removed from
the sphere of society and of all his troubles, living for a space alone
with her in his ancestral home, calling her, at last, his wife.
Nevertheless he was thoughtful, and his expression was not one of
unmingled gladness, as he threaded the streets on his way home; for his
mind reverted to Del Ferice and to Donna Tullia, and Corona's fierce look
was still before him. He reflected that she had been nearly as much
injured as himself, that her wrath was legitimate, and that it was his
duty to visit her sufferings as well as his own upon the offenders. His
melancholic nature easily fell to brooding over any evil which was strong
enough to break the barrier of his indifference; and the annoyances which
had sprung originally from so small a cause had grown to gigantic
proportions, and had struck at the very roots of his happiness.

He had begun by disliking Del Ferice in an indifferent way whenever he
chanced to cross his path. Del Ferice had resented this haughty
indifference as a personal insult, and had set about injuring Giovanni,
attempting to thwart him whenever he could. Giovanni had caught Del
Ferice in a dastardly trick, and had been so far roused as to take
summary vengeance upon him in the duel which tools place after the
Frangipani ball. The wound had entered into Ugo's soul, and his hatred
had grown the faster that he found no opportunity of revenge. Then, at
last, when Giovanni's happiness had seemed complete, his enemy had put
forward his pretended proof of a former marriage; knowing well enough
that his weapons were not invincible--were indeed very weak--but unable
to resist any longer the desire for vengeance. Once more Giovanni had
triumphed easily, but with victory came the feeling that it was his turn
to punish his adversary. And now there was a new and powerful motive
added to Giovanni's just resentment, in the anger his future wife felt
and had a good right to feel, at the treachery which had been practised
upon both. It had taken two years to rouse Giovanni to energetic action
against one whom he had in turn regarded with indifference, then
despised, then honestly disliked, and finally hated. But his hatred had
been doubled each time by a greater injury, and was not likely to be
easily satisfied. Nothing short of Del Fence's destruction would be
enough, and his destruction must be brought about by legal means.

Giovanni had not far to seek for his weapons. He had long suspected Del
Ferice of treasonable practices; he did not doubt that with small
exertion he could find evidence to convict him. He would, then, allow him
to marry Donna Tullia; and on the day after the wedding, Del Ferice
should be arrested and lodged in the prison of the Holy Office as a
political delinquent of the meanest and most dangerous kind--as a
political spy. The determination was soon reached. It did not seem cruel
to Giovanni, for he was in a relentless mood; it would not have seemed
cruel to Corona,--Del Ferice had deserved all that, and more also.

So Giovanni went home and slept the sleep of a man who has made up his
mind upon an important matter. And in the morning he rose early and
communicated his ideas to his father. The result was that they determined
for the present to avoid an interview with Donna Tullia, and to
communicate to her by letter the result of old Saracinesca's rapid
journey to Aquila.




CHAPTER XXXI.


When Donna Tullia received Saracinesca's note, explaining the existence
of a second Giovanni, his pedigree and present circumstances, she almost
fainted with disappointment. It seemed to her that she had compromised
herself before the world, that all Rome knew the ridiculous part she had
played in Del Ferice's comedy, and that her shame would never be
forgotten. Suddenly she saw how she had been led away by her hatred of
Giovanni into believing blindly in a foolish tale which ought not to have
deceived a child. So soon as she learned the existence of a second
Giovanni Saracinesca, it seemed to her that she must have been mad not to
foresee such an explanation from the first. She had been duped, she had
been made a cat's-paw, she had been abominably deceived by Del Ferice,
who had made use of this worthless bribe in order to extort from her a
promise of marriage. She felt very ill, as very vain people often do
when they feel that they have been made ridiculous. She lay upon the
sofa in her little boudoir, where everything was in the worst possible
taste--from the gaudy velvet carpet and satin furniture to the gilt clock
on the chimney-piece--and she turned red and pale and red again, and
wished she were dead, or in Paris, or anywhere save in Rome. If she went
out she might meet one of the Saracinesca at any turn of the street, or
even Corona herself. How they would bow and smile sweetly at her,
enjoying her discomfiture with the polite superiority of people who
cannot be hurt!

And she herself--she could not tell what she should do. She had announced
her engagement to Del Ferice, but she could not marry him. She had been
entrapped into making him a promise, into swearing a terrible oath;
but the Church did not consider such oaths binding. She would go to Padre
Filippo and ask his advice.

But then, if she went to Padre Filippo, she would have to confess all she
had done, and she was not prepared to do that. A few weeks would pass,
and that time would be sufficient to mellow and smooth the remembrance of
her revengeful projects into a less questionable shape. No--she could not
confess all that just yet. Surely such an oath was not binding; at all
events, she could not marry Del Fence, whether she broke her promise or
not. In the first place, she would send for him and vent her anger upon
him while it was hot.

Accordingly, in the space of three-quarters of an hour, Ugo appeared,
smiling, smooth and persuasive as usual. Donna Tullia assumed a fine
attitude of disdain as she heard his step outside the door. She intended
to impress him with a full and sudden view of her just anger. He did not
seem much moved, and came forward as usual to take her hand and kiss it.
But she folded her arms and stared at him with all the contempt she could
concentrate in the gaze of her blue eyes. It was a good comedy. Del
Ferice, who had noticed as soon as he entered the room that something was
wrong, and had already half guessed the cause, affected to spring back in
horror when she refused to give her hand. His pale face expressed
sufficiently well a mixture of indignation and sorrow at the harsh
treatment he received. Still Donna Tullia's cold eye rested upon him in a
fixed stare.

"What is this? What have I done?" asked Del Ferice in low tones.

"Can you ask? Wretch! Read that, and understand what you have done,"
answered Donna Tullia, making a step forward and thrusting Saracinesca's
letter in his face.

Del Ferice had already seen the handwriting, and knew what the contents
were likely to be. He took the letter in one hand, and without looking at
it, still faced the angry woman. His brows contracted into a heavy frown,
and his half-closed eyes gazed menacingly at her.

"It will be an evil day for any man who comes between you and me," he
said, in tragic tones.

Donna Tullia laughed harshly, and again drew herself up, watching his
face, and expecting to witness his utter confusion. But she was no match
for the actor whom she had promised to marry. Del Ferice began to read,
and as he read, his frown relaxed; gradually an ugly smile, intended to
represent fiendish cunning, stole over his features, and when he had
finished, he uttered a cry of triumph.

"Ha!" he said, "I guessed it! I hoped it--and it is true! He is found at
last! The very man--the real Saracinesca! It is only a matter of time--"

Donna Tullia now stared in unfeigned surprise. Instead of crushing him to
the ground as she had expected, the letter seemed to fill him with
boundless delight. He paced the room in wild excitement, chattering like
a madman. In spite of herself, however, her own spirits rose, and her
anger against Del Ferice softened. All was perhaps not lost--who could
fathom the intricacy of his great schemes? Surely he was not the man to
fall a victim to his own machinations.

"Will you please explain your extraordinary satisfaction at this news?"
said Madame Mayer. Between her late anger, her revived hopes, and her
newly roused curiosity, she was in a terrible state of suspense.

"Explain?" he cried. "Explain what, most adorable of women? Does it not
explain itself? Have we not found the Marchese di San Giacinto, the real
Saracinesca? Is not that enough?"

"I do not understand--"

Del Ferice was now by her side. He seemed hardly able to control himself
for joy. As a matter of fact he was acting, and acting a desperate part
too, suggested on the spur of the moment by the risk he ran of losing
this woman and her fortune on the very eve of marriage. Now he seized her
hand, and drawing her arm through his, led her quickly backwards and
forwards, talking fast and earnestly. It would not do to hesitate, for by
a moment's appearance of uncertainty all would be lost.

"No; of course you cannot understand the vast importance of this
discovery. I must explain. I must enter into historic details, and I am
so much overcome by this extraordinary turn of fortune that I can hardly
speak. Remove all doubt from your mind, my dear lady, for we have already
triumphed. This innkeeper, this Giovanni Saracinesca, this Marchese di
San Giacinto, is the lawful and right Prince Saracinesca, the head of the
house--"

"What!" screamed Donna Tullia, stopping short, and gripping his arm as in
a vice.

"Indeed he is. I suspected it when I first found the signature at Aquila;
but the man was gone, with his newly married wife, no one knew whither;
and I could not find him, search as I might. He is now returned, and
what is more, as this letter says, with all his papers proving his
identity. This is how the matter lies. Listen, Tullia mia. The old
Leone Saracinesca who last bore the title of Marquis--"

"The one mentioned here?" asked Donna Tullia, breathlessly.

"Yes--the one who took service under Murat, under Napoleon. Well, it is
perfectly well known that he laid claim to the Roman title, and with
perfect justice. Two generations before that, there had been an amicable
arrangement--amicable, but totally illegal--whereby the elder brother,
who was an unmarried invalid, transferred the Roman estates to his
younger brother, who was married and had children, and, in exchange, took
the Neapolitan estates and title, which had just fallen back to the main
branch by the death of a childless Marchese di San Giacinto. Late in life
this old recluse invalid married, contrary to all expectation--certainly
contrary to his own previous intentions. However, a child was born--a
boy. The old man found himself deprived by his own act of his
principality, and the succession turned from his son to the son of his
younger brother. He began a negotiation for again obtaining possession of
the Roman title--at least so the family tradition goes--but his brother,
who was firmly established in Rome, refused to listen to his demands. At
this juncture the old man died, being legally, observe, still the head of
the family of Saracinesca; his son should have succeeded him. But his
wife, the young daughter of an obscure Neapolitan nobleman, was not more
than eighteen years of age, and the child was only six months old. People
married young in those days. She entered some kind of protest, which,
however, was of no avail; and the boy grew up to be called the Marchese
di San Griacinto. He learned the story of his birth from his mother, and
protested in his turn. He ruined himself in trying to push his suit in
the Neapolitan courts; and finally, in the days of Napoleon's success, he
took service under Murat, receiving the solemn promise of the Emperor
that he should be reinstated in his title. But the Emperor forgot his
promise, or did not find it convenient to keep it, having perhaps reasons
of his own for not quarrelling with Pius the Seventh, who protected the
Roman Saracinesea Then came 1815, the downfall of the Empire, the
restoration of Ferdinand IV. in Naples, the confiscation of property from
all who had joined the Emperor, and the consequent complete ruin of San
Giacinto's hopes. He was supposed to have been killed, or to have made
away with himself. Saracinesea himself acknowledges that his grandson is
alive, and possesses all the family papers. Saracinesca himself has
discovered, seen, and conversed with the lawful head of his race, who, by
the blessing of heaven and the assistance of the courts, will before long
turn him out of house and home, and reign in his stead in all the glories
of the Palazzo Saracinesca, Prince of Rome, of the Holy Roman Empire,
grandee of Spain of the first class, and all the rest of it. Do you
wonder I rejoice, now that I am sure of putting an innkeeper over my
enemy's head? Fancy the humiliation of old Saracinesca, of Giovanni, who
will have to take his wife's title for the sake of respectability, of the
Astrardente herself, when she finds she has married the penniless son of
a penniless pretender!"

Del Ferice knew enough of the Saracinesca's family history to know that
something like what he had so fluently detailed to Donna Tullia had
actually occurred, and he knew well enough that she would not remember
every detail of his rapidly told tale. Hating the family as he did, he
had diligently sought out all information about them which he could
obtain without gaining access to their private archives. His ready wit
helped him to string the whole into a singularly plausible story. So
plausible, indeed, that it entirely upset all Donna Tullia's
determination to be angry at Del Ferice, and filled her with something of
the enthusiasm he showed. For himself he hoped that there was enough in
his story to do some palpable injury to the Saracinesca; but his more
immediate object was not to lose Donna Tullia by letting her feel any
disappointment at the discovery recently made by the old Prince. Donna
Tullia listened with breathless interest until he had finished.

"What a man you are, Ugo! How you turn defeat into victory! Is it all
really true? Do you think we can do it?"

"If I were to die this instant," Del Ferice asseverated, solemnly raising
his hand, "it is all perfectly true, so help me God!"

He hoped, for many reasons, that he was not perjuring himself.

"What shall we do, then?" asked Madame Mayer.

"Let them marry first, and then we shall be sure of humiliating them
both," he answered. Unconsciously he repeated the very determination
which Giovanni had formed against him the night before. "Meanwhile,
you and I can consult the lawyers and see how this thing can best be
accomplished quickly and surely," he added.

"You will have to send for the innkeeper--"

"I will go and see him. It will not be hard to persuade him to claim his
lawful rights."

