There was a brisk drive along the sea, a curve was rounded, and the
station stood in sight. And just as the turn was made Tristrem caught
the shriek of a whistle.

"There she goes," the negro exclaimed, "you ought to have been spryer."

"Has the train gone?" Tristrem asked.

"Can't you see her? I knew you'd be late." The man was insolent in his
familiarity, but Tristrem did not seem to notice it.

"I would have given much not to be," he said.

At this the negro became a trifle less uncivil. "Would you ree-ly like
to catch that train?" he asked.

"I would indeed."

"Is it worth twenty-five dollars to you?"

Tristrem nodded.

"Well, boss, I tell you. That train stops at Peacedale, and at Wakefield
she shunts off till the mail passes. Like as not the express is late. If
I get you to Kingston before the Newport passes, will you give me
twenty-five?"

"If I make the connection I will give you fifty."

"That's talking. You'll get there, boss. Just lay back and count your
thumbs."

The negro snapped his whip, and soon Tristrem was jolted over one of the
worst and fairest roads of New England, through a country for which
nature has done her best, and where only the legislator is vile. One
hamlet after another was passed, and still the coach rolled on.

"We'll get there," the negro repeated from time to time, and to
encourage his fare he lashed the horses to their utmost speed. Peacedale
was in the distance; Wakefield was passed, and in a cloud of dust they
tore through Kingston and reached the station just as the express
steamed up.

"I told you I'd do it," the negro exclaimed, exultingly. "I'll get
checks for your trunks."

A minute or two more, and the checks were obtained; the negro was
counting a roll of bills, and in a drawing-room car Tristrem was being
whirled to New York.

For several hours he sat looking out at the retreating uplands,
villages, and valleys. But after a while he remembered the scantiness of
his breakfast, and, summoning the porter, he obtained from him some food
and drink. By this time the train had reached New Haven, and there
Tristrem alighted to smoke a cigarette. He was, however, unable to
finish it before the whistle warned him that he should be aboard again.
The porter, who had been gratified by a tip, then told him that there
was a smoking compartment in the car beyond the one in which he had sat,
and, as the train moved on, Tristrem went forward in the direction
indicated.

The compartment was small, with seats for two on one side, and for
three, or for four at most, on the other. As Tristrem entered it he saw
that the larger sofa was occupied by one man, who lay out on it, full
length, his face turned to the partition. Tristrem took a seat opposite
him, and lit a fresh cigarette. As he smoked he looked at the reclining
form of his vis-Ã -vis. About the man's neck a silk handkerchief had
been rolled, but one end had come undone and hung loosely on the
cushion, and as Tristrem looked he noticed that on the neck was a wound,
unhealed and fresh, a line of excoriation, that neither steel nor shot
could have caused, but which might have come from a scratch. But, after
all, what business was it of his? And he turned his attention again to
the retreating uplands and to the villages that starred the route.

When the cigarette was done, he stood up to leave the compartment. But
however quietly he had moved, he seemed to arouse his neighbor, who
turned heavily, as though to change his position. As he did so, Tristrem
saw that it was Royal Weldon, and that on his face was a bruise. He
would have spoken, for Weldon was looking at him, but he recalled the
wanton lie of the week before, and as he hesitated whether to speak or
pass on, Weldon half rose. "Damn you," he said, "you are everywhere."
Then he lay down, turning his face again to the wall, and Tristrem,
without a word, went to the other car and found his former seat.

Two hours later he reached his home. He let himself in with a latch-key,
and rang the bell. But when Harris appeared he knew at once, by the
expression which the butler assumed, that he had come too late.

"When did it happen?" he asked.

"It was last evening, sir; he came in from his drive and inquired for
you, sir. I said that you had gone out of town, and showed him the
address you left. When I went to hannounce dinner, sir, he was sitting
in his arm-chair with his hat on. I thought he was asleep. I sent for
Dr. McMasters, sir, but it was no use. Dr. McMasters said it was the
'art, sir."

"You have notified my grandfather, have you not?"

"Yes, sir, I did, sir; Mr. Van Norden came in this morning, and left
word as how he would like to see you when you got back, sir."

"Very good. Call Davis, and get my things from the cabman."

"Yes, sir; thank you, sir. I beg pardon, sir," he added, "would you wish
some dinner? There's a nice fillet and a savory."




IX.


The morning after the funeral Tristrem received a letter from Mrs.
Raritan, and a little later a small package by express. The letter was
not long, and its transcription is unnecessary. It was to the effect
that on maturer consideration Viola had decided that the engagement into
which she had entered was untenable. To this decision Mrs. Raritan felt
herself reluctantly obliged to concur. It was not that Mr. Varick was
one whom she would be unwilling to welcome as her daughter's husband. On
the contrary, he was in many respects precisely what she most desired.
But Viola was young; she felt that she had a vocation to which marriage
would be an obstacle, and in the circumstances Viola was the better
judge. In any event, Mr. Varick was requested to consider the decision
as irrevocable. Then followed a few words of sympathy and a line of
condolence expressive of Mrs. Raritan's regret that the breaking of the
engagement should occur at a time when Tristrem was in grievous
affliction.

In the package were the jewels.

Tristrem read the letter as though he were reading some accusation of
felony levelled at him in the public press. If it had been a meteor
which had fallen at his feet he could not have wondered more. Indeed, it
was surprise that he felt. It was not anger or indignation; they were
after-comers. For the moment he was merely bewildered. It seemed to him
incredible that such a thing could be. He read the letter again, and
even examined the post-mark. At first he was for starting at once for
Narragansett. If he could but see Viola! The excuse about a vocation was
nonsense. Had he not told her that if she insisted on going on the
stage, he would sit in the stalls and applaud. No, it was not that; it
was because--After all, it was his own fault; if he had been unable to
make himself beloved, why should the engagement continue? But had an
opportunity been given him? He had not had speech with her since that
evening when she had drawn his face to hers. No, it could not be that.

He bowed his head, and then Anger came and sat at his side. What had he
done to Destiny that he should be to it the play-thing that he was? But
she; she was more voracious even than Fate. No, it was damnable. Why
should she take his heart and torment it? Why, having given love, should
she take it away? He was contented enough until he saw her. Why had she
come to him as the one woman in the world, luring him on; yes, for she
had lured him on? Why had she made him love her as he could never love
again, and just when she placed her hand in his,--a mist, a phantom, a
reproach? Why had she done so? Why was the engagement untenable?
Untenable, indeed, why was it untenable? Why--why--why? And in the
increasing exasperation of the moment, Tristrem did a thing that, with
him, was unusual. He rang the bell, and bade the servant bring him
drink.

It was on the afternoon of that day that he learned the tenor of his
father's will. It affected him as a chill affects a man smitten with
fever. He accepted it as a matter of course. It was not even the last
drop; the cup was full as it stood. What was it to him that he had
missed being one of the richest men in New York in comparison to the
knowledge that even had he the mines of Ormuz and of Ind, the revenue
would be as useless to him as the hands of the dead? Was she to be
bought? Had she not taken herself away before the contents of the will
were reported? He might be able to call the world his own, and it would
avail him nothing.

The will left him strangely insensible, though, after all, one may
wonder whether winter is severer than autumn to a flower once dead.

But if the will affected Tristrem but little, it stirred Dirck Van
Norden to paroxysms of wrath. "He ought to have his ghost kicked," he
said, in confidential allusion to Erastus Varick. "It's a thing that
cries out to heaven. And don't you tell me, sir, that nothing can be
done."

The lawyer with whom he happened to be in consultation said there were
many things that could be done. Indeed, he was reassuringly fecund in
resources. In the first place, the will was holographic. That, of
course, mattered nothing; it only pointed a moral. Laymen should not
draw up their own wills. For that matter, even professionals should be
as wary of so doing as physicians are of doctoring themselves. And the
lawyer instanced legal luminaries, judges whose obiter dicta and
opinions in banco were cited and received with the greatest respect,
and yet through whose wills, drawn up, mark you, by their own skilled
hands, coaches and tandems had been driven full speed. In regard to the
will of the deceased there was this to be said, it would not hold water.
Chapter 360, Laws of 1860, declares that no person having a husband,
wife, child, or parent, shall by his or her last will and testament,
devise or bequeath to any benevolent, charitable, scientific, literary,
religious, or missionary society, association, or corporation, in trust
or otherwise, more than one-half part of his or her estate.

"But he devised the whole."

"Yes, so he did; but in devising it he overlooked that very wise law. My
opinion in the matter is this. When, may I ask, was your grandson born?"

"He was born on the 10th of June, 1859."

"Exactly. The late Mr. Varick determined, on the birth of your grandson,
that the property should go over. His reasons for so determining are
immaterial. Rufus K. Taintor, the ablest man, sir, that ever sat on the
bench or addressed it, drew up the will at that time in accordance with
instructions received. Some years later, Taintor died of apoplexy, and
he died, too, as you doubtless remember, after the delivery of that
famous speech in the Besalul divorce case. Well, sir, what I make of the
matter is this. The late Mr. Varick, relying on Taintor's ability, and
possessing possibly some smattering of law of his own, recopied the will
every time the fancy took him to make minor alterations in the general
distribution of the trust. Consequently his last will and testament,
having been made since the passage of the law of 1860, is nugatory and
void as to one-half the bequest, and your grandson may still come in for
a very pretty sum."

"He ought to have it all," said Mr. Van Norden, decidedly.

"I don't dispute that, sir, in the least--and my opinion is that he
will get it. This will is dated five days previous to Mr. Varick's
demise. Now, according to the law of 1848, Chapter 319, and, if I
remember rightly, Section 6, no such bequest as the deceased's is valid
in any will which shall not have been made and executed at least two
months before the death of the testator. That, sir, I consider an
extremely wise bit of legislation. The law of 1860, which I quoted,
vitiates the will as to one-half the bequest; the law of 1848 does away
with the will altogether. Practically speaking, your son-in-law might
just as well have died intestate. Though, between ourselves, if Mr.
Varick had not been ignorant of these laws, and had not, in consequence
of his ignorance, made a disposition of certain private documents the
contents of which are easily guessed, your grandson would have merely a
prima facie right to have the will set aside; for, if you remember,
these laws were passed only to provide for the possible interests of a
surviving husband, wife, or child."

He emphasized the last word, and, as his meaning grew clear to Mr. Van
Norden, that gentleman got very red in the face. He rang the bell.

"Thank you, sir," he said. "I shall be indebted if you will send me your
account. And I shall be particularly indebted if you will send it at
your very earliest convenience. Henry, get this--this--get this
gentleman his hat and see him to the street."

Unfortunately for those that practise, there are a great many more
lawyers in New York than one. And before the last will and testament of
Erastus Varick came up for probate, Mr. Van Norden experienced slight
difficulty in retaining another attorney to defend Tristrem's interests.
The matter, of course, was set down for a hearing, and came up on the
calendar three months later.

Of the result of that hearing the reader has been already informed, and
then it was that Tristrem was taxed with old-world folly.




X.


In years gone by it had been Mr. Van Norden's custom to pass the heated
term at Rockaway. But when Rockaway became a popular resort, Mr. Van
Norden, like the sensible man that he was, discovered that his own house
was more comfortable than a crowded hotel. This particular summer,
therefore, he passed as usual in New York, and Tristrem, who had moved
to his house, kept him company. June was not altogether disagreeable,
but in July the city was visited by a heat at once insistent and
enervating. In August it was cooler, as our Augusts are apt to be; yet
the air was lifeless, and New York was not a nosegay. During these
months Tristrem was as lifeless as the air. In his first need of
sympathy he had gone to the irascible and kind-hearted old gentleman and
told him of the breaking of the engagement, and, he might have added, of
his heart, though in the telling he sought, with a lover's fealty, to
palliate the grievousness of the cruelty to which he had been subjected.

"It is this way," he said; "Viola, I think, feels that she does not know
me sufficiently well. After all, we have seen but little of each other,
and if she accepted me, it was on the spur of the moment. Since then she
has thought of it more seriously. It is for me to win her, not for her
to throw herself in my arms. That is what she has thought. She may seem
capricious; and what if she does? Your knowledge of women has, I am
sure, made you indulgent."

"Not in the least," Mr. Van Norden answered. And then, for the time
being, the subject was dropped.

It was this semi-consolatory view which Tristrem took of the matter
after the effect of the first shock had lost its force. But when he
received the bundle of letters, together with the Panama hat, which,
through some splendid irony, had been devised to him in the only clause
of the will in which his name was mentioned, it was as though a flash
had rent the darkness and revealed in one quick glare an answer to the
enigma in which he groped.

The letters were few in number--a dozen at most--and they were tied
together with a bit of faded ribbon. They were all in the same hand, one
and all contained protestations of passionate love, and each was signed
in full, Roanoke Raritan. The envelope which held them was addressed to
Mrs. Erastus Varick.

It was then that he saw the reason of his disinheritance, and it was
then that he understood the cause of Viola's withdrawal. It was evident
to him that Mrs. Raritan possessed either thorough knowledge of the
facts, or else that she had some inkling of them which her feminine
instinct had supplemented into evidence, and which had compelled her to
forbid the banns. There were, however, certain things which he could not
make clear to his mind. Why had Mrs. Raritan treated him with such
consideration? She had known from the first that he loved her daughter.
And after the engagement, if she wished it broken, why had she allowed
Viola to invite him to the Pier?

These things were at first inexplicable to him. Afterward he fancied
that it might be that Mrs. Raritan, originally uninformed, had become so
only through the man whom he had believed was his father, after the
announcement of the engagement had been made to him, and possibly
through some communication which had only reached her after his sudden
death. This explanation he was inclined to accept, and he was
particularly inclined to do so on recalling the spasm which had agitated
the deceased when he had come to him with the intelligence of the
engagement, and the nervous excitement which Mrs. Raritan displayed on
the morning when he left for town.

This explanation he accepted later--but in the horror of the situation
in which he first found himself his mind declined to act. He had never
known his mother, but her fame he had cherished as one cherishes that
which is best and most perfect of all. And abruptly that fame was
tarnished, as some fair picture might be sullied by a splash and
splatter of mud. And as though that were insufficient, the letters which
devastated his mother's honor brought him a hideous suspicion, and one
which developed into certainty, that his father and the father of the
girl whom he loved were one and the same.

It is not surprising, then, that during the summer months Tristrem was
as lifeless as the air he breathed. His grandfather noticed the
change--he would have been blind indeed had he not--and he urged him to
leave New York. But at each remonstrance Tristrem shook his head with
persistent apathy. What did it matter to him where he was? If New York,
instead of being merely hot and uncomfortable, had been cholera-smitten,
and the prey of pest, Tristrem's demeanor would not have altered. There
are people whom calamity affects like a tonic, who rise from misfortune
refreshed; there are others on whom disaster acts like a soporific, and
he was one of the latter. For three months he did not open a book, the
daily papers were taken from him unread, and if during that time he had
lost his reason, it is probable that his insanity would have consisted
in sitting always with eyes fixed, without laughing, weeping, or
changing place.

But after the hearing in the Surrogate's Court there was a change of
scene. The will was set aside, and the estate, of which Tristrem had
taken absolutely no thought whatever, reverted to him. It was then that
he made it over in its entirety to the institution to which it had been
originally devised; and it was in connection with the disposal of the
property, a disposal which he effected as a matter of course, and as the
only right and proper thing for him to do, that he enjoyed a memorable
interview with his grandfather.

He had not spoken to Mr. Van Norden about the letters, and the old
gentleman, through some restraining sense of delicacy, had hesitated to
question. Besides, he was confident that the estate would be Tristrem's,
and thus assured, it seemed unnecessary to him to touch on a matter to
which Tristrem had not alluded, and which was presumably distasteful to
him. But when he learned what Tristrem had done, he looked upon the
matter in a different light, and attacked him very aggressively the next
day.

"I can understand perfectly," he said, "that you should decline to hold
property on what you seem to regard as a legal quibble. But I should be
very much gratified to learn in what your judgment is superior to that
of the Legislature, and why you should refuse that to which you had as
clear and indefeasible a claim as I have to this fob on my waistcoat. I
should be really very much gratified to learn----"

Tristrem looked at his grandfather very much as though he had been asked
to open a wound. But he answered nothing. He got the letters and placed
them in the old gentleman's hand.

Mr. Van Norden glanced at one, and then turned to Tristrem. It was
evident that he was in the currents of conflicting and retroacting
emotions. He made as though he would speak, yet for the time being the
intensity of his feelings prevented him. He took up the letters again
and eyed them, shaking his head as he did so with the anger of one
enraged at the irreparable, and conscious of the futility of the wrath.

In the lives of most men and women there are moments in which they are
pregnant with words. The necessity of speech is so great that until the
parturition is accomplished they experience the throes of suffocation.
If no listener be at hand, there are at least the walls. Mr. Van Norden
was standing near to Tristrem, but that he might be the better assured
of his attention, he caught him by the arm, and addressed him in abrupt,
disjointed sentences, in a torrent of phrases, unconnected, as though
others than himself beat their vocables from his mouth. His words were
so tumultuous that they assailed the gates of speech, as spectators at
the sight of flame crowd the exits of a hall, and issue, some as were
they hurled from catapults, others, maimed, in disarray.

He was possessed of anger, and as sometimes happens off the stage, his
anger was splendid and glorious to behold. And Tristrem, with the thirst
of one who has drunk of thirst itself, caught the cascade of words, and
found in them the waters and fountains of life.

"These letters----But how is it possible? God in Heaven----! But can't
you see?--the bare idea is an infamy. Your mother was as interested in
Raritan as--as----It's enough to make a mad dog blush. It was just a few
months before you were born----Bah! the imbecility of Erastus Varick
would unnerve a pirate. I know he was always running there, Raritan was,
but anyone with the brain of a wooden Indian would have
understood----Why, they were here--they came to me, all three of them,
and because I knew her father----And precious little thanks I got for my
pains. He said he would see the girl in her grave first. He would have
it that Raritan was after her for her money. It's true he hadn't a
penny--but--what's that got to do with it? The mischief's done. She must
have sent these letters to your mother to return to Raritan just before
she married that idiot Wainwaring. Your mother was her most intimate
friend--they were at school together at Pelham Priory. Raritan, I
suppose, was away. Before he got back, your mother--you were born, you
know, and she died. She had no chance to return them. That imbecile of a
father of yours must have found the letters, and thought----But how is
such a thing possible? Good God! he ought to be dug up and cowhided. And
it was for this he left you a Panama hat! And it was for this you have
turned over millions to an institution for the shelter of vice! It was
for this----See here, since Christ was crucified, a greater stupidity,
or one more iniquitous, has never been committed."

In the magnificence of his indignation, Mr. Van Norden stormed on until
he lacked the strength to continue. But he stormed to ravished and
indulgent ears. And when at last he did stop, Tristrem, who meanwhile
had been silent as a mouse, went over to the arm-chair into which, in
his exhaustion, he had thrown himself, and touched his shoulder.

"If he did not wish me to have the money," he said, "how could I keep
it? How could I?" And before the honesty that was in his face the old
man lowered his eyes to the ground. "I am gladder," Tristrem continued,
"to know myself his son than to be the possessor of all New York. But
when I thought that I was not his son, was that a reason why I should
cease to be a gentleman. Though I lost everything else, what did it
matter if I kept my self-respect?"

He waited a moment for an answer, and then a very singular thing
happened. From Dirck Van Norden's lowered eyes first one tear and then a
second rolled down into the furrows of his cheek. From his throat came a
sound that did not wholly resemble a sob and yet was not like to
laughter, his mouth twitched, and he turned his head aside. "It's the
first time since your mother died," he said at last, but what he meant
by that absurd remark, who shall say?

For some time Tristrem lingered, lost in thought. It was indeed as he
had said. He was gladder to feel again that he was free to love and free
to be loved in return than he would have been at holding all New York in
fee. As he rose from the nightmare in which he suffocated he did not so
much as pay the lost estate the compliment of a regret. It was not that
which had debarred him from her, nor was it for that that she had once
placed her hand in his. He was well rid of it all, since in the riddance
the doors of his prison-house were unlocked. For three months his heart
had been not dead but haunted, and now it was instinct with life and
fluttered by the beckonings of hope. He had fronted sorrow. Pain had
claimed him for its own, and in its intensity it had absorbed his tears.
He had sunk to the uttermost depths of grief, and, unbereft of reason,
he had explored the horrors of the abyss. And now in the magic of the
unforeseen he was transported to dazzling altitudes, to landscapes from
which happiness, like the despot that it is, had routed sorrow and
banished pain. He was like one who, overtaken by years and disease,
suddenly finds his youth restored.

His plans were quickly made. He would go to Narragansett at once, and
not leave until the engagement was renewed. He had even the cruelty to
determine that his grandfather should come to the Pier himself, and
argue with Mrs. Raritan, if argument were necessary.

"I have so much to say," he presently exclaimed, "that I don't know
where to begin."

"Begin at the end," his grandfather suggested.

But Tristrem found it more convenient to begin in the middle. He led the
old gentleman into the rhyme and reason of the rupture, he carried him
forward and backward from old fancies to newer hopes. He explained how
imperative it was that with the demolition of the obstacle which his
father had erected the engagement should be at once renewed; he blamed
himself for having even suggested that Viola was capricious; he mourned
over the position in which she had been placed; he pictured Mrs.
Raritan's relief when she learned of the error into which she had
wandered; and after countless digressions wound up by commanding his
grandfather to write an explanation which would serve him as a passport
to renewed and uninterruptable favor.

"Certainly--certainly," Mr. Van Norden cried, with the impatience of one
battling against a stream. "But even granting that your father wrote to
Mrs. Raritan, which I doubt--although, to be sure, he was capable of
anything--don't you see that you are in a very different position to-day
than you would have been had you not--had you not----"

"You mean about the money?"

"Why, most assuredly I mean about the money," the old gentleman cried,
aroused to new indignation by the wantonness of the question.

At this Tristrem, with the blithe confidence of a lover, shook his head.
"You don't know Viola," he answered. "Besides, I can work. Other men
do--why shouldn't I?"

"And be able to marry when you are ready for the grave. That's nonsense.
Unless the young lady is a simpleton, and her mother a fit subject for
Bedlam, don't tell them that you are going to work. And what would you
work at, pray? No, no--that won't do. You are as fitted to go into
business as I am to open a bake-shop."

"I might try stocks," said Tristrem, bravely.

"So you might, if you had the St. Nicholas money to start with. And even
then you would have to lose two fortunes before you could learn how to
make one. No, if you have not six or seven millions, you will, one of
these days--and the later the day the better for me--you will have a few
hundred thousand. It is paltry enough in comparison to the property
which you threw out of the window, but, paltry or not, it's more than
you deserve. Meanwhile, I will----There, don't begin your nonsense
again, sir. For the last three months you have done nothing but bother
the soul out of me. Meanwhile, if you don't accept what I care to give,
and accept it, what's more, with a devilish good grace, I'll--I'll
disinherit you myself--begad I will. I'll leave everything I have to the
St. Nicholas. It's a game that two can play at. You have set the
fashion, and you can abide by it. And now I would be very much indebted
if you would let me get some rest."

Therewith the fierce old gentleman looked Tristrem in the eyes, and
grasping him by the shoulder, he held him to him for a second's space.




XI.


When Tristrem reached Narragansett he had himself driven to an hotel,
where he removed the incidental traces of travel before venturing to
present himself at the villa. It was a glorious forenoon, and as he
dressed, the tonic that was blown to him through the open window
affected his spirits like wine. The breeze promised victory. He had been
idle and dilatory, he told himself; but he was older, the present was
his, and he felt the strength to make it wholly to his use. The past
would be forgotten and put aside; no, but utterly, as Nature
forgets--and in the future, what things might be!

    "O Magali, ma bien aimÃ©e,
    Fuyons tous deux, tous de--ux----"

The old song came back to him, and as he set out for the villa he hummed
it gayly to himself. The villa was but the throw of a stone from the
hotel, and in a moment he would be there. He was just a little bit
nervous, and he walked rapidly. As he reached the gate his excitement
increased. In his breast was a tightening sensation. And then at once he
stopped short. On the door of the cottage hung a sign, bearing for
legend, "To Let--Furnished."

"But it is impossible," he exclaimed, "they were to be here till
October."

He went up and rang the bell. The front windows were closed and barred.
The porch on which he stood was chairless. He listened, and heard no
sound. He tried the door--it was locked.

"But it is impossible," he kept repeating. "H'm! 'To let--furnished; for
particulars apply to J. F. Brown, at the Casino.' Most certainly, I
will--most certainly," and monologuing in the fashion that was peculiar
to him, he went down the road again, mindful only of his own perplexity.

On reaching the Casino he found that he would have no difficulty in
seeing the agent. Mr. Brown, the door-keeper told him, was "right in
there," and as he gave this information he pointed to a cramped little
office which stood to the left of the entrance.

"Is this Mr. Brown?" Tristrem began. "Mr. Brown, I am sorry to trouble
you. Would you be good enough to tell me about Mrs. Raritan's cottage.
I----"

"For next summer? Nine hundred, payable in advance."

"I didn't mean about the price. I meant--I was told that Mrs. Raritan
had taken it until October----"

"So she did. You can sublet for the balance of the season."

"Thank you--yes--but Mrs. Raritan hasn't gone away, has she?"

"She went weeks ago. There's nothing the matter with the cottage,
however. Drainage excellent."

"I have no doubt. But can you tell me where Mrs. Raritan went to?"

"I haven't the remotest idea. Lenox, perhaps. If you want to look at the
cottage I'll give you the key."

"I should think----Really, I must apologize for troubling you. Didn't
Mrs. Raritan leave her address?"

"If she did, it wasn't with me. When do you want the cottage for?"

Tristrem had not the courage to question more. He turned despondently
from Mr. Brown, and passing on through the vestibule, reached the
veranda that fronts the sea. In an angle a group of violinists were
strumming an inanity of Strauss with perfect independence of one
another. Beyond, on the narrow piazza, and on a division of the lawn
that leaned to the road, were a number of small tables close-packed with
girls in bright costumes and men in loose flannels and coats of
diverting hues. At the open windows of the restaurant other groups were
seated, dividing their attention between the food before them and the
throng without. And through the crowd a number of Alsatians pushed their
way, bearing concoctions to the thirstless. The hubbub was enervating,
and in the air was a stench of liquor with which the sea-breeze coped in
vain.

Tristrem hesitated a second, and would have fled. He was in one of those
moods in which the noise and joviality of pleasure-seekers are jarring
even to the best-disposed. While he hesitated he saw a figure rising and
beckoning from a table on the lawn. And as he stood, uncertain whether
or no the signals were intended for him, the figure crossed the
intervening space, and he recognized Alphabet Jones.

"Come and have a drink," said that engaging individual. "You're as
solemn as a comedian. I give you my word, I believe you are the only
sober man in the place."

"Thank you," Tristrem answered; "I believe I do not care for anything. I
only came to ask----By the way, have you been here long?"

"Off and on all summer. It's a good place for points. You got my card,
didn't you? I wanted to express my sympathy at your bereavement."

"You are very kind; I----"

"But what's this I hear about you? You've bloomed out into a celebrity.
Everybody is talking about you--everybody, men, women, and children,
particularly the girls. When a fellow gives away a fortune like that!
Mais, tu sais, mon cher, c'est beau, c'est bien beau, Ã§a." And to
himself he added, "Et bien bÃªte."

Already certain members of immediate groups had become interested in the
new arrival, and it seemed to Tristrem that he heard his name
circulating above the jangle of the waltz.

"I am going to the hotel," he said. "I wish you would walk back with me.
I haven't spoken to a soul in an age. It would be an act of charity to
tell me the gossip." Tristrem, as he made this invitation, marvelled at
his own duplicity. For the time being, he cared for the society of
Alphabet Jones as he cared for the companionship of a bum-bailiff. Yet
still he lured him from the Casino and led him up the road, in the hope
that perhaps without direct questioning he might gain some knowledge of
Her.

As they walked on Jones descanted in the arbitrary didactic manner which
is the privilege of men of letters whose letters are not in capitals,
and moralized on a variety of topics, not with any covert intention of
boring Tristrem, but merely from a habit he had of rehearsing ready-made
phrases and noting their effect on a particular listener. This exercise
he found beneficial. In airing his views he sometimes stumbled on a good
thing which he had not thought of in private. And as he talked Tristrem
listened, in the hope that he might say something which would permit him
to lead up to the subject that was foremost in his mind. But nothing of
such a nature was touched upon, and it was not until the cottage was
reached that Tristrem spoke at all.

"The Raritans have gone, I see," he remarked, nodding at the cottage as
he did so.

"Yes, I see by the papers that they sailed yesterday."

"You don't mean to say they have gone to Europe. I thought--I heard they
were going to Lenox."

"If they were, they changed their plans. Miss Raritan didn't seem up to
the mark when she was here. In some way she reminded me of a realized
ideal--the charm had departed. She used to be enigmatical in her beauty,
but this summer, though the beauty was still there, it was no longer
enigmatical, it was like a problem solved. After all, it's the way with
our girls. A winter or two in New York would take the color out of the
cheeks of a Red Indian. Apropos de bottes, weren't you rather smitten
in that direction?"

"And you say they have gone abroad?" Tristrem repeated, utterly
unimpressed by the ornateness of the novelist's remarks.

"Yes, sir; and were it not that our beastly Government declines to give
me the benefit of an international copyright, I should be able to go and
do likewise. It's enough to turn an author into an anarchist. Why, you
would be surprised----"

Jones rambled on, but Tristrem no longer listened. The position in which
he found himself was more irritating than a dream. He was dumbly
exasperated. It was his own inaction that was the cause of it all. If he
had but bestirred himself sooner! Instead of struggling against that
which every throb of his heart convinced him was false, he had dawdled
with the impossible and toyed with apostils of grief. At the first
obstacle he had turned aside. Where he should have been resolute, he had
been weak. He had taken mists for barriers. A child frightened at its
own shadow was never more absurd than he. And Viola--it was not
surprising that the color had deserted her cheeks. It was no wonder that
in his imbecile silence she had gone away. It was only surprising that
she had not gone before. And if she had waited, might it not be that she
waited expectant of some effort from him, hoping against hope, and when
he had made no sign had believed in his defeat, and left him to it.
There was no blame for her. And now, if he were free again, that very
liberty was due not to his own persistence, but to chance. Surely she
was right to go. Yet--yet--but, after all, it was not too late.
Wherever she had gone he could follow. He would find her, and tell her,
and hold her to him.

Already he smiled in scenes forecast. The exasperation had left him.
Whether he came to Narragansett or journeyed to Paris, what matter did
it make? The errand was identical, and the result would be the same. How
foolish of him to be annoyed because he had not found her, in garlands
of orange-blossoms, waiting on a balcony to greet his coming. The very
fact of her absence added new weight to the import of his message. Yes,
he would return to town at once, and the next steamer would bear him to
her.

And then, unconsciously, through some obscure channel of memory, he was
back where he had once been, in a Gasthof in the Bavarian Mountains.
It was not yet dusk. Through the window came a choir of birds, and he
could see the tender asparagus-green of neighborly trees. He was seated
at a great, bare table of oak, and as he raised from it to his lips a
stone measure of beer, his eyes rested on an engraving that hung on the
wall. It represented a huntsman, galloping like mad, one steadying hand
on the bridle and the other stretched forward to grasp a phantom that
sped on before. Under the picture, in quaint German text, was the
legend, The Chase after Happiness. "H'm;" he mused, "I don't see why I
should think of that."

"That's the gist of it all," Jones was saying. "It's the fashion to rail
against critics. I remember telling one of the guild the other day not
to read my books--they might prejudice him in my favor; but in
comparison to certain publishers the average reviewer stands as a
misdemeanant does to a burglar. No, I have said it before and I say it
again, until that copyright law is passed, the Government is guilty of
nothing less than compounding a felony."

Of what had gone before Tristrem had not heard a single word, and these
ultimate phrases which reached him were as meaningless as
church-steeples. He started as one does from a nap, with that shake of
the head which is peculiar to the absent-minded. He was standing, he
discovered, at the entrance to the hotel at which he lodged.

"Don't you agree with me?" Jones asked. "Come and lunch at the Casino.
You will get nothing here. Narragansett cookery is as iniquitous as the
legislature. Besides, at this hour they give you dinner. It is tragic,
on my word, it is."

"Thank you," Tristrem answered, elusively. "I have an appointment
with--with a train." And with this excuse he entered the hotel, and as
soon after as was practicable he returned to town.

It was, he learned, as Jones had said. Mrs. Raritan and Miss Raritan
were passengers on a steamer which had sailed two days before. It was
then Friday. One of the swiftest Cunarders was to sail the following
morning, and it seemed not improbable to Tristrem that he might reach
the other side, if not simultaneously with, at least but a few hours
after the arrival of the Wednesday boat. Such preparations, therefore,
as were necessary he made without delay. As incidental thereto, he went
to the house in Thirty-ninth Street. There he learned, from a squat
little Irishwoman who came out from the area and eyed him with
unmollifiable suspicion, that, like the Narragansett cottage, the house
was to let. The only address which he could obtain from her was that of
a real-estate agent in the lower part of the city. Thither he posted at
once. Yet even there the information which he gleaned was meagre. The
house was offered for a year. During that period, the agent understood,
Mrs. Raritan proposed to complete her daughter's musical education
abroad; where, the agent did not know. The rental accruing from the
lease of the house was to be paid over to the East and West Trust Co.
Further than that he could say nothing. Thereupon Tristrem trudged
hopefully to Wall Street; but the secretary of the East and West was
vaguer even than the agent. He knew nothing whatever on the subject of
Mrs. Raritan's whereabouts, and from his tone it was apparent that he
cared less. There is, however, an emollient in courtesy which has
softened greater oafs than he, and that emollient Tristrem possessed.
There was in his manner a penetrating and pervasive refinement, and at
the gruffness with which he was received there came to his face an
expression of such perplexity that the secretary, disarmed in spite of
himself, turned from his busy idleness and told Tristrem that if Mrs.
Raritan had not left her address with him she must certainly have given
it to the lawyer who held the power of attorney to collect the rents and
profits of her estate. The name of that lawyer was Meggs, and his office
was in the Mills Building.

In the Mills Building Tristrem's success was little better. Mr. Meggs,
the managing clerk announced, had left town an hour before and would not
return until Monday. However, if there was anything he could do, he
was entirely at Tristrem's disposal. And then Tristrem explained his
errand anew, adding that he sailed on the morrow, and that it was
important for him to have Mrs. Raritan's address before he left. The
clerk regretted, but he did not know it. Could not Mr. Meggs send it to
him?

"He might cable it, might he not?" Tristrem suggested. And as this plan
seemed feasible, he gave the clerk a card with a London address scrawled
on it, and therewith some coin. "I should be extremely indebted if you
would beg Mr. Meggs to send me the address at once," he added; and the
clerk, who had read the name on the card and knew it to be that of the
claimant and renouncer of a great estate, assured him that Mr. Meggs
would take great pleasure in so doing.

After that there was nothing for Tristrem to do but to return to his
grandfather's house and complete his preparations. He dined with Mr. Van
Norden that evening, and a very pleasant dinner it was. Together they
talked of those matters and memories that were most congenial to them;
Mr. Van Norden looking steadily in the past, and Tristrem straight into
the future. And at last, at midnight, when the carriage came to take
Tristrem to the wharf--for the ship was to sail at so early an hour in
the morning that it was deemed expedient for the passengers to sleep on
board--as Tristrem took leave of his grandfather, "Bring her back soon,"
the old gentleman said, "bring her back as soon as you can. And,
Tristrem, you must take this to her once more, with an old man's love
and blessing."

Whereupon he gave Tristrem again the diamond brooch that had belonged to
his daughter.




XII.


The journey over was precisely like any other, except in this, that, the
tide of travel being in the contrary direction, the number of cabin
passengers was limited. Among them there was no one whom Tristrem had
met before; yet, after the second day out, there were few whom his
appearance and manner had not attracted and coerced into some overture
to better acquaintance. Of these his attention was particularly claimed
by an Englishman who sat next to him at table, and a young lady who
occupied the seat opposite to his own. In the eyes of the latter was the
mischievous look of a precocious boy. She was extremely pretty; blonde,
fair, with a mouth that said Kiss me--what the French call a frimousse
frottÃ©e de champagne; and her speech was marked by great vivacity. She
was accompanied by an elderly person who appeared at table but once, and
who during the rest of the voyage remained bundled in shawls in the
ladies' cabin, where refreshments were presumably brought her.

It was rumored that this young lady was an ex-star of the Gaiety, and
more recently a member of a burlesque troupe that had disbanded in the
States. It was added--but then, are not ill-natured things said about
everybody? You, sir, and you, madam, who happen to read this page, have
never, of course, been spoken of other than with the greatest respect,
but what is said of your neighbor? and what have you said yourself?

Tristrem, unaffected by the gossip of the smoking-room, to which,
indeed, he lent but an inattentive ear, allowed the young lady to march
him up and down the deck and, as was his wont, permitted himself to be
generally made use of. Yet if the elderly person in the ladies' cabin
had exacted of him similar attentions, the attentions would have been
rendered with the same prompt and diligent willingness. He was not a
good listener, although he seemed one, but there was a breeziness in the
young lady's conversation which helped him not a little to forget the
discomforts of ocean travel. He walked with her, in consequence, mile
after mile, and when she wearied of that amusement, he got her
comfortably seated and, until she needed him again, passed the time in
the smoking-room.

It was there that he became acquainted with the Englishman who sat next
to him at table. His name, he learned, was Ledyard Yorke. He was an
artist by profession, and in the course of a symposium or two Tristrem
discovered that he was a very cultivated fellow besides. He seemed to be
well on in the thirties, and it was evident that there were few quarters
of the globe with which he was not familiar. He was enthusiastic on the
subject of French literature, but the manufactures of the pupils of the
Beaux Arts he professed to abominate.

"The last time I was at the Salon," he said, one evening, "there were in
those interminable halls over three thousand pictures. Of these, there
were barely fifty worth looking at. The others were interesting as
colored lithographs on a dead wall. There was a Manet or two, a Moreau,
and a dozen or more excellent landscapes, but the rest represented the
apotheosis of mediocrity. The pictures which GÃ©rÃ´me, Cabanel,
Bouguereau, and the acolytes of those pastry-cooks exposed were stupid
and sterile as church doors. What is art, after all, if it be not an
imitation of nature? To my thinking, the greater the illusion, the
nearer does the counterfeit approach the model. And look at the nymphs
and dryads which those hair-dressers present. In the first place, nymphs
and dryads are as overdone as the assumption of Virgins and the loves of
Leda. Besides they were not modern, but even if they were, fancy a girl
who lives in the open air in her birthday costume, and who, exposed to
the sun, to say nothing of the wind, still preserves the pink and white
skin of a baby--and a skin, mind you, that looks as though it had been
polished and pinched by a masseur; however, place a dozen of them
lolling in conventional attitudes in a glade, or represent them bathing
in a pond, and although the sun shines on them through the foliage, be
careful not to get so much as the criss-cross of a shadow on their
bodies, smear the whole thing with cold cream, label one 'Arcadia,' and
the other 'Nymphs surprised,' and you have what they call in France the
faire distinguÃ©."

There was nothing particularly new in what Mr. Yorke had to say, and if,
like the majority of men whose thoughts run in a particular channel, he
was apt to be dogmatic in his views, he yet possessed that saving
quality, which consists in treating the subject in hand not as were it a
matter of life and death, but rather as one which is as unimportant as
the gout of a distant relative. And it was in the companionship of this
gentleman, and that of the young lady alluded to, that Tristrem passed
the six days which separated him from the Irish coast.

On the day preceding the debarcation he was in great and expectant
