
"There are traitors in and about the city of New York," answered Captain
Passford, as he returned the letters to his pocket. "We had a rebel in
the house here at one time, you remember, and it is not quite prudent
just now to explain the contents of the letters."

"All right, father; but I suppose you will read them to me before I sail
for the South."

"I will talk to you about it another time," added the captain, as a
knock was heard at the door. "Come in!"

It was the man-servant of the house, and he brought in a tray on which
there was a card, which Captain Passford took.

"Captain Wilford Chantor," the captain read from the card. "Show him in,
Gates. Lieutenant Chantor is appointed to the command of the Chateaugay,
Christy, in which you take passage to the Gulf; but she will not go
there directly."

"Captain Chantor," said Gates, as he opened the door for the visitor.

"I am happy to see you, Captain Chantor, though I have not had the
pleasure of meeting you before," said the captain, as he rose from his
chair, and bowed to the gentleman, who was in the uniform of a
lieutenant.

"I presume I have the honor to address Captain Horatio Passford," said
the visitor, as he took a letter from his pocket, bowing very
respectfully at the same time, and delivering the letter.

"I am very glad to meet you, Captain Chantor," continued Captain
Passford, taking the hand of the visitor. "Allow me to introduce to you
my son, Lieutenant Passford, who will be a passenger on your ship to the
Gulf."

"I am very happy to make your acquaintance, Mr. Passford, for I need
hardly say that I have heard a great deal about you before, and this is
a very unexpected pleasure," replied Captain Chantor.

"Thank you, Captain, and I am equally happy to meet you, as I am to be a
passenger on your ship," added Christy, as they shook hands very
cordially.

"I had three other passengers on board, but they have been transferred
to the store-ship, which sails to-day, and you will be my only
passenger."

"At my suggestion," said Captain Passford smiling, doubtless at the
puzzled expression of the captain of the Chateaugay at his statement.

"I am to attend to some special service on my voyage to the Gulf, and I
am ordered to take my instructions from you," added Captain Chantor.

"Precisely so; but I hold no official position, and your orders will be
put in proper form before you sail," replied Christy's father. "Now, if
you will be patient for a little while, I will explain the nature of the
special service."

"I shall be very glad to understand the subject, and I am confident my
patience will hold out to any extent you may require."

The conversation so far had taken place in the library. The owner of
Bonnydale rose from his arm-chair, opened the door into the hall, and
looked about him very cautiously. Then he closed a window which the
unusual warmth of an April day had rendered it necessary to open. He
conducted his companions to the part of the room farthest from the door,
and seated them on a sofa, while he placed his arm-chair in front of
them. Even Christy thought his father was taking extraordinary
precautions, and the visitor could make nothing of it.

"As I have had occasion to remark before to-day, there are traitors in
and about New York," the captain began.

"If you have any private business with Captain Chantor, father, I am
perfectly willing to retire," suggested Christy.

"No; I wish you to understand this special service, for you may be
called upon to take a hand in it," replied Captain Passford; and the
son seated himself again. "There are traitors in and about New York,
I repeat. I think we need not greatly wonder that some of the English
people persist in attempting to run the blockade at the South, when some
of our own citizens are indirectly concerned in the same occupation."

This seemed to the captain of the Chateaugay an astounding statement,
and not less so to Christy, and neither of them could make anything of
it; but they were silent, concluding that the special service related to
this matter.

"In what I am about to say to you, Captain Chantor, I understand that I
am talking to an officer of the utmost discretion," continued Captain
Passford, "and not a word of it must be repeated to any person on board
of the Chateaugay, and certainly not to any other person whatever."

"I understand you perfectly, sir," replied the officer. "My lips shall
be sealed to all."

"I wish to say that the command of the Chateaugay would have been
offered to my son, but I objected for the reason that he prefers not to
have a command at present," said the captain.

"That makes it very fortunate for me."

"Very true, though the change was not made for your sake. You were
selected for this command as much on account of your discretion as for
your skill and bravery as an officer."

"I consider myself very highly complimented by the selection."

"Now to the point: I have information that a fast steamer, intended to
carry eight guns, called the Ovidio, sailed from the other side of the
ocean some time since, and she is to be a vessel in the Confederate
navy. Her first port will be Nassau, New Providence."

"Does that prove that any Americans are traitors in and about New York,
father?" asked Christy.

"She is to run the blockade with a cargo consisting in part of American
goods."

Captain Passford took a file of papers from his pocket.




CHAPTER II

A COMPLICATED CASE


Captain Passford looked over his papers for a moment; but it was soon
evident from his manner that he had secrets which he would not intrust
even to his son, unless it was necessary to do so. He seemed to be armed
with documentary evidence upon which to act, but he did not read any of
his papers, and soon returned them to his pocket.

"The American goods of which I speak are certain pieces of machinery to
be used in the manufacture of arms," continued the captain. "They cannot
be obtained in England, and the traitors have decided to send them
direct, rather than across the ocean in the first instance. These will
form the principal and most important part of the cargo of a steamer now
loaded, though she will carry other goods, such as the enemy need most
at the present time."

"I did not suppose any Americans were wicked enough to engage in such an
enterprise for the sake of making money," said Christy indignantly.

"The steamer of which you speak is already loaded, is she?" asked
Captain Chantor.

"She is; and now I wish both of you to go with me, and I will point out
the vessel to you, and you must mark her so well that you can identify
her when occasion requires."

The trio left the house and took the train together. They went to New
York, and in an out-of-the-way locality they went down to a wharf; but
there was no steamer or vessel of any kind there, and the pier was
falling to pieces from decay. Captain Passford stopped short, and seemed
to be confounded when he found the dock was not occupied.

"I am afraid we are too late, and that the steamer has sailed on her
mission of destruction," said he, almost overcome by the discovery. "She
was here last night, and was watched till this morning. She has already
cleared, bound to Wilmington, Delaware, with a cargo of old iron."

"Do you know her name, Captain Passford?" asked the commander of the
Chateaugay.

"She was a screw steamer of about six hundred tons, and was called the
Ionian, but she is American."

It was useless to remain there any longer, for the steamer certainly was
not there. Captain Passford hailed a passing-tug-boat, and they were
taken on board. The master of the boat was instructed to steam down the
East River, and the party examined every steamer at anchor or under way.
The tug had nearly reached the Battery before the leader of the trio saw
any vessel that looked like the Ionian. The tug went around this craft,
for she resembled the one which had been in the dock, and the name
indicated was found on her stern.

"I breathe easier, for I was afraid she had given us the slip," said
Captain Passford. "She is evidently all ready to sail."

"The Chateaugay is in commission, and ready to sail at a moment's
notice," added her commander.

"But you are not ready to leave at once, Christy," suggested Captain
Passford, with some anxiety in his expression.

"Yes, I am, father; I put my valises on board yesterday, and when mother
and Florry went down to Mr. Pembroke's I bade them both good-by, for
after I have waited so long for my passage, I felt that the call would
come in a hurry," replied Christy. "I am all ready to go on board of the
Chateaugay at this moment."

"And so am I," added Captain Chantor.

"But I am not ready with your orders in full, though they are duly
signed," said Captain Passford. "I will put you on shore at the foot of
Atlantic Avenue in Brooklyn, Captain Chantor, and you will hasten to
your ship, get up steam, and move down to this vicinity. I will put my
son on board as soon as I can have your papers completed."

The order necessary to carry out this procedure was given to the captain
of the tug, and the commander of the Chateaugay was landed at the place
indicated. The tug started for the other side of the river.

"It seems to me this is very strange business, father," said Christy,
as he and his father seated themselves at the stern of the boat.

"Traitors do not work in the daylight, my son, as you have learned
before this time," replied Captain Passford.

"If you know the men who are engaged in supplying the enemy with
machinery, why do you not have them arrested and put in Fort Lafayette?"
asked Christy, in a very low tone, after he had assured himself that no
person was within possible hearing distance. "It looks as though the
case might be settled here, without going to sea to do it."

"We have not sufficient evidence to convict them; and to make arrests
without the means of conviction would be worse than doing nothing. The
Ionian has cleared for Wilmington with a cargo of old iron. Everything
looks regular in regard to her, and I have no doubt there is some party
who would claim the castings if occasion required. The first thing to be
ascertained is whether or not the steamer goes to Wilmington."

"Then we can make short work of her."

"My information in regard to this treason comes from Warnock--you know
who he is?"

"Captain Barnes," replied Christy promptly, for the names of all the
agents of his father in England and Scotland had been given to him on a
former occasion, when the information received from one of the three had
resulted in the capture of the Scotian and the Arran.

"Barnes is a very shrewd man. He does not inform me yet in what manner
he obtained the information that the Ovidio was to carry this machinery
from Nassau into a rebel port; but I shall get it later in a letter. He
gave me the name of the party who was to furnish the machinery; and one
of his agents obtained this from the direction of a letter to New York.
I placed four skilful detectives around this man, who stands well in the
community. They have worked the case admirably, and spotted the Ionian.
I have aided them in all possible ways; but the evidence is not
complete. If this steamer proceeds beyond Wilmington, Captain Chantor
will be instructed to capture her and send her back to New York."

"Then this business will soon be settled," added Christy.

"Perhaps not; the government official, with authority to act, is in New
York. I shall see him at once. I have no doubt the detectives have
already reported that the Ionian has moved down the river," said Captain
Passford, as the tug came up to a pier, where father and son landed.

They went to an office in Battery Place, where the captain was informed
that a special messenger had been sent to Bonnydale to acquaint him with
the fact that the Ionian had moved down the river. Files of documents,
containing reports of detectives and other papers, were examined and
compared, and then the government official proceeded to finish the
filling out of Captain Chantor's orders. The paper was given to Christy,
with an order to deliver it to the commander of the Chateaugay. The tug
had been detained for them, and they hastened on board of her.

They found the suspected steamer at her moorings still; but it was
evident that she was preparing to weigh her anchor. The tug continued on
her course towards the Navy Yard, and the Chateaugay was discovered in
the berth she had occupied for the last two weeks. Everything looked
lively on board of her, as though she were getting ready to heave up her
anchor.

"Christy, you will find on board of your steamer a man by the name of
Gilfleur," said Captain Passford, as the tug approached the man-of-war.

"That sounds like a French name," interposed Christy.

"It is a French name, and the owner of it is a Frenchman who has been a
detective in Paris. He has accomplished more in this matter than all the
others put together, and he will go with you, for you will find in the
commander's instructions that you have more than one thing to do on your
way to the Gulf. I gave him a letter to you."

"I shall be glad to see him."

"Now, my son, we must part, for I have business on shore, and you may
have to sail at any moment," said Captain Passford, as he took the two
hands of his son. "I have no advice to give you except to be prudent,
and on this duty to be especially discreet. That's all--good-by."

They parted, after wringing each other's hands, as they had parted
several times before. They might never meet again in this world, but
both of them subdued their emotion, for they were obeying the high and
solemn call of duty; both of them were fighting for the right, and the
civilian as well as the naval officer felt that it was his duty to lay
down his life for his suffering country. Christy mounted the gangway,
and was received by Captain Chantor on the quarter-deck. He had been on
board before, and had taken possession of his stateroom.

The passenger took from his pocket the files of papers given him by the
official on shore; and then he noticed for the first time an envelope
addressed to him. The commander retired to his cabin to read his
instructions, and Christy went to his stateroom in the ward room to open
the envelope directed to him. As soon as he broke the seal he realized
that his father had done a great deal of writing, and he had no doubt
the paper contained full instructions for him, as well as a history of
the difficult case in which he was to take a part. A paper signed by the
official informed him that he was expected to occupy a sort of advisory
position near the commander of the Chateaugay, though of course he was
in no manner to control him in regard to the management of the ship.

Christy read his father's letter through. The government was exceedingly
anxious to obtain accurate information in regard to the state of affairs
at Nassau, that hot-bed for blockade-runners. The Chateaugay was to look
out for the Ovidio, whose ultimate destination was Mobile, where she was
to convey the gun-making machinery, and such other merchandise as the
traitorous merchant of New York wished to send into the Confederacy. The
name of this man was given to him, and it was believed that papers
signed by him would be found on board of the Ionian.

A knock at the door of his room disturbed his examination of the
documents, and he found the commander of the steamer there. After
looking about the ward room, and into the adjoining staterooms, he came
in without ceremony.

"Here is my hand, Mr. Passford," said he, suiting the action to the
word. "I find after reading my instructions that I am expected to
consult with you, and as I have the very highest respect and regard for
you after the brilliant record you have made"--

"Don't you believe that I won my promotion to my present rank through
the influence of my father?" demanded Christy, laughing pleasantly, as
he took the offered hand and warmly pressed it.

"If you did, your father did the very best thing in the world for his
country, and has given it one of the bravest and best officers in the
service," replied Captain Chantor, still wringing the hand of his
passenger. "But I don't believe anything of the kind; and no officer who
knows you, even if he is thirsting for promotion, believes it. I have
heard a great many of higher rank than either of us speak of you, and if
you had been present your ears would have tingled; but I never heard a
single officer of any rank suggest that you owed your rapid advancement
to anything but your professional skill and your unflinching bravery, as
well as to your absolute and hearty devotion to your country. I rank you
in date, Mr. Passford, but I would give a great deal to have your record
written against my name."

"Your praise is exceedingly profuse, Captain Chantor, but I must believe
you are honest, however unworthy I may be of your unstinted laudation,"
said Christy with his eyes fixed on the floor, and blushing like a
school-girl.

"I hope and believe there will be no discount on our fellowship. A man
came on board this afternoon, and gives me a letter from the proper
authority, referring me to you in regard to his mission."

Christy decided to see this person at once.




CHAPTER III

THE DEPARTURE OF THE CHATEAUGAY


The commander told Christy that he would probably find the person who
had brought the letter to him in the waist, for he knew nothing of his
quality, position, or anything else about him, and he did not know where
to berth him, though there was room enough in the ward room or the
steerage. He was dressed like a gentleman, and brought two very handsome
valises on board with him.

"For all that, I did not know but that he might be a French cook, a
steward, or something of that sort," added Captain Chantor, laughing.

"He is a man who is said to be a Napoleon in his profession; but I will
tell you all about him after we get under way, for I am in a hurry to
speak with him," replied Christy.

"He is evidently a Frenchman," continued the captain.

"He is; but I never saw him in my life, and know nothing about him
except what I have learned from a long letter my father gave me when I
was coming on board."

"I have been told that you speak French like a native of Paris, Mr.
Passford," suggested the commander.

"Not so bad as that; I have studied the language a great deal under
competent instructors from Paris, but I am not so proficient as you may
think, though I can make my way with those who speak it," replied the
passenger, as he moved towards the door of the stateroom.

"And I can't speak the first word of it, for I have been a sailor all my
life, though I went through the naval academy somewhat hurriedly,"
continued the commander.

"Fortunately you don't need French on the quarter-deck;" and Christy
left the stateroom.

The captain went into his cabin, but came out before the passenger could
reach the deck. He informed Christy that he was directed to heave short
on the anchor and watch for a signal mentioned, which was to be hoisted
near the Battery. He might get under way at any minute.

Christy found the person of whom the captain had spoken in the waist.
He was dressed in a black suit, and looked more like a dandy than a
detective. He was apparently about forty years of age, rather slenderly
built, but with a graceful form. He wore a long black mustache, but no
other beard. He was pacing the deck, and seemed to be very uneasy,
possibly because he was all alone, for no one took any notice of him,
though the captain had received him very politely.

"Monsieur Gilfleur?" said Christy, walking up to him, and bowing as
politely as a Parisian.

"I am Mr. Gilfleur; have I the honor to address Lieutenant Passford?"
replied the Frenchman.

"I am Lieutenant Passford, though I have no official position on board
of this steamer."

"I am aware of it," added Mr. Gilfleur, as he chose to call himself,
taking a letter from the breast pocket of his coat, and handing it very
gracefully to Christy.

"Pardon me," added the young officer, as he opened the missive.

It was simply a letter of introduction from Captain Passford, intended
to assure him of the identity of the French detective. Mr. Gilfleur
evidently prided himself on his knowledge of the English language, for
he certainly spoke it fluently and correctly, though with a little of
the accent of his native tongue.

"I am very happy to meet you, Mr. Gilfleur," said Christy in French, as
he extended his hand to the other, who promptly took it, and from that
moment seemed to lose all his embarrassment.

"I thank you, Mr. Passford, for this pleasant reception, for it is
possible that we may have a great deal of business together, and I hope
you have confidence in me."

"Unlimited confidence, sir, since my father heartily indorses you."

"I thank you, sir, and I am sure we shall be good friends, though I am
not a gentleman like you, Mr. Passford."

"You are my equal in every respect, for though my father is a very rich
man, I am not. But we are all equals in this country."

"I don't know about that," said the Frenchman, with a Parisian shrug of
the shoulders. "Your father has treated me very kindly, and I have heard
a great deal about his brave and accomplished son," said Mr. Gilfleur,
with a very deferential bow.

"Spare me!" pleaded Christy, with a deprecatory smile and a shake of the
head.

"You are very modest, Mr. Passford, and I will not offend you. I am not
to speak of our mission before the Chateaugay is out of sight of land,"
said the detective, looking into the eyes of the young man with a gaze
which seemed to reach the soul, for he was doubtless measuring the
quality and calibre of his associate in the mission, as he called it,
in which both were engaged. "I knew your father very well in Paris,"
he added, withdrawing his piercing gaze.

"Then you are the gentleman who found the stewardess of the Bellevite
when she ran away with a bag of French gold at Havre?" said Christy,
opening his eyes.

"I have the honor to be that person," replied Mr. Gilfleur, with one of
his graceful bows. "It was a difficult case, for the woman was
associated with one of the worst thieves of Paris, and it took me a
month to run them down."

"Though I was a small boy, I remember it very well, for I was on board
of the Bellevite at the time," replied Christy. "I know that he was very
enthusiastic in his praise of the wonderful skill of the person who
recovered the money and sent the two thieves to prison. I understand now
why my father sent to Paris for you when he needed a very skilful person
of your profession."

"Thank you, Mr. Passford; you know me now, and we shall be good
friends."

"No doubt of it; but here comes the captain, and I have a word to say to
him," added Christy, as he touched his naval cap to the commander.
"Allow me to introduce to you my friend Mr. Gilfleur, whom my father
employed in Havre six years ago."

The captain was as polite as the Frenchman, and gave him a hearty
reception. Christy then suggested that his friend should be berthed in
the ward room. The ship's steward was called, and directed to give Mr.
Gilfleur a room next to the other passenger. As they were likely to have
many conferences together in regard to the business on their hands, they
were both particular in regard to the location of their rooms; and the
chief steward suited them as well as he could.

The detective spoke to him in French, but the steward could not
understand a word he said. Christy inquired if any of the ward-room
officers spoke the polite language, for his friend might sometimes wish
to converse in his own tongue.

"I don't believe they do, for they all got into the ward room through
the hawse-hole," replied the steward, laughing at the very idea.

When the passengers went on deck, the commander introduced them both to
the officers of the ship. To each in turn, at the request of Christy, he
put the question as to whether or not he could speak French; and they
all replied promptly in the negative, and laughed at the inquiry.

"Have you no one on board who speaks French, Captain Chantor?" asked
Christy.

"I don't know anything about it, but as it seems to be of some
importance to you and your friend, I will ascertain at once. Mr.
Suppleton, will you overhaul the ship's company, and see if you can find
any one that speaks French," continued the commander, addressing the
chief steward.

In about half an hour he returned, and reported that he was unable to
find a single person who could speak a word of French. Doubtless many of
the officers, who were of higher grade than any on board of the
Chateaugay, were fluent enough in the language, but they were not to be
found in the smaller vessels of the navy; for, whatever their rank
before the war, they had all been advanced to the higher positions.
Every one of the officers on board of this steamer had been the captain
of a vessel, and had been instructed in the profession after the war
began. Though substantially educated, they were not to be compared in
this respect with the original officers.

"We can talk as much as we please of our mission after we get out of
sight of land; and as long as we do it in French, no one will understand
us," said Christy to his fellow-passenger.

"As soon as we are permitted by my orders to do so, I shall have much to
say to you, Mr. Passford," replied Mr. Gilfleur.

"On deck!" shouted a man in the mizzen-top.

"Aloft!" returned Mr. Birdwing, the first lieutenant.

"Signal over the boarding-station, sir!" reported the quartermaster in
the top. "It is a number--'Get under way!'"

The executive officer reported the signal to the commander, though he
was on deck, and had heard the words of the quartermaster.

"Get under way at once, Mr. Birdwing," said the captain.

"Boatswain, all hands up anchor!" said the first lieutenant to this
officer; and in a moment the call rang through the ship.

Every officer and seaman was promptly in his station, for it was a
welcome call. The ship's company were dreaming of prize-money, for
officers had made fabulous sums from this source. In one instance a
lieutenant received for his share nearly forty thousand dollars; and
even an ordinary seaman pocketed seventeen hundred from a single
capture. The Chateaugayans were anxious to engage in this harvest, and
in a hurry to be on their way to the field of fortune.

In a short time the steamer was standing down East River at moderate
speed. The Ionian could not be seen yet, and nothing in regard to her
was known to any one on board except the captain and his two passengers.
As the ship approached the battery, a tug, which Christy recognized as
the one his father had employed, came off and hailed the Chateaugay. The
screw was stopped, and Captain Passford was discovered at her bow. He
waved his hat to his son, saluted the commander in the same manner, and
then passed up an envelope.

The tug sheered off, and the ship continued on her course, with a pilot
at the wheel. The missive from the shore was addressed to Captain
Chantor. He opened it at once, and then ordered one bell to be rung to
stop her. A few moments later a heavy tug came off, and twelve men were
put on board, with an order signed by the government official for the
commander to receive them on board. There had evidently been some
afterthoughts on shore. These men were turned in with the crew, except
two who were officers, and they were put in the ward room. The ship then
proceeded on her course.

"The Ionian is about two miles ahead of us, Mr. Passford," said the
captain, after he had used his glass diligently for some time. And he
spoke in a very low tone.

"We have no business with her at present," added Christy.

"None, except to watch her; and, fortunately, we have fine, clear
weather, so that will not be a difficult job. By the way, Mr. Passford,
the envelope I received was from your father, and he gives me
information of another steamer expected in the vicinity of Bermuda about
this time; and he thinks we had better look for her when she comes out
from those islands," said the captain, evidently delighted with the
prospect before him.

"What are these men for that were sent off in the tug?" Christy
inquired; for he felt that he had a right to ask the question.

"They are to take the Ionian back to New York, if we have to capture
her."

Captain Passford appeared to be afraid the Chateaugay would be
shorthanded if she had to send a prize crew home with the Ionian.




CHAPTER IV

MONSIEUR GILFLEUR EXPLAINS


The two officers and ten men that had been sent off to the Chateaugay
after she got under way, had evidently been considered necessary by the
authorities on shore after the receipt of the intelligence that another
vessel for the Confederates had been sent to Bermuda. A steamer had
arrived that day from Liverpool, and Captain Passford must have received
his mail after he landed from the tug. Captain Chantor had waited
several hours for the signal to get under way, and there had been time
enough to obtain the reinforcement from the Navy Yard.

The officer in command of the detachment of sailors said that he had
been ordered to follow the Chateaugay, and he had been provided with a
fast boat for this purpose. The steamer proceeded on her course as soon
as the transport boat had cast off her fasts, and everything suddenly
quieted down on board of her. The distance between the Ionian and the
man-of-war was soon reduced to about a mile. It was beginning to grow
dark, but the crew had been stationed and billed while the ship lay off
the Navy Yard; but the new hands sent on board were assigned to watches
and quarter-watches, stationed and billed, as though they were a part of
the regular ship's company. One of the two additional officers was
placed in each of the watches.

Before it was really dark everything on board was in order, and the ship
was put in perfect trim. Christy could not help seeing that Captain
Chantor was a thorough commander, and that his officers were excellent
in all respects. He walked about the ship, wishing to make himself
familiar with her. His father had not written to him in regard to the
second vessel which the Chateaugay was to look out for in the vicinity
of the Bermuda Islands, and he only knew what the captain had told him
in regard to the matter.

If the steamer was armed, as probably she was, an action would be likely
to come off, and the young lieutenant could not remain idle while a
battle was in prospect. His quick eye enabled him to take in all he saw
without much study, and only one thing bothered him. In the waist,
secured on blocks, was something like the ordinary whaleboat used in the
navy; but it was somewhat larger than those with which he was familiar
in the discharge of his duties, and differed in other respects from
them. The first watch would begin at eight o'clock, and all hands were
still on duty.

"What do you call this boat, Mr. Carlin?" asked Christy, as the third
lieutenant was passing him.

"I call it a nondescript craft," replied the officer, laughing. "It is
something like a whaleboat, but it isn't one."

"What is it for?" inquired the passenger.

"That is more than I know, sir. It was put on deck while we were still
at the Navy Yard. I never saw a boat just like it before, and I have not
the remotest idea of its intended use. Probably the captain can inform
you."

Christy was no wiser than before, but his curiosity was excited. He
strolled to the quarter-deck, where he found the captain directing his
night-glass towards the Ionian, which showed her port light on the
starboard hand, indicating that the Chateaugay was running ahead of her.
The commander called the second lieutenant, and gave him the order for
the chief engineer to reduce the speed of the ship.

"The Ionian is a slow boat; at least, she is not as fast as the
Chateaugay, Mr. Passford," said Captain Chantor, when Christy had halted
near him.

"That is apparent," replied Christy. "How many knots can you make in
your ship, Captain Chantor?"

"I am told that she has made fifteen when driven at her best."

"That is more than the average of the steamers in the service by three
knots," added Christy. "I have just been forward, Captain, and I saw
there a boat which is not quite on the regulation pattern."

"It is like a whaleboat, though it differs from one in some respects,"
added the commander.

"Is it for ordinary service, Captain Chantor?"

"There you have caught me, for I don't know to what use she is to be
applied," replied the captain, laughing because, as the highest
authority on board of the ship, he was unable to answer the question.

"You don't know?" queried Christy. "Or have I asked an indiscreet
question?" said the passenger.

"If I knew, and found it necessary to conceal my knowledge from you,
I should say so squarely, Mr. Passford," added the commander, a little
piqued. "I would not resort to a lie."

"I beg your pardon, Captain Chanter; I certainly meant no offence,"
pleaded Christy.

"No offence, Mr. Passford; my hand upon it," said the commander, and
they exchanged a friendly grip of the hands. "I really know nothing at
all in regard to the intended use of the boat; in my orders, I am simply
directed to place it at the disposal of Mr. Gilfleur at such time and
place as he may require, and to co-operate with him in any enterprise in
which he may engage. I must refer you to the French gentleman for any
further information."

The passenger went below to the ward room. The door of the detective's
room was closed, and he knocked. He was admitted, and there he found Mr.
Gilfleur occupied with a file of papers, which he was busily engaged in
studying. In the little apartment were two middle-sized valises, which
made it look as though the detective expected to pass some time on his
present voyage to the South.

"I hope I don't disturb you, Mr. Gilfleur," said Christy in French.

"Not at all, Mr. Passford; I am glad to see you, for I am ordered to
consult very freely with you, and to inform you fully in regard to all
my plans," replied the Frenchman.

"Perhaps you can tell me, then, what that boat in the waist is for,"
Christy began, in a very pleasant tone, and in his most agreeable
manner, perhaps copying to some extent the Parisian suavity, as he had
observed it in several visits he had made to the gay capital.

"I can tell you all about it, Mr. Passford, though that is my grand
secret. No other person on board of this ship knows what it is for; but
you are my confidant, though I never had one before in the practice of
my profession," replied Mr. Gilfleur, fixing his keen gaze upon his
associate. "A man's secret is the safest when he keeps it to himself.
But I will tell you all about it."

"No! no! I don't wish you to do that, Mr. Gilfleur, if you deem it wise
to keep the matter to yourself," interposed Christy. "My curiosity is a
little excited, but I can control it."

"I shall tell you all about it, for this affair is different from the
ordinary practice of my profession," replied the detective; and he
proceeded to give a history of the boat in the waist, and then detailed
the use to which it was to be applied.

"I am quite satisfied, and I should be glad to take part in the
expedition in which you intend to use it," said Christy when the
explanation in regard to the boat was finished.

"You would be willing to take part in my little enterprise!" exclaimed
the Frenchman, his eyes lighting up with pleasure.

"I should; why not?"

"Because it may be very dangerous, and a slight slip may cost us both
our lives," replied the detective very impressively, and with another of
his keen and penetrating glances.

"I have not been in the habit of keeping under cover in my two years'
service in the navy, and I know what danger is," added Christy.

"I know you are a very brave young officer, Mr. Passford, but this
service is very different from that on the deck of a ship of war in
action. But we will talk of that at a future time," said Mr. Gilfleur,
as he rose hastily from his arm-chair at the desk, and rushed out into
the ward room.

Christy had heard footsteps outside of the door, and he followed his
companion. They found there Mr. Suppleton, the ship's steward, with the
two extra officers who had been sent on board.

"Do you speak French, gentlemen?" asked the detective, addressing
himself to the two officers.

"Not a word of it," replied Mr. Gwyndale, one of them.

"Not a syllable of it," added Mr. Tempers, the other.

"Excuse me, gentlemen," said Mr. Gilfleur, as he retreated to his room.

Mr. Suppleton introduced the two new officers to Christy, and he then
followed his associate. The Frenchman was afraid the new-comers
understood his native language, and had been listening to his
explanation of the use of the strange boat; but he had spoken in a
whisper, and no one could have heard him, even if the listener had been
a Frenchman.

"We are all right," said the detective when they had both resumed their
seats, and the Frenchman had begun to overhaul his papers.

Mr. Gilfleur proceeded to explain in what manner he had obtained his
knowledge of the plot to send the gun-making machinery to the South. One
of Captain Passford's agents had ascertained the name of Hillman Davis,
who was in correspondence with those who were fitting out the ships for
the Confederate service.

"But that is all we learned from the letters--that the men who were
sending out the ships were in correspondence with this man Davis, who is
a very respectable merchant of New York," Mr. Gilfleur proceeded.

"Is that all you had to start with, my friend?" asked Christy.

"That was all; and it was very little. Your American detectives are more
cautious than Frenchmen in the same service."

"I don't see how in the world you could work up the case with nothing
more than a mere name to begin with," added Christy, beginning to have a
higher opinion than ever of the skill of the French detective.

"I tell you it was a narrow foundation on which to work up the case. It
may amuse you, but I will tell you how it was done. In the first place,
Captain Passford gave me all the money I needed to work with. I applied
for a situation at Mr. Davis's warehouse. He imported wines and liquors
from France; when his corresponding clerk, who spoke and wrote French,
was commissioned as a lieutenant in the army, he was looking for a man
to take his place. He employed me. I had charge of the letters, and
carried the mail to him in his private counting-room every time it
came."

"I don't believe that any of our American detectives would have been
competent to take such a position," suggested Christy, deeply interested
in the narrative.

"That is where I had the advantage of them. I was well educated, and was
graduated from the University of France, with the parchment in that
valise, signed by the minister of education. The carrier brought all the
letters to my desk. I looked them over, and when I found any from
England or Scotland, or even France, I opened and read them."

"How could you do that?" asked Christy curiously.

"I was educated to be a lawyer; but before I entered upon the
profession, I found I had a taste for the detective service. I did some
amateur work first, and was very successful. I afterwards reached a high
position in the service of the government. I acquired a great deal of
skill in disguising myself, and in all the arts of the profession.
I could open and reseal a letter so that no change could be discovered
in its appearance, and this was what I did in the service of Mr. Davis.
He was a mean man, the stingiest I ever met, and he was as dishonest and
unscrupulous as a Paris thief. I copied all the letters connected with
the case I had in hand, and this enabled me to get to the bottom of the
traitor's plot. He wrote letters himself, not only to England and
Scotland, but to people in the South, sending them to Bermuda and
Nassau. I took copies of all these, and saved one or two originals.
My pay was so small that I resigned my situation," and he flourished a
great file of letters as he finished.




CHAPTER V

AN ABUNDANCE OF EVIDENCE


Captain Passford had certainly kept his own counsel with punctilious
care; for he had never even mentioned the skilful detective in his
family, though the members of it had met the gentleman in Paris and in
Havre. Mr. Gilfleur was in constant communication with him while he was
working up the exposure of the treason of Davis, who might have been a
relative of the distinguished gentleman at the head of the Southern
Confederacy, though there was no evidence to this effect.

"If the captain of this steamer manages his affair well with the Ionian,
I expect to find letters on board of her signed by Davis," continued Mr.
Gilfleur. "From the information I obtained, your father put American
detectives on the scent of Davis, who dogged him day and night till they
found the Ionian, and ascertained in what manner she obtained her cargo;
but she had been partly loaded before they reached a conclusion, and it
is suspected that she has arms under the pieces of machinery, perhaps
cannon and ammunition."

The detective continued to explain his operations at greater length than
it is necessary to report them. Christy listened till nearly midnight,
and then he went on deck to ascertain the position of the chase before
he turned in. He found the captain on the quarter-deck, vigilant and
faithful to his duty, and evidently determined that the Ionian should
not elude him.

"You are up late, Mr. Passford," said the captain, when he recognized
his passenger in the gloom of the night.

"I have been busy, and I came on deck to see where the Ionian was before
I turned in," replied Christy.

"I think the rascal has a suspicion that we have some business with him,
for at four bells he turned his head in for the shore," added the
commander. "If you go forward you will see that we have dowsed every
glim on board, even to our mast-head and side lights."

"You are carrying no starboard and port light?"

"None; but we have a strong lookout aloft, and in every other available
place. When the chase headed for the shore, we kept on our course for
half an hour, and then put out the lights. We came about and went off to
the eastward for another half-hour. Coming about, we went to the
westward till we made her out, for she has not extinguished her lights.
It is dark enough to conceal the ship from her, and no doubt she thinks
we are still far to the southward of her. At any rate, she has resumed
her former course, which was about south, half west."

