it, but had failed. Then it occurred to him to give Roxana's smarter
head a chance at it. He made up a supposititious case, and laid it
before her. She thought it over, and delivered her verdict upon it. Tom
said to himself, "She's hit it, sure!" He thought he would test that
verdict, now, and watch Wilson's face; so he said reflectively--

"Wilson, you're not a fool--a fact of recent discovery. Whatever your
scheme was, it had sense in it, Blake's opinion to the contrary
notwithstanding. I don't ask you to reveal it, but I will suppose a
case--a case which will answer as a starting-point for the real thing I
am going to come at, and that's all I want. You offered five hundred
dollars for the knife, and five hundred for the thief. We will suppose,
for argument's sake, that the first reward is advertised and the second
offered by private letter to pawnbrokers and--"

Blake slapped his thigh, and cried out--

"By Jackson, he's got you, Pudd'nhead! Now why couldn't I or any fool
have thought of that?"

Wilson said to himself, "Anybody with a reasonably good head would have
thought of it. I am not surprised that Blake didn't detect it; I am only
surprised that Tom did. There is more to him than I supposed." He said
nothing aloud, and Tom went on:

"Very well. The thief would not suspect that there was a trap, and he
would bring or send the knife, and say he bought it for a song, or found
it in the road, or something like that, and try to collect the reward,
and be arrested--wouldn't he?"

"Yes," said Wilson.

"I think so," said Tom. "There can't be any doubt of it. Have you ever
seen that knife?"

"No."

"Has any friend of yours?"

"Not that I know of."

"Well, I begin to think I understand why your scheme failed."

"What do you mean, Tom? What are you driving at?" asked Wilson, with a
dawning sense of discomfort.

"Why, that there isn't any such knife."

"Look here, Wilson," said Blake, "Tom Driscoll's right, for a thousand
dollars--if I had it."

Wilson's blood warmed a little, and he wondered if he had been played
upon by those strangers; it certainly had something of that look. But
what could they gain by it? He threw out that suggestion. Tom replied:

"Gain? Oh, nothing that you would value, maybe. But they are strangers
making their way in a new community. Is it nothing to them to appear as
pets of an Oriental prince--at no expense? Is it nothing to them to be
able to dazzle this poor little town with thousand-dollar rewards--at no
expense? Wilson, there isn't any such knife, or your scheme would have
fetched it to light. Or if there is any such knife, they've got it yet.
I believe, myself, that they've seen such a knife, for Angelo pictured
it out with his pencil too swiftly and handily for him to have been
inventing it, and of course I can't swear that they've never had it; but
this I'll go bail for--if they had it when they came to this town,
they've got it yet."

Blake said--

"It looks mighty reasonable, the way Tom puts it; it most certainly
does."

Tom responded, turning to leave--

"You find the old woman, Blake, and if she can't furnish the knife, go
and search the twins!"

Tom sauntered away. Wilson felt a good deal depressed. He hardly knew
what to think. He was loath to withdraw his faith from the twins, and
was resolved not to do it on the present indecisive evidence; but--well,
he would think, and then decide how to act.

"Blake, what do you think of this matter?"

"Well, Pudd'nhead, I'm bound to say I put it up the way Tom does. They
hadn't the knife; or if they had it, they've got it yet."

The men parted. Wilson said to himself:

"I believe they had it; if it had been stolen, the scheme would have
restored it, that is certain. And so I believe they've got it yet."

Tom had no purpose in his mind when he encountered those two men. When
he began his talk he hoped to be able to gall them a little and get a
trifle of malicious entertainment out of it. But when he left, he left
in great spirits, for he perceived that just by pure luck and no
troublesome labor he had accomplished several delightful things: he had
touched both men on a raw spot and seen them squirm; he had modified
Wilson's sweetness for the twins with one small bitter taste that he
wouldn't be able to get out of his mouth right away; and, best of all,
he had taken the hated twins down a peg with the community; for Blake
would gossip around freely, after the manner of detectives, and within a
week the town would be laughing at them in its sleeve for offering a
gaudy reward for a bauble which they either never possessed or hadn't
lost. Tom was very well satisfied with himself.

Tom's behavior at home had been perfect during the entire week. His
uncle and aunt had seen nothing like it before. They could find no fault
with him anywhere.

Saturday evening he said to the Judge--

"I've had something preying on my mind, uncle, and as I am going away,
and might never see you again, I can't bear it any longer. I made you
believe I was afraid to fight that Italian adventurer. I had to get out
of it on some pretext or other, and maybe I chose badly, being taken
unawares, but no honorable person could consent to meet him in the
field, knowing what I knew about him."

"Indeed? What was that?"

"Count Luigi is a confessed assassin."

"Incredible!"

"It's perfectly true. Wilson detected it in his hand, by palmistry, and
charged him with it, and cornered him up so close that he had to
confess; but both twins begged us on their knees to keep the secret, and
swore they would lead straight lives here; and it was all so pitiful
that we gave our word of honor never to expose them while they kept that
promise. You would have done it yourself, uncle."

"You are right, my boy; I would. A man's secret is still his own
property, and sacred, when it has been surprised out of him like that.
You did well, and I am proud of you." Then he added mournfully, "But I
wish I could have been saved the shame of meeting an assassin on the
field of honor."

"It couldn't be helped, uncle. If I had known you were going to
challenge him I should have felt obliged to sacrifice my pledged word in
order to stop it, but Wilson couldn't be expected to do otherwise than
keep silent."

"Oh, no; Wilson did right, and is in no way to blame. Tom, Tom, you have
lifted a heavy load from my heart; I was stung to the very soul when I
seemed to have discovered that I had a coward in my family."

"You may imagine what it cost me to assume such a part, uncle."

"Oh, I know it, poor boy, I know it. And I can understand how much it
has cost you to remain under that unjust stigma to this time. But it is
all right now, and no harm is done. You have restored my comfort of
mind, and with it your own; and both of us had suffered enough."

The old man sat awhile plunged in thought; then he looked up with a
satisfied light in his eye, and said: "That this assassin should have
put the affront upon me of letting me meet him on the field of honor as
if he were a gentleman is a matter which I will presently settle--but
not now. I will not shoot him until after election. I see a way to ruin
them both before; I will attend to that first. Neither of them shall be
elected, that I promise. You are sure that the fact that he is an
assassin has not got abroad?"

"Perfectly certain of it, sir."

"It will be a good card. I will fling a hint at it from the stump on the
polling-day. It will sweep the ground from under both of them."

"There's not a doubt of it. It will finish them."

"That and outside work among the voters will, to a certainty. I want you
to come down here by and by and work privately among the rag-tag and
bobtail. You shall spend money among them; I will furnish it."

Another point scored against the detested twins! Really it was a great
day for Tom. He was encouraged to chance a parting shot, now, at the
same target, and did it.

"You know that wonderful Indian knife that the twins have been making
such a to-do about? Well, there's no track or trace of it yet; so the
town is beginning to sneer and gossip and laugh. Half the people believe
they never had any such knife, the other half believe they had it and
have got it still. I've heard twenty people talking like that to-day."

Yes, Tom's blemishless week had restored him to the favor of his aunt
and uncle.

His mother was satisfied with him, too. Privately, she believed she was
coming to love him, but she did not say so. She told him to go along to
St. Louis, now, and she would get ready and follow. Then she smashed her
whisky bottle and said--

"Dah now! I's a-gwyne to make you walk as straight as a string,
Chambers, en so I's bown' you ain't gwyne to git no bad example out o'
yo' mammy. I tole you you couldn't go into no bad comp'ny. Well, you's
gwyne into my comp'ny, en I's gwyne to fill de bill. Now, den, trot
along, trot along!"

Tom went aboard one of the big transient boats that night with his heavy
satchel of miscellaneous plunder, and slept the sleep of the unjust,
which is serener and sounder than the other kind, as we know by the
hanging-eve history of a million rascals. But when he got up in the
morning, luck was against him again: A brother-thief had robbed him
while he slept, and gone ashore at some intermediate landing.




CHAPTER XVI.

Sold Down the River.

If you pick up a starving dog and make him prosperous, he will not bite
you. This is the principal difference between a dog and a
man.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.

We know all about the habits of the ant, we know all about the habits of
the bee, but we know nothing at all about the habits of the oyster. It
seems almost certain that we have been choosing the wrong time for
studying the oyster.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.

When Roxana arrived, she found her son in such despair and misery that
her heart was touched and her motherhood rose up strong in her. He was
ruined past hope, now; his destruction would be immediate and sure, and
he would be an outcast and friendless. That was reason enough for a
mother to love a child; so she loved him, and told him so. It made him
wince, secretly--for she was a "nigger." That he was one himself was far
from reconciling him to that despised race.

Roxana poured out endearments upon him, to which he responded
uncomfortably, but as well as he could. And she tried to comfort him,
but that was not possible. These intimacies quickly became horrible to
him, and within the hour he began to try to get up courage enough to
tell her so, and require that they be discontinued or very considerably
modified. But he was afraid of her; and besides, there came a lull, now,
for she had begun to think. She was trying to invent a saving plan.
Finally she started up, and said she had found a way out. Tom was almost
suffocated by the joy of this sudden good news. Roxana said:

"Here is de plan, en she'll win, sure. I's a nigger, en nobody ain't
gwyne to doubt it dat hears me talk. I's wuth six hund'd dollahs. Take
en sell me, en pay off dese gamblers."

Tom was dazed. He was not sure he had heard aright. He was dumb for a
moment; then he said:

"Do you mean that you would be sold into slavery to save me?"

"Ain't you my chile? En does you know anything dat a mother won't do for
her chile? Day ain't nothin' a white mother won't do for her chile. Who
made 'em so? De Lord done it. En who made de niggers? De Lord made 'em.
In de inside, mothers is all de same. De good Lord he made 'em so. I's
gwyne to be sole into slavery, en in a year you's gwyne to buy yo' ole
mammy free ag'in. I'll show you how. Dat's de plan."

Tom's hopes began to rise, and his spirits along with them. He said--

"It's lovely of you, mammy--it's just--"

"Say it ag'in! En keep on sayin' it! It's all de pay a body kin want in
dis worl', en it's mo' den enough. Laws bless you, honey, when I's
slavin' aroun', en dey 'buses me, if I knows you's a-sayin' dat, 'way
off yonder somers, it'll heal up all de sore places, en I kin stan'
'em."

"I do say it again, mammy, and I'll keep on saying it, too. But how am I
going to sell you? You're free, you know."

"Much diff'rence dat make! White folks ain't partic'lar. De law kin sell
me now if dey tell me to leave de State in six months en I don't go. You
draw up a paper--bill o' sale--en put it 'way off yonder, down in de
middle o' Kaintuck somers, en sign some names to it, en say you'll sell
me cheap 'ca'se you's hard up; you'll find you ain't gwyne to have no
trouble. You take me up de country a piece, en sell me on a farm; dem
people ain't gwyne to ask no questions if I's a bargain."

Tom forged a bill of sale and sold his mother to an Arkansas
cotton-planter for a trifle over six hundred dollars. He did not want to
commit this treachery, but luck threw the man in his way, and this saved
him the necessity of going up country to hunt up a purchaser, with the
added risk of having to answer a lot of questions, whereas this planter
was so pleased with Roxy that he asked next to none at all. Besides, the
planter insisted that Roxy wouldn't know where she was, at first, and
that by the time she found out she would already have become contented.
And Tom argued with himself that it was an immense advantage for Roxy to
have a master who was so pleased with her, as this planter manifestly
was. In almost no time his flowing reasonings carried him to the point
of even half believing he was doing Roxy a splendid surreptitious
service in selling her "down the river." And then he kept diligently
saying to himself all the time: "It's for only a year. In a year I buy
her free again; she'll keep that in mind, and it'll reconcile her." Yes;
the little deception could do no harm, and everything would come out
right and pleasant in the end, any way. By agreement, the conversation
in Roxy's presence was all about the man's "upcountry" farm, and how
pleasant a place it was, and how happy the slaves were there; so poor
Roxy was entirely deceived; and easily, for she was not dreaming that
her own son could be guilty of treason to a mother who, in voluntarily
going into slavery--slavery of any kind, mild or severe, or of any
duration, brief or long--was making a sacrifice for him compared with
which death would have been a poor and commonplace one. She lavished
tears and loving caresses upon him privately, and then went away with
her owner--went away broken-hearted, and yet proud of what she was
doing, and glad it was in her power to do it.

Tom squared his accounts, and resolved to keep to the very letter of his
reform, and never to put that will in jeopardy again. He had three
hundred dollars left. According to his mother's plan, he was to put that
safely away, and add her half of his pension to it monthly. In one year
this fund would buy her free again.

For a whole week he was not able to sleep well, so much the villainy
which he had played upon his trusting mother preyed upon his rag of a
conscience; but after that he began to get comfortable again, and was
presently able to sleep like any other miscreant.

The boat bore Roxy away from St. Louis at four in the afternoon, and she
stood on the lower guard abaft the paddle-box and watched Tom through a
blur of tears until he melted into the throng of people and disappeared;
then she looked no more, but sat there on a coil of cable crying till
far into the night. When she went to her foul steerage-bunk at last,
between the clashing engines, it was not to sleep, but only to wait for
the morning, and, waiting, grieve.

It had been imagined that she "would not know," and would think she was
traveling up stream. She! Why, she had been steamboating for years. At
dawn she got up and went listlessly and sat down on the cable-coil
again. She passed many a snag whose "break" could have told her a thing
to break her heart, for it showed a current moving in the same direction
that the boat was going; but her thoughts were elsewhere, and she did
not notice. But at last the roar of a bigger and nearer break than usual
brought her out of her torpor, and she looked up, and her practised eye
fell upon that telltale rush of water. For one moment her petrified gaze
fixed itself there. Then her head dropped upon her breast, and she
said--

"Oh, de good Lord God have mercy on po' sinful me--I's sole down de
river!"




CHAPTER XVII.

The Judge Utters Dire Prophecy.

Even popularity can be overdone. In Rome, along at first, you are full
of regrets that Michelangelo died; but by and by you only regret that
you didn't see him do it.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.

July 4. Statistics show that we lose more fools on this day than in all
the other days of the year put together. This proves, by the number left
in stock, that one Fourth of July per year is now inadequate, the
country has grown so.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.

The summer weeks dragged by, and then the political campaign
opened--opened in pretty warm fashion, and waxed hotter and hotter
daily. The twins threw themselves into it with their whole heart, for
their self-love was engaged. Their popularity, so general at first, had
suffered afterward; mainly because they had been too popular, and so a
natural reaction had followed. Besides, it had been diligently whispered
around that it was curious--indeed, very curious--that that wonderful
knife of theirs did not turn up--if it was so valuable, or if it had
ever existed. And with the whisperings went chucklings and nudgings and
winks, and such things have an effect. The twins considered that success
in the election would reinstate them, and that defeat would work them
irreparable damage. Therefore they worked hard, but not harder than
Judge Driscoll and Tom worked against them in the closing days of the
canvas. Tom's conduct had remained so letter-perfect during two whole
months, now, that his uncle not only trusted him with money with which
to persuade voters, but trusted him to go and get it himself out of the
safe in the private sitting-room.

The closing speech of the campaign was made by Judge Driscoll, and he
made it against both of the foreigners. It was disastrously effective.
He poured out rivers of ridicule upon them, and forced the big
mass-meeting to laugh and applaud. He scoffed at them as adventurers,
mountebanks, side-show riff-raff, dime museum freaks; he assailed their
showy titles with measureless derision; he said they were back-alley
barbers disguised as nobilities, peanut peddlers masquerading as
gentlemen, organ-grinders bereft of their brother monkey. At last he
stopped and stood still. He waited until the place had become absolutely
silent and expectant, then he delivered his deadliest shot; delivered it
with ice-cold seriousness and deliberation, with a significant emphasis
upon the closing words: he said that he believed that the reward offered
for the lost knife was humbug and buncombe, and that its owner would
know where to find it whenever he should have occasion to assassinate
somebody.

Then he stepped from the stand, leaving a startled and impressive hush
behind him instead of the customary explosion of cheers and party cries.

The strange remark flew far and wide over the town and made an
extraordinary sensation. Everybody was asking, "What could he mean by
that?" And everybody went on asking that question, but in vain; for the
Judge only said he knew what he was talking about, and stopped there;
Tom said he hadn't any idea what his uncle meant, and Wilson, whenever
he was asked what he thought it meant, parried the question by asking
the questioner what he thought it meant.

Wilson was elected, the twins were defeated--crushed, in fact, and left
forlorn and substantially friendless. Tom went back to St. Louis happy.

Dawson's Landing had a week of repose, now, and it needed it. But it was
in an expectant state, for the air was full of rumors of a new duel.
Judge Driscoll's election labors had prostrated him, but it was said
that as soon as he was well enough to entertain a challenge he would get
one from Count Luigi.

The brothers withdrew entirely from society, and nursed their
humiliation in privacy. They avoided the people, and went out for
exercise only late at night, when the streets were deserted.



CHAPTER XVIII.

Roxana Commands.

Gratitude and treachery are merely the two extremities of the same
procession. You have seen all of it that is worth staying for when the
band and the gaudy officials have gone by.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's
Calendar.

Thanksgiving Day. Let all give humble, hearty, and sincere thanks, now,
but the turkeys. In the island of Fiji they do not use turkeys; they use
plumbers. It does not become you and me to sneer at Fiji.--Pudd'nhead
Wilson's Calendar.

The Friday after the election was a rainy one in St. Louis. It rained
all day long, and rained hard, apparently trying its best to wash that
soot-blackened town white, but of course not succeeding. Toward midnight
Tom Driscoll arrived at his lodgings from the theatre in the heavy
downpour, and closed his umbrella and let himself in; but when he would
have shut the door, he found that there was another person
entering--doubtless another lodger; this person closed the door and
tramped up-stairs behind Tom. Tom found his door in the dark, and
entered it and turned up the gas. When he faced about, lightly
whistling, he saw the back of a man. The man was closing and locking his
door for him. His whistle faded out and he felt uneasy. The man turned
around, a wreck of shabby old clothes, sodden with rain and all a-drip,
and showed a black face under an old slouch hat. Tom was frightened. He
tried to order the man out, but the words refused to come, and the other
man got the start. He said, in a low voice--

"Keep still--I's yo' mother!"

Tom sunk in a heap on a chair, and gasped out--

"It was mean of me, and base--I know it; but I meant it for the best, I
did indeed--I can swear it."

Roxana stood awhile looking mutely down on him while he writhed in shame
and went on incoherently babbling self-accusations mixed with pitiful
attempts at explanation and palliation of his crime; then she seated
herself and took off her hat, and her unkept masses of long brown hair
tumbled down about her shoulders.

"It ain't no fault o' yo'n dat dat ain't gray," she said sadly, noticing
the hair.

"I know it, I know it! I'm a scoundrel. But I swear I meant it for the
best. It was a mistake, of course, but I thought it was for the best, I
truly did."

Roxana began to cry softly, and presently words began to find their way
out between her sobs. They were uttered lamentingly, rather than
angrily--

"Sell a pusson down de river--down the river!--for de bes'! I wouldn't
treat a dog so! I is all broke down en wore out, now, en so I reckon it
ain't in me to storm aroun' no mo', like I used to when I 'uz trompled
on en 'bused. I don't know--but maybe it's so. Leastways, I's suffered
so much dat mournin' seem to come mo' handy to me now den stormin'."

These words should have touched Tom Driscoll, but if they did, that
effect was obliterated by a stronger one--one which removed the heavy
weight of fear which lay upon him, and gave his crushed spirit a most
grateful rebound, and filled all his small soul with a deep sense of
relief. But he kept prudently still, and ventured no comment. There was
a voiceless interval of some duration, now, in which no sounds were
heard but the beating of the rain upon the panes, the sighing and
complaining of the winds, and now and then a muffled sob from Roxana.
The sobs became more and more infrequent, and at last ceased. Then the
refugee began to talk again:

"Shet down dat light a little. More. More yit. A pusson dat is hunted
don't like de light. Dah--dat'll do. I kin see whah you is, en dat's
enough. I's gwine to tell you de tale, en cut it jes as short as I kin,
en den I'll tell you what you's got to do. Dat man dat bought me ain't a
bad man; he's good enough, as planters goes; en if he could 'a' had his
way I'd 'a' be'n a house servant in his fambly en be'n comfortable: but
his wife she was a Yank, en not right down good lookin', en she riz up
agin me straight off; so den dey sent me out to de quarter 'mongst de
common fiel' han's. Dat woman warn't satisfied even wid dat, but she
worked up de overseer ag'in' me, she 'uz dat jealous en hateful; so de
overseer he had me out befo' day in de mawnin's en worked me de whole
long day as long as dey 'uz any light to see by; en many's de lashin's I
got 'ca'se I couldn't come up to de work o' de stronges'. Dat overseer
wuz a Yank, too, outen New Englan', en anybody down South kin tell you
what dat mean. Dey knows how to work a nigger to death, en dey knows how
to whale 'em, too--whale 'em till dey backs is welted like a washboard.
'Long at fust my marster say de good word for me to de overseer, but dat
'uz bad for me; for de mistis she fine it out, en arter dat I jist
ketched it at every turn--dey warn't no mercy for me no mo'."

Tom's heart was fired--with fury against the planter's wife; and he said
to himself, "But for that meddlesome fool, everything would have gone
all right." He added a deep and bitter curse against her.

The expression of this sentiment was fiercely written in his face, and
stood thus revealed to Roxana by a white glare of lightning which turned
the somber dusk of the room into dazzling day at that moment. She was
pleased--pleased and grateful; for did not that expression show that her
child was capable of grieving for his mother's wrongs and of feeling
resentment toward her persecutors?--a thing which she had been doubting.
But her flash of happiness was only a flash, and went out again and left
her spirit dark; for she said to herself, "He sole me down de river--he
can't feel for a body long: dis'll pass en go." Then she took up her
tale again.

"'Bout ten days ago I 'uz sayin' to myself dat I couldn't las' many mo'
weeks I 'uz so wore out wid de awful work en de lashin's, en so
downhearted en misable. En I didn't care no mo', nuther--life warn't
wuth noth'n' to me, if I got to go on like dat. Well, when a body is in
a frame o' mine like dat, what do a body care what a body do? Dey was a
little sickly nigger wench 'bout ten year ole dat 'uz good to me, en
hadn't no mammy, po' thing, en I loved her en she loved me; en she come
out whah I 'uz workin 'en she had a roasted tater, en tried to slip it
to me,--robbin' herself, you see, 'ca'se she knowed de overseer didn't
gimme enough to eat,--en he ketched her at it, en give her a lick acrost
de back wid his stick, which 'uz as thick as a broom-handle, en she
drop' screamin' on de groun', en squirmin' en wallerin' aroun' in de
dust like a spider dat's got crippled. I couldn't stan' it. All de
hell-fire dat 'uz ever in my heart flame' up, en I snatch de stick outen
his han' en laid him flat. He laid dah moanin' en cussin', en all out of
his head, you know, en de niggers 'uz plumb sk'yred to death. Dey
gathered roun' him to he'p him, en I jumped on his hoss en took out for
de river as tight as I could go. I knowed what dey would do wid me. Soon
as he got well he would start in en work me to death if marster let him;
en if dey didn't do dat, they'd sell me furder down de river, en dat's
de same thing. So I 'lowed to drown myself en git out o' my troubles. It
'uz gitt'n' towards dark. I 'uz at de river in two minutes. Den I see a
canoe, en I says dey ain't no use to drown myself tell I got to; so I
ties de hoss in de edge o' de timber en shove out down de river, keepin'
in under de shelter o' de bluff bank en prayin' for de dark to shet down
quick. I had a pow'ful good start, 'ca'se de big house 'uz three mile
back f'om de river en on'y de work-mules to ride dah on, en on'y niggers
to ride 'em, en dey warn't gwine to hurry--dey'd gimme all de chance dey
could. Befo' a body could go to de house en back it would be long pas'
dark, en dey couldn't track de hoss en fine out which way I went tell
mawnin', en de niggers would tell 'em all de lies dey could 'bout it.

"Well, de dark come, en I went on a-spinnin' down de river. I paddled
mo'n two hours, den I warn't worried no mo', so I quit paddlin, en
floated down de current, considerin' what I 'uz gwine to do if I didn't
have to drown myself. I made up some plans, en floated along, turnin'
'em over in my mine. Well, when it 'uz a little pas' midnight, as I
reckoned, en I had come fifteen or twenty mile, I see de lights o' a
steamboat layin' at de bank, whah dey warn't no town en no woodyard, en
putty soon I ketched de shape o' de chimbly-tops ag'in' de stars, en den
good gracious me, I 'most jumped out o' my skin for joy! It 'uz de Gran'
Mogul--I 'uz chambermaid on her for eight seasons in de Cincinnati en
Orleans trade. I slid 'long pas'--don't see nobody stirrin' nowhah--hear
'em a-hammerin' away in de engine-room, den I knowed what de matter
was--some o' de machinery's broke. I got asho' below de boat and turn'
de canoe loose, den I goes 'long up, en dey 'uz jes one plank out, en I
step' 'board de boat. It 'uz pow'ful hot, deckhan's en roustabouts 'uz
sprawled aroun' asleep on de fo'cas'l', de second mate, Jim Bangs, he
sot dah on de bitts wid his head down, asleep--'ca'se dat's de way de
second mate stan' de cap'n's watch!--en de ole watchman, Billy Hatch, he
'uz a-noddin' on de companionway;--en I knowed 'em all; 'en, lan', but
dey did look good! I says to myself, I wished old marster'd come along
now en try to take me--bless yo' heart, I's 'mong frien's, I is. So I
tromped right along 'mongst 'em, en went up on de b'iler deck en 'way
back aft to de ladies' cabin guard, en sot down dah in de same cheer dat
I'd sot in 'mos' a hund'd million times, I reckon; en it 'uz jist home
ag'in, I tell you!

"In 'bout an hour I heard de ready-bell jingle, en den de racket begin.
Putty soon I hear de gong strike. 'Set her back on de outside,' I says
to myself--'I reckon I knows dat music!' I hear de gong ag'in. 'Come
ahead on de inside,' I says. Gong ag'in. 'Stop de outside.' Gong ag'in.
'Come ahead on de outside--now we's pinted for Sent Louis, en I's outer
de woods en ain't got to drown myself at all.' I knowed de Mogul 'uz in
de Sent Louis trade now, you see. It 'uz jes fair daylight when we
passed our plantation, en I seed a gang o' niggers en white folks
huntin' up en down de sho', en troublin' deyselves a good deal 'bout me;
but I warn't troublin' myself none 'bout dem.

"'Bout dat time Sally Jackson, dat used to be my second chambermaid en
'uz head chambermaid now, she come out on de guard, en 'uz pow'ful glad
to see me, en so 'uz all de officers; en I tole 'em I'd got kidnapped en
sole down de river, en dey made me up twenty dollahs en give it to me,
en Sally she rigged me out wid good clo'es, en when I got here I went
straight to whah you used to wuz, en den I come to dis house, en dey say
you's away but 'spected back every day; so I didn't dast to go down de
river to Dawson's, 'ca'se I might miss you.

"Well, las' Monday I 'uz pass'n' by one o' dem places in Fourth street
whah deh sticks up runaway-nigger bills, en he'ps to ketch 'em, en I
seed my marster! I 'mos' flopped down on de groun', I felt so gone. He
had his back to me, en 'uz talkin' to de man en givin' him some
bills--nigger-bills, I reckon, en I'se de nigger. He's offerin' a
reward--dat's it. Ain't I right, don't you reckon?"

Tom had been gradually sinking into a state of ghastly terror, and he
said to himself, now: "I'm lost, no matter what turn things take! This
man has said to me that he thinks there was something suspicious about
that sale. He said he had a letter from a passenger on the Grand Mogul
saying that Roxy came here on that boat and that everybody on board knew
all about the case; so he says that her coming here instead of flying to
a free State looks bad for me, and that if I don't find her for him, and
that pretty soon, he will make trouble for me. I never believed that
story; I couldn't believe she would be so dead to all motherly instincts
as to come here, knowing the risk she would run of getting me into
irremediable trouble. And after all, here she is! And I stupidly swore I
would help him find her, thinking it was a perfectly safe thing to
promise. If I venture to deliver her up, she--she--but how can I help
myself? I've got to do that or pay the money, and where's the money to
come from? I--I--well, I should think that if he would swear to treat
her kindly hereafter--and she says, herself, that he is a good man--and
if he would swear to never allow her to be overworked, or ill fed, or--"

A flash of lightning exposed Tom's pallid face, drawn and rigid with
these worrying thoughts. Roxana spoke up sharply now, and there was
apprehension in her voice--

"Turn up dat light! I want to see yo' face better. Dah now--lemme look
at you. Chambers, you's as white as yo' shirt! Has you see dat man? Has
he be'n to see you?"

"Ye-s."

"When?"

"Monday noon."

"Monday noon! Was he on my track?"

"He--well, he thought he was. That is, he hoped he was. This is the bill
you saw." He took it out of his pocket.

"Read it to me!"

She was panting with excitement, and there was a dusky glow in her eyes
that Tom could not translate with certainty, but there seemed to be
something threatening about it. The handbill had the usual rude woodcut
of a turbaned negro woman running, with the customary bundle on a stick
over her shoulder, and the heading in bold type, "$100 Reward." Tom read
the bill aloud--at least the part that described Roxana and named the
master and his St. Louis address and the address of the Fourth-street
agency; but he left out the item that applicants for the reward might
also apply to Mr. Thomas Driscoll.

"Gimme de bill!"

Tom had folded it and was putting it in his pocket. He felt a chilly
streak creeping down his back, but said as carelessly as he could--

"The bill? Why, it isn't any use to you, you can't read it. What do you
want with it?"

"Gimme de bill!" Tom gave it to her, but with a reluctance which he
could not entirely disguise. "Did you read it all to me?"

"Certainly I did."

"Hole up yo' han' en swah to it."

Tom did it. Roxana put the bill carefully away in her pocket, with her
eyes fixed upon Tom's face all the while; then she said--

"Yo's lyin'!"

"What would I want to lie about it for?"

"I don't know--but you is. Dat's my opinion, anyways. But nemmine 'bout
dat. When I seed dat man I 'uz dat sk'yerd dat I could sca'cely wobble
home. Den I give a nigger man a dollar for dese clo'es, en I ain't be'n
in a house sence, night ner day, till now. I blacked my face en laid hid
in de cellar of a ole house dat's burnt down, daytimes, en robbed de
sugar hogsheads en grain sacks on de wharf, nights, to git somethin' to
eat, en never dast to try to buy noth'n', en I's 'mos' starved. En I
never dast to come near dis place till dis rainy night, when dey ain't
no people roun' sca'cely. But to-night I be'n a-stannin' in de dark
alley ever sence night come, waitin' for you to go by. En here I is."

She fell to thinking. Presently she said--

"You seed dat man at noon, las' Monday?"

"Yes."

"I seed him de middle o' dat arternoon. He hunted you up, didn't he?"

"Yes."

"Did he give you de bill dat time?"

"No, he hadn't got it printed yet."

Roxana darted a suspicious glance at him.

"Did you he'p him fix up de bill?"

Tom cursed himself for making that stupid blunder, and tried to rectify
it by saying he remembered, now, that it was at noon Monday that the man
gave him the bill. Roxana said--

"You's lyin' ag'in, sho." Then she straightened up and raised her
finger:

"Now den! I's gwine to ask you a question, en I wants to know how you's
gwine to git aroun' it. You knowed he 'uz arter me; en if you run off,
'stid o' stayin' here to he'p him, he'd know dey 'uz somethin' wrong
'bout dis business, en den he would inquire 'bout you, en dat would take
him to yo' uncle, en yo' uncle would read de bill en see dat you be'n
sellin' a free nigger down de river, en you know him, I reckon! He'd
t'ar up de will en kick you outen de house. Now, den, you answer me dis
question: hain't you tole dat man dat I would be sho' to come here, en
den you would fix it so he could set a trap en ketch me?"

Tom recognized that neither lies nor arguments could help him any
longer--he was in a vise, with the screw turned on, and out of it there
was no budging. His face began to take on an ugly look, and presently he
said, with a snarl--

"Well, what could I do? You see, yourself, that I was in his grip and
couldn't get out."

Roxy scorched him with a scornful gaze awhile, then she said--

"What could you do? You could be Judas to yo' own mother to save yo'
wuthless hide! Would anybody b'lieve it? No--a dog couldn't! You is de
low-downest orneriest hound dat was ever pup'd into dis worl'--en I's
'sponsible for it!"--and she spat on him.

He made no effort to resent this. Roxy reflected a moment, then she
said--

"Now I'll tell you what you's gwine to do. You's gwine to give dat man
de money dat you's got laid up, en make him wait till you kin go to de
Judge en git de res' en buy me free agin."

"Thunder! what are you thinking of? Go and ask him for three hundred
dollars and odd? What would I tell him I want with it, pray?"

Roxy's answer was delivered in a serene and level voice--

"You'll tell him you's sole me to pay yo' gamblin' debts en dat you lied
to me en was a villain, en dat I 'quires you to git dat money en buy me
back ag'in."

"Why, you've gone stark mad! He would tear the will to shreds in a
minute--don't you know that?"

"Yes, I does."

"Then you don't believe I'm idiot enough to go to him, do you?"

"I don't b'lieve nothin' 'bout it--I knows you's a-goin'. I knows it
'ca'se you knows dat if you don't raise dat money I'll go to him myself,
en den he'll sell you down de river, en you kin see how you like it!"

Tom rose, trembling and excited, and there was an evil light in his eye.
He strode to the door and said he must get out of this suffocating place
for a moment and clear his brain in the fresh air so that he could
determine what to do. The door wouldn't open. Roxy smiled grimly, and
said--

"I's got de key, honey--set down. You needn't cle'r up yo' brain none to
fine out what you gwine to do--I knows what you's gwine to do." Tom sat
down and began to pass his hands through his hair with a helpless and
desperate air. Roxy said, "Is dat man in dis house?"

Tom glanced up with a surprised expression, and asked--

"What gave you such an idea?"

"You done it. Gwine out to cle'r yo' brain! In de fust place you ain't
got none to cle'r, en in de second place yo' ornery eye tole on you.
You's de low-downest hound dat ever--but I done tole you dat befo'. Now
den, dis is Friday. You kin fix it up wid dat man, en tell him you's
gwine away to git de res' o' de money, en dat you'll be back wid it nex'
Tuesday, or maybe Wednesday. You understan'?"

Tom answered sullenly--

"Yes."

"En when you gits de new bill o' sale dat sells me to my own self, take
en send it in de mail to Mr. Pudd'nhead Wilson, en write on de back dat
he's to keep it tell I come. You understan'?"

"Yes."

"Dat's all den. Take yo' umbreller, en put on yo' hat."

"Why?"

"Beca'se you's gwine to see me home to de wharf. You see dis knife? I's
toted it aroun' sence de day I seed dat man en bought dese clo'es en it.
If he ketch me, I's gwine to kill myself wid it. Now start along, en go
sof', en lead de way; en if you gives a sign in dis house, or if anybody
comes up to you in de street, I's gwine to jam it right into you.
Chambers, does you b'lieve me when I says dat?"

"It's no use to bother me with that question. I know your word's good."

"Yes, it's diff'rent from yo'n! Shet de light out en move along--here's
de key."

They were not followed. Tom trembled every time a late straggler brushed
by them on the street, and half expected to feel the cold steel in his
back. Roxy was right at his heels and always in reach. After tramping a
mile they reached a wide vacancy on the deserted wharves, and in this
dark and rainy desert they parted.

As Tom trudged home his mind was full of dreary thoughts and wild plans;
but at last he said to himself, wearily--

"There is but the one way out. I must follow her plan. But with a
variation--I will not ask for the money and ruin myself; I will rob the
old skinflint."




CHAPTER XIX.

The Prophecy Realized.

Few things are harder to put up with than the annoyance of a good
example.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.

It were not best that we should all think alike; it is difference of
opinion that makes horse-races.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.

Dawson's Landing was comfortably finishing its season of dull repose and
waiting patiently for the duel. Count Luigi was waiting, too; but not
patiently, rumor said. Sunday came, and Luigi insisted on having his
challenge conveyed. Wilson carried it. Judge Driscoll declined to fight
with an assassin--"that is," he added significantly, "in the field of
honor."

Elsewhere, of course, he would be ready. Wilson tried to convince him
that if he had been present himself when Angelo told about the homicide
committed by Luigi, he would not have considered the act discreditable
to Luigi; but the obstinate old man was not to be moved.

Wilson went back to his principal and reported the failure of his
mission. Luigi was incensed, and asked how it could be that the old
gentleman, who was by no means dull-witted, held his trifling nephew's
evidence and inferences to be of more value than Wilson's. But Wilson
laughed, and said--

"That is quite simple; that is easily explicable. I am not his doll--his
baby--his infatuation: his nephew is. The Judge and his late wife never
had any children. The Judge and his wife were past middle age when this
treasure fell into their lap. One must make allowances for a parental
instinct that has been starving for twenty-five or thirty years. It is
famished, it is crazed with hunger by that time, and will be entirely
satisfied with anything that comes handy; its taste is atrophied, it
can't tell mud-cat from shad. A devil born to a young couple is
measurably recognizable by them as a devil before long, but a devil
adopted by an old couple is an angel to them, and remains so, through
thick and thin. Tom is this old man's angel; he is infatuated with him.
Tom can persuade him into things which other people can't--not all
things; I don't mean that, but a good many--particularly one class of
things: the things that create or abolish personal partialities or
prejudices in the old man's mind. The old man liked both of you. Tom
conceived a hatred for you. That was enough; it turned the old man
around at once. The oldest and strongest friendship must go to the
ground when one of these late-adopted darlings throws a brick at it."

"It's a curious philosophy," said Luigi.

"It ain't a philosophy at all--it's a fact. And there is something
pathetic and beautiful about it, too. I think there is nothing more
pathetic than to see one of these poor old childless couples taking a
menagerie of yelping little worthless dogs to their hearts; and then
adding some cursing and squawking parrots and a jackass-voiced macaw;
and next a couple of hundred screeching song-birds, and presently some
fetid guinea-pigs and rabbits, and a howling colony of cats. It is all a
groping and ignorant effort to construct out of base metal and brass
filings, so to speak, something to take the place of that golden
treasure denied them by Nature, a child. But this is a digression. The
unwritten law of this region requires you to kill Judge Driscoll on
sight, and he and the community will expect that attention at your
hands--though of course your own death by his bullet will answer every
purpose. Look out for him! Are you heeled--that is, fixed?"

"Yes, he shall have his opportunity. If he attacks me I will respond."

As Wilson was leaving, he said--

"The Judge is still a little used up by his campaign work, and will not
get out for a day or so; but when he does get out, you want to be on the
alert."

