crumbled into the earth after the death of the great emperor. We are now
approaching the fortress, or the citadel as it is oftener called. It is a
sort of acropolis, for it contains palaces, mosques, halls of justice, and
other buildings."

The carriages stopped at the principal gate, opposite to which is the
mosque of Jummah Musjid, or the Cathedral Mosque. About all the great
structures here are built of red sandstone, with marble bands on many of
them, so that it is hardly necessary to mention the material, unless it
varies from the rule. This mosque is a fine one, mounted on a marble
esplanade or platform, like most buildings of this description.

Crossing the drawbridge, the visitors came to the Palace of Justice, built
by Akbar. It is six hundred feet long, enclosed by a colonnade of arches,
like a cloister. It is now used as a military storeroom, divided by brick
walls, and filled with cannon and shot. The English have made a sort of
museum here; and the superior officer who did the honors to his lordship
showed them the throne of Akbar, a long marble seat, inlaid with precious
stones, with a graceful canopy of the same material over it; and the boys
thought he would have had a more comfortable seat if he had put off the
period of his reign to the present time.

The gates of Somnath, twelve feet high, were beautiful pieces of carving.
They once guarded the entrance to the temple of Krishna, in Goojerat; but
in the tenth century they were carried off by Sultan Mahmoud, of Ghuzni, in
Afghanistan. He captured Somnath, and destroyed all the idols. The Brahmins
offered him immense bribes if he would spare the statue of Krishna; but he
spurned the money, and destroyed the image with his own hands. He found
that it was hollow, and filled with jewels of great value.

When the English conquered Afghanistan, Lord Ellenborough sent the gates to
Agra; but some think they were not the gates of the temple, but of
Mahmoud's tomb, for they were made of a wood that does not grow in India,
and they are not of Hindu workmanship. From the museum the party walked to
the imperial palace of Akbar, still in an excellent state of preservation.
Some of the apartments, especially the bath-room of the monarch, made the
visitors think of the Arabian Nights.

The great black marble slab on which Akbar sat to administer justice was
pointed out. When one of the Jat chiefs seated himself upon it, the story
goes, it cracked, and blood flowed from the fracture. Lord Ellenborough
tried the experiment, and the stone broke into two pieces. The Mosque of
Pearls is a small building of white marble on a rose-colored platform. It
is considered by experts the finest piece of architecture in the fortress.
Nothing could be simpler, nothing grander. Bishop Heber visited it and
wrote this of it:--

"This spotless sanctuary, showing such a pure spirit of adoration, made me,
a Christian, feel humbled, when I considered that no architect of our
religion had ever been able to produce anything equal to this temple of
Allah."

Following the Jumna, the carriages reached the Taj, the wonder and glory of
all India. It was built by the Emperor Shah Jehan, as a mausoleum for the
Empress Mumtazi Mahal. She was not only beautiful, but famous for mental
endowments; and the emperor had so much love and admiration for her that he
determined to erect to her memory the most beautiful monument that had ever
been constructed by any prince. It was begun in 1630, and twenty thousand
workmen were employed upon it for seventeen years. History says that one
hundred and forty thousand cartloads of pink sandstone and marble were
brought from the quarries of Rajputana; and every province of the empire
furnished precious stones to adorn it. Its cost was from ten to fifteen
millions of dollars.

The golden crescent of the Taj is two hundred and seventy feet above the
level of the river. The magnificent temple is placed in the centre of a
garden nine hundred and sixty feet long by three hundred and thirty in
width, filled with avenues flanked with cypress-trees, and planted with
flowers, on a terrace of sandstone. In the centre of this garden is a
marble platform, two hundred and eighty-five feet on all sides, and fifteen
feet high, which may be called the pedestal of the mosque. The principal
entrance to the garden is more elaborate and beautiful than the fronts of
many noted mosques, for it is adorned with towers crowned with cupolas.

Entering the enclosure, and walking along the avenue of cypress-trees, one
obtains his first view of the great dome of the Taj. It looks like about
three-fourths of a globe, capped with a slender spire. From this point,
through the trees, may be seen a forest of minarets, cupolas, towers, and
inferior domes. The mausoleum is in the form of an irregular octagon, the
longest side being one hundred and twenty feet in length. Each fa√ßade has a
lofty Saracenic arch, in which is an entrance.

The interior surpasses the exterior in magnificence, the ceiling, walls,
and tombstones being a mass of mosaics. The resting-place of the empress
and Shah Jehan is in the centre of the edifice, enclosed by a marble
screen. Some experts who have examined the building thoroughly are unable
to find any architectural faults, though perhaps others would be more
successful. The party visited several other mosques and mausoleums; but
nothing could compare with the Taj. The commander suggested that they ought
to have visited it last, as the pie or pudding comes in after the fish or
meats at Von Blonk Park.

The members of the party were unable to say enough in praise of the Taj,
and no one seems to be in danger of exaggerating its beauty and its
wonders. On their return to the hotel, they seated themselves in their
parlor, and talked till dinner-time about the mausoleum, for they had many
questions to ask of the viscount and the Hindu gentleman.

"There seemed to be two other mosques back of the mausoleum," said Mrs.
Belgrave; "we did not visit them."

"The Mohammedan traditions require that a mosque should be erected in
connection with every mortuary temple," replied Sir Modava. "Isa Mohammed,
a later emperor, built one at the western end of the terrace. It was a
beautiful building with three domes, in keeping with the Taj. But the
builder found that it gave a one-sided appearance to the view; and he
erected the one on the east end, to balance the other and restore the
proportions. Either of them is equal to the finest mosque in Cairo or
Constantinople."

"That was an expensive method of making things regular," added the
commander. "Some one spoke in Delhi of a durbar in connection with Agra. I
think it was Mr. Meerza."

General Noury laughed at this title; for it sounded funny to him, applied
to an Oriental, and the captain had forgotten the rest of the name.

"Abbas-Meerza, we call him, without any 'mister,'" he added.

"I will try to remember it," replied the commander. "But what is a durbar?
Is it something good to eat?"

"They do not eat it here, and probably it would be indigestible if they
could do so," continued Sir Modava. "A durbar is a very important event in
India, but is not eatable. It is an occasion at which the native princes
acknowledge the sovereignty of the Queen of England. In 1866 the most noted
one took place at Agra, a full description of which would require a long
time. For the first time after the establishment of the Empire of India,
the governor-general, representing the empress, received the homage of
twenty-six sovereign princes. It was an act of submission. The ceremonies
occupied many days; and kings, maharajahs, rajahs, and other princes bowed
to the throne of the sovereign. It was a tremendous occasion; and it was a
festival honored by banquets, processions, and royal gatherings. I will get
a book for you, Captain Ringgold, when we reach Calcutta, from which you
may read a full account of the affair. It grew out of an ancient Indian
custom, and many of them on a small scale have occurred."

The tourists spent another day at Agra, and, though they had not exhausted
the sights of the place, the commander decided that they could remain no
longer, and they left on the following day for Cawnpore.




                                 CHAPTER XXXI

                   THE TERRIBLE STORY OF CAWNPORE AND LUCKNOW


Agra is on one of the great railroads from Bombay to Calcutta, though not
the most direct one; and it crosses the Jumna at this point, where a vast
bridge was in process of construction over its waters, which must now be
completed. It was but a five hours' journey to Cawnpore, and the party
arrived there in season for luncheon.

"Cawnpore is on the right bank of the Ganges, six hundred and twenty-eight
miles from Calcutta," said Lord Tremlyn, when the party were seated in the
Conference-Hall carriage, and the train was moving away from Agra. "But, so
far as viewing the wonderful buildings of India, you will have a rest at
this place; though you need not suppose it is a city of no importance, for
it has 188,712 inhabitants, and has a large trade. Here you will obtain
your first view of the Ganges, varying in width from a third of a mile to a
mile.

"The great river is one of the special objects of interest to the tourist
in coming from Bombay, for here he usually gets his first view of it. There
are important buildings here, including mosques and temples, but none to
compare with those you have already seen. The Indian Mutiny of 1857
attracts many visitors to the place."

"I don't think I care to see any more great buildings," interposed Mrs.
Belgrave.

"There are none here to see; and we shall remain here only long enough to
see the sites connected with the mutiny."

"I should like to hear the story of the mutiny over again," added the lady.

"I was able to give only a very brief and imperfect account of the
rebellion, with so great a subject as India in general on my hands, on
board of your ship, and very likely there will be occasion to repeat some
portions of it as we point out the various spots connected with it,"
replied Lord Tremlyn.

The accommodations for the party were ready on their arrival, and even the
luncheon was on the table. Before they had disposed of it the landaus were
at the door. Three military officers were also in attendance, appointed to
render all the assistance to the company they needed. They were introduced
to the members of the party, and then they were driven to the fort."

"At the time of the mutiny Cawnpore contained about one thousand English
people, one half of whom were women and children," said Captain Chesly, the
principal of the officers. "The troops were provided with ill-constructed
intrenchments for their defence. I am informed that his lordship has
already given you some details of the rebellion, but as I am not aware of
the extent to which he has given them I shall probably repeat some of
them."

"The party will be glad to have them repeated," added Lord Tremlyn. "I told
them who and what Nana Sahib was."

"His first act after taking the lead in the rebellion of the sepoys was to
murder one hundred and thirty-six of our people, who were deceived by the
sympathy he had formerly manifested for them, and easily fell into his
hands. Two hundred and fifty soldiers, with as many women and children, the
latter in the military hospital, had taken refuge in the fort. As soon as
he had completed his bloody work in the massacre, Nana Sahib besieged the
feeble garrison. They defended themselves with the utmost bravery and skill
against the vast horde of natives brought against them.

"For three weeks they held out against the overwhelming force that was
thirsting for their blood. Their chief had anticipated no such resistance,
and he was impatient at the delay in finishing the butchery. He resorted to
an infamous stratagem, proposing to General Wheeler, who was in command of
the British troops, to grant him all the honors of war if he would
surrender, with boats and abundant provisions to enable him and all his
people to reach Allahabad.

"The proposition was received with considerable distrust by the besieged;
but Nana swore before the general that he would faithfully observe all the
terms of the capitulation, and it was finally accepted. The garrison
marched out with their arms and baggage, and passed through the hordes of
the besiegers to the river. The wounded, with the women and children, were
sent to the Ganges on elephants. Now, if you take your seats in the
carriages, we will proceed to the scene of the massacre."

The company were conveyed to a Hindu temple on the shore, where the suttee
had formerly been performed, and which was provided with a broad staircase
leading down to the water. The place had a funereal aspect, to which the
terrible tragedy lent an additional melancholy.

"The treacherous commander of the rebels had provided about twenty boats of
all sizes, and supplied them with provisions, in order to complete the
deception," continued Captain Chesly when the party had alighted. "The
boats were cast loose to the current, and the hungry people rushed to the
eatables. But the flotilla was hardly clear of the shore before a battery
of guns, masked from their view, opened a most destructive fire upon them
with grape and solid shot, mostly the former.

"The smaller boats sank, and others were set on fire. The cavalry of the
enemy waded into the river, and sabred those who attempted to escape by
swimming. In the largest boat was General Wheeler; and, by desperate
rowing, it succeeded in getting away from the slaughter. Unhappily it got
aground, and all on board of it were captured.

"Nana ordered that not a man should be saved, and all were murdered in cold
blood. The various accounts differ considerably; but all the men were
killed but four, two captains and two privates, who escaped by swimming
down the river, and were protected by a rajah, who was afterwards pensioned
for this service."

"After the massacre of all the men, there remained one hundred and
twenty-five women and children captured from the boats, who were confined
in the town-house of the detested Nana, where they were fed upon the
poorest food and subjected to many indignities. They were heroic women, and
preferred death to any other fate at the hands of their miscreant captors.
They were kept in confinement about three weeks, when it was whispered
among them that deliverance was at hand. Sir Henry Havelock was marching
from Allahabad to the relief of the garrison, and when he was within two
days' march Nana went out to meet him and give battle to him. He was
defeated and driven back to Cawnpore."

"Smarting under this defeat, and stimulated to revenge for it, Nana at once
ordered the massacre of the helpless prisoners on his return. This order
was executed with all the atrocity incident to the character of the
savages, and the bodies of the victims were thrown into a well near their
prison. Now, if you please, we will drive to the memorials of this dreadful
butchery."

A memorial church now indicates the site of General Wheeler's
intrenchments, which the party visited first. The scene of the massacre is
now a memorial garden, in charge of an old soldier, who was one of the four
who escaped. The place of the well into which the bodies of the women and
children were thrown is marked by a beautiful marble statue of an angel
standing by a lofty cross. It is surrounded by a Gothic fence, with lofty
towers in the same style. The party looked upon these mementoes of the
terrible events with mournful interest, and had hardly recovered their
usual cheerfulness when they reached the hotel. The guides were invited to
dine with them, and the evening was more cheerful than the afternoon had
been.

Part of the forenoon of the next day was given to a ride along the Ganges,
which was crowded with boats of all kinds, from the boat with a cabin
covered with a thatched roof to steamboats of considerable size. They found
an abundance of temples on the shores of the sacred stream, and a beautiful
ghat or staircase to the water, which excited their admiration.

"We are now going to Lucknow this afternoon; but it is only forty-five
miles," said Sir Modava. "If you prefer to do so, we can return to
Cawnpore, and go down the river on one of those fine steamers to Calcutta,
a thousand miles from here by the river."

"Or you could go to Benares, our next stopping-place on the river,"
suggested the viscount.

But it would take too much time, and Captain Ringgold objected; for he had
already marked Allahabad out of the route. Early in the afternoon the
tourists were again seated in the conference carriage. The station at
Cawnpore excited their attention, for it is five hundred and sixty feet
long. A bridge of boats sixteen hundred yards in length was an affair not
seen in their own country.

"We are now in the province of Oude, a word of various orthography," said
Lord Tremlyn, after they lost sight of the city from which they started.

"Oude!" exclaimed Miss Blanche. "Where did I see that name?"

"In Paris," replied Louis. "We saw the tomb of the Queen of Oude in
P√®re-la-Chaise."

"I will tell you about her presently," continued Lord Tremlyn. "There was a
great deal of corruption in the government of the kingdom under the native
king. The people were robbed of vast sums in the guise of taxes, the police
was miserably inefficient, and it was not a safe region for the traveller.
The East India Company drew up a treaty with the king, transferring to the
corporation the government, but providing liberally for the ruler and his
family."

"The king refused to sign this treaty; the East India Company had been
superseded, and the governor-general deposed the king. No compromise could
be effected, though many believed the king had been unjustly treated. He
removed to Calcutta; but his queen, with her son and brother, went to
England, and endeavored to obtain redress for the real or supposed wrongs
of the family, but without success. The queen then went to Paris, and died
there in 1858.

"The people of Oude never submitted to the new government; and in the
Mutiny of 1857, not only the sepoys but the people rebelled. The
insurrectionists concentrated at Lucknow, the capital, and captured some of
the forts, as has been related to you. This city has now a population of
two hundred and seventy-three thousand, which makes it the fifth city in
size in India. It is regarded as a very attractive place. The streets are
wide, and the buildings are well-constructed, with the wooden balconies you
see all over India, and the shops and bazaars may entice the ladies to make
purchases. It has a fine park.

"The kings of Oude were ambitious to outshine the glories of Delhi, and, to
a considerable extent, they succeeded; but the architecture is fantastic
rather than grand and beautiful, and experts are inclined to laugh at it.
But our friend Professor Giroud has something to say, and I subside to make
room for him.

"I wish to tell the story of a Frenchman, which I think will interest the
party," said the professor. "Claude Martine was a Breton soldier who went
with his regiment to Pondicherry, the principal French settlement in India,
which has been tossed back and forth between the English, Dutch, and French
like a shuttlecock, but has been in possession of my country since 1816. He
attained the grade of corporal; but this elevated rank did not satisfy him,
and he left for the interior.

"Finally, after a thousand adventures, which he never wrote out, he arrived
at the court of Oude, where, by some means, he obtained a captaincy in the
royal army, and, what was better, the favor of the king. In 1780 he was
commander-in-chief of the native army. But his enterprise did not end here;
for he was the king's trusted favorite, and of course he became a
millionaire, even though there were no railroad shares in being at that
period.

"He brought with him some crude notions of architecture, and he set about
reforming that of India. He was not a success in this capacity; and, as my
lord says, his work is ridiculed by men of taste. But this appears to have
been his only sin; for he used the money he had accumulated in establishing
schools, now known under the name of La Martini√®re, in which thousands of
children are educated. As a Frenchman I do not feel at all ashamed of
Claude Martine."

"You need not, Professor," added the viscount. "But here we are at the
Lucknow station."

As usual, by the kindness of Lord Tremlyn, everything had been provided for
the arrival of the company of tourists. There were carriages and servants,
and officers as guides, in attendance. Captain Ringgold was very economical
of his time; and, as it was still early in the afternoon, he proposed that
the party should visit some of the objects of interest before dinner. The
baggage was sent to the hotel, and the carriage proceeded to the Residency,
which had been occupied by the official of the British government when the
province was under the native ruler. It was in ruins, for it was so left as
a memorial of the events of the past.

The city was attacked by the rebels; and the little garrison, with the
English people of the town, took refuge in this building. It was a
three-story brick house, not at all fit to be used as a fort. The
cannon-shot of the besiegers wrecked the building, and many of its
defenders, including Sir Henry Lawrence, the commander, perished in the
fight.

The visitors looked over the house and its surroundings, and then went to
the hotel.




                                 CHAPTER XXXII

                   MORE OF LUCKNOW AND SOMETHING OF BENARES


"I suppose you recall the events of the Mutiny well enough to understand
the situation here in 1857," said Lord Tremlyn the next morning when the
company had gathered in the parlor of the hotel. "But there was no massacre
here, as in Cawnpore, to impress the facts upon your memory, though many
brave men lost their lives in the defence of the place. There were only
seven hundred and fifty troops in the town; but Sir Henry Lawrence had done
the best he could to fortify the Residency, ill adapted as it was for
defensive works.

"An attempt was made to check the advance of the rebels eight miles from
the city; but it was a failure, with the small available force, and two
days later the enemy attacked the British at the Residency. Three times
the brave defenders beat back the assaults of the assailants. These events
on the spot you have visited occurred between the last of May and the first
of July. It was not till the twenty-second of September that Havelock and
Outram arrived, and captured the Alum-Bagh, which we shall visit this
morning. It was a terrible summer that the beleaguered people and their
brave handful of soldiers passed; and Tennyson has commemorated Lucknow in
his immortal verse.

"But the coming of Havelock was not the end; for the rebels besieged the
place again, and it was near the middle of November before Sir Colin
Campbell arrived, with a considerable force. He captured the Alum-Bagh,
and, leaving in it a force of three thousand five hundred men, he escorted
the women and children and the civilians to Cawnpore; but returned in March
to subdue the rebels. For a week he fought them, drove them from the
intrenchments in which they had fortified themselves, and the mutiny was
ended, as I related to you on board of your ship."

The carriages were at the door as soon as the party had breakfasted. They
were driven to the cemetery, where they saw the grave of Lawrence, whose
memorial is that "He tried to do his duty." In the Alum-Bagh, which means
the Queen's Garden, was the grave of Havelock. It was here that Outram had
his camp and fortifications for the defence of Lucknow during the absence
of Campbell.

The Kaiser Bagh, or C√¶sar's Garden, contains some of the principal sights
of the city, which the viscount pointed out and described. It is a forest
of domes and cupolas; and the company halted at the pavilion of Lanka,
which a French writer called the least ridiculous of the structures in the
enclosure, though the professor insisted that it was quite as bad as the
worst. It had an abundance of cupolas with arabesque domes; but the edifice
looked like a shell, for the veranda, with lofty columns supporting the
roof, appeared to take up the greater portion of the enclosed space.

The most grotesque feature was at the entrance. A flight of broad stairs
led to the principal floor, over which was extended what looked like an
imitation of the Rialto bridge in Venice, with a small temple under the
middle arch and at the head of the stairs. The top of the bridge was on a
level with the flat roof, and the two side-arches started from the ground.
The building was handsome in some of its details; but the professor said it
was an "abomination," and Dr. Hawkes called it "queer." The various
edifices are now occupied by the civil and military officials.

"Where does the name of this place come from?" asked Captain Ringgold.
"Kaiser Bagh seems to be half German."

"But it is not German," replied Lord Tremlyn. "These buildings were mostly
erected no farther back than 1850, by Wajid Ali Shah, the King of Oude, who
was deposed by the British government in 1856. He called himself C√¶sar, and
Kaiser is simply a corruption of that name, with no German allusion in it.
He was the husband of the Queen of Oude, whose burial-place you saw in
P√®re-la-Chaise."

The next visit was to the palace of Claude Martine, a conglomeration of all
the styles of architecture ever known, and some that were never heard of.
At first view it looks like a small palace set on the top of a large one.
It is certainly very original and very elaborate. Going to the citadel,
they entered by a highly ornamental gateway, which opened to the visitors
the view of the vast pile of buildings, in the middle of which is the
Imambara. The vastness of the pile presented before them was bewildering,
though they had seen so many immense structures that mere size did not now
overwhelm them. The Great Imambara is considered the marvel of Lucknow, and
should not be confounded with another in the citadel bearing the same
general name. To walk around or through this enormous building was simply
impossible, and the party contented themselves with a general view from
different points. It is located on a lofty terrace; and its long line of
walls, crowned with Arabic domes, is very imposing.

"This palace was erected at the close of the last century, by Nawab, with
half a yard of other names to fetch up its rear," said Major Shandon, the
military officer who was doing the honors of the city, with a pleasant
smile. "Like many others of the Indian monarchs, he desired to immortalize
his name by erecting a monument in his own honor; and he offered a prize
for the competition of all the architects of India, for one that would
surpass all others. We think he produced a plan that was worth the money he
received; though we don't think he surpassed the Taj, or some other
buildings that might be mentioned."

This immense structure is now a vast arsenal. The other building, which
sometimes robs this one of its honors, is called the Hoosseinabad Imambara;
and perhaps the length of the added name may account, to some extent, for
the robbery. It is in the citadel, and in sight of its namesake; but the
mausoleum, for it is the tomb of Ali Shah, who died in 1841, stands alone;
and it does not fatigue the eyes to look at it. It is a light, ethereal
sort of structure, and looks like lacework. It is surmounted by a beautiful
dome, and the roof bristles with the points of turrets and towers. It
contains, besides the tomb of the monarch, a mosque, a bazaar, and a model
of the Taj, which make up a sufficient variety for an edifice erected for a
tomb.

This temple completed the list marked out for inspection in Lucknow. The
party had not supposed there was much of anything here to be seen except
the memorials of the Mutiny; and for these alone they would not have missed
seeing the historic locality. The rest of the day was devoted to rides
through the streets and suburbs of the city. The avenues were wide, the
houses neat and commodious, and the gardens laid out with English taste.
The evidences of British thrift were to be seen in many portions of the
place.

Lochner's Hotel was their abiding-place, and Major Shandon regaled the
party at dinner and in the evening with stories of the place, and proved
himself to be a gentleman of "infinite humor." The next morning the company
took the train for Benares. They were a very sociable party, and preferred
the conference carriage to being confined to the smaller compartments. The
route was along the Boomtee River at first, which, some one has said, is
the crookedest stream in the world, and the scenery was worth looking at.
But as soon as the ladies and gentlemen had satisfied themselves with
looking out the windows the commander presented Sir Modava as the "talkist"
for the trip of six hours, or as much of the time as he chose to occupy.

"I shall not take more than half an hour for what I have to say, my
much-loved friends," the Hindu gentleman began, "though I know you are very
patient and long-suffering; and I assure you that I shall not take offence
if you look out the windows while I am talking. The Boomtee River is as
pretty as it is sinuous. If you write to your friends in the United States
about it, you can spell the last syllable t-i, if you prefer; for Indian
orthography is not yet controlled by statute, as I hope it will be when we
have established an Acad√©mie Indienne, such as they have in France.
But Benares is my subject, and not spelling.

"Where is Benares? It is four hundred and twenty miles by rail from
Calcutta, and is on the left bank of the Ganges. I suppose you know which
side that is."

"Of course we do," laughed Mrs. Belgrave. "It is on the left-hand side."

"You have put your foot in it, mother," rallied Louis.

"Into the Ganges?" queried the lady. "I did at Cawnpore, but not here."

"Suppose you were coming up the river in a steamer from Calcutta, which
would be the left bank?" asked Louis.

"On my left, of course."

"Then Sir Modava will have to oblige you by locating Benares on both sides
of the Ganges, and I don't believe it would be convenient for him to do
that," said Louis, laughing at the expense of his mother, who blushed,
though she did not see what was wrong, when she realized that she had made
a blunder of some kind.

"Better not have said anything," whispered Mrs. Blossom in retaliation; for
hitherto she had had a monopoly of all the blunders."

"Will you tell me, Sarah, which is the left bank of a river, for it appears
that I don't know," added the lady out loud.

"The left bank of the Ganges is the one Benares is on," replied the worthy
woman; and she was greeted with a roar of laughter, and a volley of
applause started by the live boys who were making their way across India.

"Quite right, madam!" exclaimed Sir Modava, applauding with the others. "It
may be a matter of no particular consequence; but you will excuse me for
saying that the left bank is the one on your left as you go down the
stream, and not at all as you go up."

"I remember now, for I learned that in my geography when I first went to
school; and it is strange that I should have forgotten it," added Mrs.
Belgrave.

"We know just where Benares is now," Sir Modava proceeded. "It is the
largest city in this part of India with the exception of Lucknow, to which
it stands next, or sixth among those of the country, having a population of
219,467. It extends along the Ganges for three miles; and the shore is
lined continuously with staircases, called ghats, which lead up to
the temples, palaces, and the vast number of houses on the banks of the
river. The stream sweeps around the place like a crescent, presenting one
of the finest views you ever saw, with the ornamented fronts of dwellings,
public offices, and a forest of towers, pinnacles, and turrets. To the
Hindus it is the most sacred city known to them.

"When I was a boy I came here for the first time, brought by my father on
account of the religious character of the place, if I may call anything
idolatrous by such a name. But the city, when you get into it, will
disappoint you. It is like Constantinople, very beautiful to look at from
the Bosporus, or the Golden Horn; but its dirty, narrow streets disgust
you. I am afraid this will be your experience in Benares. You will be
obliged to forego the luxury of carriages in making your tours through the
place, for the streets are so narrow and crowded that it is impossible to
get along with a vehicle. An elephant is equally impracticable, and even in
a palanquin your progress would be so slow that you would lose all your
stock of patience."

"The city must be 'done' by walking, must it?" asked the commander.

"Whew!" whistled Dr. Hawkes; and the sibilation was repeated by Uncle
Moses, for each of them weighed over two hundred and a quarter.

"If the ship were here I would lend you the barge with eight rowers, to
enable you to see the sights from the river," suggested Captain Ringgold.

"A steam-launch shall be provided for all the company, and our obese
friends shall be provided with stuffed chairs, for the survey of the river
scenes; but carriages can be used in some parts of the city, though what
you will desire to see can best be observed from the river; and we can land
when you wish to see interiors," added Lord Tremlyn.

This interruption was heartily applauded by the Cupids, as the fat
gentlemen had been called in Cairo, assisted by all the others.

"The famous Monkey Temple is just out of the city, and that can be reached
by carriages," continued Sir Modava. "There are fourteen hundred and fifty
Hindu temples, pagodas, and shrines, and two hundred and seventy-two
Mohammedan mosques, so that our good friend, General Noury, need not
neglect his devotions."

"The good Mussulman never does that, whether there be a mosque at hand or
not, for he says his prayers at the proper time, wherever he may be,"
replied the general.

"I know that some of your people are better Christians than some who bear
the name," replied the Hindu gentleman politely. "Benares is so holy, and
the Ganges is so holy, that hundreds of thousands visit it as the
Mussulmans visit Mecca. Men of wealth, and those who have the means without
being rich, come to this city when they feel that they have been seized
with a malady likely to prove fatal; for to die here with the Hindu is a
passport to eternal happiness. But I am talking too long, though there is
much more that might be said; but perhaps it could be better said on board
of that launch my friend mentions, and in sight of the temples, towers, and
other objects of interest."

In the middle of the afternoon the train arrived at its destination; and
the party proceeded in carriages to the western suburb, the location of the
cantonment, or English quarter of the city.




                                 CHAPTER XXXIII

                      A STEAMER TRIP UP AND DOWN THE GANGES


Clarke's Hotel, at Secrole, received the tourists, and everything was in
readiness for them when they arrived. Lord Tremlyn had announced the coming
of himself and his large party, and a person of his distinction and
influence could command anything he desired. The rest of the day was given
to rest, though in the evening Sir Modava talked to the tourists about the
city.

Early the next morning the party were conveyed to the river, where they
embarked in a steam-yacht which had been provided for their use. It was
more than a launch; for its standing-room would seat the whole company,
while an awning was spread over a portion of the upper deck, from which a
full view of the shore could be obtained. The city is on the north shore of
the river, which has an easterly course in this portion of India, and the
houses are packed in about as thickly as they can be.

"This is the Dasasvamedh Ghat," said Sir Modava, with a smile. "I thought
you might wish to recall it after you get home to America. I think it is
rather pleasant to know the names of places one has visited."

"We could not speak the word now without an hour's practice, and I am sure
not one of us will know it when we get to the other side of the Atlantic,"
said Mrs. Belgrave.

"You can write it down in your diaries."

"We might as well attempt to copy the top of a tea-chest," added Louis.

The ladies were assisted on board of the steamer.
The captain was a very gentlemanly Englishman; and he was all devotion to
the wants of his passengers, who seated themselves on the promenade deck.
The steamer belonged to the government; and she was fitted up in the most
comfortable manner, though it was not so gaudy as the craft of a maharajah
would have been. The ghat was at the western extremity of the crescent to
which Sir Modava had alluded, and from this point the town looked like an
amphitheatre.

The river is ordinarily about half a mile wide, but in the season of high
water it is double that width. The captain called the attention of the
party to the ghat as they receded from it, the broad flight of stairs being
a rather wonderful sight to the strangers, though they had seen something
of the kind before in Delhi and Cawnpore.

The steps are adorned with small temples with plenty of spires. Near the
top of the flight was the Man Munder, the great observatory. Though the
building is plain, as a whole, Captain Carlisle pointed out a highly
ornamental window, with a profusion of handsome brackets. The stairs on the
city side of the river were unlimited as far as the eye could see. Behind
them was a forest of spires, domes, and cupolas.

"You ought to have left the ghat before sunrise," said the captain, who was
walking up and down the deck, with an eye on the Hindu pilot. "Then you
would have been in time to see the sight of the day, for the appearance of
the sun is the holy moment for the natives to plunge into the holy river.
For miles along the shore the ghats are thronged at the first appearance of
the orb of day, and there is a continuous murmur of voices. No matter how
cold the water is, they dive in and swim like fishes. You can see a
thousand heads in the water along the shore at any moment. Then they
support themselves on the surface, and gaze motionless at the sun as it
mounts in the sky."

"Are you a sailor, Captain Carlisle?" asked Louis, who thought he was
rather poetic for an uneducated man.

"Not as the commander of your ship would understand it, though I was in
command of a Thames steamer, and fell into the same business when I came to
India," replied the captain, laughing at the question. "My father was a
good Baptist; he wanted to make a minister of me, and I was educated far
enough to enter the university; but I concluded that I did not like the
business, and took to steamboating."

"But aren't the women as religious as the men?" inquired Captain Ringgold.

"More so, if anything. But they come down to the river before sunrise and
take their swim. If you had been here this morning you would have seen them
coming out of the water just as the men are ready to go in, and you would
have observed them in their white garments, dripping like drowned rats.
That pagoda you see ahead of us with the bell tower and shining in gilt is
the only temple the Buddhists have in Benares."

"We are coming now to the Munikurnika Ghat. It is a five-syllable word, but
you can easily pronounce it," said Sir Modava, who thought he would "spell"
the captain for a time; and he was quite as familiar with the banks of the
Ganges.

"And it is quite musical," added the captain.

"Pronounce u like double o, and the rest of the letters as in English, and
you can speak it without choking," said the Hindu gentleman. "But there are
some letters in Hindu that have no equivalents in English."

"Moo-ui-koor-ni-ka Ghat," added Louis, pronouncing the word. "But what is
it all about?"

"It is the place for burning the dead, such as you saw in Bombay, but on a
much larger scale," replied Sir Modava. "You see that it extends a
considerable distance. Please keep to the leeward of the smoke, Captain
Carlisle."

"That is what I am doing, Sir Modava."

"These funeral pyres are burning all the time, night and day. The people
whose bodies are consumed in these fires, and their friends, believe that
the souls of the deceased will pass from this spot into paradise, where, if
they have not been very great sinners they will be transplanted into the
bodies of future Brahmins. Many deceased persons are brought even hundreds
of miles to be burned on the Munikurnika by the Ganges, as their sure
passport to the realms of bliss."

The obliging captain took the steamer near enough to the ghat to enable the
tourists to see the process of burning. An occasional puff of the horribly
offensive odor came to the nostrils of the sightseers; but the captain
sheered off, and they got very little of it.

"It smells just like assafoedita. It is awful-smelling stuff; and I wonder
if they don't make it out of this smoke, for it hits my nose in just the
same way," said Mrs. Blossom. "I took care of old Jotham Beeling when he
had the apoplexy, and gave the stuff to him. The room smelt then just the
same as it does here."

"You are quite right, madam," said Dr. Hawkes, laughing. "It gets part of
its name from its bad odor; but it is not made out of smoke. Asa is the gum
of a tree that grows here. It has a very offensive odor, which gives it the
rest of the name, from foeditas, meaning foul, filthy."

The workmen who were operating the burning were nearly naked, begrimed by
the sooty smoke, and looked like so many imps. They were stirring up the
fires with long iron pokers, and throwing vessels of oil upon them. The
boat passed beyond the fumes of the pyres, and came up to the ghat, at the
request of Lord Tremlyn. A multitude of hideous-looking cripples,
humpbacks, and beggars made an onslaught on the steamer; and the boys and
gentlemen pelted them with coppers, with which they had been forewarned to
supply themselves. It was fun to them, and the mendicants enjoyed it quite
as much.

"There is a procession of pilgrims just arrived," said Captain Carlisle,
pointing to the high ground beyond the ghat. "They are coming here all the
time. The Hindus under the umbrellas are Brahmins, who collect the fees for
bathing from the steps; and they sell certificates of purification,
indulgences, and amulets."

The boat continued on her course, and they did not wait to see the bathing,
though the heads of the swimmers were soon in view. A staircase is reserved
for women, who are watched over by the elders of their sex. But they could
be seen in the distance, frolicking in the water; and they were so
hilarious that their shouts could be heard on board of the Sylph, as the
boat was called.

The steamer next came to a long row of palaces on the high ground, whose
fronts were profusely ornamented with staircases that exceeded in extent
and beauty anything they had before seen. Every rajah has a residence here,
not permanent, but where he comes to celebrate the religious festivals. The
king of Nagpore has the finest one, with one hundred stairs of white
sandstone reaching down to the water.

"Now we come to a building worth looking at," said Sir Modava, as they
passed beyond the assemblage of palaces. "This is the mosque of Aurungzeb.
Those two lofty minarets are one hundred and forty-seven feet high. They
are very slender, and look like a couple of needles; but, though they are
only eight and a quarter feet in diameter on the ground, they have spiral
staircases reaching to the top. If you wish to land and go to the cupola
you can do so."

"I pray thee have me excused," interposed Uncle Moses; and Dr. Hawkes said
"Me too!" And no one cared to ascend to such a height.

"This mosque was built by the Emperor Aurungzeb, on the site of a Hindu
temple of Siva, which he caused to be pulled down, to the scandal of the
worshippers of that deity, for it marked the spot where Vishnu himself
first appeared to man. A flight of one hundred stairs leads to the mosque,
which the Hindus formerly ascended on their knees when they went to the
worship of Vishnu. But we have gone as far in this direction as we need
go."

The Sylph came about, and went back up the river, landing above the funeral
pyres. From the ghat, they walked into one of the crowded streets. They
were conducted by Sir Modava to a square, which was thronged with natives.
In the middle of it was a small round temple, the spire of which was
overlaid with plates of gold. At the present day this is the holy of holies
of the Hindus. Its principal object of adoration is a plain stone post,
which is believed to form a part of the very body of the deity, Siva in
this instance.

The narrow streets, through which the party made their way with difficulty
were very clean. They were thronged with pilgrims from all parts of India,
dressed in their best garments, loaded with gold and silver ornaments. The
men were carrying great brass trays, piled up with flowers, as offerings
for the various deities. The little stalls, which were the stores, made the
thoroughfares look like bazaars. They passed no end of temples; and all of
them were small, though they were very pretty, what there were of them.

Emerging from these narrow streets, the company came to a section where the
avenues were broad, with handsome houses built upon them. This portion was
practicable for carriages, and half a dozen cul√®ches were drummed
together after some delay; and the ladies were glad to be seated again, for
they had had a long and tiresome walk through the narrow and crowded
streets. Sir Modava directed the drivers, and when he said Dourga Khound no
one knew what he was to see next. The word means the Fountain of Dourga;
and when they came to it they agreed that it was one of the most beautiful
buildings in Benares, though it was painted all over with red, which made
it look rather fantastic.

Sir Modava said nothing about the use of the building, and led the way into
the enclosure. The moment they entered the grounds they realized that the
Hindu gentleman had worked a surprise upon them; for the yard was filled
with monkeys, and the walls were covered with them. The chattering
creatures immediately surrounded them, holding out their paws for
something. Sir Modava gave the most dignified one a rupee, and Lord Tremlyn
made a similar gift to another.

"They can't eat silver," suggested Morris.

"The money is for the Brahmin who has charge here. You see they have gone
to give it to him," replied Sir Modava, as he opened a large paper package
he had bought at a store, and proceeded to distribute its contents,
consisting of nuts and parched corn, to the members of the monkey
community.

For half an hour they fed the animals, which were very tame, and made
friends with them. The live boys were more pleased with this occupation
than in looking at temples and mosques. They all visited the sanctuary of
the temple, which was said to date back a thousand years. The party greatly
enjoyed the ride back to Secrole, which is the English town of Benares.
After dinner Sir Modava told them about the Feast of Ganesa.

"He is one of the most popular deities of India," said the Hindu gentleman.
"He is the embodiment of wisdom, prudence, and commerce; his presence wards
off all perils. You will find him over the door of places of business; and
contracts open with an invocation to Ganesa, sometimes given by a picture
of the god. He was the son of Siva and Parvati. His picture is that of a
short, fat man, with four arms and an elephant's head.

"Though he was Siva's son, the father was jealous of him, and struck off
his head. Siva was sorry for what he had done, and wanted to bring Ganesa
back to life; but his head was gone."

"Couldn't he put a head on him?" asked Scott very seriously; and the other
boys laughed.

"That was just what he did," replied Sir Modava, wondering what the boys
and some of the others were laughing at. "Siva selected a young elephant,
cut off his head, and affixed it to his son's shoulders; and that is how he
happens to have such a head. This head sometimes takes the place of the
whole figure on contracts. His festival is celebrated the last of April,
with the greatest magnificence. Effigies of the god are made of
terra-cotta, painted and gilded, and borne by processions through the
streets. Priests and musicians surround the idol; and young girls, widowed
before they are wives, dancing and waving their scarfs in solemn cadence,
lead the way.

"When the processions reach the river, they embark in fairy-like boats
propelled by sails or oars, forming a grand aquatic spectacle. At sunset
the idols are thrown into the river, and the festival terminates with a
grand frolic on shore, with fireworks, in which many Europeans take part;
and the river is thronged with boats decorated with many-colored lanterns."

The party spent two days more at Benares, and visited temples, mosques, and
many places of interest. They were visited by British civil and military
officers, who were extremely kind to them, and offered them every facility
for seeing the city. After dinner on the last day, Captain Ringgold asked
