
“I don’t know.  If I’m not allowed to have any voice in the matter, I’m
afraid I shall take it out in teasing.  I don’t see why Miss Gage isn’t
quite as good as Kendricks.  I believe she’s taller, and though he’s
pretty good-looking, I prefer her style of beauty.  I dare say his family
is better, but I fancy she’s richer; and his family isn’t good beyond New
York city, and her money will go anywhere.  It’s a pretty even thing.”

“Good gracious, Basil! you talk as if it were a question of marriage.”

“And you think it is.”

“Now I see that you’re bent upon teasing, and we won’t talk any more,
please.  What time did he say he would call?”

“If I mayn’t talk, I can’t tell.”

“You may talk that much.”

“Well, then, he didn’t say.”

“Basil,” said my wife, after a moment, “if you could be serious, I should
like very much to talk with you.  I know that you’re excited by meeting
Mr. Kendricks, and I know what you thought the instant you saw him.  But,
indeed, it won’t do, my dear.  It’s more than we’ve any right to ask, and
I shall not ask it, and I shall not let you.  She is a stiff, awkward
village person, and I don’t believe she’s amiable or intelligent; and to
let a graceful, refined, superior man like Mr. Kendricks throw away his
time upon her would be wicked, simply wicked.  Let those people manage
for themselves from this out.  Of course you mustn’t get them rooms at
the Grand Union now, for he’d be seeing us there with them, and feel
bound to pay her attention.  You must try for them at the States, since
the matter’s been spoken of, or at Congress Hall.  But there’s no hurry.
We must have time to think whether we shall use Mr. Kendricks with them.
I suppose it will do no harm to introduce him.  If he stays we can’t very
well avoid it; and I confess I should like to see how she impresses him!
Of course we shall introduce him!  But I insist I shall just do it merely
as one human being to another; and don’t you come in with any of your
romantic nonsense, Basil, about her social disappointment.  Just how much
did you give the situation away?”

I told as well as I could remember.  “Well, that’s nothing.  He’ll never
think of it, and you mustn’t hint anything of the kind again.”

I promised devoutly, and she went on—

“It wouldn’t be nice—it wouldn’t be delicate to let him into the
conspiracy.  That must be entirely our affair, don’t you see?  And I
don’t want you to take a single step without me.  I don’t want you even
to discuss her with him.  Will you?  Because that will tempt you
further.”

That afternoon Kendricks came promptly to call, like the little gentleman
he was, and he was more satisfactory about Saratoga than he had been in
the morning even.  Mrs. March catechised him, and she didn’t leave an
emotion of his unsearched by her vivid sympathy.  She ended by saying—

“You must write a story about Saratoga.  And I have got just the heroine
for you.”

I started, but she ignored my start.

Kendricks laughed, delighted, and asked, “Is she pretty?”

“Must a heroine be pretty?”

“She had better be.  Otherwise she will have to be tremendously clever
and say all sorts of brilliant things, and that puts a great burden on
the author.  If you proclaim boldly at the start that she’s a beauty, the
illustrator has got to look after her, and the author has a comparative
sinecure.”

Mrs. March thought a moment, and then she said: “Well, she is a beauty.
I don’t want to make it too hard for you.”

“When shall I see her?” Kendricks demanded, and he feigned an amusing
anxiety.

“Well, that depends upon how you behave, Mr. Kendricks.  If you are very,
very good, perhaps I may let you see her this evening.  We will take you
to call upon her.”

“Is it possible?  Do you mean business?  Then she is—in society?”

“Mr. Kendricks!” cried Mrs. March, with burlesque severity.  “Do you
think that I would offer you a heroine who was not in society?  You
forget that I am from Boston!”

“Of course, of course!  I understand that any heroine of your
acquaintance must be in society.  But I thought—I didn’t know—but for the
moment—Saratoga seems to be so tremendously mixed; and Mr. March says
there is no society here: But if she is from Boston—”

“I didn’t say she was from Boston, Mr. Kendricks.”

“Oh, I beg your pardon!”

“She is from De Witt Point,” said Mrs. March, and she apparently enjoyed
his confusion, no less than my bewilderment at the course she was taking.

I was not going to be left behind, though, and I said: “I discovered this
heroine myself, Kendricks, and if there is to be any giving away—”

“Now, Basil!”

“I am going to do it.  Mrs. March would never have cared anything about
her if it hadn’t been for me.  I can’t let her impose on you.  This
heroine is no more in society than she is from Boston.  That is the
trouble with her.  She has come here for society, and she can’t find
any.”

“Oh, that was what you were hinting at this morning,” said Kendricks.  “I
thought it a pure figment of the imagination.”

“One doesn’t imagine such things as that, my dear fellow.  One imagines a
heroine coming here, and having the most magnificent kind of social
career—lawn-parties, lunches, teas, dinners, picnics, hops—and going back
to De Witt Point with a dozen offers of marriage.  That’s the kind of
work the imagination does.  But this simple and appealing situation—this
beautiful young girl, with her poor little illusions, her secret hopes
half hidden from herself, her ignorant past, her visionary future—”

“Now, I am going to tell you all about her, Mr. Kendricks,” Mrs. March
broke in upon me, with defiance in her eye; and she flung out the whole
fact with a rapidity of utterance that would have left far behind any
attempt of mine.  But I made no attempt to compete with her; I contented
myself with a sarcastic silence which I could see daunted her a little at
last.

“And all that we’ve done, my dear fellow”—I took in irony the word she
left to me—“is to load ourselves up with these two impossible people, to
go their security to destiny, and answer for their having a good time.
We’re in luck.”

“Why, I don’t know,” said Kendricks, and I could see that his fancy was
beginning to play with the situation; “I don’t see why it isn’t a
charming scheme.”

“Of course it is,” cried Mrs. March, taking a little heart from his
courage.

“We can’t make out yet whether the girl is interesting,” I put in
maliciously.

“That is what you say,” said my wife.  “She is very shy, and of course
she wouldn’t show out her real nature to you.  I found her very
interesting.”

“Now, Isabel!” I protested.

“She is fascinating,” the perverse woman persisted.  “She has a
fascinating dulness.”

Kendricks laughed and I jeered at this complex characterisation.

“You make me impatient to judge for myself,” he said.

“Will you go with me to call upon them this evening?” asked Mrs. March.

“I shall be delighted.  And you can count upon me to aid and abet you in
your generous conspiracy, Mrs. March, to the best of my ability.  There’s
nothing I should like better than to help you—”

“Throw ‘dust in her beautiful eyes,’” I quoted.

“Not at all,” said my wife.  “But to spread a beatific haze over
everything, so that as long as she stays in Saratoga she shall see life
rose-colour.  Of course you may say that it’s a kind of deception—”

“Not at all!” cried the young fellow in his turn.  “We will make it
reality.  Then there will be no harm in it.”

“What a jesuitical casuist!  You had better read what Cardinal Newman
says in his Apologia about lying, young man.”

Neither of them minded me, for just then there was a stir of drapery
round the corner of the piazza from where we were sitting, and the next
moment Mrs. Deering and Miss Gage showed themselves.

“We were just talking of you,” said Mrs. March.  “May I present our
friend Mr. Kendricks, Mrs. Deering?  And Miss Gage?”

At sight of the young man, so well dressed and good-looking, who bowed so
prettily to her, and then bustled to place chairs for them, a certain
cloud seemed to lift from Miss Gage’s beautiful face, and to be at least
partly broken on Mrs. Deering’s visage.  I began to talk to the girl, and
she answered in good spirits, and with more apparent interest in my
conversation than she had yet shown, while Kendricks very properly
devoted himself to the other ladies.  Both his eyes were on them, but I
felt that he had a third somehow upon her, and that the smallest fact of
her beauty and grace was not lost upon him.  I knew that her rich, tender
voice was doing its work, too, through the commonplaces she vouchsafed to
me.  There was a moment when I saw him lift a questioning eyebrow upon
Mrs. March, and saw her answer with a fleeting frown of affirmation.  I
cannot tell just how it was that, before he left us, his chair was on the
other side of Miss Gage’s, and I was eliminated from the dialogue.

He did not stay too long.  There was another tableau of him on foot,
taking leave of Mrs. March, with a high hand-shake, which had then lately
come in, and which I saw the girl note, and then bowing to her and to
Mrs. Deering.

“Don’t forget,” my wife called after him, with a ready invention not lost
on his quick intelligence, “that you’re going to the concert with us
after tea.  Eight o’clock, remember.”

“You may be sure I shall remember that,” he returned gaily.




IX


THE countenances of the ladies fell instantly when he was gone.  “Mrs.
March,” said Mrs. Deering, with a nervous tremor, “did Mr. March get us
those rooms at the Grand Union?”

“No—no,” my wife began, and she made a little pause, as if to gather
plausibility.  “The Grand Union was very full, and he thought that at the
States—”

“Because,” said Mrs. Deering, “I don’t know as we shall trouble him,
after all.  Mr. Deering isn’t very well, and I guess we have got to go
home—”

“Go home!” Mrs. March echoed, and her voice was a tone-scene of a
toppling hope and a widespread desolation.  “Why, you mustn’t!”

“We must, I guess.  It had begun to be very pleasant, and—I guess I have
got to go.  I can’t feel easy about him.”

“Why, of course,” Mrs. March now assented, and she waved her fan
thoughtfully before her face.  I knew what she was thinking of, and I
looked at Miss Gage, who had involuntarily taken the pose and expression
of the moment when I first saw her at the kiosk in Congress Park.  “And
Miss Gage?”

“Oh yes; I must go too,” said the girl wistfully, forlornly.  She had
tears in her voice, tears of despair and vexation, I should have said.

“That’s too bad,” said Mrs. March, and, as she did not offer any solution
of the matter, I thought it rather heartless of her to go on and rub it
in.  “And we were just planning some things we could do together.”

“It can’t be helped now,” returned the girl.

“But we shall see you again before you go?” Mrs. March asked of both.

“Well, I don’t know,” said the girl, with a look at Mrs. Deering, who now
said—

“I guess so.  We’ll let you know when we’re going.”  And they got away
rather stiffly.

“Why in the world, my dear,” I asked, “if you weren’t going to promote
their stay, need you prolong the agony of their acquaintance?”

“Did you feel that about it too?  Well, I wanted to ask you first if you
thought it would do.”

“What do?”

“You know; get her a room here.  Because if we do we shall have her
literally on our hands as long as we are here.  We shall have to have the
whole care and responsibility of her, and I wanted you to feel just what
you were going in for.  You know very well I can’t do things by halves,
and that if I undertake to chaperon this girl I shall chaperon her—”

“To the bitter end.  Yes; I understand the conditions of your
uncompromising conscience.  But I don’t believe it will be any such
killing matter.  There are other semi-detached girls in the house; she
could go round with them.”

We talked on, and, as sometimes happens, we convinced each other so
thoroughly that she came to my ground and I went to hers.  Then it was
easier for us to come together, and after making me go to the clerk and
find out that he had a vacant room, Mrs. March agreed with me that it
would not do at all to have Miss Gage stay with us; the fact that there
was a vacant room seemed to settle the question.

We were still congratulating ourselves on our escape when Mrs. Deering
suddenly reappeared round our corner of the verandah.  She was alone, and
she looked excited.

“Oh, it isn’t anything,” she said in answer to the alarm that showed
itself in Mrs. March’s face at sight of her.  “I hope you won’t think
it’s too presuming, Mrs. March, and I want you to believe that it’s
something I have thought of by myself, and that Julia wouldn’t have let
me come if she had dreamed of such a thing.  I do hate so to take her
back with me, now that she’s begun to have a good time, and I was
wondering—wondering whether it would be asking too much if I tried to get
her a room here.  I shouldn’t exactly like to leave her in the hotel
alone, though I suppose it would be perfectly proper; but Mr. Deering
found out when he was trying to get rooms before that there were some
young ladies staying by themselves here, and I didn’t want to ask the
clerk for a room unless you felt just right about it.”

“Why, of course, Mrs. Deering.  It’s a public house, like any other, and
you have as much right—”

“But I didn’t want you to think that I would do it without asking you,
and if it is going to be the least bit of trouble to you.”  The poor
thing while she talked stood leaning anxiously over toward Mrs. March,
who had risen, and pressing the points of her fingers nervously together.

“It won’t, Mrs. Deering.  It will be nothing but pleasure.  Why,
certainly.  I shall be delighted to have Miss Gage here, and anything
that Mr. March and I can do—Why, we had just been talking of it, and Mr.
March has this minute got back from seeing the clerk, and she can have a
very nice room.  We had been intending to speak to you about it as soon
as we saw you.”

I do not know whether this was quite true or not, but I was glad Mrs.
March said it, from the effect it had upon Mrs. Deering.  Tears of relief
came into her eyes, and she said: “Then I can go home in the morning.  I
was going to stay on a day or two longer, on Julia’s account, but I
didn’t feel just right about Mr. Deering, and now I won’t have to.”

There followed a flutter of polite offers and refusals, acknowledgments
and disavowals, and an understanding that I would arrange it all, and
that we would come to Mrs. Deering’s hotel after supper and see Miss Gage
about the when and the how of her coming to us.

“Well, Isabel,” I said, after it was all over, and Mrs. Deering had
vanished in a mist of happy tears, “I suppose this is what you call
perfectly providential.  Do you really believe that Miss Gage didn’t send
her back?”

“I know she didn’t.  But I know that she had to do it just the same as
if Miss Gage had driven her at the point of the bayonet.”

I laughed at this tragical image.  “Can she be such a terror?”

“She is an ideal.  And Mrs. Deering is as afraid as death of her.  Of
course she has to live up to her.  It’s probably been the struggle of her
life, and I can quite imagine her letting her husband die before she
would take Miss Gage back, unless she went back satisfied.”

“I don’t believe I can imagine so much as that exactly, but I can imagine
her being afraid of Miss Gage’s taking it out of her somehow.  Now she
will take it out of us.  I hope you realise that you’ve done it now, my
dear.  To be sure, you will have all your life to repent of your
rashness.”

“I shall never repent,” Mrs. March retorted hardily.  “It was the right
thing, the only thing.  We couldn’t have let that poor creature stay on,
when she was so anxious to get back to her husband.”

“No.”

“And I confess, Basil, that I feel a little pity for that poor girl, too.
It would have been cruel, it would have been fairly wicked, to let her go
home so soon, and especially now.”

“Oh!  And I suppose that by especially now, you mean Kendricks,” I
said, and I laughed mockingly, as the novelists say.  “How sick I am of
this stale old love-business between young people!  We ought to know
better—we’re old enough; at least you are.”

She seemed not to feel the gibe.  “Why, Basil,” she asked dreamily,
“haven’t you any romance left in you?”

“Romance?  Bah!  It’s the most ridiculous unreality in the world.  If you
had so much sympathy for that stupid girl, in that poor woman in her
anxiety about her disappointment, why hadn’t you a little for her sick
husband?  But a husband is nothing—when you have got him.”

“I did sympathise with her.”

“You didn’t say so.”

“Well, she is only his second wife, and I don’t suppose it’s anything
serious.  Didn’t I really say anything to her?”

“Not a word.  It is curious,” I went on, “how we let this idiotic
love-passion absorb us to the very last.  It is wholly unimportant who
marries who, or whether anybody marries at all.  And yet we no sooner
have the making of a love-affair within reach than we revert to the folly
of our own youth, and abandon ourselves to it as if it were one of the
great interests of life.”

“Who is talking about love?  It isn’t a question of that.  It’s a
question of making a girl have a pleasant time for a few days; and what
is the harm of it?  Girls have a dull enough time at the very best.  My
heart aches for them, and I shall never let a chance slip to help them, I
don’t care what you say.”

“Now, Isabel,” I returned, “don’t you be a humbug.  This is a perfectly
plain case, and you are going in for a very risky affair with your eyes
open.  You shall not pretend you’re not.”

“Very well, then, if I am going into it with my eyes open, I shall look
out that nothing happens.”

“And you think prevision will avail!  I wish,” I said, “that instead of
coming home that night and telling you about this girl, I had confined my
sentimentalising to that young French-Canadian mother, and her dirty
little boy who ate the pea-nut shells.  I’ve no doubt it was really a
more tragical case.  They looked dreadfully poor and squalid.  Why
couldn’t I have amused my idle fancy with their fortunes—the sort of
husband and father they had, their shabby home, the struggle of their
life?  That is the appeal that a genuine person listens to.  Nothing does
more to stamp me a poseur than the fact that I preferred to bemoan
myself for a sulky girl who seemed not to be having a good time.”

There was truth in my joking, but the truth did not save me; it lost me
rather.  “Yes,” said my wife; “it was your fault.  I should never have
seen anything in her if it had not been for you.  It was your coming back
and working me up about her that began the whole thing, and now if
anything goes wrong you will have yourself to thank for it.”

She seized the opportunity of my having jestingly taken up this load to
buckle it on me tight and fast, clasping it here, tying it there, and
giving a final pull to the knots that left me scarcely the power to draw
my breath, much less the breath to protest.  I was forced to hear her say
again that all her concern from the beginning was for Mrs. Deering, and
that now, if she had offered to do something for Miss Gage, it was not
because she cared anything for her, but because she cared everything for
Mrs. Deering, who could never lift up her head again at De Witt Point if
she went back so completely defeated in all the purposes she had in
asking Miss Gage to come with her to Saratoga.

I did not observe that this wave of compassion carried Mrs. March so far
as to leave her stranded with Mrs. Deering that evening when we called
with Kendricks, and asked her and Miss Gage to go with us to the Congress
Park concert.  Mrs. Deering said that she had to pack, that she did not
feel just exactly like going; and my tender heart ached with a knowledge
of her distress.  Miss Gage made a faint, false pretence of refusing to
come with us, too; but Mrs. Deering urged her to go, and put on the new
dress, which had just come home, so that Mrs. March could see it.  The
girl came back looking radiant, divine, and—“Will it do?” she palpitated
under my wife’s critical glance.

“Do?  It will outdo!  I never saw anything like it!”  The connoisseur
patted it a little this way and a little that.  “It is a dream!  Did the
hat come too?”

It appeared that the hat had come too.  Miss Gage rematerialised with it
on, after a moment’s evanescence, and looked at my wife with the
expression of being something impersonal with a hat on.

“Simply, there is nothing to say!” cried Mrs. March.  The girl put up her
hands to it.  “Good gracious!  You mustn’t take it off!  Your costume is
perfect for the concert.”

“Is it, really?” asked the girl joyfully; and she seemed to find this the
first fitting moment to say, for sole recognition of our self-sacrifice,
“I’m much obliged to you, Mr. March, for getting me that room.”

I begged her not to speak of it, and turned an ironical eye upon my wife;
but she was lost in admiration of the hat.

“Yes,” she sighed; “it’s much better than the one I wanted you to get at
first.”  And she afterward explained that the girl seemed to have a
perfect instinct for what went with her style.

Kendricks kept himself discreetly in the background, and, with his
unfailing right feeling, was talking to Mrs. Deering, in spite of her not
paying much attention to him.  I must own that I too was absorbed in the
spectacle of Miss Gage.

She went off with us, and did not say another word to Mrs. Deering about
helping her to pack.  Perhaps this was best, though it seemed heartless;
it may not have been so heartless as it seemed.  I dare say it would have
been more suffering to the woman if the girl had missed this chance.




X


WE had undertaken rather a queer affair but it was not so queer after
all, when Miss Gage was fairly settled with us.  There were other young
girls in that pleasant house who had only one another’s protection and
the general safety of the social atmosphere.  We could not conceal from
ourselves, of course, that we had done a rather romantic thing, and, in
the light of Europe, which we had more or less upon our actions, rather
an absurd thing; but it was a comfort to find that Miss Gage thought it
neither romantic nor absurd.  She took the affair with an apparent
ignorance of anything unusual in it—with so much ignorance, indeed, that
Mrs. March had her occasional question whether she was duly impressed
with what was being done for her.  Whether this was so or not, it is
certain that she was as docile and as biddable as need be.  She did not
always ask what she should do; that would not have been in the tradition
of village independence; but she always did what she was told, and did
not vary from her instructions a hair’s-breadth.  I do not suppose she
always knew why she might do this and might not do that; and I do not
suppose that young girls often understand the reasons of the proprieties.
They are told that they must, and that they must not, and this in an
astonishing degree suffices them if they are nice girls.

Of course there was pretty constant question of Kendricks in the
management of Miss Gage’s amusement, for that was really what our
enterprise resolved itself into.  He showed from the first the sweetest
disposition to forward all our plans in regard to her, and, in fact, he
even anticipated our wishes.  I do not mean to give the notion that he
behaved from an interested motive in going to the station the morning
Mrs. Deering left, and getting her ticket for her, and checking her
baggage, and posting her in the changes she would have to make.  This was
something I ought to have thought of myself, but I did not think of it,
and I am willing that he should have all the credit.

I know that he did it out of the lovely generosity of nature which always
took me in him.  Miss Gage was there with her, and she remained to be
consoled after Mrs. Deering departed.  They came straight to us from the
train, and then, when he had consigned Miss Gage to Mrs. March’s care, he
offered to go and see that her things were transferred from her hotel to
ours; they were all ready, she said, and the bill was paid.

He did not come back that day, and, in fact, he delicately waited for
some sign from us that his help was wanted.  But when he did come he had
formulated Saratoga very completely, and had a better conception of doing
it than I had, after my repeated sojourns.

We went very early in our explorations to the House of Pansa, which you
find in very much better repair at Saratoga than you do at Pompeii, and
we contrived to pass a whole afternoon there.  My wife and I had been
there before more than once; but it always pleasantly recalled our
wander-years, when we first met in Europe, and we suffered round after
those young things with a patience which I hope will not be forgotten at
the day of judgment.  When we came to a seat we sat down, and let them go
off by themselves; but my recollection is that there is not much
furniture in the House of Pansa that you can sit down on, and for the
most part we all kept together.

Kendricks and I thought alike about the Pompeian house as a model of
something that might be done in the way of a seaside cottage in our own
country, and we talked up a little paper that might be done for Every
Other Week, with pretty architectural drawings, giving an account of our
imaginary realisation of the notion.

“Have somebody,” he said, “visit people who had been boring him to come
down, or up, or out, and see them, and find them in a Pompeian house,
with the sea in front and a blue-green grove of low pines behind.  Might
have a thread of story, but mostly talk about how they came to do it, and
how delightfully livable they found it.  You could work it up with some
architect, who would help you to ‘keep off the grass’ in the way of
technical blunders.  With all this tendency to the classic in public
architecture, I don’t see why the Pompeian villa shouldn’t be the next
word for summer cottages.”

“Well, we’ll see what Fulkerson says.  He may see an ad. in it.  Would
you like to do it?”

“Why not do it yourself?  Nobody else could do it so well.”

“Thanks for the taffy; but the idea was yours.”

“I’ll do it,” said Kendricks after a moment, “if you won’t.”

“We’ll see.”

Miss Gage stared, and Mrs. March said—

“I didn’t suppose the House of Pansa would lead to shop with you two.”

“You never can tell which way copy lies,” I returned; and I asked the
girl, “What should you think, Miss Gage, of a little paper with a
thread of story, but mostly talk, on a supposititious Pompeian cottage?”

“I don’t believe I understand,” said she, far too remote from our
literary interests, as I saw, to be ashamed of her ignorance.

“There!” I said to Kendricks.  “Do you think the general public would?”

“Miss Gage isn’t the general public,” said my wife, who had followed the
course of my thought; her tone implied that Miss Gage was wiser and
better.

“Would you allow yourself to be drawn,” I asked, “dreamily issuing from
an aisle of the pine grove as the tutelary goddess of a Pompeian
cottage?”

The girl cast a bewildered glance at my wife, who said, “You needn’t pay
any attention to him, Miss Gage.  He has an idea that he is making a
joke.”

We felt that we had done enough for one afternoon, when we had done the
House of Pansa, and I proposed that we should go and sit down in Congress
Park and listen to the Troy band.  I was not without the hope that it
would play “Washington Post.”

My wife contrived that we should fall in behind the young people as we
went, and she asked, “What do you suppose she made of it all?”

“Probably she thought it was the house of Sancho Panza.”

“No; she hasn’t read enough to be so ignorant even as that.  It’s
astonishing how much she doesn’t know.  What can her home life have been
like?”

“Philistine to the last degree.  We people who are near to literature
have no conception how far from it most people are.  The immense majority
of ‘homes,’ as the newspapers call them, have no books in them except the
Bible and a semi-religious volume or two—things you never see out of such
‘homes’—and the State business directory.  I was astonished when it came
out that she knew about Every Other Week.  It must have been by
accident.  The sordidness of her home life must be something
unimaginable.  The daughter of a village capitalist, who’s put together
his money dollar by dollar, as they do in such places, from the
necessities and follies of his neighbours, and has half the farmers of
the region by the throat through his mortgages—I don’t think that she’s
‘one to be desired’ any more than ‘the daughter of a hundred earls,’ if
so much.”

“She doesn’t seem sordid herself.”

“Oh, the taint doesn’t show itself at once—

    ‘If nature put not forth her power
    About the opening of the flower,
    Who is it that would live an hour?’

and she is a flower, beautiful, exquisite.”

“Yes, and she had a mother as well as this father of hers.  Why shouldn’t
she be like her mother?”

I laughed.  “That is true!  I wonder why we always leave the mother out
of the count when we sum up the hereditary tendencies?  I suppose the
mother is as much a parent as the father.”

“Quite.  And there is no reason why this girl shouldn’t have her mother’s
nature.”

“We don’t actually know anything against her father’s nature yet,” I
suggested; “but if her mother lived a starved and stunted life with him,
it may account for that effect of disappointed greed which I fancied in
her when I first saw her.”

“I don’t call it greed in a young girl to want to see something of the
world.”

“What do you call it?”

Kendricks and the girl were stopping at the gate of the pavilion, and
looking round at us.  “Ah, he’s got enough for one day!  He’s going to
leave her to us now.”

When we came up he said, “I’m going to run off a moment; I’m going up to
the book-store there,” and he pointed toward one that had spread across
the sidewalk just below the Congress Hall verandah, with banks and
shelves of novels, and a cry of bargains in them on signs sticking up
from their rows.  “I want to see if they have the Last Days of
Pompeii.”

“We will find the ladies inside the park,” I said.  “I will go with you—”

“Mr. March wants to see if they have the last number of Every Other
Week,” my wife mocked after us.  This was, indeed, commonly a foible of
mine.  I had newly become one of the owners of the periodical as well as
the editor, and I was all the time looking out for it at the news-stands
and book-stores, and judging their enterprise by its presence or absence.
But this time I had another motive, though I did not allege it.

“I suppose it’s for Miss Gage?” I ventured to say, by way of prefacing
what I wished to say.  “Kendricks, I’m afraid we’re abusing your good
nature.  I know you’re up here to look about, and you’re letting us use
all your time.  You mustn’t do it.  Women have no conscience about these
things, and you can’t expect a woman who has a young lady on her hands to
spare you.  I give you the hint.  Don’t count upon Mrs. March in this
matter.”

“Oh, I think you are very good to allow me to bother round,” said the
young fellow, with that indefatigable politeness of his.  He added
vaguely, “It’s very interesting.”

“Seeing it through such a fresh mind?” I suggested.  “Well, I’ll own that
I don’t think you could have found a much fresher one.  Has she read the
Last Days of Pompeii?”

“She thought she had at first, but it was the Fall of Granada.”

“How delightful!  Don’t you wish we could read books with that utterly
unliterary sense of them?”

“Don’t you think women generally do?” he asked evasively.

“I daresay they do at De Witt Point.”

He did not answer; I saw that he was not willing to talk the young lady
over, and I could not help praising his taste to myself at the cost of my
own.  His delicacy forbade him the indulgence which my own protested
against in vain.  He showed his taste again in buying a cheap copy of the
book, which he meant to give her, and of course he had to be all the more
attentive to her because of my deprecating his self-devotion.




XI


IN the intimacy that grew up between my wife and Miss Gage I found myself
less and less included.  It seemed to me at times that I might have gone
away from Saratoga and not been seriously missed by any one, but perhaps
this was not taking sufficient account of my value as a spectator, by
whom Mrs. March could verify her own impressions.

The girl had never known a mother’s care, and it was affecting to see how
willing she was to be mothered by the chance kindness of a stranger.  She
probably felt more and more her ignorance of the world as it unfolded
itself to her in terms so altogether strange to the life of De Witt
Point.  I was not sure that she would have been so grateful for the
efforts made for her enjoyment if they had failed, but as the case stood
she was certainly grateful; my wife said that, and I saw it.  She seemed
to have written home about us to her father, for she read my wife part of
a letter from him conveying his “respects,” and asking her to thank us
for him.  She came to me with the cheque it enclosed, and asked me to get
it cashed for her; it was for a handsome amount.  But she continued to go
about at our cost, quite unconsciously, till one day she happened to
witness a contest of civility between Kendricks and myself as to which
should pay the carriage we were dismissing.  That night she came to Mrs.
March, and, with many blushes, asked to be allowed to pay for the past
and future her full share of the expense of our joint pleasures.  She
said that she had never thought of it before, and she felt so much
ashamed.  She could not be consoled till she was promised that she should
be indulged for the future, and that I should be obliged to average the
outlay already made and let her pay a fourth.  When she had gained her
point, Mrs. March said that she seemed a little scared, and said, “I
haven’t offended you, Mrs. March, have I?  Because if it isn’t right for
me to pay—”

“It’s quite right, my dear,” said my wife, “and it’s very nice of you to
think of it.”

“You know,” the girl explained, “I’ve never been out a great deal at home
even; and it’s always the custom there for the gentlemen to pay for a
ride—or dance—or anything; but this is different.”

Mrs. March said “Yes,” and, in the interest of civilisation, she did a
little missionary work.  She told her that in Boston the young ladies
paid for their tickets to the Harvard assemblies, and preferred to do it,
because it left them without even a tacit obligation.

Miss Gage said she had never heard of such a thing before, but she could
see how much better it was.

I do not think she got on with the Last Days of Pompeii very rapidly; its
immediate interest was superseded by other things.  But she always had
the book about with her, and I fancied that she tried to read it in those
moments of relaxation from our pleasuring when she might better have been
day-dreaming, though I dare say she did enough of that too.

What amused me in the affair was the celerity with which it took itself
out of our hands.  In an incredibly short time we had no longer the
trouble of thinking what we should do for Miss Gage; that was provided
for by the forethought of Kendricks, and our concern was how each could
make the other go with the young people on their excursions and
expeditions.  We had seen and done all the things that they were doing,
and it presently bored us to chaperon them.  After a good deal of talking
we arrived at a rough division of duty, and I went with them walking and
eating and drinking, and for anything involving late hours, and Mrs.
March presided at such things as carriage exercise, concerts, and
shopping.

There are not many public entertainments at Saratoga, except such as the
hotels supply; but a series of Salvation Army meetings did duty as
amusements, and there was one theatrical performance—a performance of
East Lynne entirely by people of colour.  The sentiments and incidents
of the heart-breaking melodrama, as the coloured mind interpreted them,
were of very curious effect.  It was as if the version were dyed with the
same pigment that darkened the players’ skins: it all came out negro.
Yet they had tried to make it white; I could perceive how they aimed not
at the imitation of our nature, but at the imitation of our convention;
it was like the play of children in that.  I should have said that
nothing could be more false than the motives and emotions of the drama as
the author imagined them, but I had to own that their rendition by these
sincere souls was yet more artificial.  There was nothing traditional,
nothing archaic, nothing autochthonic in their poor art.  If the scene
could at any moment have resolved myself into a walk-round, with an
interspersion of spirituals, it would have had the charm of these; it
would have consoled and edified; but as it was I have seldom been so
bored.  I began to make some sad reflections, as that our American
society, in its endeavour for the effect of European society, was of no
truer ideal than these coloured comedians, and I accused myself of a
final absurdity in having come there with these young people, who,
according to our good native usage, could have come perfectly well
without me.  At the end of the first act I broke into their talk with my
conclusion that we must not count the histrionic talent among the gifts
of the African race just yet.  We could concede them music, I supposed,
and there seemed to be hope for them, from what they had some of them
done, in the region of the plastic arts; but apparently the stage was not
for them, and this was all the stranger because they were so imitative.
Perhaps, I said, it was an excess of self-consciousness which prevented
their giving themselves wholly to the art, and I began to speak of the
subjective and the objective, of the real and the ideal; and whether it
was that I became unintelligible as I became metaphysical, I found
Kendricks obviously not following me in the incoherent replies he gave.
Miss Gage had honestly made no attempt to follow me.  He asked, Why,
didn’t I think it was pretty well done?  They had enjoyed it very much,
he said.  I could only stare in answer, and wonder what had become of the
man’s tastes or his principles; he was either humbugging himself or he
was humbugging me.  After that I left them alone, and suffered through
the rest of the play with what relief I could get from laughing when the
pathetic emotions of the drama became too poignant.  I decided that
Kendricks was absorbed in the study of his companion’s mind, which must
be open to his contemporaneous eye as it could never have been to my
old-sighted glasses, and I envied him the knowledge he was gaining of
that type of American girl.  It suddenly came to me that he must be
finding his account in this, and I felt a little less regret for the
waste of civilities, of attentions, which sometimes seemed to me beyond
her appreciation.

I, for my part, gave myself to the study of the types about me, and I
dwelt long and luxuriously upon the vision of a florid and massive matron
in diaphanous evening dress, whom I imagined to be revisiting the
glimpses of her girlhood in the ancient watering-place, and to be getting
all the gaiety she could out of it.  These are the figures one mostly
sees at Saratoga; there is very little youth of the present day there,
but the youth of the past abounds, with the belated yellow hair and the
purple moustaches, which gave a notion of greater wickedness in a former
generation.

I made my observation that the dress, even in extreme cases of elderly
prime, was very good—in the case of the women, I mean; the men there, as
everywhere with us, were mostly slovens; and I was glad to find that the
good taste and the correct fashion were without a colour-line; there were
some mulatto ladies present as stylish as their white sisters, or
step-sisters.

The most amiable of the human race is in great force at Saratoga, where
the vast hotel service is wholly in its hands, and it had honoured the
effort of the comedians that night with a full house of their own
complexion.  We who were not of it showed strangely enough in the dark
mass, who let us lead the applause, however, as if doubtful themselves
where it ought to come in, and whom I found willing even to share some
misplaced laughter of mine.  They formed two-thirds of the audience on
the floor, and they were a cloud in the gallery, scarcely broken by a
gleam of white.

I entertained myself with them a good deal, and I thought how much more
delightful they were in their own kindly character than in their
assumption of white character, and I tried to define my suffering from
the performance as an effect from my tormented sympathies rather than
from my offended tastes.  When the long stress was over, and we rose and
stood to let the crowd get out, I asked Miss Gage if she did not think
this must be the case.  I do not suppose she was really much more
experienced in the theatre than the people on the stage, some of whom I
doubted to have ever seen a play till they took part in East Lynne.
But I thought I would ask her that in order to hear what she would say;
and she said very simply that she had seen so few plays she did not know
what to think of it, and I could see that she was abashed by the fact.
Kendricks must have seen it too, for he began at once to save her from
herself, with all his subtle generosity, and to turn her shame to praise.
My heart, which remained sufficiently cold to her, warmed more than ever
to him, and I should have liked to tell her that here was the finest and
rarest human porcelain using itself like common clay in her behalf, and
to demand whether she thought she was worth it.

I did not think she was, and I had a lurid moment when I was tempted to
push on and make her show herself somehow at her worst.  We had
undertaken a preposterous thing in befriending her as we had done, and
our course in bringing Kendricks in was wholly unjustifiable.  How could
I lead her on to some betrayal of her essential Philistinism, and make
her so impossible in his eyes that even he, with all his sweetness and
goodness, must take the first train from Saratoga in the morning?

We had of course joined the crowd in pushing forward; people always do,
though they promise themselves to wait till the last one is out.  I got
caught in a dark eddy on the first stair-landing; but I could see them
farther down, and I knew they would wait for me outside the door.

When I reached it at last they were nowhere to be seen; I looked up this
street and down that, but they were not in sight.




XII


I DID not afflict myself very much, nor pretend to do so.  They knew the
way home, and after I had blundered about in search of them through the
lampshot darkness, I settled myself to walk back at my leisure,
comfortably sure that I should find them on the verandah waiting for me
when I reached the hotel.  It was quite a thick night, and I almost ran
into a couple at a corner of our quieter street when I had got to it out
of Broadway.  They seemed to be standing and looking about, and when the
man said, “He must have thought we took the first turn,” and the woman,
“Yes, that must have been the way,” I recognised my estrays.

I thought I would not discover myself to them, but follow on, and
surprise them by arriving at our steps at the same moment they did, and I
prepared myself to hurry after them.  But they seemed in no hurry, and I
had even some difficulty in accommodating my pace to the slowness of
theirs.

“Won’t you take my arm, Miss Gage?” he asked as they moved on.

“It’s so very dark,” she answered, and I knew she had taken it.  “I can
hardly see a step, and poor Mr. March with his glasses—I don’t know what
he’ll do.”

“Oh, he only uses them to read with; he can see as well as we can in the
dark.”

“He’s very young in his feelings,” said the girl; “he puts me in mind of
