the northeast.

The quarry road, too, was black with moving infantry; another column
tramped across the uplands beyond; horsemen were riding over Vineyard
Hill, horsemen crossed the Récollette by every ford, every
pontoon—everywhere the French riders were to be seen swarming over the
landscape, appearing, disappearing, in view again increased in numbers,
until there seemed to be no end to their coming.

The uproar of the fusillade grew deafening; the sharper crack of the
fieldpieces became dulled in the solid shocks from heavier calibers.

General Delisle came out on the terrace and stood looking across the
valley just as the British biplane soared up over the trees—the Bristol
machine, pointed high, racing toward the northeast.

Warner, looking up, realized that Halkett was up there.  The roaring
racket of the aëroplane swept the echoes along forest and hillside;
higher, higher it pointed; smoke signals began to drop from it and
unroll against the sky.

Looking upward, Warner felt a light touch on his elbow; Sister Eila had
slipped her arm through his.

Gazing into the sky under her white coiffe, the Sister of Charity stood
silent, intent, her gaze concentrated on the receding aëroplane.

When the first snowy puff ball appeared below it, her arm closed
convulsively on Warner’s, and remained so, rigid, while ball after ball
of fleece spotted the sky, spread a little, hung, and slowly dissolved
against the blue.

Down on the Saïs road four Red Cross motor ambulances were speeding in
the wake of the artillery.  A fifth ambulance came up the drive.  Sister
Félicité, seated beside the chauffeur, signaled to Sister Eila.

Warner said:

"Are you called for field duty?"

"On the telephone a few minutes ago.  They need us this side of Ausone."

He went with her to the ambulance and she swung on board.  As the
chauffeur started to back and make a demi-tour, Warner jumped on the
vehicle and shook hands with Dr. Senlis.

"Do you want a bearer?" he asked.

"Yes, if you don’t mind."

Sister Eila picked up a brassard bearing the conventional emblem, and
tied it around his left arm above the elbow.

He had not yet noticed the other figure in the ambulance; now he looked
around, stared, and suddenly a violent desire to laugh seized him.

"Asticot!" he exclaimed.

"Oui, c’est moi, M’sieu’," replied that smirking gentleman, with a
demureness that struck Warner as horrible.

"But why?" he asked, in frank amazement.

"Ah," rejoined Asticot complacently, "that is the question, M’sieu’.  I
myself do not know exactly why I am here."

But he knew well enough.  First of all, he had gotten all over any
terror of bullets in Africa.  Five years and fifty skirmishes had
blunted that sort of fear in him.

What he wanted to do was to see what was going on.  More than that, the
encounter with One Eye in Ausone had strangely moved this rat of the
Faubourgs. He desired to find that Disciplinary Battalion again—the
Battalion which had been for him a hell on earth—but he wanted to look
at it, pushed by a morbid curiosity.  If One Eye were there, perhaps
other old friends might still decorate those fierce and sullen ranks.

There was a certain lieutenant, too—gladly he would shoot him in the
back if opportunity offered.  He had dreamed for months of doing this.

But there was still another reason that incited Asticot to offer his
services to Sister Félicité as a bearer.  The ambulance had been called
to the Ausone Forest.  Somewhere within those leafy shades lurked
Wildresse.

Never before had such a hatred blazed in the crippled intellect of
Asticot as the red rage that flared within him when he learned that he
had been employed by a spy who had sold out France.

Anything else he could have understood, any other crime.  He was not
squeamish; nothing appalled him in the category of villainy except only
this one thing. Scoundrel as he was, he could not have found it in his
heart to sell his country.  And to remember that he had been employed by
a man who did sell France aroused within him a passion for revenge so
fierce that only a grip on the throat of Wildresse could ever satisfy
the craving that made his vision red as blood.

He wore a brassard, this voyou of the Paris gutters, set with the
Geneva cross.  And in his pocket was an automatic pistol.

From the rear seat Sister Eila could still see the Bristol biplane in
the sky, circling now high over Ausone Forest and the cultivated hills
beyond.  She never removed her eyes from it as the ambulance rolled on
through the dust beside the slower moving line of lorries.

Later the motor lorries turned east; a column of infantry replaced them,
trudging silently along in the sun, their rifles shouldered.  Then they
passed a battalion of chasseurs-à-pied in green and blue, swinging
along at a cheerful, lively pace toward the crash of rifles and machine
guns.

Across the river they saw the first German shells explode in the fields,
and dark columns of smoke rise and spread out over the bushes and
standing grain.

For some time, now, Warner had recognized the high whimper of bullets,
but he said nothing until Sister Eila mentioned the noises, guessing
correctly what were the causes.

Asticot shrugged and cuddled a cigarette which Warner had given him,
enjoying it with leering deliberation.

He was inclined to become loquacious, too, whenever a shell exploded
across the river.

"Baoum—baoum!" he sneered.  "Tiens!  Another overripe egg!  The Bosches
will starve themselves with their generosity!  Pan!  Pouf!  V’lan!
Zoum—zo——um! That is shrapnel, M’sieu’, as you know.  As for me, I do
not care for it.  Anything else on the carte du jour, but not shrapnel
for Bibi!  No!  For the big shells, yes; for the machine guns, yes; for
the Démoiselles Lebel, all right!  But no shrapnel, if you please——"

Sister Eila looked at him in smiling surprise.

"You would do well in the wards, with your cheerfulness," she said.  "I
always was certain that I should find in you some quality to admire."

Asticot looked at her, mouth open, as though thunderstruck.  Then, to
Sister Eila’s amazement, a blush turned his expressive features scarlet.

To be spoken to like that by a Sainte of Saint Vincent de Paul!  To be
admired by a Sister of Charity! He, Asticot, was commended, approved of,
encouraged!

It was too much for Asticot.  He turned redder and redder; he started to
relieve his terrible embarrassment by cursing, caught himself in time,
choked, passed his red bandanna over his battered visage, tried to
whistle, failed, and turned his ratty and distressed eyes upon Warner
for relief.

"Cheerfulness is a virtue," said Warner gravely. "You seem to possess
others, also; you have physical courage, you have exhibited gratitude
toward me which I scarcely expected.  It is a wonderful thing for a man,
Asticot, to be commended at all by Sister Eila."

Sister Eila smiled and flushed; then her face became serious and she
leaned forward and looked up at the Bristol biplane.  Under it the white
fleece of the shrapnel was still floating.

The ambulance stopped; hussars came riding on either side of it; an
officer gave an order to the driver, who turned out among some trees.

The road ahead was crowded with infantry deploying at a double—a
strange, gaunt, haggard regiment, white with dust, swinging out to
whistle signal into the patches of woodland and across the willow-set
meadows to the right.

Sullen sweating faces looked up everywhere among the bayonets; hard
eyes, thin lips, bullet heads, appeared through the drifting dust.

Here and there an officer spoke, and there seemed to be a ringing
undertone of iron in the blunt commands.

They came running in out of the stifling cloud of dust like a herd of
sulky vicious bulls goaded right and left by the penetrating whistle
calls and the menacing orders of their officers.

"One Eye!" yelled Asticot, waving his cap vigorously. "He!  Mon vieux!
How are you, old camp kettle?"

A soldier looked up with a frightful leer, waved his arm, and ran
forward.

"C’est un vieux copain à moi!" remarked Asticot proudly.  "M’sieu’,
voilà le Battalion d’Afrique!  Voilà Biribi qui passe!  Tonnerre de
Dieu!  There is Jacques! Hé!  Look yonder, M’sieu’!  That young one with
the head of a Lyceum lad!  Over there!  That is the gosse of
Wildresse!"

"What!"

"Certainly!  That is Jacques Wildresse of Biribi! Hé!  If he knew!  Eh?
Poor devil!  If he knew what we know!  And his scoundrel of a father out
there now in those woods!  C’est épatant!  Quoi!  B’en, such things
are true, it seems!  And when he looses his rifle, that lad, what if the
lead finds a billet in his own flesh and blood!  Eh?  Are such things
done by God in these days?"

An officer rode up and said to the chauffeur:

"Pull out of there.  Back out to the road!"

But, once on the road again, they were ordered into a pasture, then
ordered forward again and told to take station under a high bank crowned
with bushes.

No shells came over, but bullets did in whining streams.  The air
overhead was full of them, and the earth kept sliding from the bank
where the lead hit it with a slapping and sometimes a snapping sound,
like the incessant crack of a coach whip.

Firing had already begun in the woods whither the Battalion of Africa
had hurried with their flapping equipments and baggy uniforms white with
dust.  In the increasing roar of rifle fire the monotonous woodpecker
tapping of the machine guns was perfectly recognizable.

Branches, twigs, bits of bark, green leaves, came winnowing earthward in
a continual shower.  There was nothing to be seen anywhere except a few
mounted hussars walking their horses up and down the road, and the motor
cyclists who passed like skimming comets toward Ausone.

Sister Eila and Sister Félicité had descended to the road and seated
themselves on the grassy bank, where they conversed in low tones and
looked calmly into the woods.

Asticot, possessed of a whole pack of cigarettes, promenaded his good
fortune and swaggered up and down the road, ostentatiously coming to
salute when an automobile full of officers came screaming by.

The military chauffeur dozed over his steering wheel. Two white
butterflies fluttered persistently around his head, alighting sometimes
on the sleeves of his jacket, only to flit away again and continue their
whirling aerial dance around him.

For an hour the roar of the fusillade continued, not steadily, but
redoubling in intensity at times, then slackening again, but continuing
always.

Hussars came riding out from among the trees.  One of them said to
Warner that the ambulances across the Récollette were very busy.

Another, an officer, remarked that the Forest was swarming with Uhlans
who were fighting on foot. Asked by Asticot whether the Battalion
d’Afrique had gone in, the officer answered rather coolly that it was
going in then with the bayonet, and that the world would lose nothing if
it were annihilated.

After he had ridden on up the road, Asticot spat elaborately, and
employed the word "coquin"—a mild explosion in deference to Sister Eila.

More cavalry emerged from the woods, coming out in increasing numbers,
and all taking the direction of Ausone.

An officer halted and called out to Sister Eila.

"It goes very well for us.  The Bat. d’Af. got into them across the
river!  The Uhlans are running their horses!—Everywhere they’re swarming
out of the woods like driven hares!  We turn them by Ausone! A bientôt!
God bless the Grey Sisters!"

Everywhere cavalry came trampling and crowding out of the woods and
cantering away toward the north, hussars mostly, at first, then
chasseurs-à-cheval, an entire brigade of these splendid lancers,
pouring out into the road and taking the Ausone route at a gallop.

More motor cycles flashed past; then half a dozen automobiles, in which
officers were seated examining maps; then up the road galloped dragoon
lancers, wearing grey helmet slips and escorting three light field guns,
the drivers of which were also dragoons—a sight Warner had never before
seen.

An officer, wearing a plum-colored band of velvet around his red cap,
and escorted by a lancer, came from the direction of Ausone, leaned from
his saddle, and shook the ambulance chauffeur awake.

"Drive back toward Saïs," he said.  "They are taking care of our people
across the river, and you may be needed below!"  He saluted the Sisters
of Charity: "A biplane has fallen by the third pontoon.  You may be
needed there," he explained.

Sister Eila rose; her face was ashen.

"What biplane, Major?" she asked unsteadily.

"I don’t know.  British, I think.  It came down under their shrapnel
like a bird with a broken wing."

He rode on.  Warner aided the Sisters of Charity to their seats.  Then
he and Asticot jumped aboard.

As they turned slowly, two wheels describing a circle through the dusty
grass of the ditch, half a dozen mounted gendarmes trotted out of the
woods with sabers drawn.

Behind them came four mounted hussars.  A man walked in the midst of
them.  There was a rope around his neck, the end of which was attached
to the saddle of one of the troopers.

At the same moment a sort of howl came from Asticot; he half rose, his
fingers curling up like claws; his expression had become diabolical.
Then he sank back on his seat.

The ambulance rolled forward faster, faster toward Saïs, where a biplane
had come down into the river.

But Asticot had forgotten; and ever his blazing eyes were turned
backward where, among four troopers, Wildresse walked with a rope around
his neck and his clenched fists tied behind him.




                            *CHAPTER XXXVII*


The hussars conducted him toward headquarters. His huge hands were tied
behind him; there was a rope around his neck, the other end of which was
fastened to a hussar’s saddlebow.

The troopers rode slowly, carbines poised forward with butt on thigh.

Fantassins along the road looked on, somber-eyed; the murmured word
"spy" passed from lip to lip; the wounded turned their big, hollow eyes
on him; drivers, cyclists, cannoniers, looked upon him; but nobody
reviled him.  Their silence was more terrible.

He spoke only once, looking up at the horseman beside him, his deep,
harsh voice breaking the rigid silence:

"Hé!  Vous là-haut!  Supposition that I confess? ... That I make a
statement involving others.... That Cossack there at headquarters!  Do I
benefit?"

The cavalryman did not even glance at him.

"Tas de casse-geules!" rumbled Wildresse, and spat into the dust.

They crossed the pontoon, the troopers dismounting and leading their
horses, then into the saddle again, across the river meadows, and so
around to the lodge gates.

Across the road they were opening trenches for dead horses, and on the
plateau hundreds of soldiers’ graves were being dug.

Wildresse glanced at them askance, and his bull neck roughened with
shivers as he thought of the quick-lime.

It was then that the first convulsive twitch jerked his face and left
the right eye turned slightly outward in a sort of cast.  After that
something seemed to loosen in his cheek, and his jaw was inclined to sag
unless controlled with conscious effort.

Fantassins on guard passed forward prisoner and escort with monotonous
formulae; the sentry on the terrace summoned assistance; a staff officer
came; two line soldiers arrived later, halted, fixed bayonets, and
loaded their pieces.

Half a dozen staff officers in the music room rose and stepped aside,
opening a lane to the table where General of Division Raoul Delisle sat
at the telephone. A cool-eyed major of dragoons relieved him of the
apparatus; the General turned and looked up at Wildresse.

"You are Constantine Wildresse?"

"Yes, General."

"Otherwise Constantine Volmark?"

"Well—yes!  My name is Volmark."

"Which name do you claim?" asked Delisle dryly.

"Volmark.  It is useless to deny it—no good to deceive anybody."

"You are Austrian?"

"And Greek, on my mother’s side."

"Greek?"

"That is—she was Eurasian."

"From—Tenedos?"

But Wildresse had suddenly caught sight of Count Cassilis.

"You!" he cried.  "Now, then, will you do anything for me?"

Cassilis stared.

"Will you?" demanded Wildresse loudly.

Cassilis glanced at Delisle and tapped his forehead with a bored air.

"Oh!" shouted Wildresse.  "So that’s it, eh?  I am crazy, am I?"

He passed a thick, dry tongue over his lips, made an effort; looked hard
at Delisle:

"Yes, mon Général; I am Constantine Volmark, born in Tenedos.  What
then, if you please?"

"You are known.  No court is necessary.  You will be shot immediately."

"Circumstances—in extenuation——"

"None!"

"And if I confess——"

"It is useless."

"A statement involving others, unsuspected——"

"What?"

"It is important.  Nations are involved," muttered Wildresse.  "An
officer in your entourage—eh?  Is there any immunity in such things,
General?"

"No."

"No—immunity?"

"No."

"I am not permitted to make a statement?"

"I am here to listen.  I always have time to listen."

"Then I may speak freely?"

"Yes, you may make a statement if you choose."

"Accusations?"

"If you choose."

"It will not help my case if I prove to you of what filth chancelleries
are made?  If I expose to you what the faith of governments amounts
to?—If I show you a man who has betrayed everybody since his boyhood—an
officer here—your comrade and friend?  All this will not help my case?"

"No."

"And yet I may make my statement if I choose?  Is that the situation,
General?"

"Yes."

"And I may denounce whom I please?  I am free to accuse, am I?  Free to
confess and involve others?"

"Yes."

"Hé!  Nom d’un nom!  Comme vous est un bon bougre!!" broke out Wildresse
in his harsh and dreadful voice.  "I am to die, am I?  So that’s it, is
it? Then I’ll pull down everybody and everything I can while I have the
chance.  Men?  Does it matter so much about a man or two if one can set
the treacherous nations flying at one another’s throats?  There’s a real
revenge!  I’ll poison the belief in nations in you all!—You with your
alliances and leagues and ententes!—That’s where you’ll not forget me!
That’s where your half crazy Kings and diseased Emperors will turn
cross-eyed with suspicion!  That’s where there’ll be a ratty scuttling
to cover in your dirty chancelleries! I’ll strip the orders and
epaulettes off one or two idols before I finish.  And I want witnesses!
I demand witnesses to confront me——"

"Be quiet, Wildresse.  Whom do you desire to confront?"

"You—for one!  Then, the educated Kurd, yonder! That Cossack there—that
man over there in a green uniform, who pretends to be a Christian!—That
bashi-bazouk of Abdul—Major-General Count Cassilis, Russian Military
Observer at division headquarters!"

"Very well."

"And I demand to be confronted with others, too. That Yankee painter,
Warner.  Let him carry the poison I spill back among his own people.
They won’t forget.  And I want the British officer here, Captain Gray!
Let him report to his Government what I say, and see if it can swallow
it! ... That’s a sufficiency of men....  And for my supplement I want
the Countess de Moidrey—so that the noble faubourg shall feel the poison
in its veins.... And, as proof documentary of the statement I shall
make, I demand to be confronted with the girl Philippa!"

"Is that all?"

"No....  The mercy, the extenuation denied me by the military autocracy
of France, I shall seek from another.  I require two things only before
I die: understanding and absolution from—my son."

"Who?"

"My only son, Jacques Wildresse, 6th Company, Battalion of
Africa!—Jacques—of Biribi!  That’s all I want—so that he understands and
pardons.  As for you others—je m’en——"

The staff officer at the telephone suddenly bent over and whispered to
the General.  He listened, nodded, looked calmly at Wildresse.

"The soldier Wildresse, 6th Company, Battalion d’Afrique, was unable to
bear your disgrace.  He is this moment reported dead by his own hand."

A terrible spasm shot like lightning across the prisoner’s visage,
drawing his whole face to one side. Slowly the flaccid muscles resumed
their natural places; the screwed up features loosened.

"That’s a lie," mumbled Wildresse; and his big, hairless head doddered
for a moment.

At a nod from Delisle a soldier picked up the wrist rope, coiled it, and
gave it a slight pull.

"March!" he said briefly to his prisoner.

Count Cassilis came over, faintly amused at the scene, to judge by his
expression.

"There’s a good place under the north terrace," he said languidly.  "You
don’t intend to listen, I fancy, to this statement he wants to make....
Do you?"

"Oh, yes," said the General.  "It’s my business to listen always."

He sent an aid to find Warner and Gray, and to beg the honor of Madame
de Moidrey’s presence and of Philippa’s.  Then he smiled pleasantly at
Count Cassilis.

"Yes," he said, "statements always should be listened to.  It’s the man
who doesn’t care to hear who makes the most terrible mistakes in life.
I can’t afford to make mistakes.  I’d rather risk being bored.  So, if
you don’t mind, my dear General——"

"Not in the least," said General Count Cassilis languidly.

They had conducted Wildresse into the small, semi-circular library in
the northeast tower, the entrance to which gave on the terrace and
billiard room.

Gray and Warner appeared presently with the Countess and Philippa;
General Delisle went to them immediately, and remained in close
consultation with them.

"It may prove of some military importance to us; it may prove of no
value whatever—this statement he desires to make," concluded the
General.  "Of course it is not possible for me to guess.... And yet,
Madame, if there is a chance that the statement might be of value, may I
not venture to hope that you and Mademoiselle are willing to submit to
this disagreeable proceeding in the interests of France?"

"Certainly," said the Countess, and linked her arm in Philippa’s.

The girl was a little pale, a trifle nervous, too.  She glanced at
Warner, tried to smile, then stood with lips slightly compressed and
head high, looking steadily at the soldier who stood before the closed
door of the little library.

"If you are ready," said the General quietly.

So they went in, one by one, very noiselessly, as though somebody had
just died in there.  But their entrance did not arouse Wildresse from
his abstraction.

Two red-legged fantassins, with fixed bayonets and loaded rifles,
stood behind him.

The man himself sat huddled on a chair in a corner, his great, blunt,
murderous-looking hands hanging crossed between his knees, his big,
hairless head of a butcher wagging slightly as though palsied.

There was not an atom of color left in his face, except for the
pockmarks which were picked out in sickly greenish grey all over his
flabby features.

He did not look up when they entered, his little, wicked black eyes,
which had become dull and covered with a bluish glaze, remained fixed as
though he were listening, and his heavy lower lip sagged.

"Wildresse," said General Delisle.

There was no response; a soldier stirred the prisoner to attention with
the butt of his piece.

"Stand up," he said.

Wildresse, aroused, got to his great feet stupidly, looked around,
caught sight of Philippa, and silently snarled—merely opened his mouth a
little way till his upper lip curled back, emitting no sound
whatever—then he caught sight of the green uniform of General Count
Cassilis, and instantly the old glare blazed up in his eyes.

"By God, the Cossack!" he growled; and the heavy voice vibrated
ominously through the room.

Warner led Philippa to a chair as General Delisle seated the Countess.
Wildresse, his heavy arms hanging inert, stood looking from one man to
another, as they found scats in turn, on sofas or on chairs—Delisle,
Warner, Cassilis, Gray.

"Make your statement," said General Delisle dryly. And he added: "If it
is a long one, you may seat yourself."

Wildresse shot a terrible look at the Russian Military Observer.

"For the last time," he said hoarsely, "will you do something for me?
... For the last time?"

Cassilis lifted his expressive eyebrows and glanced rather wearily at
Delisle.

"You know!" bellowed Wildresse in a sudden fury. "You know what I can
say!  If I say it, Russia and her allies will have an enemy instead of
another ally! If I speak, your country will earn the contempt of France
and of England too; and their implacable enmity after this war is ended.
If I speak!  Will you do something for me?"

Cassilis, polishing his monocle with a heavily scented handkerchief,
shrugged.

"Very well!" roared Wildresse.  "It is death, then, is it?  You filthy,
treacherous Cossack, I’ll do what I can to ruin you and your lying
Government before I pass out!—You Moslem at heart—you bashi-bazouk——"

"Moderate your voice and your manner!" said General Delisle very
quietly.

Wildresse turned his great, hairless head; his face had become suddenly
chalky again; he seated himself heavily; his big hands, doubled into
fists, fell on either knee.

For a moment the slight, palsy-like movement of the head began again,
the black eyes lost their luster, the heavy lip became pendulous.  But
he made an effort, and a change came over him; the muscles tightened
visibly; he lifted the bulk of his great shoulders and sat erect,
looking questioningly from one to another.

Then he began to speak without preamble, reciting his statement in an
accentless, pedantic way which seemed to lend to what he said a somber
sort of truth—the corroborative accuracy of unimaginative stupidity,
which carries with it conviction to the minds of listeners.

He said:

"Count Cassilis knows.  Like every Cossack he is at heart a Mussulman
and a bashi-bazouk.  Ask Enver Bey.  He knows more than any white man,
this Cassilis.  He knows who sent the bashi-bazouks into the province of
Philippopolis in ’76, where half a hundred villages were burnt and
twelve thousand Bulgarian men, women, and children were murdered.  It
was this man’s father who did that!"

"A lie," remarked Cassilis, politely concealing a yawn.  "General, if
this rambling statement interests you——"

"Pardon, Count——" interposed Delisle, with cool courtesy.  And to
Wildresse: "Go on!"

Without even lifting his eyes, and as though he had been unconscious of
the interruption, Wildresse went on reciting:

"It was the Sultan’s business—that affair in Bulgaria.  Your father
played double traitor; the Sultan never knew; the war provoked by Count
Serge Cassilis followed; Russia beat Turkey into the mud and slush.
Count Serge got double pay.  Your Czar wanted Bulgaria to become a free
state full of gratitude to Russia; and he tried to carry things with a
high hand at San Stefano.  You were not there!  It was Count Serge.
Where I first laid eyes on you, and you on me, was at Slivnitza.  And
after that I did your dirty jobs for you.....  Very well; it warms up;
Bulgaria becomes free—except she must tip her hat to the Sultan.  Eh!
You Russians didn’t like that!  All the same, Bulgaria becomes free to
choose and elect her own Prince. Only—she doesn’t want the Russian
candidate—you!

"Alexander of Battenberg—Cousin of the Hesse Grand Duke—he was the
first.  Your Czar didn’t like him, eh?  They made a god of him, didn’t
they, in Sofia?  And you Russians began to hate him.  So did that
rickety old gambler of Servia, King Milan.  Who started that Servian
fool after Alexander of Battenberg? And what did he get for his foolery?
He got his empty head broken at Slivnitza—he and his swineherd
army—kicked headlong through the Dragoman Pass!  And that settled the
Roumanian question.  Eh? Swine and swineherd kicked into the lap of Holy
Russia....  And yours was double pay!

"Then you came sneaking back into the scene, Count Cassilis.  I did
your filthy work for you.  You taught me how double pay is earned!

"Prince Alexander of Battenberg was the idol of Bulgaria.  I don’t know
who gave you your orders, but I got mine from you!  Was it Abdul
Hamid—Abdul the Damned—who gave you your orders?

"Russian roubles paid me and the men I used. Maybe the Bank of
Constantinople paid you....  And so we broke into his palace—the young
prince Alexander’s—and carried him across the frontier.  You sat on your
big horse among your Cossacks and saw us bring the Prince of Bulgaria
into Russia.  And your pockets full of Turkish sweetmeats!—Like a
prostitute!

"That time you meant murder; but others were afraid.  Alexander of
Battenberg was allowed to abdicate.

"Then, for the world, history went on to the summer of ’87, when that
Saxe-Coburg Prince was elected—Ferdinand, who now talks to himself for
want of an audience, and who calls himself the Czar of all the
Bulgars—he of the long nose and beard, and the eye of a wild pig.

"Russia pretended to hate him.  Does she?  You know!

"But history gives us only two Bulgarian princes from 1879 to 1915.  How
is that, Count Cassilis? Were there only two?—Alexander of Battenberg,
whom you were afraid to murder, and this fat-jowled Ferdinand of
today——"

"The man is crazy, I think," remarked Count Cassilis to the Countess.

Wildresse merely gazed at him out of lackluster eyes, and went on
speaking with monotonous and terrible simplicity:

"History has lied to the world.  There was another prince after
Alexander.  Every chancellery in Europe knows it, but never mentions it.
A few others outside know it; you among others....  And I.

"England and France found him.  The Templars of Tenedos were not all
dead.  The race of the hereditary Prince of Marmora was not extinct—the
race of that man whose head Saladin cut off with his own hand—the race
of Djani the Paladin, and of Raymond de Châtillon—the Princess of
Marmora!  England found him—Philip de Châtillon—and forced him on Russia
and Germany and Austria in secret conference. The Porte promised assent;
it had to.  Before he was presented for election to the Bulgarian
people—a matter of routine merely—he was crowned and consecrated, and
you know it!  He was already as truly the ruler of Bulgaria as your Czar
is today of all the Russias.  And you know that, too!  And that time,
whoever gave you your orders, and whatever they may have been, my
orders from you spelled murder!"

There was a moment’s silence; Cassilis had turned his sneering, pallid
face on Wildresse as though held by some subtle and horrible
fascination, and he sat so, screwing up his golden mustache, his fishy
blue eyes fixed, his lips as red as blood, and his wide, thin ears
standing out translucent against the lighted lamp behind him.

Delisle, Warner, Gray, watched Wildresse with breathless attention; the
Countess de Moidrey sat with Philippa’s hand in hers, staring at this
man who was about to die, and who continued to talk.

Only Philippa’s face remained outwardly tranquil, yet she also was
terribly intent upon what this man was now saying.

But Wildresse’s head began to wag again with the palsy-like movement; he
muttered, half to himself:

"That’s how Philip de Châtillon died—Prince Philip of Bulgaria—that’s
how he died—there in the palace with his young wife—the way they did for
Draga, the Queen—and Milan’s son—the Servian swine who reigned before
this old fighter, Peter!—You know, Count Cassilis!  So do I—and
Vasilief knew.  We both knew because we did it for you—tore the
bedclothes off—God!  How that young man fought!  We stabbed his
red-haired wife first—but when we stretched that powerful young neck of
his, the blood spouted to the ceiling——"

The Countess made a gesture as though she were about to rise; Philippa’s
hand crushed hers, drew her back.

"That’s how they died—those two young things in the bedroom of the
Palace there....  I know what my orders were....  There was a child—a
little girl six years old....  Vasilief went to the Ghetto and cut the
throat of a six-year-old....  That’s what we buried with Prince Philip
of Bulgaria and his wife.... I took the little Princess out of her bed
and kept her for myself....  In case of trouble.  Also, I thought she
might mean money some day.  I waited too long; it seems she was not
worth killing—no use for blackmail.  And the French Government wouldn’t
listen, and the British were afraid to listen.... What’s proclaimed dead
remains dead to Governments, even if they have to kill it again.

"That is my statement.  Vasilief and I killed Prince Philip of Bulgaria,
and his red-haired Princess, too.... In their bedroom at the Palace it
was done.... But I took their little girl with me....  I had to knife
Vasilief to do it.  He wanted too much.  I strangled him and turned my
knife inside him—several times.  And took the little girl away with
me—the little six-year-old Princess Philippa——"  He lifted his heavy
head and stared at Philippa: "There she sits!"

Philippa stood straight up, her grey eyes fixed on Wildresse in terrible
concentration.

He wagged his head monotonously; a tic kept snatching at the upper lip,
baring his yellow dog-teeth, so that he seemed to be laughing.

"There’s a bag full of the child’s clothing—your
clothing—toys—photographs—God knows what. There’s a safe in the cellar
of the Café Biribi.  The fire won’t harm it.  I kept the pieces of
identification there—against a time of need.  England wouldn’t listen
and wouldn’t pay anything.  France was afraid for her alliance.  There
was nothing in it for Germany.  Russia shrugged and yawned—as you do,
Count Cassilis—and then tried to kill me.

"As for the long-nosed wild pig of Bulgaria—do you think I had a chance
with him?  Not with Ferdy.  Non pas!  I couldn’t reach the people.  That
was the trouble.  That is where I failed.  Who would believe me without
my pieces of identification?  And I was afraid to take them into
Sofia—afraid to cross the frontier with them—dared not even let France
know I had them—or any other Power.  They’d have had my throat cut for
me inside of forty-eight hours!  Eh, Cassilis?  You know how it is
done....  And that’s all....  They’ve burned the Café Biribi.  But the
safe is in the cellar....  I’ve done what I could to revenge myself on
every side.  I’ve sold France, sold Germany, sold Russia when I was
able.  Tell them that in Petrograd!  I had no chance to sell England....
At first I never meant to harm the girl Philippa.... Philippa de
Châtillon!  Only when she turned on me, then I meant to twist her
neck....  I waited too long, talked too much.  That man—the Yankee,
yonder—saved her neck for her——"

His head was wagging by jerks; the tic stretched his loosened mouth,
twitching it into awful and silent laughter, and the rictus mortis
distorted his sagging features as the soldiers took him by both arms,
shaking him into comprehension.

He shambled to his feet, looking at everybody and seeing nothing.

"Philippa de Châtillon, Princess of the Bulgars!" he mumbled....  "The
girl Philippa, gentlemen, caissière de cabaret! ... Her father died by
the Palace window, and her mother on the black marble floor!—Very young
they were, gentlemen—very young.... And I think very much in love——"

They took him out, still mumbling, the spasm playing and jerking at his
sagging jaw.




                           *CHAPTER XXXVIII*


The sun was a crimson disk through the dust; a haze possessed the world;
forest and hill, meadow and river, faded to phantoms in the unreal
light.

The Château des Oiseaux was very quiet.  General and staff had departed;
sentries, telegraphers, wires, switchboard—the sky-guns on the northern
terrace, the great racing automobiles, cyclists, motor cyclists,
fantassins, cavalry—all were gone into the magic glory of the east.

The park was empty and still; only traces remained where green leaves
curled up and grew brittle, and drooping boughs withered on rustic
scaffoldings; where lawn and drive showed the fresh scars of wheels and
hoofs; and where trusses of hay and straw and glistening heaps of
spilled oats marked the abandoned lines.

So far to the north and east had the sound of cannon receded that only
at intervals, when the wind was right, was it distinguishable at all as
a soft, almost inaudible thudding along the horizon.

No gun shots troubled the August quiet; the shrill chirring of insects
from every stubble field accentuated it.

Very few soldiers were to be seen; fantassins mounted guard by the
pontoons; vedettes were visible along the river meadows and on the low
hills beyond the Récollette.  Patrols rode slowly on the Saïs highway;
wagons still rolled eastward through the sunset light, or went into park
in sheltered places; few cyclists went south, fewer still whizzed by
into the north and east.

Just at sunset a squadron of hussars passed the lodge gate, walking
their horses.  An officer turned his mount, spurred through the open
gate, and galloped up the drive to the Château.

He dismounted at the foot of the terrace; his horse stood, turning a
beautiful, gentle head around toward the distant gate where his comrades
were slowly passing.

His rider, mounting the terrace steps two at a time, encountered Madame
de Moidrey and Warner, paid his respects almost breathlessly, but with
perfect restraint of an impatience impossible to conceal.

"And Captain Halkett?" he inquired.  "I hear that he was not injured
when his biplane came down into the river?"

"He was stunned, that’s all," said Warner quietly. "His mechanic was
badly bruised, but not seriously. The plane is a wreck."

The Vicomte d’Aurès stood a moment, twisting one glove between his
fingers, then, with winning dignity, but turning very red, he said to
the Countess:

"I have come also to make my adieux to—Peggy—if I have your
permission——"

The Countess nodded:

"She is in there....  You have my permission ... and approval."

He saluted her hand very simply, straightened up, took faultless leave
of Warner, turned, and entered the house.  Peggy rose from the music
stool and came toward him in the dim rose light.  They met as naturally
and unconsciously as two children; he took both her hands; she released
them and drew them around his neck and laid her face against his breast.

They had only a few moments.

Ethra de Moidrey and Warner saw his departure from where they were
strolling along the parapet of the lily garden.  He left the park at a
