comedy, and of having found a greater cruelty in the sorrows which
light natures undergo, as unfit and disproportionate for them.
Disaster, I tacitly decided, was the fit lot of serious natures; when
it befell the frivolous it was more than they ought to have been made
to bear; it was not of their quality. Then by the mental zigzagging
which all thinking is I thought of myself and whether I was of this
make or that. If it was more creditable to be of serious stuff than
frivolous, though I had no agency in choosing, I asked myself how I
should be affected by the sight of certain things, like the common
calamities reported every day in the papers which I had hitherto
escaped seeing. By another zigzag I thought that I had never known a
day so close and stifling and humid. I then reflected upon the
comparative poverty of the French language, which I was told had only
that one word for the condition we could call by half a dozen
different names, as humid, moist, damp, sticky, reeking, sweltering,
and so on. I supposed that a book of synonyms would give even more
English adjectives; I thought of looking, but my book of synonyms was
at the back of my table, and I would have to rise for it. Then I
questioned whether the French language was so destitute of adjectives,
after all; I preferred to doubt it rather than rise.

With no more logic than those other vagaries had, I realized that the
person who had started me in them was no longer in the room. He must
have gone outdoors, and I visualized him in the street pushing about,
crowded hither and thither, and striking against other people as he
went and came. I was glad I was not in his place; I believed I should
have fallen in a faint from the heat, as I had once almost done in New
York on a day like that. From this my mind jumped to the thought of
sudden death in general. Was it such a happy thing as people
pretended? For the person himself, yes, perhaps; but not for those
whom he had left at home, say, in the morning, and who were expecting
him at home in the evening. I granted that it was generally accepted
as the happiest death, but no one that had tried it had said so. To be
sure, one was spared a long sickness, with suffering from pain and
from the fear of death. But one had no time for making one's peace
with God, as it used to be said, and after all there might be
something in death-bed repentance, although cultivated people no
longer believed in it. Then I reverted to the family unprepared for
the sudden death: the mother, the wife, the children. I struggled to
get away from the question, but the vagaries which had lightly
dispersed themselves before clung persistently to the theme now. I
felt that it was like a bad dream. That was a promising diversion. Had
one any sort of volition in the quick changes of dreams? One was aware
of finding a certain nightmare insupportable, and of breaking from it
as by main force, and then falling into a deep, sweet sleep. Was death
something like waking from a dream such as that, which this life
largely was, and then sinking into a long, restful slumber, and
possibly never waking again?

Suddenly I perceived that the man had come back. He might have been
there some time with his effect of fussing and his pathetic sense of
unwelcome. I had not noticed; I only knew that he stood at the
half-open door with the knob of it in his hand looking into the room
blankly.

As he stood there he lifted his hand and rubbed it across his forehead
as if in a sort of daze from the heat. I recognized the gesture as one
very characteristic of myself; I had often rubbed my hand across my
forehead on a close, hot day like that. Then the man suddenly vanished
as if he had sunk through the floor.

People who had not noticed that he was there noticed now that he was
not there. Some made a crooked rush toward the place where he had
been, and one of those helpful fellow-men who are first in all needs
lifted his head and mainly carried him into the wide space which the
street stairs mounted to, and laid him on the floor. It was darker, if
not cooler there, and we stood back to give him the air which he drew
in with long, deep sighs. One of us ran down the stairs to the street
for a doctor, wherever he might be found, and ran against a doctor at
the last step.

The doctor came and knelt over the prostrate figure and felt its
pulse, and put his ear down to its heart. It, which has already in my
telling ceased to be he, drew its breath in those long suspirations
which seemed to search each more profoundly than the last the lurking
life, drawing it from the vital recesses and expelling it in those
vast sighs.

They went on and on, and established in our consciousness the
expectation of indefinite continuance. We knew that the figure there
was without such consciousness as ours, unless it was something so
remotely withdrawn that it could not manifest itself in any signal to
our senses. There was nothing tragical in the affair, but it had a
surpassing dignity. It was as if the figure was saying something to
the life in each of us which none of us would have words to interpret,
speaking some last message from the hither side of that bourne from
which there is no returning.

There was a clutch upon my heart which tightened with the slower and
slower succession of those awful breaths. Then one was drawn and
expelled and then another was not drawn. I waited for the breathing to
begin again, and it did not begin. The doctor rose from kneeling over
the figure that had been a man, and uttered, with a kind of
soundlessness, "Gone," and mechanically dusted his fingers with the
thumbs of each hand from their contact with what had now become all
dust forever.

That helpfulest one among us laid a cloth over the face, and the rest
of us went away. It was finished. The man was done with the sorrow
which, in our sad human order, must now begin for those he loved and
who loved him. I tried vaguely to imagine their grief for not having
been uselessly with him at the last, and I could not. The incident
remained with me like an experience, something I had known rather than
seen. I could not alienate it by my pity and make it another's. They
whom it must bereave seemed for the time immeasurably removed from the
fact.




                                 VIII

                             THE BOARDERS


The boarder who had eloped was a student at the theological seminary,
and he had really gone to visit his family, so that he had a fairly
good conscience in giving this color to the fact that he was leaving
the place permanently because he could not bear it any longer. It was
a shade of deceit to connive with his room-mate for the custody of his
carpet-bag and the few socks and collars and the one shirt and summer
coat which did not visibly affect its lankness when gathered into it
from his share of the bureau-drawers; but he did not know what else to
do, and he trusted to a final forgiveness when all the facts were
considered by a merciful providence. His board was fully paid, and he
had suffered long. He argued with his room-mate that he could do no
good by remaining, and that he would have stayed if he could have
believed there was any use. Besides, the food was undermining his
health, and the room with that broken window had given him a cold
already. He had a right to go, and it was his duty to himself and the
friends who were helping him through the seminary not to get sick.

He did not feel that he had convinced his room-mate, who took charge
of his carpet-bag and now sat with it between his feet waiting the
signal of the fugitive's surreptitious return for it. He was a
vague-looking young man, presently in charge of the "Local and
Literary" column of the one daily paper of the place, and he had just
explained to the two other boarders who were watching with him for the
event that he was not certain whether it was the supper, or the
anxiety of the situation, or just what it was that was now affecting
his digestion.

The fellow-boarders, who sat on the edge of the bed, in default of the
one unbroken chair which their host kept for himself, as easier than a
mattress to get up from suddenly, did not take sides for or against
him in his theories of his discomfort. One of them glanced at the
broken window.

"How do you glaze that in the daytime? You can't use the bolster
then?"

"I'm not in, much, in the daytime."

It was a medical student who had spoken, but he was now silent, and
the other said, after they had listened to the twitter of a piano in
the parlor under the room, "That girl's playing will be the death of
me."

"Not if her mother's cooking isn't," the medical student, whose name
was Wallace, observed with a professional effect.

"Why don't you prescribe something for it?" the law student suggested.

"Which?" Wallace returned.

"I don't believe anything could cure the playing. I must have meant
the cooking."

"You're a promising young jurist, Blakeley. What makes you think I
could cure the cooking?"

"Oh, I just wondered. The sick one gets paler every day. I wonder what
ails her."

"She's not my patient."

"Oh! Hippocratic oath. Rather fine of you, Wallace. But if she's not
your patient--"

"Listen!" their host interrupted, sharply. After a joint silence he
added: "No. It must have been the sleet."

"Well, Briggs," the law student said, "if it must have been the sleet,
what mustn't it have been?"

"Oh!" Briggs explained, "I thought it was Phillips. He was to throw a
handful of gravel at the window."

"And then you were to run down with his bag and help him to make his
escape from a friendless widow. Well, I don't know that I blame him.
If I didn't owe two weeks' board, I'd leave myself--though I hope I
shouldn't sneak away. And if Mrs. Betterson didn't owe Wallace, here,
two weeks' board, we'd walk off together arm-in-arm at high noon. I
can't understand how he ever came to advance her the money."

Wallace rose from the bed, and kicked each leg out to dislodge the
tight trousers of the middle eighteen-fifties which had caught on the
tops of his high boots. "You're a tonguey fellow, Blakeley. But you'll
find, as you live long, that there are several things you can't
explain."

"I'll tell you what," Blakeley said. "We'll get Mrs. Betterson to take
your loan for my debt, and we'll go at once."

"You can propose something like that before the justice of the peace
in your first pettifogging case."

"I believe Wallace likes to stay. And yet he must know from his
anatomical studies, better than the animals themselves, what cuts of
meat the old lady gives us. I shouldn't be so fastidious about the
cuts, if she didn't treat them all with pork gravy. Well, I mustn't be
too hard on a lone widow that I owe board to. I don't suppose his diet
had anything to do with the deep damnation of the late Betterson's
taking off. Does that stove of yours smoke, Briggs?"

"Not when there isn't a fire in it."

"I just asked. Wallace's stove smokes, fire or no fire. It takes
advantage of the old lady's indebtedness to him. There seem," he
added, philosophically, "to be just two occupations open to widows who
have to support themselves: millinery business for young ones,
boarding-housing for old ones. It is rather restricted. What do you
suppose she puts into the mince-pies? Mince-pies are rather a mystery
at the best."

Wallace was walking up and down the room still in some difficulty with
his trousers-legs, and kicking out from time to time to dislodge them.
"How long should you say Blakeley had been going on?" he asked Briggs.

"You never can tell," Briggs responded. "I think he doesn't know
himself."

"Well said, youthful scribe! With such listeners as you two, I could
go on forever. Consider yourselves clapped jovially on the back, my
gentle Briggs; I can't get up to do it from the hollow of your bed
here. As you were saying, the wonder about these elderly widows who
keep boarding-houses is the domestic dilapidation they fall into. If
they've ever known how to cook a meal or sweep a room or make a bed,
these arts desert them in the presence of their boarders. Their only
aim in life seems to be preventing the escape of their victims, and
they either let them get into debt for their board or borrow money
from them. But why do they always have daughters, and just two of
them: one beautiful, fashionable, and devoted to the piano; the other
willing to work, but pale, pathetic, and incapable of the smallest
achievement with the gridiron or the wash-board? It's a thing to make
a person want to pay up and leave, even if he's reading law. If
Wallace, here, had the spirit of a man, he would collect the money
owing him, and--"

"Oh, stop it, Blakeley!" Wallace stormed. "I should think you'd get
tired of your talk yourself."

"Well, as you insist--"

Blakeley began again, but Briggs jumped to his feet and caught up
Phillips's carpet-bag, and looked wildly around. "It's gravel, this
time."

"Well, take your hat, Briggs. It may be a prolonged struggle. But
remember that Phillips's cause is just. He's paid his board, and he
has a perfect right to leave. She has no right to prevent him. Think
of that when the fray is at its worst. But try to get him off quietly,
if you can. Deal gently with the erring, while you stand firm for
boarders' rights. Remember that Phillips is sneaking off in order to
spare her feelings and has come pretty near prevarication in the
effort. Have you got your shoes off? No; it's your rubbers on. That's
better."

Briggs faltered with the carpet-bag in his hand. "Boys, I don't like
this. It feels--clandestine."

"It looks that way, too," Blakeley admitted. "It has an air of
conspiracy."

"I've got half a mind to let Phillips come in and get his bag
himself."

"It would serve him right, though I don't know why, exactly. He has a
right to spare his own feelings if he's sparing hers at the same time.
Of course he's afraid she'll plead with him to stay, and he'll have to
be inexorable with her; and if I understand the yielding nature of
Phillips he doesn't like to be inexorable."

There came another sharp rattle of small pebbles at the window.

"Oh, confound him!" Briggs cried under his breath, and he shuffled out
of the room and crept noiselessly down the stairs to the front door.
The door creaked a little in opening, and he left it ajar. The current
of cold air that swept up to the companions he had left behind at his
room door brought them the noise of his rush down the gravel walk to
the gate and a noise there as of fugitive steps on the pavement
outside.

A weak female tread made itself heard in the hallway, followed by a
sharp voice from a door in the rear. "Was it the cat, Jenny?"

"No; the door just seems to have blown open. The catch is broken."

Swift, strong steps advanced with an effect of angry suspicion. "I
don't believe it blew open. More likely the cat clawed it open."

The steps which the voice preceded seemed to halt at the open door, as
if falling back from it, and Wallace and Blakeley, looking down, saw
by the dim flare of the hall lamp the face of Briggs confronting the
face of Mrs. Betterson from the outer darkness. They saw the sick
girl, whose pallor they could not see, supporting herself by the
stairs-post with one hand and pressing the other to her side.

"Oh! It's you, Mr. Briggs," the landlady said, with a note of
inculpation. "What made you leave the door open?"

The spectators could not see the swift change in Briggs's face from
terror to savage desperation, but they noted it in his voice.
"Yes--yes! It's me. I just--I was just-- No I won't, either! You'd
better know the truth. I was taking Phillips's bag out to him. He was
afraid to come in for it, because he didn't want to see you, the
confounded coward! He's left."

"Left? And he said he would stay till spring! Didn't he, Jenny?"

"I don't remember--" the girl weakly gasped, but her mother did not
heed her in her mounting wrath.

"A great preacher he'll make. What'd he say he left for?"

"He didn't say. Will you let me up-stairs?"

"No, I won't, till you tell me. You know well enough, between you."

"Yes, I do know," Briggs answered, savagely. "He left because he was
tired of eating sole-leather for steak, and fire-salt pork, and tar
for molasses, and butter strong enough to make your nose curl, and
drinking burnt-rye slops for coffee and tea-grounds for tea. And so am
I, and so are all of us, and--and-- Will you let me go up-stairs now,
Mrs. Betterson?"

His voice had risen, not so high but that another voice from the
parlor could prevail over it: a false, silly, girl voice, with the
twitter of piano-keys as from hands swept over the whole board to help
drown the noise of the quarrel in the hall. "Oh yes, I'll sing it
again, Mr. Saunders, if you sa-a-a-y."

Then this voice lifted itself in a silly song, and a silence followed
the voices in the hall, except for the landlady's saying, brokenly:
"Well, all right, Mr. Briggs. You can go up to your room for all me.
I've tried to be a mother to you boys, but if this is what I get for
it!"

The two at the threshold of Briggs's room retreated within, as he
bounded furiously upon them and slammed the door after him. It started
open again, from the chronic defect of the catch, but he did not care.

"Well, Briggs, I hope you feel better now," Blakeley began. "You
certainly told her the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
truth. But I wonder you had the heart to do it before that sick girl."

"I didn't have the heart," Briggs shouted. "But I had the courage,
and if you say one word more, Blakeley, I'll throw you out of the
room. I'm going to leave! My board's paid if yours isn't."

He went wildly about, catching things down here and there from nails
and out of drawers. The tears stood in his eyes. But suddenly he
stopped and listened to the sounds from below--the sound of the silly
singing in the parlor, and the sound of sobbing in the dining-room,
and the sound of vain entreating between the sobs.

"Oh, I don't suppose I'm fit to keep a boarding-house. I never was a
good manager; and everybody imposes on me, and everything is so dear,
and I don't know what's good from what's bad. Your poor father used
to look after all that."

"Well, don't you cry, now, mother! It'll all come right, you'll see.
I'm getting so I can go and do the marketing now; and if Minervy would
only help a little--"

"No, no!" the mother's voice came anxiously up. "We can get along
without her; we always have. I know he likes her, and I want to give
her every chance. We can get along. If she was on'y married, once,
we could all live--" A note of self-comforting gradually stole into
the mother's voice, and the sound of a nose violently blown seemed to
note a period in her suffering.

"Oh, mother, I wish I was well!" The girl's voice came with a burst of
wild lamenting.

"'Sh, 'sh, deary!" her mother entreated. "He'll hear you, and
then--"

"'Hazel Dell'?" the silly voice came from the parlor, with a sound of
fright in it. "I can sing it without the music." The piano keys
twittered the prelude and the voice sang:

          "In the Hazel Dell my Nelly's sleeping,
            Nelly loved so long!"

Wallace went forward and shut the door. "It's a shame to overhear
them! What are you going to do, you fellows?"

"I'm going to stay," Briggs said, "if it kills me. At least I will
till Minervy's married. I don't care what the grub's like. I can
always get a bite at the restaurant."

"If anybody will pay up my back board, I'll stay, too," Blakeley
followed. "I should like to make a virtue of it, and, as things stand,
I can't."

"All right," Wallace said, and he went out and down the stairs. Then
from the dining-room below his heavy voice offering encouragement came
up, in terms which the others could not make out.

"I'll bet he's making her another advance," Blakeley whispered, as if
he might be overheard by Wallace.

"I wish I could have made to do it," Briggs whispered back. "I feel
as mean as pursley. Would you like to kick me?"

"I don't see how that would do any good. I may want to borrow money of
you, and you can't ask a loan from a man you've kicked. Besides, I
think what you said may do her good."




                                  IX

                      BREAKFAST IS MY BEST MEAL


                                  I

  Breakfast is my best meal, and I reckon it's always been
  Ever since I was old enough to know what breakfast could mean.
  I mind when we lived in the cabin out on the Illinoy,
  Where father had took up a quarter-section when I was a boy,
  I used to go for the cows as soon as it was light;
  And when I started back home, before I come in sight,
  I come in smell of the cabin, where mother was frying the ham,
  And boiling the coffee, that reached through the air like a mile o' ba'm,
  'N' I bet you I didn't wait to see what it was that the dog
  Thought he'd got under the stump or inside o' the hollow log!
  But I made the old cows canter till their hoof-joints cracked--you know
  That dry, funny kind of a noise that the cows make when they go--
  And I never stopped to wash when I got to the cabin door;
  I pulled up my chair and e't like I never had e't before.
  And mother she set there and watched me eat, and eat, and eat,
  Like as if she couldn't give her old eyes enough of the treat;
  And she split the shortened biscuit, and spread the butter between,
  And let it lay there and melt, and soak and soak itself in;
  And she piled up my plate with potato and ham and eggs,
  Till I couldn't hold any more, or hardly stand on my legs;
  And she filled me up with coffee that would float an iron wedge,
  And never give way a mite, or spill a drop at the edge.


                                  II

  What? Well, yes, this is good coffee, too. If they don't know much,
  They do know how to make coffee, I will say that for these Dutch.
  But my--oh, my! It ain't the kind of coffee my mother made,
  And the coffee my wife used to make would throw it clear in the shade;
  And the brand of sugar-cured, canvased ham that she always used--
  Well, this Westphalia stuff would simply have made her amused!
  That so, heigh? I saw that you was United States as soon
  As ever I heard you talk; I reckon I know the tune!
  Pick it out anywhere; and you understand how I feel
  About these here foreign breakfasts: breakfast is my best meal.


                                 III

  My! but my wife was a cook; and the breakfasts she used to get
  The first years we was married, I can smell 'em and taste 'em yet:
  Corn cake light as a feather, and buckwheat thin as lace
  And crisp as cracklin'; and steak that you couldn't have the face
  To compare any steak over here to; and chicken fried
  Maryland style--I couldn't get through the bill if I tried.
  And then, her waffles! My! She'd kind of slip in a few
  Between the ham and the chicken--you know how women'll do--
  For a sort of little surprise, and, if I was running light,
  To take my fancy and give an edge to my appetite.
  Done it all herself as long as we was poor, and I tell you
  She liked to see me eat as well as mother used to do;
  I reckon she went ahead of mother some, if the truth was known,
  And everything she touched she give a taste of her own.


                                  IV

  She was a cook, I can tell you! And after we got ahead,
  And she could 'a' had a girl to do the cookin' instead,
  I had the greatest time to get Momma to leave the work;
  She said it made her feel like a mis'able sneak and shirk.
  She didn't want daughter, though, when we did begin to keep girls,
  To come in the kitchen and cook, and smell up her clo'es and curls;
  But you couldn't have stopped the child, whatever you tried to do--
  I reckon the gift of the cookin' was born in Girly, too.
  Cook she would from the first, and we just had to let her alone;
  And after she got married, and had a house of her own,
  She tried to make me feel, when I come to live with her,
  Like it was my house, too; and I tell you she done it, sir!
  She remembered that breakfast was my best meal, and she tried
  To have all I used to have, and a good deal more beside;
  Grape-fruit to begin with, or melons or peaches, at least--
  Husband's business took him there, and they had went to live East--
  Then a Spanish macker'l, or a soft-shell crab on toast,
  Or a broiled live lobster! Well, sir, I don't want to seem to boast,
  But I don't believe you could have got in the whole of New York
  Any such an oyster fry or sausage of country pork.


                                  V

  Well, I don't know what-all it means; I always lived just so--
  Never drinked or smoked, and yet, here about two years ago,
  I begun to run down; I ain't as young as I used to be;
  And the doctors all said Carlsbad, and I reckon this is me.
  But it's more like some one I've dreamt of, with all three of 'em gone!
  Believe in ghosts? Well, I do. I know there are ghosts. I'm one.
  Maybe I mayn't look it--I was always inclined to fat;
  The doctors say that's the trouble, and very likely it's that.
  This is my little grandson, and this is the oldest one
  Of Girly's girls; and for all that the whole of us said and done,
  She must come with grandpa when the doctors sent me off here,
  To see that they didn't starve him. Ain't that about so, my dear?
  She can cook, I tell you; and when we get home again
  We're goin' to have something to eat; I'm just a-livin' till then.
  But when I set here of a morning, and think of them that's gone--
  Mother and Momma and Girly--well, I wouldn't like to let on
  Before the children, but I can almost seem to see
  All of 'em lookin' down, like as if they pitied me,
  After the breakfasts they give me, to have me have to put up
  With nothing but bread and butter, and a little mis'able cup
  Of this here weak-kneed coffee! I can't tell how you feel,
  But it fairly makes me sick! Breakfast is my best meal.




                                  X

                           THE MOTHER-BIRD


She wore around the turned-up brim of her bolero-like toque a band of
violets not so much in keeping with the gray of the austere November
day as with the blue of her faded autumnal eyes. Her eyes were
autumnal, but it was not from this, or from the lines of maturity
graven on the passing prettiness of her little face, that the notion
and the name of Mother-Bird suggested itself. She became known as the
Mother-Bird to the tender ironic fancy of the earliest, if not the
latest, of her friends, because she was slight and small, and like a
bird in her eager movements, and because she spoke so instantly and so
constantly of her children in Dresden: before you knew anything else
of her you knew that she was going out to them.

She was quite alone, and she gave the sense of claiming their
protection, and sheltering herself in the fact of them. When she
mentioned her daughters she had the effect of feeling herself
chaperoned by them. You could not go behind them and find her wanting
in the social guarantees which women on steamers, if not men, exact of
lonely birds of passage who are not mother-birds. One must respect the
convention by which she safeguarded herself and tried to make good her
standing; yet it did not lastingly avail her with other birds of
passage, so far as they were themselves mother-birds, or sometimes
only maiden-birds. The day had not ended before they began to hold her
off by slight liftings of their wings and rufflings of their feathers,
by quick, evasive flutterings, by subtle ignorances of her approach,
which convinced no one but themselves that they had not seen her. She
sailed with the sort of acquaintance-in-common which every one shares
on a ship leaving port, when people are confused by the kindness of
friends coming to see them off after sending baskets of fruit and
sheaves of flowers, and scarcely know what they are doing or saying.
But when the ship was abreast of Fire Island, and the pilot had gone
over the side, these provisional intimacies of the parting hour began
to restrict themselves. Then the Mother-Bird did not know half the
women she had known at the pier, or quite all the men.

It was not that she did anything obvious to forfeit this knowledge.
Her behavior was if anything too exemplary; it might be thought to
form a reproach to others. Perhaps it was the unseasonable band of
violets around her hat-brim; perhaps it was the vernal gaiety of her
dress; perhaps it was the uncertainty of her anxious eyes, which
presumed while they implored. A mother-bird must not hover too
confidently, too appealingly, near coveys whose preoccupations she
does not share. It might have been her looking and dressing younger
than nature justified; at forty one must not look thirty; in November
one must not, even involuntarily, wear the things of May if one would
have others believe in one's devotion to one's children in Dresden;
one alleges in vain one's impatience to join them as grounds for
joining groups or detached persons who have begun to write home to
their children in New York or Boston.

The very readiness of the Mother-Bird to give security by the mention
of well-known names, to offer proof of her social solvency by the
eager correctness of her behavior, created reluctance around her. Some
would not have her at all from the first; others, who had partially or
conditionally accepted her, returned her upon her hands and withdrew
from the negotiation. More and more she found herself outside that
hard woman-world, and trying less and less to beat her way into it.

The women may have known her better even than she knew herself, and it
may have been through ignorance greater than her own that the men were
more acquiescent. But the men too were not so acquiescent, or not at
all, as time passed.

It would be hard to fix the day, the hour, far harder the moment, when
the Mother-Bird began to disappear from the drawing-room and to appear
in the smoking-room, or say whether she passed from the one to the
other in a voluntary exile or by the rigor of the women's unwritten
law. Still, from time to time she was seen in their part of the ship,
after she was also seen where the band of violets showed strange and
sad through veils of smoke that were not dense enough to hide her
poor, pretty little face, with its faded blue eyes and wistful mouth.
There she passed by quick transition from the conversation of the
graver elderly smokers to the loud laughter of two birds of prey who
became her comrades, or such friends as birds like them can be to
birds like her.

From anything she had said or done there was no reason for her lapse
from the women and the better men to such men; for her transition from
the better sort of women there was no reason except that it happened.
Whether she attached herself to the birds of prey, or they to her, by
that instinct which enables birds of all kinds to know themselves of a
feather remained a touching question.

There remained to the end the question whether she was of a feather
with them, or whether it was by some mischance, or by some such stress
of the elements as drives birds of any feather to flock with birds of
any other. To the end there remained a distracted and forsaken
innocence in her looks. It was imaginable that she had made overtures
to the birds of prey because she had made overtures to every one else;
she was always seeking rather than sought, and her acceptance with
them was as deplorable as her refusal by better birds. Often they were
seen without her, when they had that look of having escaped, which
others wore; but she was not often seen without them.

There is not much walking-weather on a November passage, and she was
seen less with them in the early dark outdoors than in the late light
within, by which she wavered a small form through the haze of their
cigars in the smoking-room, or in the grill-room, where she showed in
faint eclipse through the fumes of the broiling and frying, or
through the vapors of the hot whiskies. The birds of prey were then
heard laughing, but whether at her or with her it must have been
equally sorrowful to learn.

Perhaps they were laughing at the maternal fondness which she had used
for introduction to the general acquaintance lost almost in the moment
of winning it. She seemed not to resent their laughter, though she
seemed not to join in it. The worst of her was the company she kept;
but since no better would allow her to keep it, you could not
confidently say she would not have liked the best company on board. At
the same time you could not have said she would; you could not have
been sure it would not have bored her. Doubtless these results are not
solely the sport of chance; they must be somewhat the event of choice
if not of desert.

For anything you could have sworn, the Mother-Bird would have liked to
be as good as the best. But since it was not possible for her to be
good in the society of the best, she could only be good in that of the
worst. It was to be hoped that the birds of prey were not cruel to
her; that their mockery was never unkind if ever it was mockery. The
cruelty which must come came when they began to be seen less and less
with her, even at the late suppers, through the haze of their cigars
and the smoke of the broiling and frying, and the vapors of the hot
whiskies. Then it was the sharpest pang of all to meet her wandering
up and down the ship's promenades, or leaning on the rail and looking
dimly out over the foam-whitened black sea. It is the necessity of
birds of prey to get rid of other birds when they are tired of them,
and it had doubtless come to that.

One night, the night before getting into port, when the curiosity
which always followed her with grief failed of her in the heightened
hilarity of the smoking-room, where the last bets on the ship's run
were making, it found her alone beside a little iron table, of those
set in certain nooks outside the grill-room. There she sat with no one
near, where the light from within fell palely upon her. The boon birds
of prey, with whom she had been supping, had abandoned her, and she
was supporting her cheek on the small hand of the arm that rested on
the table. She leaned forward, and swayed with the swaying ship; the
violets in her bolero-toque quivered with the vibrations of the
machinery. She was asleep, poor Mother-Bird, and it would have been
impossible not to wish her dreams were kind.




                                  XI

                              THE AMIGO


His name was really Perez Armando Aldeano, but in the end everybody
called him the amigo, because that was the endearing term by which
he saluted all the world. There was a time when the children called
him "Span-yard" in their games, for he spoke no tongue but Spanish,
and though he came from Ecuador, and was no more a Spaniard than they
were English, he answered to the call of "Span-yard!" whenever he
heard it. He came eagerly in the hope of fun, and all the more eagerly
if there was a hope of mischief in the fun. Still, to discerning
spirits, he was always the amigo, for, when he hailed you so, you
could not help hailing him so again, and whatever mock he put upon you
afterward, you were his secret and inalienable friend.

The moment of my own acceptance in this quality came in the first
hours of expansion following our getting to sea after long detention
in the dock by fog. A small figure came flying down the dock with
outspread arms, and a joyful cry of "Ah, amigo!" as if we were now
meeting unexpectedly after a former intimacy in Bogotá; and the
amigo clasped me round the middle to his bosom, or more strictly
speaking, his brow, which he plunged into my waistcoat. He was clad in
a long black overcoat, and a boy's knee-pants, and under the peak of
his cap twinkled the merriest black eyes that ever lighted up a
smiling face of olive hue. Thereafter, he was more and more, with the
thinness of his small black legs, and his habit of hopping up and
down, and dancing threateningly about, with mischief latent in every
motion, like a crow which in being tamed has acquired one of the worst
traits of civilization. He began babbling and gurgling in Spanish, and
took my hand for a stroll about the ship, and from that time we were,
with certain crises of disaffection, firm allies.

There were others whom he hailed and adopted his friends, whose legs
he clung about and impeded in their walks, or whom he required to toss
him into the air as they passed, but I flattered myself that he had a
peculiar, because a primary, esteem for myself. I have thought it
might be that, Bogotá being said to be a very literary capital, as
those things go in South America, he was mystically aware of a common
ground between us, wider and deeper than that of his other
friendships. But it may have been somewhat owing to my inviting him to
my cabin to choose such portion as he would of a lady-cake sent us on
shipboard at the last hour. He prattled and chuckled over it in the
soft gutturals of his parrot-like Spanish, and rushed up on deck to
eat the frosting off in the presence of his small companions, and to
exult before them in the exploitation of a novel pleasure. Yet it
could not have been the lady-cake which lastingly endeared me to him,
for by the next day he had learned prudence and refused it without
withdrawing his amity.

This, indeed, was always tempered by what seemed a constitutional
irony, and he did not impart it to any one without some time making
his friend feel the edge of his practical humor. It was not long
before the children whom he gathered to his heart had each and all
suffered some fall or bump or bruise which, if not of his intention,
was of his infliction, and which was regretted with such winning
archness that the very mothers of them could not resist him, and his
victims dried their tears to follow him with glad cries of "Span-yard,
Span-yard!" Injury at his hands was a favor; neglect was the only real
grievance. He went about rolling his small black head, and darting
roguish lightnings from under his thick-fringed eyes, and making more
trouble with a more enticing gaiety than all the other people on the
ship put together.

The truth must be owned that the time came, long before the end of the
voyage, when it was felt that in the interest of the common welfare,
something must be done about the amigo. At the conversational end of
the doctor's table, where he was discussed whenever the racks were not
on, and the talk might have languished without their inspiration, his
badness was debated at every meal. Some declared him the worst boy in
the world, and held against his half-hearted defenders that something
ought to be done about him; and one was left to imagine all the darker
fate for him because there was nothing specific in these convictions.
He could not be thrown overboard, and if he had been put in irons
probably his worst enemies at the conversational end of the table
would have been the first to intercede for him. It is not certain,
however, that their prayers would have been effective with the
captain, if that officer, framed for comfort as well as command, could
have known how accurately the amigo had dramatized his personal
presence by throwing himself back, and clasping his hands a foot in
front of his small stomach, and making a few tilting paces forward.

The amigo had a mimic gift which he liked to exercise when he could
find no intelligible language for the expression of his ironic spirit.
Being forbidden visits in and out of season to certain staterooms
whose inmates feigned a wish to sleep, he represented in what
grotesque attitudes of sonorous slumber they passed their day, and he
spared neither age nor sex in these graphic shows. When age refused
one day to go up on deck with him and pleaded in such Spanish as it
could pluck up from its past studies that it was too old, he laughed
it to scorn. "You are not old," he said. "Why?" the flattered dotard
inquired. "Because you smile," and that seemed reason enough for one's
continued youth. It was then that the amigo gave his own age,
carefully telling the Spanish numerals over, and explaining further by
holding up both hands with one finger shut in. But he had the subtlety
of centuries in his nine years, and he penetrated the ship everywhere
with his arch spirit of mischief. It was mischief always in the
interest of the good-fellowship which he offered impartially to old
and young; and if it were mere frolic, with no ulterior object, he did
not care at all how old or young his playmate was. This endeared him
naturally to every age; and the little blond German-American boy
dried his tears from the last accident inflicted on him by the amigo
to recall him by tender entreaties of "Span-yard, Span-yard!" while
the eldest of his friends could not hold out against him more than two
days in the strained relations following upon the amigo's sweeping
him down the back with a toy broom employed by the German-American boy
to scrub the scuppers. This was not so much an injury as an indignity,
but it was resented as an indignity, in spite of many demure glances
of propitiation from the amigo's ironical eyes and murmurs of
inarticulate apology as he passed.

He was, up to a certain point, the kindest and truest of amigos;
then his weird seizure came, and the baby was spilled out of the
carriage he had been so benevolently pushing up and down; or the
second officer's legs, as he walked past with the prettiest girl on
board, were hit with the stick that the amigo had been innocently
playing shuffle-board with; or some passenger was taken unawares in
his vanity or infirmity and made to contribute to the amigo's
passion for active amusement.

At this point I ought to explain that the amigo was not traveling
alone from Ecuador to Paris, where it was said he was to rejoin his
father. At meal-times, and at other rare intervals, he was seen to be
in the charge of a very dark and very silent little man, with
intensely black eyes and mustache, clad in raven hues from his head to
the delicate feet on which he wore patent-leather shoes. With him the
amigo walked gravely up and down the deck, and behaved decorously at
table; and we could not reconcile the apparent affection between the
two with a theory we had that the amigo had been found impossible in
his own country, and had been sent out of Ecuador by a decree of the
government, or perhaps a vote of the whole people. The little, dark,
silent man, in his patent-leather boots, had not the air of conveying
a state prisoner into exile, and we wondered in vain what the tie
between him and the amigo was. He might have been his tutor, or his
uncle. He exercised a quite mystical control over the amigo, who was
exactly obedient to him in everything, and would not look aside at you
when in his keeping. We reflected with awe and pathos that, as they
roomed together, it was his privilege to see the amigo asleep, when
that little, very kissable black head rested innocently on the pillow,
and the busy brain within it was at peace with the world which formed
its pleasure and its prey in waking.

It would be idle to represent that the amigo played his pranks upon
that shipload of long-suffering people with final impunity. The time
came when they not only said something must be done, but actually did
something. It was by the hand of one of the amigo's sweetest and
kindest friends, namely, that elderly captain, off duty, who was going
out to be assigned his ship in Hamburg. From the first he had shown
the affectionate tenderness for the amigo which was felt by all
except some obdurate hearts at the conversational end of the table;
and it must have been with a loving interest in the amigo's ultimate
well-being that, taking him in an ecstasy of mischief, he drew the
amigo face downward across his knees, and bestowed the chastisement
which was morally a caress. He dismissed him with a smile in which the
amigo read the good understanding that existed unimpaired between
them, and accepted his correction with the same affection as that
which had given it. He shook himself and ran off with an enjoyment of
the joke as great as that of any of the spectators and far more
generous.

In fact there was nothing mean in the amigo. Impish he was, or might
be, but only in the sort of the crow or the parrot; there was no
malevolence in his fine malice. One fancied him in his adolescence
taking part in one of the frequent revolutions of his continent, but
humorously, not homicidally. He would like to alarm the other
faction, and perhaps drive it from power, or overset it from its
official place, but if he had the say there would be no bringing the
vanquished out into the plaza to be shot. He may now have been on his
way to France ultimately to study medicine, which seems to be
preliminary to a high political career in South America; but in the
mean time we feared for him in that republic of severely regulated
subordinations.

We thought with pathos of our early parting with him, as we approached
Plymouth and tried to be kodaked with him, considering it an honor and
pleasure. He so far shared our feeling as to consent, but he insisted
on wearing a pair of glasses which had large eyes painted on them, and
on being taken in the act of inflating a toy balloon. Probably,
therefore, the likeness would not be recognized in Bogotá, but it will
always be endeared to us by the memory of the many mockeries suffered
from him. There were other friends whom we left on the ship, notably
those of the conversational end of the table, who thought him simply a
bad boy; but there were none of such peculiar appeal as he, when he
stood by the guard, opening and shutting his hand in ironical adieu,
and looking smaller and smaller as our tender drifted away and the
vast liner loomed immense before us. He may have contributed to its
effect of immensity by the smallness of his presence, or it may have
dwarfed him. No matter; he filled no slight space in our lives while
he lasted. Now that he is no longer there, was he really a bad little
boy, merely and simply? Heaven knows, which alone knows good boys from
bad.




                                 XII

                           BLACK CROSS FARM

                              (To F. S.)


  After full many a mutual delay
  My friend and I at last fixed on a day
  For seeing Black Cross Farm, which he had long
  Boasted the fittest theme for tale or song
  In all that charming region round about:
  Something that must not really be left out
  Of the account of things to do for me.
  It was a teasing bit of mystery,
  He said, which he and his had tried in vain,
  Ever since they had found it, to explain.
  The right way was to happen, as they did,
