party and she insists that Clelia and I find costumes and join.  I was
furious—and she’s making a violent row about it now, insisting,
bullying, ordering Clelia about——"

"What!  Ordering my servants about!" I interrupted angrily.

"Yes—your servants, Michael," dropping me an ironical curtsey which
brought me back to my senses. We both laughed.  And suddenly it occurred
to me how adorable Thusis would be at a baby-party.

"Why not?" I exclaimed.  "Why not drop hostilities for an hour and enjoy
the ridiculous? Absurdity always appeals to you, anyway, Thusis," I
added, "and the entire situation is so impossible that it ought to
attract you!"

"It does," she admitted with that engaging and reckless little laugh I
had come to know so well. "Besides, you are my host, Michael, and I am
under your roof.  So who your ragamuffin-bobtail guests may be does not
concern me.  Clelia and I are not responsible, are we?"

"Not at all," said I.  "The ignominy of this royal riff-raff rests upon
my shoulders.  Anyway, you do not need to dance except with me," I added
reassuringly.

"Eddin Bey is rather attractive," she mused, letting her glance rest on
me sideways while the innocent pleasure of this discovery parted her
lips in a honeyed smile.

"All right," said I shortly, "dance with him!"

"Michael——"

"Go ahead and dance with him," I repeated, stabbed by the most ignoble
of emotions.

"What an absolute boy you can be," she said.  "If I do this thing at all
it is because the tension of months is becoming unendurable.  Reaction
from the tragic usually lands one on the edges of the grotesque....  If
you had been a girl, Michael, always sheltered, secure, living a
colorless restricted life, and if you suddenly were cast upon your own
feet with the accumulated responsibility of your race on your
shoulders,—and if, in the very middle of your first years of liberty and
opportunity you suddenly found this wonderful world flaming like hell
all about you, and all its inhabitants at each other’s throats, and all
delight in living turned to hate and fear—and if you concluded to take
your fate into your own hands and run away from authority, and, in your
own way, fight the good fight for God and King and Country,—and if the
strain became, for an hour, too great—wouldn’t you react—perhaps to the
verge of folly?"

"You bet I would, sweetness," said I, taking her lovely hands in mine.

"I was a school-girl," she said, "when—it devolved upon me, and upon
Clelia, to determine our own futures....  The loss of parents is
a—bewildering thing....  Our mania was travel and education to fit us
for—for what we considered to be our rightful future positions in the
world....  We have been in your country,—I don’t mean Chile. We know
England and France—God bless them both.  Then, owing deference anyway if
not perhaps blind obedience to the—to a—gentleman in Italy——"

"The King," I said soberly.

"Yes, the King of Italy.  We were expected to return to Rome and defer
to him all questions concerning our future....  And we ran away."

"Why, Thusis?"

"Because we happen to have minds of our own, Michael."

"And you immediately employed them by concocting a plot to kidnap some
kings!" I said.  "Oh, Thusis, you are the limit!"

"I know I am," she said naïvely.  "A mind that does not range to its
extremest limits is a rather dull one, isn’t it?"

"It is," I admitted, laughing and crushing her hands between my own.
"You are delightfully right, Thusis; you are always deliciously right.
I don’t know who you are except that you’re the lovely and mysterious
Laughing Girl.  What else you may be I don’t know, dearest, but you are
doubtless somebody or the King of Italy wouldn’t bother his clever head
about you and your sister."

"He does bother, I am afraid," admitted Thusis, smiling.  "I’m sorry
we’ve been obliged to annoy him.  But it couldn’t be helped, because we
differed, politically, with the King of Italy.  And we ran away from
Rome to prove to him that our conception of world-politics was right and
his was wrong. And we expect him, some day, to be very grateful to
us—because we really are, Clelia and I, two of his most loyal subjects."

She spoke so frankly, so earnestly, that I dared make no jest of what
she said.

However, I think she saw a glimmer in my eyes, for she flushed.

"Nothing," she said, "is sacred to a Yankee.  Let me go."

"Shall I tell you what is sacred to a Yankee, Thusis?" said I, retaining
her hands.

"No!"

"I’ll tell you all the same: liberty of mind!—liberty within
law!—liberty within the frontiers of conscience."

"Then you do not deny these privileges to me?"

"They are yours, Thusis.  No man can deny essential rights and
liberties."

"You believe I have a right to act as my conscience dictates?"

"Absolutely."

"To run away from authority?"

"If your mind approves."

"And—and devote my life—risk it—to free my native land and restore to my
sovereign what once belonged to him?"

"Naxos?"

"Yes."

I said gravely: "If, in your self-dedication to this work there be no
ulterior motive;—if you undertake this unselfishly, and with a heart
clean of all personal ambition—then, Thusis, I say, go on! ... And I am
at your service."

Twice she started to speak, and hesitated.  In her clear eyes, so
intently, almost painfully fixed on mine, I saw she was fiercely
pondering my words. Her intense and youthful seriousness in her
concentration held me fascinated.  And for a little while neither one of
us stirred.

And it gradually began to appear to me that what I had said to her had
suddenly opened to her young and ardent eyes a totally new view of some
things in the world with which she had, perhaps, believed herself
thoroughly familiar.

She turned from her absorption; and now she was presented to me in
profile with downcast eyes and bitten lip, and a least relaxation of her
slender figure which had been so straight and rigid.

It was becoming evident that she had nothing further to say to me,—no
reply to make to what I had rather ponderously propounded as an ethical
axiom.

But, as responding to the restless pressure, I released her hands, she
turned back and stood looking at me out of painfully perplexed eyes—eyes
that lacked no courage, either, yet doubted, now, almost wistfully.

Then, not speaking, she unlocked my door and went out.


Smith knocked at the doorway communicating between our apartments, and
came in at my absent-minded invitation.

"Of course you’re not in this, are you, Michael?" he inquired.

"We weren’t asked.  Besides, there are too many men now, and the Queen
wants Thusis, Clelia, and Josephine Vannis to serve dinner in costume
and join the party afterward."

"Are they going to do it?" he asked, surprised and amused.

"I don’t know....  Tell me, Smith, whom do you suspect Thusis to be?  I
can see you have some theory concerning Clelia—some idea.  Haven’t you?"

"Yes, I have."

"Would you care to share it with me?"

"Yes.  But I can’t."

"Could you tell me why you can’t?"

"I think I may tell you that much.  The King of Italy requested me to
maintain silence in the possible event of my discovering the identity of
Thusis and Clelia.  I am here on the King’s service, with certain
definite orders.  I shall scrupulously observe these orders.  Among
these is his request concerning the identity of these two charming young
girls."

"Just one thing, then.  Have you discovered the identity of Thusis?"

"No."

"Of Clelia?"

He reddened.  "Yes, I have," he said.  "Or rather she has confirmed what
I had begun to suspect."

"Clelia has told you who she is!" I exclaimed.

"She has."

"Isn’t that disobedience of orders?"

"She told me before I could stop her.  I never dreamed she was going to
tell me.  It came out—like a bolt of lightning—while I—I was—slipping
over her finger that ring I used to wear——"

"She wears it!"

"Yes.  She was glorious.  She——"

"And she’s going to marry you?"

"Yes, God bless her."

So I wrung his hand in silence and strove hard not to let any comparison
of his situation and mine taint with the slightest trace of bitterness
my happiness in his good fortune and my cordial recognition of it now.

Thusis was not mentioned between us.  He didn’t say "buck up, old chap,"
or "go in and win," or any insincere thing of that sort, for I felt that
he believed my case to be hopeless.

Presently he returned to his room and closed the door.  And I sat down
at my table and produced pen and paper with a view to further poetry—my
only form of relief from grief.

But rhymes evaded me; and finally I gave it up and rested my head on
both hands, unhappy, unsatisfied, feeling that I was a failure, and
always had been one.

After all what could such a glorious young thing as Thusis see in an
interior decorator from New York?—a profession into which had minced all
the lady-like young men and lisping sissies in Manhattan!

Perhaps, after all, the profession was all right, but the people who
practiced it were weird and incompetent.  And as for me I was perfectly
aware that I had no taste, no color sense, no glimmering idea of
composition.

Doubtless my artistic and financial success had been due to my utter
incapacity.

I proceeded to masticate the cud of bitterness.


I had been masticating longer than I realized for the light in the room
was already growing less when a knock came at my door; and I shoved my
unuttered verses into the drawer and grunted out, "Come in!"

It was Thusis, transfigured, sparkling, mischievous, audacious.  And she
was the most beautiful thing I ever saw.

Her magnificent ruddy hair, unloosened, framed her face, its upcurled,
burnished ends falling to her waist.

Otherwise she was an exquisite French doll in knee-skirts and sash and
all over pale blue ribbons.

"I’m going to have a good time if I do murder to-morrow, Michael.  Do
you like my costume? Really?  That is so sweet of you!  You always are
the most satisfactory of men!  And you should see Clelia!  She’s like me
only her ribbons and sash are primrose.  She is really charming."

"Thusis," said I, "you and Clelia shall sit at table and Smith and I are
going to turn waiters!  No!" as she exclaimed in protest, "let’s be
logical in our grotesqueries!  This little world of ours here in
Schwindlewald is already absurd enough with you and Clelia waiting on
table.  Let’s turn it completely upside down and stand it on its head."

She finally consented, forced by my gay ardour, and, I think,
mischievously pleased at the prospect of protest from the Queen.

All over the house, now, I could hear snatches of loud laughter as my
Teutonic guests began to gather and visit one another in their costumes.
Thusis fled; and I opened the door and broke the news to Smith.

"Get into your evening duds," I added, "and announce dinner.  We’re all
going stark mad and I’m glad of it."

So I dressed, and found him ready when I was; and we went downstairs
into the large lounging room where Raoul was fitting disks into the
music-box.

He laughed when we told him our intentions, and then we went into the
kitchen and informed Josephine Vannis.  That stately Juno condescended
to smile on us.  She was rather tremendously imposing as a baby with
bonnet and stick-out skirts—as though somebody had decked out a
masterpiece of Praxiteles.

Retiring, Smith murmured: "Only the Parthenon possesses such
awe-inspiring symmetry; only the Acropolis could vie with her.  Did you
ever see such superb underpinning in all your life?"

Stunned by such stupendous symmetry I admitted that I never had.  And we
went away to announce dinner.

But it was not until the noisy company were gathered in the dining-room
that the Queen perceived the two empty chairs and began to realize my
intentions. And she came to me and made angry representations, refusing
to be seated on the right of a servant, or, indeed, to suffer servants
at all at table, and saying that if she chose to admit my waitresses to
the dancing hall, it was because such privileges sometimes were
graciously permitted to the peasantry who never misunderstood such
condescension.

"Madame," said I, "my housekeeper, Thusis, sits in my place at table
this evening.  And if, madame, you are so deeply concerned about it,
comfort yourself with the explanation that in my housekeeper you behold
your host; she is my vice-reine, or vice-roy, or vice-regent—whatever
you like best, madame! She represents me!  In her you see embodied the
inviolable authority of the master of this house wherein you are a
guest!  However, madame, if you prefer to be served alone in the bar, I
will have a table set there for you——"

She almost spat at me; and Thusis entered, her hand linked in Clelia’s.

I think the royal circus was stupefied by the beauty of these two young
girls.  A rather frightful silence reigned for a moment; then the
Countess Manntrapp clapped her jeweled hands and sang out in her clear,
soprano voice: "Brava!  Bravissima! They are beautiful, our little
waitresses!"

Eddin Bey removed his red fez and, swinging it by the tassel, gave three
hochs.

Then, instantly, the cheers broke out everywhere: I gave Thusis my arm;
Smith offered his to Clelia; and we seated them amid shouts and the
waving of napkins, the queen’s eyes glittering like twin daggers all the
while.

Such an uproar as Smith and I served the soup! Gurgles, gulps, scraping,
sucking sounds arose from feeding Teutons.  The fish produced a
frightful clatter of knives and forks, and the Princess Pudelstoff cut
her lip with her knife but stuck a patch on it and joyously immersed it
in gravy.

They—the kings and admirals and generals were drinking too much; I
noticed that in the din.  And toward the wrecked climax of the dinner
when everybody was offering everybody else tinsel bon-bons, and people
were pulling snapping-crackers with one another, I sent Raoul out to
start the music-box; and Josephine Vannis emerged all clean and fresh
and scented to join the revelry.

Her appearance awed us all; again I felt that innate reverence for the
prodigiously beautiful, that awe for things superbly Greek.  Her effect
upon the two kings, however, was pronounced.  The wild-pig eyes of
Ferdinand became fixed and vitreous for a full minute; King
Constantine’s orbs bulged.  Both made straight for her when Thusis gave
the signal to rise; and I saw the exasperated Queen staring at her
spouse and fingering a large, sharp, jeweled pin.

But I went into the dancing room and took command without loss of time;
and Smith followed with a bottle of wine and a roast chicken—our own
dinner which we intended to discuss while supervising this party and
keeping the music-box busy.

"Silence!" said I, hammering on the glass lampshade with my fork.  "The
party begins, like all children’s parties, with children’s games.
’Going to Jerusalem’ will be the first game played!"

"How is that played?" demanded several at once.

I instructed them, gravely; and presently Smith and I, eating our dinner
beside the music-box, beheld our guests in their baby costumes marching
around and around a row of chairs and, at a given signal, falling into
the unoccupied seats with squeals and shrieks and bellows of laughter.

They tired of that, presently, and I laid aside my chicken and glass of
claret and, rising, instructed them in the game called
"Oats-peas-beans."  They listened attentively, but Thusis and Clelia
appeared much disconcerted when further revelations on my part disclosed
that it was a "kissing" game; and they both withdrew, firmly declining
to play it, much to the dissatisfaction of Eddin Bey and Tino.

So Thusis and Clelia came over to where Smith and I were installed, and,
while we resumed our dinner, they cranked the music-box in which I had
inserted a disk containing the immemorial air of "Oats-peas-beans."

We then became pleased observers of royalty and nobility in baby
clothes, hands joined, walking very seriously in a circle in the center
of which stood the Princess Pudelstoff, and singing in unison and with
all their might:

    "Oats-peas-beans
    And barley grow,
    Though you and I and nobody knows
    Where oats-peas-beans
    And barley grow!"

    "Thus the farmer sows his seed!
    (All made motions of scattering something.)
    Thus he stands and takes his ease!
    (All with hands on hips.)
    Stamps his foot,
    (All stamp)
    And claps his hand,
    (All clap.)
    And turns around to view the land,
    (All turn.)
    While waiting for a partner!
    While waiting for a partner!
    So open the ring
    And choose one in
    And kiss him when you get him in!"


The singing ceased; the Princess Pudelstoff giggled; then, to his
dismay, she pounced upon Eddin Bey, almost throttled that handsome
Moslem in her enthusiasm, and gave him a resounding smack amid screams
of laughter and roars of approval.

And then the game waxed fast and furious: Eddin Bey chose the Countess
Manntrapp and kissed her delicately and courteously; she chose King
Constantine, but merely saluted his cheek, much to his exasperation.

Then Tino held the ring, waggish, jocose, bantering everybody with their
expectations.  But though the queen eyed him commandingly, furiously, he
swaggered over to Josephine Vannis and soundly kissed that classic
memorial in animated Grecian marble.

The Teutons behaved rather grossly; King Ferdinand ranged the ring like
a liberated wild hog and presently charged the object of his osculatory
intentions—Josephine.

Probably nobody dared kiss the queen, but such respectful abstention
seemed to please her none the more, for presently she hissed something
into Tino’s ear, and he chose her into the ring with an agility born of
terror.

Once there she glared at everybody and then, with a sneer, selected Tino
again, and the game, promising to become a monotony and a deadlock, I
rose and, waving a leg of the chicken to impose silence, proclaimed that
the games had ended and that dancing would now begin.

Raoul inserted a fox-trot of sorts; and the next instant everybody was
footing it.

"Raoul," I said in a guarded voice, "did you souse those Bolsheviki in
sheep-dip?"

"I did, sir."

"What did they do?"

"They made an agonizing noise, Monsieur.  I fear it was, perhaps, their
first bath."

"Go up and dip ’em again."

"All Bolshevikdom will shriek," he said, grinning.

"Let it for a change.  It’s set all the world scratching.  Let Bolshevik
Russia do a little shrieking, now that she feels the boche biting her
worse than her native cooties!  Get some more sheep-dip and de-louse
that pair of things upstairs."

He went away, laughing.




                                *XXIII*

                                *THUSIS*


For a while the dancing was lively and good-humored hilarity reigned.

The Tzar of all the Bulgars had imbibed enough wine to dull, if not to
obliterate that continual desire of his to slink into corners and peep
out at a hostile world bent on his assassination. Only when somebody
spoke to him too abruptly behind his back did the customary symptoms
blanch his face and set his wild eyes roving and his big nose wrinkling
like a boar which winds an enemy.

He was having as good a time as such a person can ever have; and toward
supper time his exhilaration incited him to attempt a waddling sort of
Bulgarian dance with the Countess Manntrapp—an amazing exhibition of
mammoth movements on his part; and a sort of infernal and fascinating
grace on the part of the lithe Countess.

Dancing with Thusis, I hastily led her out of their way, and everybody
else stood in the circle, the center of which was pervaded by Ferdinand
and his lively vis-à-vis.

Which performance presently stirred Admiral Lauterlaus from a somewhat
beer-sodden lethargy, and he emitted raucous sounds of protest.  But
Baron Bummelzug began to snap his fingers and stamp and caper in
imitation of the schuplattl of the Bavarian peasantry; and all the
boche except the Queen, imitated him and seized partners.

Eddin Bey came to ask Thusis, and he was so faultlessly polite and so
gay and graceful that she cast a saucy glance of dismissal at me and
accepted him.

It was quite all right, of course, but it depressed me a little,
particularly because Clelia had inexorably refused everybody except
Smith.

Now there is a very beautiful Grecian dance supposed to be the
triumphant dance executed by the Ten Thousand when they caught sight of
the sea; and it is called "The Sea-dance."

Tino, rather drunk, climbed on a chair, shouted for attention, and
informed the company that he was about to perform this celebrated dance.

But when we all gave him room he jigged around a while like an
intoxicated soldier’s drab, and, remarking jauntily that he had
forgotten it, offered ten thousand drachma to anybody present who could
dance the Sea-dance of the Ten Thousand.

He was rather vulgar about it, too, digging into his pockets and pulling
out fistfuls of hun gold, and loudly demanding that somebody should
attempt to win it.

I glanced instinctively toward Thusis who, her dance with Eddin
interrupted, stood in the circle opposite me.

Her gray eyes were brilliant, her cheeks delicately flushed, and the
shock of thick ruddy hair fairly glittered, every silky thread afire
with the gleam of molten gold.

She looked at me with the sweet, reckless audacity of a spoiled child;
then she laughed and said something to Clelia.  I saw the latter go to
the music box, select a record, start it; and the haunting air called
The Sea-dance floated out.

Then Thusis seemed suddenly to melt into motion; her slim feet scarcely
touched the floor; head, arms, slender body, were all part of a single
and exquisite motion flowing from one soft curve to another.

You could have heard a pin drop in the room; and I did hear one—a big
jeweled affair, that clattered to my feet.

As I stooped to recover it the queen said hoarsely in my ear:

"Who is that girl?"

I turned; she snatched the jewel and dug it into her hair.

"That girl, madame, is Thusis, my housekeeper."

"Fiddle," retorted the queen.  "She’s something else, too,—or once was.
The first time I noticed her it occurred to me that I’d seen her
somewhere. What was she—a celebrated dancer?—before she became your
housekeeper?"

The queen’s nasty insolence froze me.

"I am not," said I, "as familiar with celebrated dancers as your husband
is—and the various men of your immediate family."

That I had penetrated her incognito did not appear to disturb her as
much as my inferences concerning Tino and the Kaiser and that degenerate
nest of reptiles, her nephews.

A white, pinched expression came into her frosty face and her eyes
flamed.

"I thought you were a Yankee," she said.

"A Yankee from Chile," said I, bowing.

She looked clean through me at Thusis.

"I’ve seen that woman somewhere," she said without emotion.  "I’ll
recollect where, presently."

But my eyes and attention were now focussed on the lovely Thusis and I
paid no further heed to this bad-tempered Hohenzollern.

Never have I seen such an exquisite dance, such grace, such loveliness.
As for the boches, when Thusis ended her Dance of the Sea, they were
like a herd of cattle galloping around her and bellowing their
satisfaction.

Tino, drunk and prodigal, began to throw handfuls of gold at Thusis,
and, enraged, I caught him by the collar and jerked him onto a chair.

"Where the devil do you think you are—in the Coulisse of the Opera?" I
cried in his partly deafened ear.

But he only grinned and wagged his head and attempted to fish more gold
out of his pockets.  But now his thrifty wife interfered and she ordered
Secretary Gizzler to pick up every coin.  Then she hissed something into
Tino’s car which seemed to galvanize that partly soused monarch so that
he found his feet with alacrity and suffered himself to be led aside by
his tight-lipped spouse.

From time to time during the festivities I had heard distant significant
noises indicating that upstairs the Bolsheviki were not enduring
sheep-dip and imprisonment with resignation.

Once I had slipped away to the corridor outside their quarters, but,
when I made my presence known, Raoul from within calmly assured me that
the delousing was progressing successfully and that he did not require
my assistance.

Russia, forcibly scrubbed, had put forth agonized howls; and now, Russia
imprisoned, was battering at its door and yelling murder.

Now and then, a hun noticed the noise and inquired concerning its
origin, but I always turned on more music and they soon forgot in the
din of the dance.

Thusis had resumed her dance with Eddin Bey; Smith and Clelia were
dancing.  I said to Raoul, who was starting to crank the music-machine:
"I’ll just step up and quiet those Bolsheviki."

They were raining blows upon their door when I arrived.  I rapped
sharply.

"What do you want?" said I.

They gibbered at me in Russian.

"Speak English!" I insisted.

Perhaps Puppsky was so excited or so demoralized by his first bath that
he forgot he could speak English.

I tried them in Italian: "Whata da mat’?" I inquired pleasantly.  They
chattered back at me like lunatic squirrels.

"What the devilovitch is the matsky?" I shouted, incensed at their
stupidity.  "You listen to me! Your clothes are being boiled and you’ve
got to stay where you are!  Stop your noise, Puppsky!"

And off I went to inspect the big wash boiler in the kitchen where,
lifting the lid which had been the queen’s shield, I was gratified to
observe the garments of the Bolsheviki simmering nicely.

"It is not the only vermin that Germania’s shield covers," said I.  And
much pleased with my jeu d’esprit, I poured in another bottle of
sheep-dip and returned to the dance salon where supper was now being
served at little tables.

As soon as I entered the room I felt trouble brewing. The inevitable
hunnish reaction had set in.  A tired boche is an ugly one; an
intoxicated hun may become either offensively sentimental or surly and
ingeniously bestial.  And now they were about to become surfeited huns,
heavy with wine, heavier with food.  I did not fancy the looks of things
very much.

The queen alone appeared to be perfectly sober; the others were engaged
in that sort of half insolent raillery always provocative of a row,
shouting German pleasantries at one another from table to table, lifting
slopping glasses, cheering, singing and leering at the ladies.

Bummelzug demanded that the music-box play "Deutschland über Alles," but
the disk was non-existent.

Von Dungheim, who exhibited an inclination to weep at any mention of
Germany, asked in a hoarsely saturated voice for a folk-song.  And Raoul
turned on two; and the huns sang first "Du bist wie eine Blume," which
shattered them sentimentally so that loud sobs punctuated the
"Lorelei" which, of course, followed.

Then Ferdinand, one arm around the Princess Pudelstoff, and a chicken
wing in the other hand, lifted a voice choked with food and attempted a
Bulgarian folk-song—something about the "Kara Dagh" and "Slivnitza"—but
presently lost all recollection of what he was doing and challenged
everybody to extemporaneous rhymes in praise of his native land.

Nobody obliged.

"Too stupid!" he remarked thickly.  "Nobody clever enough to rhyme
’Bulgarian’—eh, mine host?" looking around at me where I sat shielding
Thusis from the playful attentions of King Constantine who was
attempting to pinch her.

"Of course," said I, "’Bulgarian’ rhymes with ’vulgarian’; but that’s
obvious."  And I smiled at the Tzar of all the Bulgars and offered
Thusis a bon-bon.

She looked at Ferdinand, at Tino, at the queen: suddenly she threw back
her head, and that lovely, childlike, silvery laughter rippled through
the Teutonic din.

There was no scorn in her laughter, only the delicious, irresistible
gaiety of a young girl face to face with the excruciating.  And there is
nothing on earth more innocently insolent.

Every Teuton head was turned toward her in stupefied displeasure; fishy,
fixed, pig-like eyes stared at this young girl who dared condone an
insult to Bulgaria with her fresh, impulsive laughter.

Suddenly behind me there was a brusque movement; I heard Tino protest
that his foot had been trodden on; and, turning, I saw the queen
excitedly rising from her place.

"I know who that woman is now!" she said in a voice as sharp as a blade.
She pointed at Thusis like a vixen from the markets:

"That’s The Laughing Girl!" she cried.  "Look at her!  Anybody can
recognize her now from her photographs!"

Thusis colored crimson and shrank from the brutal publicity against my
shoulder, staring wide-eyed at the hatefully sneering visage of the
queen.

"The celebrated Laughing Girl!" repeated the queen mockingly; "Mr.
O’Ryan’s housekeeper, gentlemen—and our guest at dinner!  And what
does our German chivalry and nobility think of that insult launched at
us by a Yankee inn-keeper?"

"Be silent, madame!" I said sharply.  "If you don’t know how to conduct
yourself I shall request your husband to remove you!"

Then it came, the boche deluge!—a herd of huddling swine on their feet,
all grunting at me, enraged, clamoring, waving their arms.  And in the
midst of the guttural uproar a thin, high voice pierced all sound and
dominated it—the sniffling whine of Secretary Gizzler.

Possessed by a sort of cringing exaltation, he rose to his thin, splay
feet, and pointed a meager finger almost in the shocked face of Thusis.

"That is the Duchess of Naxos!" he squealed.

At that Thusis was on her feet, white as a slim sword-blade, and her
gray eye charged with lightning.

I rose, too, incredulous, astounded.

"Thusis, Duchess of Naxos!" piped the excited voice of Secretary
Gizzler.  "She and The Laughing Girl are one!  I know!  I was in the
Intelligence! I procured that photograph so that if this woman ever gave
our fatherland any trouble she could be easily recognized wherever she
might be!"  He beat his temples and glared at Thusis: "Stupid! Stupid!"
he squealed; "why did I not recognize her at once!  Why did not a single
German present recognize the chief mischief-maker in Greece!—the
instigator of revolt!—the pupil of Venizelos!—the enemy of their
majesties King Constantine and Queen Sophia!—the plotter who aided in
their downfall!—Thusis, Duchess of Naxos!"

The huns seemed thunderstruck; Thusis, very pale, swept them with
insolent cool eyes.

All at once King Ferdinand got to his feet and loomed up like a bad
dream.

"Naxos!  Where is Naxos?" he demanded.

And when Secretary Gizzler would have answered him: "The man’s mad," he
said heavily; "there’s no such place."

At that I saw Thusis’s face flame; but the boche all around her burst
into a roar of ironic laughter.

"Let the fatherland tremble!" bellowed General Count von Dungheim.
"Naxos declares war!"

"Look sharp!" shouted Admiral Lauterlaus, "or we’ll have Andorra
invading us."

"And Monaco, too!" growled Bummelzug.  "Gott in Himmel!  If Naxos
defies us through her Duchess we’re as good as lost!"

"I tell you!" shrieked Secretary Gizzler, "that it’s no laughing matter!
That girl is the Duchess of Naxos!  And the other—her sister—look well
at her, gentlemen!—she is Duchess of Tenedos!"

"That belongs to my country!" cried Eddin Bey, laughing, "the island of
Tenedos.  I sincerely hope the Cyclades are not in revolt!  But if they
are I’m very glad so charming a lady is to own one of them."

But his attempt at a good natured diversion made no impression on the
huns; and Gizzler, venomous and quivering, held the floor and kept his
weak, vicious eyes on Thusis.

"It was the Ægean League that exiled the King and Queen of Greece!" he
said.  "She made that league!—that woman standing there—Thusis, Duchess
of Naxos!"

"It isn’t a Duchy!" cried the queen, choking with fury; "it’s a Greek
Island!"

"It’s a Venetian Duchy and belongs to Italy, madame," I said
calmly—having read up on it in the Encyclopedia since I had fallen in
love with one of its inhabitants.

At that the queen turned on me like a fury.

"You lie!" she said.

I tried to control myself:

"Naxos is a Venetian Duchy, belonging to Italy," I repeated.  "I am
happy and proud of the privilege of acknowledging the restoration of
Naxos to Italy—and I salute its ruler—Thusis, Duchess of Naxos!"

And I lifted the white hand of Thusis and touched it with my lips.

"There’s conspiracy here!" shouted Tino, very drunk, and vainly
attempting to stand up.  "We’re all tangled up in treason here!  We’re
in the web of the Ægean League!  What are these people doing here,
anyway!—all these Yankees and Duchesses running about underfoot——"

A hiccough terminated his activities and he slid up against his spouse
who shoved him away, her eyes flashing.

"That lying Yankee," she began, almost beside herself, "has set a trap
for us here!"

At the word "trap," King Ferdinand, drunk as he was, got up hastily and
started toward the door.

"You’d better defend yourselves!" he shouted. "I’ve got pistols in my
room——"

His voice ceased: Raoul blocked his way:

"Stay where you are," he said, smiling and cool. And placing a powerful
hand on King Ferdinand’s chest he shoved him backward onto a chair.
Then, to my surprise, Raoul slipped a pair of automatic pistols from his
side pockets and cast a merry glance around him at the company.

"The first man that moves," he remarked, "is not likely to continue the
movement."

The dead silence which fell over everybody was startling.  Raoul,
resting gracefully on a table with one leg on the floor, looked about
him as though immensely amused.  Then, as we awaited further
developments, his countenance assumed a thoughtful expression—and he
absent-mindedly hummed aloud his favorite air:

    "Crack-brain-cripple-arm
    You have done a heap of harm——"




                                 *XXIV*

                                *RAOUL*


Raoul looked up, thoughtfully, playing with his pistols, and said to
King Constantine in an unaccented and conversational tone:

"After all, who were you to rule Naxos?—you cheap, treacherous, yellow
dog!"

That partly cleared the king’s muddy mind and he lurched to an upright
position and began to take notice.

"You sold Greece to the boche," continued Raoul in his serene, even
voice, toying idly with his pistols.  "What else you did—what else you
are—is a trifle too vile to repeat aloud——"

He turned and looked at the Tzar of all the Bulgars whose ungainly bulk
as he sat on his chair was now agitated by visible tremors:

"Murderer and coward," mused Raoul aloud. "Every time you hire your
gun-men to kill an enemy you hurry away to establish an alibi, don’t
you? You cheap peddler of duped people—you made a rotten bargain this
time, didn’t you?  When your treacherous pal, Tino, betrayed Serbia, you
swindled your own people, didn’t you?"

He shrugged, dangled his pistols, glanced at Gizzler,—or rather
through Gizzler as though, the wretched creature were not there,—and
his eyes encountered the interested jet black orbs of Eddin Bey.

Both smiled, Eddin in the face of death; Raoul with the generous grin of
a man who recognizes in his enemy a peer.

"Eddin Bey," he said, still smiling, "the Osmanli fight fairly.  Ask the
British Tommy....  And your fool of a Sultan is dead.  And what do you
think of affairs at present?"

"They are not any too gay," replied Eddin Bey, laughing, "especially in
the Alps."

The half smile on Raoul’s face flickered and faded:

"You’re about done for, you Turks," he said quietly.  "You bet on the
wrong horse, too.  And now Enver Pasha keeps running to Berlin to ask
why the all-highest doesn’t make him Khedive of Egypt as he promised.
And Taalat is scared, and the butcher Djavid is in the dumps.  Oh, I
know it was not you Osmanli that set the Kurds and Bashi-Bazouks on the
Armenians.  That butchery of a million souls, men, women, children,
babies, was conceived by the Berlin government and superintended from
the Yldiz Palace."

Raoul turned and looked contemptuously at the Germans:

"You square-heads," he said, "have achieved one thing, anyway.  Never
before in history has a nation been indicted, and it was supposed it
could not be done.  But it has been done in your case.  And for the
first time also in history an entire race is spoken of and known to
civilization only by a revolting nick-name—boche!

"Do you know what it means?  There have been disputes concerning the
origin of the term boche. The French say it means a stupid fellow—a
clown; the Belgians think that it is a vulgar term for ’blockhead.’  But
I shall tell you what it really does mean: it means, in South African
Dutch, an unclean and degraded species of wart-hog; and it has been in
use for fifty years!"

He lifted one pistol and sat idly twirling it around his fore-finger.

"I know why you came here to Schwindlewald," he said, "to put that
back on the throne of Greece!"—he nodded toward Tino.
