unhurried step on the stair.

Before he was announced by the maid, however, she had understood one
problem in the scheme of things--realised it as she rose from the
lounge and held out her slender hand.

He took it and kept it. The maid retired.

"Well, Palla," he said.

"Well," she said, rather breathlessly, "--I know now."

His voice and face seemed amiable and lifeless; his eyes, too,
remained dull and incurious; but he said: "I don't think I understand.
What is it you know?"

"Shall I tell you?"

"If you wish."

His pleasant, listless manner chilled her; she hesitated, then turned
away, withdrawing her hand.

When she had seated herself on the sofa he dropped down beside her in
his old place. She lighted a cigarette for him.

"Tell me about poor old Jack," he said in a low voice.

Their dinner was a pleasant but subdued affair. Afterward she played
for him--interrupted once by a telephone call from Ilse, who said that
John's temperature had risen a degree and the only thing to do was to
watch him every second. But she refused Palla's offer to join her at
the hospital, saying that she and the night nurse were sufficient; and
the girl went slowly back to the piano.

But, somehow, even that seemed too far away from her lover--or the man
who once had been her avowed lover. And after idling-with the keys for
a few minutes she came back to the lounge where he was seated.

He looked up from his revery: "This is most comfortable, Palla," he
said with a slight smile.

"Do you like it?"

"Of course."

"You need not go away at all--if it pleases you." Her voice was so
indistinct that for a moment he did not comprehend what she had said.
Then he turned and looked at her. Both were pale enough now.

"That is what--what I was going to tell you," she said. "Is it too
late?"

"Too late!"

"To say that I am--in love with you."

He flushed heavily and looked at her in a dazed way.

"What do you mean?" he said.

"I mean--if you want me--I am--am not afraid any more----"

They had both risen instinctively, as though to face something vital.
She said:

"Don't ask me to submit to any degrading ceremony.... I love you
enough."

He said slowly: "Do you realise what you say? You are crazy! You and
your socialist friends pretend to be fighting anarchy. You preach
against Bolshevism! You warn the world that the Crimson Tide is
rising. And every word you utter swells it! You are the anarchists
yourselves! You are the Bolsheviki of the world! You come bringing
disorder where there is order; you substitute unproven theory for
proven practice!

"Like the hun, you come to impose your will on a world already content
with its own God and its own belief! And that is autocracy; and
autocracy is what you say you oppose!

"I tell you and your friends that it was not wolves that were
pupped in the sand of the shaggy Prussian forests when the first
Hohenzollern was dropped. It was swine! Swine were farrowed;--not
even sanglier, but decadent domestic swine;--when Wilhelm and his
degenerate litter came out to root up Europe! And they were the
first real Bolsheviki!"

He turned and began to stride to and fro; his pale, sunken face deeply
shadowed, his hands clenching and unclenching.

"What in God's name," he said fiercely, "are women like you doing to
us! What do you suppose happens to such a man as I when the girl he
loves tells him she cares only to be his mistress! What hope is there
left in him?--what sense, what understanding, what faith?

"You don't have to tell me that the Crimson Tide is rising. I saw it
in the Argonne. I wish to God I were back there and the hun was still
resisting. I wish I had never lived to come back here and see what
demoralisation is threatening my own country from that cursed germ of
wilful degeneracy born in the Prussian twilight, fed in Russian
desolation, infecting the whole world----"

His voice died in his throat; he walked swiftly past her, turned at
the threshold:

"I've known three of you," he said, "--you and Ilse and Marya. I've
seen a lot of your associates and acquaintances who profess your
views. And I've seen enough."

He hesitated; then when he could control his voice again:

"It's bad enough when a woman refuses marriage to a man she does not
love. That man is going to be unhappy. But have you any idea what
happens to him when the girl he loves, and who says she cares for him,
refuses marriage?

"It was terrible even when you cared for me only a little. But--but
now--do you know what I think of your creed? I hate it as you hated
the beasts who slew your friend! Damn your creed! To hell with it!"

She covered her face with both hands: there was a noise like thunder
in her brain.

She heard the door close sharply in the hall below.

This was the end.




CHAPTER XXII


She felt a trifle weak. In her ears there lingered a dull, confused
sensation, like the echo of things still falling. Something had gone
very wrong with the scheme of nature. Even beneath her feet, now, the
floor seemed unsteady, unreliable.

A half-darkness dimmed her eyes; she laid one slim hand on the sofa-back
and seated herself, fighting instinctively for consciousness.

She sat there for a long while. The swimming faintness passed away. An
intense stillness seemed to invade her, and the room, and the street
outside. And for vast distances beyond. Half hours and hours rang
clearly through the silence from the mantel-clock. So still was the
place that a sheaf of petals falling from a fading rose on the piano
seemed to fill the room with ghostly rustling.

                  *       *       *       *       *

This, then, was the finish. Love had ended. Youth itself was ending,
too, here in the dead silence of this lamplit room.

There remained nothing more. Except that ever darkening horizon where,
at the earth's ends, those grave shapes of cloud closed out the vista
of remote skies.

There seemed to be no shelter anywhere in the vast nakedness of the
scheme of things--no shadow under which to crouch--no refuge.

Dim visions of cloistered forms, moving in a blessed twilight, grew
and assumed familiar shape amid the dumb desolation reigning in her
brain. The spectral temptation passed, repassed; processional,
recessional glided by, timed by her heart's low rhythm.

But, little by little, she came to understand that there was no refuge
even there; no mystic glow in the dark corridors of her own heart; no
source of light save from the candles glimmering on the high altar; no
aureole above the crucifix.

Always, everywhere, there seemed to be no shelter, no roof above the
scheme of things.

                  *       *       *       *       *

She heard the telephone. As she slowly rose from the sofa she noted
the hour as it sounded;--four o'clock in the morning.

A man's voice was speaking--an unhurried, precise, low-pitched,
monotonous voice:

"This--is--the--Memorial Hospital. Doctor--Willis--speaking. Mr.--John--
Estridge--died--at--ten minutes--to--four. Miss Westgard--wishes--to--
go--to--your--residence--and--remain--over--night--if--convenient....
Thank you. Miss--Westgard--will--go--to--you--immediately. Good-night."

                  *       *       *       *       *


Palla rose from her chair in the unfurnished drawing-room, went out
into the hall, admitted Ilse, then locked and chained the two front
doors.

When she turned around, trembling and speechless, they kissed. But it
was only Palla's mouth that trembled; and when they mounted the stairs
it was Ilse's arm that supported Palla.

Except that her eyes were heavy and seemed smeared with deep violet
under the lower lids, Ilse did not appear very much changed.

She took off her furs, hat, and gloves and sat down beside Palla. Her
voice was quite clear and steady; there appeared to be no sign of
shock or of grief, save for a passing tremor of her tired eyes now and
then.

She said: "We talked a little together, Jack and I, after I telephoned
to you.

"That was the last. His hand began to burn in mine steadily, like
something on fire. And when, presently, I found he was not asleep, I
motioned to the night nurse.

"The change seemed to come suddenly; she went to find one of the
internes; I sat with my hand on his pulse.... There were three
physicians there.... Jack was not conscious after midnight."

Palla's lips and throat were dry and aching and her voice almost
inaudible:

"Darling," she whispered, "--darling--if I could give him back to you
and take his place!----"

Ilse smiled, but her heavy eyelids quivered:

"The scheme of things is so miserably patched together.... Except for
the indestructible divinity within each one of us, it all would be so
hopeless.... I had never been able to imagine Jack and Death
together--" She looked up at the clock. "He was alive only an hour
ago.... Isn't it strange--"

"Oh, Ilse, Ilse! I wish this God who deals out such wickedness and
misery had struck me down instead!"

Neither seemed to notice the agnostic paradox in this bitter cry wrung
from a young girl's grief.

Ilse closed her eyes as though to rest them, and sat so, her steady
hand on Palla's. And, so resting, said in her unfaltering voice:

"Jack, of course, lives.... But it seems a long time to wait to see
him."

"Jack lives," whispered Palla.

"Of course.... Only--it seems so long a time to wait.... I wanted to
show him--how kind love has been to us--how still more wonderful love
could have been to us ... for I could have borne him many children....
And now I shall bear but one."

After a silence, Palla lifted her eyes. In them the shadow of terror
still lingered; there was not an atom of colour in her face.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Ilse slept that night, though Palla scarcely closed her eyes. Dreadful
details of the coming day rose up to haunt her--all the ghastly
routine necessary before the dead lie finally undisturbed by the stir
and movement of many footsteps--the coming and going of the living.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Because what they called pneumonia was the Black Death of the ancient
East, they had warned Ilse to remain aloof from that inert thing that
had been her lover. So she did not look upon his face again.

There were relatives of sorts at the chapel. None spoke to her. The
sunshine on the flower-covered casket was almost spring like.

And in the cemetery, too, there was no snow; and, under the dead
grass, everywhere new herbage tinted the earth with delicate green.

Ilse returned from the cemetery with Palla. Her black veil and
garments made of her gold hair and blond skin a vivid beauty that
grief had not subdued.

That deathless courage which was part of her seemed to sustain the
clear glow of her body's vigour as it upheld her dauntless spirit.

"Did you see Jim in the chapel?" she asked quietly.

Palla nodded. She had seen Marya, also. After a little while Ilse said
gravely:

"I think it no treachery to creed when one submits to the equally
vital belief of another. I think our creed includes submission,
because that also is part of love."

Palla lifted her face in flushed surprise:

"Is there any compromising with truth?" she asked.

"I think love is the greatest truth. What difference does it make how
we love?"

"Does not our example count? You had the courage of your belief. Do
you counsel me to subscribe to what I do not believe by acquiescing in
it?"

Ilse closed her sea-blue eyes as though fatigued. She said dreamily:

"I think that to believe in love and mating and the bearing of
children is the only important belief in the world. But under what
local laws you go about doing these things seems to be of minor
importance,--a matter, I should say, of personal inclination."

Ilse wished to go home. That is, to her own apartment, where now were
enshrined all her memories of this dead man who had given to her
womanhood that ultimate crown which in her eyes seemed perfect.

She said serenely to Palla: "Mine is not the loneliness that craves
company with the living. I have a long time to wait; that is all. And
after a while I shall not wait alone.

"So you must not grieve for me, darling. You see I know that Jack
lives. It's just the long, long wait that calls for courage. But I
think it is a little easier to wait alone until--until there are two
to wait--for him----"

"Will you call me when you want me, Ilse?"

"Always, darling. Don't grieve. Few women know happiness. I have known
it. I know it now. It shall not even die with me."

She smiled faintly and turned to enter her doorway; and Palla
continued on alone toward that dwelling which she called home.

The mourning which she had worn for her aunt, and which she had worn
for John Estridge that morning, she now put off, although vaguely
inclined for it. But she shrank from the explanations in which it was
certain she must become involved when on duty at the Red Cross and the
canteen that afternoon.

Undressed, she sent her maid for a cup of tea, feeling too tired for
luncheon. Afterward she lay down on her bed, meaning merely to close
her eyes for a moment.

It was after four in the afternoon when she sat up with a start--too
late for the Red Cross; but she could do something at the canteen.

She went about dressing as though bruised. It seemed to take an
interminable time. Her maid called a taxi; but the short winter
daylight had nearly gone when she arrived at the canteen.

She remained there on kitchen duty until seven, then untied her white
tablier, washed, pinned on her hat, and went out into the light-shot
darkness of the streets and turned her steps once more toward home.

There is, among the weirder newspapers of the metropolis, a sheet
affectionately known as "pink-and-punk," the circulation of which
seems to depend upon its distribution of fake "extras."

As Palla turned into her street, shabby men with hoarse voices were
calling an extra and selling the newspaper in question.

She bought one, glanced at the headlines, then, folding it, unlocked
her door.

Dinner was announced almost immediately, but she could not touch it.

She sank down on the sofa, still wearing her furs and hat. After a
little while she opened her newspaper.

It seemed that a Bolsheviki plot had been discovered to murder the
premiers and rulers of the allied nations, and to begin simultaneously
in every capital and principal city of Europe and America a reign of
murder and destruction.

In fact, according to the account printed in startling type, the
Terrorists had already begun their destructive programme in
Philadelphia. Half a dozen buildings--private dwellings and one small
hotel--had been more or less damaged by bombs. A New York man named
Wilding, fairly well known as an impresario, had been killed outright;
and a Russian pianist, Vanya Tchernov, who had just arrived in
Philadelphia to complete arrangements for a concert to be given by him
under Mr. Wilding's management, had been fatally injured by the
collapse of the hotel office which, at that moment, he was leaving in
company with Mr. Wilding.

A numbness settled over Palla's brain. She did not seem to be able
to comprehend that this affair concerned Vanya--that this newspaper
was telling her that Vanya had been fatally hurt somewhere in
Philadelphia.

Hours later, while she was lying on the lounge with her face buried in
the cushions, and still wearing her hat and furs, somebody came into
the room. And when she turned over she saw it was Ilse.

Palla sat up stupidly, the marks of tears still glistening under her
eyes. Ilse picked up the newspaper from the couch, laid it aside, and
seated herself.

"So you know about Vanya?" she said calmly.

Palla nodded.

"You don't know all. Marya called me on the telephone a few minutes
ago to tell me."

"Vanya is dead," whispered Palla.

"Yes. They found an unmailed letter directed to Marya in his pockets.
That's why they notified her."

After an interval: "So Vanya is dead," repeated Palla under her
breath.

Ilse sat plaiting the black edges of her handkerchief.

"It's such a--a senseless interruption--death----" she murmured. "It
seems so wanton, so meaningless in the scheme of things ... to make
two people wait so long--so long!--to resume where they had been
interrupted----"

Palla asked coldly whether Marya had seemed greatly shocked.

"I don't know, Palla. She called me up and told me. I asked her if
there was anything I could do; and she answered rather strangely that
what remained for her to do she would do alone. I don't know what she
meant."

                  *       *       *       *       *

Whether Marya herself knew exactly what she meant seemed not to be
entirely clear to her. For, when Mr. Puma, dressed in a travelling
suit and carrying a satchel, arrived at her apartment in the Hotel
Rajah, and entered the reception room with his soundless, springy
step, she came out of her bedroom partly dressed, and still hooking
her waist.

"What are you doing here?" she demanded contemptuously, looking him
over from, head to foot. "Did you really suppose I meant to go to
Mexico with you?"

His heavy features crimsoned: "What pleasantry is this, my Marya?----"
he began; but the green blaze in her slanting eyes silenced him.

"The difference," she said, "between us is this. You run from those
who threaten you. I kill them."

"Of--of what nonsense are you speaking!" he stammered. "All is
arranged that we shall go at eleven----"

"No," she said wearily, "one sometimes plays with stray animals for a
few moments--and that is all. And that is all I ever saw in you,
Angelo--a stray beast to amuse and entertain me between two yawns and
a cup of tea." She shrugged, still twisted lithely in her struggle to
hook her waist. "You may go," she added, not even looking at him, "or,
if you are not too cowardly, you may come with me to the Red Flag
Club."

"In God's name what do you mean----"

"Mean? I mean to take my pistol to the Red Flag Club and kill some
Bolsheviki. That is what I mean, my Angelo--my ruddy Eurasian pig!"

She slipped in the last hook, turned and enveloped him again with an
insolent, slanting glance: "Allons! Do you come to the Red Flag?"

"Marya----"

"Yes or no! Allez!"

"My God, are--are you then demented?" he faltered.

"My God, I'm not," she mimicked him, "but I can't answer for what I
might do to you if you hang around this apartment any longer."

She came slowly toward him, her hands bracketed on her hips, her
strange eyes narrowing.

"Listen to me," she said. "I have loved many times. But never you!
One doesn't love your kind. One experiments, possibly, if idle.

"A man died to-day whom I loved; but was too stupid to love enough.
Perhaps he knows now how stupid I am.... Unless they blew his soul to
pieces, also. Allez! Good-night. I tell you I have business to
attend to, and you stand there rolling your woman's eyes at me!----"

"Damn you!" he said between his teeth. "What is the matter with
you----"

He had caught her arm; she wrenched it free, tearing the sleeve to her
naked shoulder.

Then she went to her desk and took a pistol from an upper drawer.

"If you don't go," she said, "I shall have to shoot you and leave you
here kicking on the carpet."

"In God's name, Marya!" he cried hoarsely, "who is it you shall kill
at the hall?"

"I shall kill Sondheim and Bromberg and Kastner, I hope. What of it?"

"But--if I go to-night--the others will say I did it! I can't run
away if you do such thing! I can not go into Mexico but they shall
arrest me before I am at the border----"

"Eurasian pig, I shall admit the killing!" she said with a green gleam
in her eyes that perhaps was laughter.

"Yes, my Marya," he explained in agony, the sweat pouring from his
temples, "but if they think me your accomplice they shall arrest me.
Me--I can not wait--I shall be ruined if I am arrest! You do not
comprehend. I have not said it to you how it is that I am compel to
travel with some money which--which is not--my own."

Marya looked at him for a long while. Suddenly she flung the pistol
into a corner, threw back her head while peal on peal of laughter rang
out in the room.

"A thief," she said, fairly holding her slender sides between gemmed
fingers: "--Just a Levantine thief, after all! Not a thing to shoot.
Not a man. No! But a giant cockroach from the tropics. Ugh! Too large
to place one's foot upon!----"

She came leisurely forward, halted, inspected him with laughing
insolence:

"And the others--Kastner, Sondheim--and the other vermin? You were
quite right. Why should I kill them--merely because to-day a real man
died? What if they are the same species of vermin that slew Vanya
Tchernov? They are not men to pay for it. My pistol could not make a
dead man out of a live louse! No, you are quite correct. You know your
own kind. It would be no compliment to Vanya if I should give these
vermin the death that real men die!"

Puma stood close to the door, furtively passing a thick tongue over
his dry, blanched lips.

"Then you will not interfere?" he asked softly.

She shrugged her shoulders: one was bare with the torn sleeve
dangling. "No," she said wearily. "Run home, painted pig. After all,
the world is mostly swine.... I, too, it seems----" She half raised
her arms, but the gesture failed, and she stood thinking again and
staring at the curtained window. She did not hear him leave.




CHAPTER XXIII


In the strange, springlike weather which prevailed during the last
days of January, Vanya was buried under skies as fleecy blue as
April's, and Marya Lanois went back to the studio apartment where she
and Vanya had lived together. And here, alone, in the first month of
the new year, she picked up again the ravelled threads of life,
undecided whether to untangle them or to cut them short and move on
once more to further misadventure; or to Vanya; or somewhere--or
perhaps nowhere. So, pending some decision, she left her pistol
loaded.

Afternoon sunshine poured into the studio between antique silken
curtains, now drawn wide to the outer day for the first time since
these two young people had established for themselves a habitation.

And what, heretofore, even the lighted mosque-lamps had scarcely half
revealed, now lay exposed to outer air and daylight, gilded by the
sun--cabinets and chests of ancient lacquer; deep-toned carpets in
which slumbered jewelled fires of Asia; carved gods from the East,
crusted with soft gold; and tapestries of silk shot with amethyst and
saffron, centred by dragons and guarded by the burning pearl.

Over all these, and the great mosque lantern drooping from above, the
false-spring sunshine fell; and through every open window flowed soft,
deceptive winds, fluttering the leaves of music on the piano,
stirring the clustered sheafs of growing jonquils and narcissus, so
that they swayed in their Chinese bowls.

Marya, in black, arranged her tiger-ruddy hair before an ancient
grotesquerie set with a reflecting glass in which, on some days, one
could see the form of the Lord Buddha, though none could ever tell
from whence the image came.

Where Vanya had left his music opened on the piano rack, the sacred
pages now stirred slightly as the soft wind blew; and scented bells of
Frisia swayed and bowed around a bowl where gold-fish glowed.

Marya, at the piano, reading at sight from his inked manuscript, came
presently to the end of what was scored there--merely the first sketch
for a little spring song.

Some day she would finish it as part of a new debt--new obligations
she had now assumed in the slowly increasing light of new beliefs.

As she laid Vanya's last manuscript aside, under it she discovered one
of her own--a cynical, ribald, pencilled parody which she remembered
she had scribbled there in an access of malicious perversity.

As though curious to sound the obscurer depths of what she had been
when this jeering cynicism expressed her mood, she began to read from
her score and words, playing and intoning:

                            "CROQUE-MITAINE.

              "Parfaît qu'on attend La Marée Rouge,
               La chose est positive.
               On n'sait pas quand el' bouge,
               Mais on sait qu'el' arrive.
                  La Marée Rouge arrivera
                  Et tout le monde en crèvera!

              "Croque'morts, sacristains et abbés,
               Dans leurs sacré's boutiques
               Se cachent auprès des machabé's
               En répètant des cantiques.
               Pape, cardinal, et sacré soeur
               Miaulent avec tout leurs cliques,
               Lorsque les Bolsheviks reprenn 'nt en choeur;
                  Mort aux saligaudes chic!

              "La Marée Rouge montera
               Et la bourgeoisie en crèvera!"

The vicious irony of the atrocious parody--words and music--died out
in the sunny silence: for a few moments the girl sat staring at the
scored page; then she leaned forward, and, taking the manuscript in
both hands, tore it into pieces.

She was still occupied in destroying the unclean thing when a servant
appeared, and in subdued voice announced Palla and Ilse.

They came in as Marya swept the tattered scraps of paper into an
incense-bowl, dropped a lighted match upon them, and set the ancient
bronze vessel on the sill of the open window.

"Some of my vileness I am burning," she said, coming forward and
kissing Ilse on both cheeks.

Then, looking Palla steadily in the eyes, she bent forward and touched
her lips with her own.

"Nechevo," she said; "the thing that dwelt within me for a time has
continued on its way to hell, I hope."

She took the pale girl by both hands: "Do you understand?"

And Palla kissed her.

When they were seated: "What religious order would be likely to accept
me?" she asked serenely. And answered her own question: "None would
tolerate me--no order with its rigid systems of inquiry and its
merciless investigations.... And yet--I wonder.... Perhaps, as a
lay-sister in some missionary order--where few care to serve--where
life resembles death as one twin the other.... I don't know: I wonder,
Palla."

Palla asked her in a low voice if she had seen the afternoon paper.
Marya did not reply at once; but presently over her face a hot
rose-glow spread and deepened. Then, after a silence:

"The paper mentioned me as Vanya's wife. Is that what you mean? Yes; I
told them that.... It made no difference, for they would have
discovered it anyway. And I scarcely know why I made Vanya lie about
it to you all;--why I wished people to think otherwise.... Because I
have been married to Vanya since the beginning.... And I can not
explain why I have not told you."

She touched a rosebud in the vase that stood beside her, broke the
stem absently, and sat examining it in silence. And, after a few
moments:

"As a child I was too imaginative.... We do not change--we women.
Married, unmarried, too wise, or too innocent, we remain what we were
when our mothers bore us.... Whatever we do, we never change within:
we remain, in our souls, what we first were. And unaltered we die....
In morgue or prison or Potter's Field, where lies a dead female thing
in a tattered skirt, there, hidden somewhere under rag and skin and
bone, lies a dead girl-child."

She laid the unopened rosebud on Palla's knees; her preoccupied gaze
wandered around that silent, sunlit place.

"I could have taken my pistol," she said softly, "and I could have
killed a few among those whose doctrines at last slew Vanya.... Or I
could have killed myself."

She turned and her remote gaze came back to fix itself on Palla.

"But, somehow, I think that Vanya would grieve.... And he has grieved
enough. Do you think so, Palla?"

"Yes."

Ilse said thoughtfully: "There is always enough death on earth. And to
live honestly, and love undauntedly, and serve humanity with a clean
heart is the most certain way to help the slaying of that thing which
murdered Vanya."

Palla gazed at Marya, profoundly preoccupied by the astounding
revelation that she had been Vanya's legal wife; and in her brown eyes
the stunned wonder of it still remained, nor could she seem to think
of anything except of that amazing fact.

When they stood up to take leave of Marya, the rosebud dropped from
Palla's lap, and Marya picked it up and offered it again.

"It should open," she said, her strange smile glimmering. "Cold water
and a little salt, my Palla--that is all rosebuds need--that is all we
women need--a little water to cool and freshen us; a little salt for
all the doubtful worldly knowledge we imbibe."

She took Palla's hands and bent her lips to them, then lifted her
tawny head:

"What do words matter? Slava, slava, under the moon! Words are
but symbols of needs--your need and Ilse's and mine--and Jack's
and Vanya's--and the master-word differs as differ our several
needs. And if I say Christ and Buddha and I are one, let me so
believe, if that be my need. Or if, from some high minarette, I
lift my voice proclaiming the unity of God!--or if I confess the
Trinity!--or if, for me, the god-fire smoulders only within my own
accepted soul--what does it matter? Slava, slava--the word and the
need spell Love--whatever the deed, Palla--my Palla!--whatever the
deed, and despite it."

                  *       *       *       *       *

As they came, together, to Palla's house and entered the empty
drawing-room, Ilse said:

"In mysticism there seems to be no reasoning--nothing definite save
only an occult and overwhelming restlessness.... Marya may take the
veil ... or nurse lepers ... or she may become a famous courtesan....
I do not mean it cruelly. But, in the mystic, the spiritual, the
intellectual and the physical seem to be interchangeable, and become
gradually indistinguishable."

"That is a frightful analysis," murmured Palla. A little shiver passed
over her and she laid the rosebud against her lips.

Ilse said: "Marya is right: love is the world's overwhelming need. The
way to love is to serve; and if we serve we must renounce something."

They locked arms and began to pace the empty room.

"What should I renounce?" asked Palla faintly.

Ilse smiled that wise, wholesome smile of hers:

"Suppose you renounce your own omniscience, darling," she suggested.

"I do not think myself omniscient," retorted the girl, colouring.

"No? Well, darling, from where then do you derive your authority to
cancel the credentials of the Most High?"

"What!"

"On what authority except your own omniscience do you so confidently
preach the non-existence of omnipotence?"

Palla turned her flushed face in sensitive astonishment under the
gentle mockery.

Ilse said: "Love has many names; and so has God. And all are good. If,
to you, God means that little flame within you, then that is good. And
so, to others, according to their needs.... And it is the same with
love.... So, if for the man you love, love can be written only as a
phrase--if the word love be only one element in a trinity of which the
other two are Law and Wedlock--does it really matter, darling?"

"You mean I--I am to renounce my--creed?"

Ilse shook her head: "Who cares? The years develop and change
everything--even creeds. Do you think your lover would care whether,
at twenty-odd, you worship the flaming godhead itself, or whether
you guard in spirit that lost spark from it which has become
entangled with your soul?--whether you really do believe the man-made
law that licenses your mating; or whether you reject it as a silly
superstition? To a business man, convention is merely a safe
procedure which, ignored, causes disaster--he knows that whenever
he ignores it--as when he drives a car bearing no license; and the
police stop him."

"I never expected to hear this from you, Ilse."

"Why?"

"You are unmarried."

"No, Palla."

The girl stared at her: "Did you marry Jack?" she gasped.

"Yes. In the hospital."

"Oh, Ilse!----"

"He asked me."

"But--" her mouth quivered and she bent her head and placed her hand
on Ilse's arm for guidance, because the starting tears were
blinding her now. And at last she found her voice: "I meant I am so
thankful--darling--it's been a--a nightmare----"

"It would have been one to me if I had refused him. Except that Jack
wished it, I did not care.... But I have lately learned--some
things."

"You--you consented because he wished it?"

"Of course. Is not that our law?"

"Do you so construe the Law of Love and Service? Does it permit us to
seek protection under false pretences; to say yes when we mean no; to
kneel before a God we do not believe in; to accept immunity under a
law we do not believe in?"

"If all this concerned only one's self, then, no! Or, if the man
believed as we do, no! But even then--" she shook her head slowly,
"unless all agree, it is unfair."

"Unfair?"

"Yes, it is unfair if you have a baby. Isn't it, darling? Isn't it
unfair and tyrannical?"

"You mean that a child should not arbitrarily be placed by its parents
at what it might later consider a disadvantage?"

"Of course I mean just that. Do you know, Palla, what Jack once said
of us? He said--rather brutally, I thought--that you and I were
immaturely un-moral and pitiably unbaked; and that the best thing for
both of us was to marry and have a few children before we tried to do
any more independent thinking."

Palla's reply was: "He was such a dear!" But what she said did not
seem absurd to either of them.

Ilse added: "You know yourself, darling, what a relief it was to you
to learn that I had married Jack. I think you even said something
like, 'Thank God,' when you were choking back the tears."

Palla flushed brightly: "I meant--" but her voice ended in a sob.
Then, all of a sudden, she broke down--went all to pieces there in the
dim and empty little drawing-room--down on her knees, clinging to
Ilse's skirts....

She wished to go to her room alone; and so Ilse, watching her climb
the stairs as though they led to some dread calvary, opened the front
door and went her lonely way, drawing the mourning veil around her
face and throat.




CHAPTER XXIV


Leila Vance, lunching with Elorn Sharrow at the Ritz, spoke of
Estridge:

"There seem to be so many of these well-born men who marry women we
never heard of."

"Perhaps we ought to have heard of them," suggested Elorn, smilingly.
"The trouble may lie with us."

"It does, dear. But it's something we can't help, unless we change
radically. Because we don't stand the chance we once did. We never
have been as attractive to men as the other sort. But once men thought
they couldn't marry the other sort. Now they think they can. And they
do if they have to."

"What other sort?" asked Elorn, not entirely understanding.

"The sort of girl who ignores the customs which make us what we are.
We don't stand a chance with professional women any more. We don't
compare in interest to girls who are arbiters of their own destinies.

"Take the stage as an illustration. Once the popularity of women who
made it their profession was due partly to glamour, partly because
that art drew to it and concentrated the very best-looking among us.
But it's something else now that attracts men; it's the attraction of
women who are doing something--clever, experienced, interesting, girls
who know how to take care of themselves and who are not afraid to give
to men a frank and gay companionship outside those conventional
limits which circumscribe us."

Elorn nodded.

"It's quite true," said Leila. "The independent professional girl
to-day, whatever art or business engages her, is the paramount
attraction to men.

"A few do sneak back to us after a jolly caper in the open--a few
timid ones, or snobs of sorts--thrifty, perhaps, or otherwise
material, or cautious. But that's about all we get as husbands in
these devilish days of general feminine bouleversement. And it's a
sad and instructive fact, Elorn. But there seems to be nothing to do
about it."

Elorn said musingly: "The main thing seems to be that men admire a
girl's effort to get somewhere--when she happens to be good-looking."

"It's a cynical fact, dear; they certainly do. And now that they
