instructed to keep in touch with XLY-371 (Alek Selden) and ZB-303 (James
Benton), and to employ every possible means to become friendly with the
girl Tressa Norne, win her confidence, and, if possible, enlist her
actively in the Government Service as your particular aid and comrade.

"It is equally important that the movements of the Oriental, called
Sanang, be carefully observed in order to discover the identity and
whereabouts of his companions. However, until further instructions he is
not to be taken into custody. M. H. 2479.

    "(Signed)
    "(John Recklow.)"

The long despatch from John Recklow made Cleves's duty plain enough.

For months, now, Selden and Benton had been watching Tressa Norne. And
they had learned practically nothing about her.

And now the girl had come within Cleves's sphere of operation. She had
been in New York for two weeks. Telegrams from Benton in Chicago, and
from Selden in Buffalo, had prepared him for her arrival.

He had his men watching her boarding-house on West Twenty-eighth Street,
men to follow her, men to keep their eyes on her at the theatre, where
every evening, at 10:45, her entr' acte was staged. He knew where to
get her. But he, himself, had been on the watch for the man Sanang; and
had failed to find the slightest trace of him in New York, although
warned that he had arrived.

So, for that evening, he left the hunt for Sanang to others, put on his
evening clothes, and dined with fashionable friends at the Patroons'
Club, who never for an instant suspected that young Victor Cleves was in
the Service of the United States Government. About half-past nine he
strolled around to the theatre, desiring to miss as much as possible of
the popular show without being too late to see the curious little entr'
acte in which this girl, Tressa Norne, appeared alone.

He had secured an aisle seat near the stage at an outrageous price; the
main show was still thundering and fizzing and glittering as he entered
the theatre; so he stood in the rear behind the orchestra until the
descending curtain extinguished the outrageous glare and din.

Then he went down the aisle, and as he seated himself Tressa Norne
stepped from the wings and stood before the lowered curtain facing an
expectant but oddly undemonstrative audience.

The girl worked rapidly, seriously, and in silence. She seemed a mere
child there behind the footlights, not more than sixteen anyway--her
winsome eyes and wistful lips unspoiled by the world's wisdom.

Yet once or twice the mouth drooped for a second and the winning eyes
darkened to a remoter blue--the brooding iris hue of far horizons.

She wore the characteristic tabard of stiff golden tissue and the gold
pagoda-shaped headpiece of a Yezidee temple girl. Her flat,
slipper-shaped foot-gear was of stiff gold, too, and curled upward at
the toes.

All this accentuated her apparent youth. For in face and throat no
firmer contours had as yet modified the soft fullness of immaturity; her
limbs were boyish and frail, and her bosom more undecided still, so that
the embroidered breadth of gold fell flat and straight from her chest to
a few inches above the ankles.

She seemed to have no stock of paraphernalia with which to aid the
performance; no assistant, no orchestral diversion, nor did she serve
herself with any magician's patter. She did her work close to the
footlights.

Behind her loomed a black curtain; the strip of stage in front was bare
even of carpet; the orchestra remained mute.

But when she needed anything--a little table, for example--well, it was
suddenly there where she required it--a tripod, for instance, evidently
fitted to hold the big iridescent bubble of glass in which swarmed
little tropical fishes--and which arrived neatly from nowhere. She
merely placed her hands before her as though ready to support something
weighty which she expected and--suddenly, the huge crystal bubble was
visible, resting between her hands. And when she tired of holding it,
she set it upon the empty air and let go of it; and instead of crashing
to the stage with its finny rainbow swarm of swimmers, out of thin air
appeared a tripod to support it.

Applause followed, not very enthusiastic, for the sort of audience which
sustains the shows of which her performance was merely an entr' acte
is an audience responsive only to the obvious.

Nobody ever before had seen that sort of magic in America. People
scarcely knew whether or not they quite liked it. The lightning of
innovation stupefies the dull; ignorance is always suspicious of
innovation--always afraid to put itself on record until its mind is made
up by somebody else.

So in this typical New York audience approbation was cautious, but every
fascinated eye remained focused on this young girl who continued to do
incredible things, which seemed to resemble "putting something over" on
them; a thing which no uneducated American conglomeration ever quite
forgives.

The girl's silence, too, perplexed them; they were accustomed to gabble,
to noise, to jazz, vocal and instrumental, to that incessant
metropolitan clamour which fills every second with sound in a city whose
only distinction is its din. Stage, press, art, letters, social
existence unless noisy mean nothing in Gotham; reticence, leisure,
repose are the three lost arts. The megaphone is the city's symbol; its
chiefest crime, silence.

The girl having finished with the big glass bubble full of tiny fish,
picked it up and tossed it aside. For a moment it apparently floated
there in space like a soap-bubble. Changing rainbow tints waxed and
waned on the surface, growing deeper and more gorgeous until the
floating globe glowed scarlet, then suddenly burst into flame and
vanished. And only a strange, sweet perfume lingered in the air.

But she gave her perplexed audience no time to wonder; she had seated
herself on the stage and was already swiftly busy unfolding a white veil
with which she presently covered herself, draping it over her like a
tent.

The veil seemed to be translucent; she was apparently visible seated
beneath it. But the veil turned into smoke, rising into the air in a
thin white cloud; and there, where she had been seated, was a statue of
white stone the image of herself!--in all the frail springtide of early
adolescence--a white statue, cold, opaque, exquisite in its sculptured
immobility.

There came, the next moment, a sound of distant thunder; flashes lighted
the blank curtain; and suddenly a vein of lightning and a sharper peal
shattered the statue to fragments.

There they lay, broken bits of her own sculptured body, glistening in a
heap behind the footlights. Then each fragment began to shimmer with a
rosy internal light of its own, until the pile of broken marble glowed
like living coals under thickening and reddening vapours. And,
presently, dimly perceptible, there she was in the flesh again, seated
in the fiery centre of the conflagration, stretching her arms
luxuriously, yawning, seemingly awakening from refreshing slumber, her
eyes unclosing to rest with a sort of confused apology upon her
astounded audience.

As she rose to her feet nothing except herself remained on the stage--no
d√©bris, not a shred of smoke, not a spark.

She came down, then, across an inclined plank into the orchestra among
the audience.

In the aisle seat nearest her sat Victor Cleves. His business was to be
there that evening. But she didn't know that, knew nothing about
him--had never before set eyes on him.

At her gesture of invitation he made a cup of both his hands. Into these
she poured a double handful of unset diamonds--or what appeared to be
diamonds--pressed her own hands above his for a second--and the diamonds
in his palms had become pearls.

These were passed around to people in the vicinity, and finally returned
to Mr. Cleves, who, at her request, covered the heap of pearls with both
his hands, hiding them entirely from view.

At her nod he uncovered them. The pearls had become emeralds. Again,
while he held them, and without even touching him, she changed them into
rubies. Then she turned away from him, apparently forgetting that he
still held the gems, and he sat very still, one cupped hand over the
other, while she poured silver coins into a woman's gloved hands, turned
them into gold coins, then flung each coin into the air, where it
changed to a living, fragrant rose and fell among the audience.

Presently she seemed to remember Cleve, came back down the aisle, and
under his close and intent gaze drew from his cupped hands, one by one,
a score of brilliant little living birds, which continually flew about
her and finally perched, twittering, on her golden headdress--a
rainbow-crest of living jewels.

As she drew the last warm, breathing little feathered miracle from
Cleves's hands and released it, he said rapidly under his breath: "I
want a word with you later. Where?"

She let her clear eyes rest on him for a moment, then with a shrug so
slight that it was perceptible, perhaps, only to him, she moved on along
the inclined way, stepped daintily over the footlights, caught fire,
apparently, nodded to a badly rattled audience, and sauntered off,
burning from head to foot.

What applause there was became merged in a dissonant instrumental
outburst from the orchestra; the great god Jazz resumed direction, the
mindless audience breathed freely again as the curtain rose upon a
familiar, yelling turbulence, including all that Gotham really
understands and cares for--legs and noise.

Victor Cleves glanced up at the stage, then continued to study the name
of the girl on the programme. It was featured in rather pathetic
solitude under "Entr' acte." And he read further: "During the
entr' acte Miss Tressa Norne will entertain you with several phases of
Black Magic. This strange knowledge was acquired by Miss Norne from the
Yezidees, among which almost unknown people still remain descendants of
that notorious and formidable historic personage known in the twelfth
century as The Old Man of the Mountain--or The Old Man of Mount Alamout.

"The pleasant profession of this historic individual was assassination;
and some historians now believe that genuine occult power played a part
in his dreadful record--a record which terminated only when the infantry
of Genghis Khan took Mount Alamout by storm and hanged the Old Man of
the Mountain and burned his body under a boulder of You-Stone.

"For Miss Norne's performance there appears to be no plausible,
practical or scientific explanation.

"During her performance the curtain will remain lowered for fifteen
minutes and will then rise on the last act of 'You Betcha Life.'"

The noisy show continued while Cleves, paying it scant attention,
brooded over the programme. And ever his keen, grey eyes reverted to her
name, Tressa Norne.

Then, for a little while, he settled back and let his absent gaze wander
over the galloping battalions of painted girls and the slapstick
principals whose perpetual motion evoked screams of approbation from the
audience amid the din of the great god Jazz.

He had an aisle seat; he disturbed nobody when he went out and around to
the stage door.

The aged man on duty took his card, called a boy and sent it off. The
boy returned with the card, saying that Miss Norne had already dressed
and departed.

Cleves tipped him and then tipped the doorman heavily.

"Where does she live?" he asked.

"Say," said the old man, "I dunno, and that's straight. But them ladies
mostly goes up to the roof for a look in at the 'Moonlight Masque' and a
dance afterward. Was you ever up there?"

"Yes."

"Seen the new show?"

"No."

"Well, g'wan up while you can get a table. And I bet the little girl
will be somewheres around."

"The little girl" was "somewheres around." He secured a table, turned
and looked about at the vast cabaret into which only a few people had
yet filtered, and saw her at a distance in the carpeted corridor buying
violets from one of the flower-girls.

A waiter placed a reserve card on his table; he continued on around the
outer edge of the auditorium.

Miss Norne had already seated herself at a small table in the rear, and
a waiter was serving her with iced orange juice and little French cakes.

When the waiter returned Cleves went up and took off his hat.

"May I talk with you for a moment, Miss Norne?" he said.

The girl looked up, the wheat-straw still between her scarlet lips.
Then, apparently recognising in him the young man in the audience who
had spoken to her, she resumed her business of imbibing orange juice.

The girl seemed even frailer and younger in her hat and street gown. A
silver-fox stole hung from her shoulders; a gold bag lay on the table
under the bunch of violets.

She paid no attention whatever to him. Presently her wheat-straw
buckled, and she selected a better one.

He said: "There's something rather serious I'd like to speak to you
about if you'll let me. I'm not the sort you evidently suppose. I'm not
trying to annoy you."

At that she looked around and upward once more.

Very, very young, but already spoiled, he thought, for the dark-blue
eyes were coolly appraising him, and the droop of the mouth had become
almost sullen. Besides, traces of paint still remained to incarnadine
lip and cheek and there was a hint of hardness in the youthful plumpness
of the features.

"Are you a professional?" she asked without curiosity.

"A theatrical man? No."

"Then if you haven't anything to offer me, what is it you wish?"

"I have a job to offer if you care for it and if you are up to it," he
said.

Her eyes became slightly hostile:

"What kind of job do you mean?"

"I want to learn something about you first. Will you come over to my
table and talk it over?"

"No."

"What sort do you suppose me to be?" he inquired, amused.

"The usual sort, I suppose."

"You mean a Johnny?"

"Yes--of sorts."

She let her insolent eyes sweep him once more, from head to foot.

He was a well-built young man and in his evening dress he had that
something about him which placed him very definitely where he really
belonged.

"Would you mind looking at my card?" he asked.

He drew it out and laid it beside her, and without stirring she scanned
it sideways.

"That's my name and address," he continued. "I'm not contemplating
mischief. I've enough excitement in life without seeking adventure.
Besides, I'm not the sort who goes about annoying women."

She glanced up at him again:

"You are annoying me!"

"I'm sorry. I was quite honest. Good-night."

He took his cong√© with unhurried amiability; had already turned away
when she said:

"Please ... what do you desire to say to me?" He came back to her table:

"I couldn't tell you until I know a little more about you."

"What--do you wish to know?"

"Several things. I could scarcely ask you--go over such matters with
you--standing here."

There was a pause; the girl juggled with the straw on the table for a
few moments, then, partly turning, she summoned a waiter, paid him,
adjusted her stole, picked up her gold bag and her violets and stood up.
Then she turned to Cleves and gave him a direct look, which had in it
the impersonal and searching gaze of a child.

When they were seated at the table reserved for him the place already
was filling rapidly--backwash from the theatres slopped through every
aisle--people not yet surfeited with noise, not yet sufficiently sodden
by their worship of the great god Jazz.

"Jazz," said Cleves, glancing across his dinner-card at Tressa
Norne--"what's the meaning of the word? Do you happen to know?"

"Doesn't it come from the French 'jaser'?"

He smiled. "Possibly. I'm rather hungry. Are you?"

"Yes."

"Will you indicate your preferences?"

She studied her card, and presently he gave the order.

"I'd like some champagne," she said, "unless you think it's too
expensive."

He smiled at that, too, and gave the order.

"I didn't suggest any wine because you seem so young," he said.

"How old do I seem?"

"Sixteen perhaps."

"I am twenty-one."

"Then you've had no troubles."

"I don't know what you call trouble," she remarked, indifferently,
watching the arriving throngs.

The orchestra, too, had taken its place.

"Well," she said, "now that you've picked me up, what do you really want
of me?" There was no mitigating smile to soften what she said. She
dropped her elbows on the table, rested her chin between her palms and
looked at him with the same searching, undisturbed expression that is so
disconcerting in children. As he made no reply: "May I have a cocktail?"
she inquired.

He gave the order. And his mind registered pessimism. "There is nothing
doing with this girl," he thought. "She's already on the toboggan." But
he said aloud: "That was beautiful work you did down in the theatre,
Miss Norne."

"Did you think so?"

"Of course. It was astounding work."

"Thank you. But managers and audiences differ with you."

"Then they are very stupid," he said.

"Possibly. But that does not help me pay my board."

"Do you mean you have trouble in securing theatrical engagements?"

"Yes, I am through here to-night, and there's nothing else in view, so
far."

"That's incredible!" he exclaimed.

She lifted her glass, slowly drained it.

For a few moments she caressed the stem of the empty glass, her gaze
remote.

"Yes, it's that way," she said. "From the beginning I felt that my
audiences were not in sympathy with me. Sometimes it even amounts to
hostility. Americans do not like what I do, even if it holds their
attention. I don't quite understand why they don't like it, but I'm
always conscious they don't. And of course that settles it--to-night has
settled the whole thing, once and for all."

"What are you going to do?"

"What others do, I presume."

"What do others do?" he inquired, watching the lovely sullen eyes.

"Oh, they do what I'm doing now, don't they?--let some man pick them up
and feed them." She lifted her indifferent eyes. "I'm not criticising
you. I meant to do it some day--when I had courage. That's why I just
asked you if I might have some champagne--finding myself a little scared
at my first step.... But you did say you might have a job for me.
Didn't you?"

"Suppose I haven't. What are you going to do?"

The curtain was rising. She nodded toward the bespangled chorus.
"Probably that sort of thing. They've asked me."

Supper was served. They both were hungry and thirsty; the music made
conversation difficult, so they supped in silence and watched the
imbecile show conceived by vulgarians, produced by vulgarians and served
up to mental degenerates of the same species--the average metropolitan
audience.

For ten minutes a pair of comedians fell up and down a flight of steps,
and the audience shrieked approval.

"Miss Norne?"

The girl who had been watching the show turned in her chair and looked
back at him.

"Your magic is by far the most wonderful I have ever seen or heard of.
Even in India such things are not done."

"No, not in India," she said, indifferently.

"Where then?"

"In China."

"You learned to do such things there?"

"Yes."

"Where, in China, did you learn such amazing magic?"

"In Yian."

"I never heard of it. Is it a province?"

"A city."

"And you lived there?"

"Fourteen years."

"When?"

"From 1904 to 1918."

"During the great war," he remarked, "you were in China?"

"Yes."

"Then you arrived here very recently."

"In November, from the Coast."

"I see. You played the theatres from the Coast eastward."

"And went to pieces in New York," she added calmly, finishing her glass
of champagne.

"Have you any family?" he asked.

"No."

"Do you care to say anything further?" he inquired, pleasantly.

"About my family? Yes, if you wish. My father was in the spice trade in
Yian. The Yezidees took Yian in 1910, threw him into a well in his own
compound and filled it up with dead imperial troops. I was thirteen
years old.... The Hassani did that. They held Yian nearly eight years,
and I lived with my mother, in a garden pagoda, until 1914. In January
of that year Germans got through from Kiaou-Chou. They had been six
months on the way. I think they were Hassanis. Anyway, they persuaded
the Hassanis to massacre every English-speaking prisoner. And so--my
mother died in the garden pagoda of Yian.... I was not told for four
years."

"Why did they spare you?" he asked, astonished at her story so quietly
told, so utterly destitute of emotion.

"I was seventeen. A certain person had placed me among the temple girls
in the temple of Erlik. It pleased this person to make of me a Mongol
temple girl as a mockery at Christ. They gave me the name Keuke Mongol.
I asked to serve the shrine of Kwann-an--she being like to our Madonna.
But this person gave me the choice between the halberds of the
Tchortchas and the sorcery of Erlik."

She lifted her sombre eyes. "So I learned how to do the things you saw.
But--what I did there on the stage is not--respectable."

An odd shiver passed over him. For a second he took her literally,
suddenly convinced that her magic was not white but black as the demon
at whose shrine she had learned it. Then he smiled and asked her
pleasantly, whether indeed she employed hypnosis in her miraculous
exhibitions.

But her eyes became more sombre still, and, "I don't care to talk about
it," she said. "I have already said too much."

"I'm sorry. I didn't mean to pry into professional secrets----"

"I can't talk about it," she repeated. "... Please--my glass is quite
empty."

When he had refilled it:

"How did you get away from Yian?" he asked.

"The Japanese."

"What luck!"

"Yes. One battle was fought at Buldak. The Hassanis and Blue Flags were
terribly cut up. Then, outside the walls of Yian, Prince Sanang's
Tchortcha infantry made a stand. He was there with his Yezidee horsemen,
all in leather and silk armour with casques and corselets of black
Indian steel.

"I could see them from the temple--saw the Japanese gunners open fire.
The Tchortchas were blown to shreds in the blast of the Japanese
guns.... Sanang got away with some of his Yezidee horsemen."

"Where was that battle?"

"I told you, outside the walls of Yian."

"The newspapers never mentioned any such trouble in China," he said,
suspiciously.

"Nobody knows about it except the Germans and the Japanese."

"Who is this Sanang?" he demanded.

"A Yezidee-Mongol. He is one of the Sheiks-el-Djebel--a servant of The
Old Man of Mount Alamout."

"What is he?"

"A sorcerer--assassin."

"What!" exclaimed Cleves incredulously.

"Why, yes," she said, calmly. "Have you never heard of The Old Man of
Mount Alamout?"

"Well, yes----"

"The succession has been unbroken since 1090 B.C.A Hassan Sabbah is
still the present Old Man of the Mountain. His Yezidees worship Erlik.
They are sorcerers. But you would not believe that."

Cleves said with a smile, "Who is Erlik?"

"The Mongols' Satan."

"Oh! So these Yezidees are devil-worshipers!"

"They are more. They are actually devils."

"You don't really believe that even in unexplored China there exists
such a creature as a real sorcerer, do you?" he inquired, smilingly.

"I don't wish to talk of it."

To his surprise her face had flushed, and he thought her sensitive mouth
quivered a little.

He watched her in silence for a moment; then, leaning a little way
across the table:

"Where are you going when the show here closes?"

"To my boarding-house."

"And then?"

"To bed," she said, sullenly.

"And to-morrow what do you mean to do?"

"Go out to the agencies and ask for work."

"And if there is none?"

"The chorus," she said, indifferently.

"What salary have you been getting?"

She told him.

"Will you take three times that amount and work with me?"




CHAPTER IV

BODY AND SOUL


The girl's direct gaze met his with that merciless searching intentness
he already knew.

"What do you wish me to do?"

"Enter the service of the United States."

"Wh-what?"

"Work for the Government."

She was too taken aback to answer.

"Where were you born?" he demanded abruptly.

"In Albany, New York," she replied in a dazed way.

"You are loyal to your country?"

"Yes--certainly."

"You would not betray her?"

"No."

"I don't mean for money; I mean from fear."

After a moment, and, avoiding his gaze: "I am afraid of death," she said
very simply.

He waited.

"I--I don't know what I might do--being afraid," she added in a troubled
voice. "I desire to--live."

He still waited.

She lifted her eyes: "I'd try not to betray my country," she murmured.

"Try to face death for your country's honour?"

"Yes."

"And for your own?"

"Yes; and for my own."

He leaned nearer: "Yet you're taking a chance on your own honour
to-night."

She blushed brightly: "I didn't think I was taking a very great chance
with you."

He said: "You have found life too hard. And when you faced failure in
New York you began to let go of life--real life, I mean. And you came up
here to-night wondering whether you had courage to let yourself go. When
I spoke to you it scared you. You found you hadn't the courage. But
perhaps to-morrow you might find it--or next week--if sufficiently
scared by hunger--you might venture to take the first step along the
path that you say others usually take sooner or later."

The girl flushed scarlet, sat looking at him out of eyes grown dark with
anger.

He said: "You told me an untruth. You have been tempted to betray your
country. You have resisted. You have been threatened with death. You
have had courage to defy threats and temptations where your country's
honour was concerned!"

"How do you know?" she demanded.

He continued, ignoring the question: "From the time you landed in San
Francisco you have been threatened. You tried to earn a living by your
magician's tricks, but in city after city, as you came East, your
uneasiness grew into fear, and your fear into terror, because every day
more terribly confirmed your belief that people were following you
determined either to use you to their own purposes or to murder you----"

The girl turned quite white and half rose in her chair, then sank back,
staring at him out of dilated eyes. Then Cleves smiled: "So you've got
the nerve to do Government work," he said, "and you've got the
intelligence, and the knowledge, and something else--I don't know
exactly what to call it--Skill? Dexterity? Sorcery?" he smiled--"I mean
your professional ability. That's what I want--that bewildering
dexterity of yours, to help your own country in the fight of its life.
Will you enlist for service?"

"W-what fight?" she asked faintly.

"The fight with the Red Spectre."

"Anarchy?"

"Yes.... Are you ready to leave this place? I want to talk to you."

"Where?"

"In my own rooms."

After a moment she rose.

"I'll go to your rooms with you," she said. She added very calmly that
she was glad it was to be his rooms and not some other man's.

Out of countenance, he demanded what she meant, and she said quite
candidly that she'd made up her mind to live at any cost, and that if
she couldn't make an honest living she'd make a living anyway.

He offered no reply to this until they had reached the street and he had
called a taxi.

On their way to his apartment he re-opened the subject rather bluntly,
remarking that life was not worth living at the price she had mentioned.

"That is the accepted Christian theory," she replied coolly, "but
circumstances alter things."

"Not such things."

"Oh, yes, they do. If one is already damned, what difference does
anything else make?"

He asked, sarcastically, whether she considered herself already damned.

She did not reply for a few moments, then she said, in a quick,
breathless way, that souls have been entrapped through ignorance of
evil. And asked him if he did not believe it.

"No," he said, "I don't."

She shook her head. "You couldn't understand," she said. "But I've made
up my mind to one thing; even if my soul has perished, my body shall not
die for a long, long time. I mean to live," she added. "I shall not let
my body be slain! They shall not steal life from me, whatever they have
done to my soul----"

"What in heaven's name are you talking about?" he exclaimed. "Do you
actually believe in soul-snatchers and life-stealers?"

She seemed sullen, her profile turned to him, her eyes on the
brilliantly lighted avenue up which they were speeding. After a while:
"I'd rather live decently and respectably if I can," she said. "That is
the natural desire of any girl, I suppose. But if I can't, nevertheless
I shall beat off death at any cost. And whatever the price of life is, I
shall pay it. Because I am absolutely determined to go on living. And if
I can't provide the means I'll have to let some man do it, I suppose."

"It's a good thing it was I who found you when you were out of a job,"
he remarked coldly.

"I hope so," she said. "Even in the beginning I didn't really believe
you meant to be impertinent"--a tragic smile touched her lips--"and I
was almost sorry----"

"Are you quite crazy?" he demanded.

"No, my mind is untouched. It's my soul that's gone.... Do you know I
was very hungry when you spoke to me? The management wouldn't advance
anything, and my last money went for my room.... Last Monday I had three
dollars to face the future--and no job. I spent the last of it to-night
on violets, orange juice and cakes. My furs and my gold bag remain. I
can go two months more on them. Then it's a job or----." She shrugged
and buried her nose in her violets.

"Suppose I advance you a month's salary?" he said.

"What am I to do for it?"

The taxi stopped at a florist's on the corner of Madison Avenue and 58th
Street. Overhead were apartments. There was no elevator--merely the
street door to unlock and four dim flights of stairs rising steeply to
the top.

He lived on the top floor. As they paused before his door in the dim
corridor:

"Are you afraid?" he asked.

She came nearer, laid a hand on his arm:

"Are you afraid?"

He stood silent, the latch-key in his hand.

"I'm not afraid of myself--if that is what you mean," he said.

"That is partly what I mean ... you'll have to mount guard over your
soul."

"I'll look out for my soul," he retorted dryly.

"Do so. I lost mine. I--I would not wish any harm to yours through our
companionship."

"Don't you worry about my soul," he remarked, fitting the key to the
lock. But again her hand fell on his wrist:

"Wait. I can't--can't help warning you. Neither your soul nor your body
are safe if--if you ever do make of me a companion. I've got to tell
you this!"

"What are you talking about?" he demanded bluntly.

"Because you have been courteous--considerate--and you don't know--oh,
you don't realise what spiritual peril is!--What your soul and body have
to fear if you--if you win me over--if you ever manage to make of me a
friend!"

He said: "People follow and threaten you. We know that. I understand
also that association with you involves me, and that I shall no doubt be
menaced with bodily harm."

He laid his hand on hers where it still rested on his sleeves:

"But that's my business, Miss Norne," he added with a smile. "So,
otherwise, it being merely a plain business affair between you and me, I
think I may also venture my immortal soul alone with you in my room."

The girl flushed darkly.

"You have misunderstood," she said.

He looked at her coolly, intently; and arrived at no conclusion. Young,
very lovely, confessedly without moral principle, he still could not
believe her actually depraved. "What did you mean?" he said bluntly.

"In companionship with the lost, one might lose one's way--unawares....
Do you know that there is an Evil loose in the world which is bent upon
conquest by obtaining control of men's minds?"

"No," he replied, amused.

"And that, through the capture of men's minds and souls the destruction
of civilisation is being planned?"

"Is that what you learned in your captivity, Miss Norne?"

"You do not believe me."

"I believe your terrible experiences in China have shaken you to your
tragic little soul. Horror and grief and loneliness have left scars on
tender, impressionable youth. They would have slain maturity--broken it,
crushed it. But youth is flexible, pliable, and bends--gives way under
pressure. Scars become slowly effaced. It shall be so with you. You will
learn to understand that nothing really can harm the soul."

For a few moments' silence they stood facing each other on the dim
landing outside his locked door.

"Nothing can slay our souls," he repeated in a grave voice. "I do not
believe you really ever have done anything to wound even your
self-respect. I do not believe you are capable of it, or ever have been,
or ever will be. But somebody has deeply wounded you, spiritually, and
has wounded your mind to persuade you that your soul is no longer in
God's keeping. For that is a lie!"

He saw her features working with poignant emotions as though struggling
to believe him.

"Souls are never lost," he said. "Ungoverned passions of every sort
merely cripple them for a space. God always heals them in the end."
